(futuristic booming) (playful music) - [Narrator] Have you noticed? Whenever you see a it's often set in the countryside, with a nice family and a rustic backdrop. And the ham is always pink. Very pink. And 100% natural, of course. - [Narrator] It looks so tasty it has your mouth watering on your couch. Well, that's the point. (exciting music) But what if, behind this pretty pink, hid one of the biggest In 2015, the World Health Organization listed processed meats We decided to investigate by the giants of the food industry. - It can induce DNA breaks, mutate cells into sort - [Narrator] We discovered that to impede or halt regulations on certain additives, food industry lobbies have been working in the shadows for decades. - You have to understand that the industry is a money making business, They're not gonna fund a study that is bad for their business. - [Narrator] At the heart of are the scientists who collaborate. - [Sandrine] Did the meat - I received some as well of the others. - [Sandrine] How much? - I am not going to say. - [Narrator] And the - Basically were trying to That's what shoot down - These efforts to go to discredit the scientists, is a key element of a much larger strategy to just gum up the entire - [Narrator] Between intimidation, we will uncover proof where hitting below the belt is allowed. - [Man] Leave now! Get the fuck outta here! - [Narrator] Feeling hungry now? Then it's time to eat. Tonight, you're our guests. To find out how ham is (electronic beeping) (bouncy jazz music) - [Narrator] Welcome to Fleury Michon, one of the market leaders in France, and one of the few to play The ham on your supermarket big lumps of pork meat. To add taste, a little vegetable stock. It all goes into a ham-shaped And the result, perfectly Have you grasped the basics? Well let's rewind a little to see the detail that changes everything. To obtain this fine ham, there's another very important step. You have to inject the meat. A machine, with a dozen syringes, injects a liquid into The liquid contains an essential additive. Factory manager Laurent Rouleau shows us. These yellow sacks contain a mixture of salt and sodium - [Narrator] In fact, he's telling us that the pretty pink of our It's thanks to sodium nitrite. This additive fixes the pink Otherwise, ham would be That's why food industrialists as a processed meats - [Narrator] Let's sum up, but without the pink, it The big problem is that sodium nitrite is believed to be a The additive is suspected in the development of colorectal cancer, one of the deadliest cancers in Europe. The cause? A phenomenon that takes It's chemistry, but we'll make it simple. You swallow a piece of cured meat. You think you're peacefully digesting it, but what you don't known is, the nitrite molecules are transforming them into nitrosamines. (tense piano music) We went to the Netherlands to learn more about the effects of this To the Faculty of Medicine This is where the toxicologist He's been interested and by extension, nitrosamines. - Nitrosamines are known to induce damage in the large intestine. So it can induce DNA breaks, mutate cells into sort And that's of course, something - [Narrator] Professor to find out what happens inside the body when we don't eat processed meat and when we eat a lot of it. To do so, he conducted an like Arnaud. For 2 weeks, this student ate 300 grams the equivalent of 8 and a half - After 15 days, we saw that the exposure to nitrosamines was so it was up to, between as compared to the levels - [Narrator] The researcher measured the impact on the organism of this chemical mutation of In his lab, he tested the fecal water of big processed meat eaters, like Arnaud. - So what you see here is fecal water from four different individuals. - [Narrator] To see what the researchers mixed this the white deposit in the test-tube. Then they observed what - You see that, if you have no exposure, you see that everything is intact. So the material stays together. But if you are exposed to nitrosamines that induce breakages of the DNA, you see this comet tail appearing. So you see that here, the So the more damage you that a cell like this into a pre-cancer type of cell. - [Sandrine] How long does - Well, this damage can be So in this essay, when and we only expose them for half an hour, and then you already see the So that's how fast it can happen. And it can also happen, but also in an intact human body. - [Narrator] And if we stopped - That would make a difference of potentially several that's in Europe every year. - That's huge. - That's huge. Because colorectal cancer already small changes in a cancer risk can have a big impact - [Narrator] Thousands fewer cancers and therefore potentially fewer deaths, just by suppressing nitrites. But the food industry has for justifying the use of nitrites, it protects us from botulism. Botulism is a form of food that affect our central nervous Scary, right? But there's a glitch in their argument. (video rewinding) There are already companies which do produce processed and their customers are in fine form. (funky bass music) If you happen to be in just after the Little Mermaid pop into a supermarket, like we did. There you'll find cured And for those whose Danish it's uden nitrit. It's everywhere. You can easily recognize it by its color, more brownish than pretty pink. The best-known brand is produced 150 kilometers south of the capital, in Denmark's biggest organic (speaking in foreign language) The boss, a biochemist, started in nitrite-free Since then, the Danish health a single case of botulism - We do not have problems I would say for the last 50 years, this has not been a written about topic in Western Europe. That was a problem in the where things weren't as clean as they are, slaughter houses were not So no worry about bacteria, about additives that And if they are not necessary we should not use them. - [Sandrine] For you, is the main risk? - That's the main risk today, definitely. And actually, it has been so for 30, 40 years. - [Sandrine] Why do producers - The main reason is that they are afraid that customers will not accept products which do not have the red color that they have been used - [Narrator] Hanegal is one of the few food industry companies (tense percussive music) And yet, experts have been 25 years ago, a European already recommended reducing the amounts of nitrite In 1999, this report even put forward banning its use altogether. Despite the increasing number of studies, the European Commission still allows industrial food companies to the products. So we went to ask the Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, a former health minister in - [Sandrine] Why don't I would like to guarantee you that it is of course in which are responsible to follow, to say and to present us final results. It always takes time and responsibility. - [Narrator] For over an hour, the Commissioner attempted to in spite of all the reports by have warned the authorities - [Sandrine] All these studies, you don't think they're enough? - You know, all those studies are open. But you see thanks to transparency, thanks to possibility to have them, to show to people that and to see and to do, and how to move as soon as possible. - [Sandrine] Transparency is - Sorry, all decisions are Can you imagine like If I will be king of But I am not king of European Union. - [Sandrine] This story has - No, no, no, sorry to say. Sorry, this study shows that all standards are in safety line. - [Sandrine] In this case, why in the European Court of - I don't know, it's contentious. I would like to read more information because I am not one who knows everything. - [Narrator] So let's look at the facts, Mister Commissioner. Denmark wanted to limit the European Commission was against it, and in 2003, in court, the Danes won, in the name of the - I am very happy about When European court decisions always show that public health is priority, it means that DG SANTE and Public health is in better conditions. - [Narrator] And yet, EU regulations are just as lax as ever. - From my point of view, we must be more energetic asking industry to change their technology, reformulate forward, to follow figures, to keep on board public Absolutely. But of course, it takes time. - [Narrator] Time, perfect. That's just what the food industry wants and what it has built its (devious music) Because when it comes to nitrites, industrialists have been waiting 40 years of scientific manipulation, blackmail, and intense lobbying, so the meat business can carry And it all begun on the If you think we're In the late 1970s, nitrite was almost banned just after the publication requested by the government. - A relationship between was proved, suggested? - No, proved, and a fairly strong one. There were 2,000 rats It's a very extensive study done by a well-respected scientist. - [Narrator] The banning of nitrites was announced in the press, but the American Meat Institute would bring out its big guns. In his office overlooking the capital, its president, Richard Lyng, spoke out. - Processed meats that contain nitrites are a big thing. The retail value of them About 2/3 of the hog production in the United States And it presents a problem for our industry and for the government. We're hopeful that a - [Narrator] Armed with the American meat lobby forced The banning of nitrites would and cause an apocalypse. But it was a political event (patriotic brass music) In 1980, Ronald Reagan was elected President of the United States, and guess who entered into government? Richard Lyng, the president of the American The idea of banning (devious music) The experiment-based study on 2,000 rats ended up in the trash can. And after that, the same fate would await every scientific publication If you're wondering how can systematically win in public health, the 15 years after the victory of Reagan and the meat industrialists, a new study shook America to the core. - If it's not one thing, it's another. A study finds a link between - [Narrator] Put yourself in the shoes of the average American Joe at the time. You and your family are eating hotdogs at the shopping mall or in The effect was immediate. In a matter of days, And given the size of the American market, that represented millions of dollars less for the food industry. The author of the hotdog study that caused sales to plummet She's now a retired scientist in a residential suburban setting straight out of an American soap. After several tense months of But we had to insist right The lady is very discreet. - [Sandrine] It's Sandrine Rigaud. - What? - I don't know what you said. - Yes. from French TV. - [Susan] Oh, gosh. - [Sandrine] Hello. - [Susan] No. - [Narrator] With her the researcher was the victim But she agreed to look back at her work which showed a link between and certain rare cancers in children. - How did you find the relationship? - Well, just the way we always did when we did case control studies. We started out with a group and compared them to a group of children who didn't have leukemia. And we asked the mothers about And sure enough, the kids with - What did you think when you Because it was quite - It was with hotdogs, I And just reserved judgment, which when they find something - [Narrator] From that moment on, for the food industrialists, Susan Preston-Martin became - The meat lobby, they definitely didn't They were terribly upset you know, their livelihood And they didn't want anything coming out saying that those were not good for you. Basically were trying to shoot That's what shoot down - [Narrator] What we The scientist had never realized just whom she was dealing with. - [Narrator] America Oscar Mayer gave it diggity. Hot diggity, dog diggity - [Narrator] In the US, of supermarket-sold hotdogs - [Narrator] America's number one. Hot diggity dog - [Narrator] A brand of a giant of the food industry. So far, no surprises. But what's less known is that Kraft was owned by Philip Morris, the world's second A lobby which went as far to defend its own interests, notably in the big tobacco - You believe nicotine is not addictive? - I believe nicotine - I believe nicotine is not addictive. - [Narrator] Questioning the strategy worked perfectly So Philip Morris used it again to save Oscar Mayer's hotdogs. (tense guitar music) To understand how the to defend its investments in cured meats, we headed to Northern California. To San Francisco. This university library holds the Tobacco Documents, millions of internal Our guide, Stanton unraveling the cigarette - Carton four. - [Narrator] He particularly used by a lobbyist in 1969. - Doubt is our product of competing with the body of fact that exists in the mind It is also the means of - [Narrator] For him, everything doubt. And it was exactly like that Philip Morris set out to discredit Dr. Preston-Martin's study on processed meat and cancer in children. The proof is there, in the vast database of By typing Susan Preston-Martin, And all in the Philip Morris file. The researcher's name crops up regularly in the titles of memos, The multinational believed would re-open the debate from the 1970s. So it paid scientists with a fine-tooth comb in Even her contracts and grant papers passed under the microscope. Basically, anything that and weaken her in the eyes of Stanton Glantz only learned of this case through the documents we showed him. - The approaches that they used to attack the person doing the research on linking cured meats with cancer were the standard things they do. One is to go through her and find every little thing they could possibly complain about. And because the issues tend if you're a politician, unless you're a specialized reporter, all you hear is well, this person said there was something bad, and this other person what they were talking about. And so these efforts to and to discredit the scientist is a key element of a much larger strategy to just gum up the entire to the point where nothing happens. That translates into hundreds of sales and profits for them. So the whole game is just to slow down. - [Narrator] In the documents other even more Machiavellian Here, it was suggested that talks be held with the scientist. And here, a proposed seminar, The aim? To influence her and even shape the conclusions of her future studies. The common point of these documents? They all come from the same lobbying firm, Multinational Business Services, Inc, already hired by Philip Morris to contest the effects of passive smoking on health and headed by a certain Jim (rock guitar music) Amazingly, in Washington, this lobbyist is still well-established. As he never answered our we went to see him without an appointment, with our documents in (doorbell rings) - Hi? - [Sandrine] Hello, I'm - Yes, he works here. Who are you with? - [Sandrine] I'm a French journalist. I'm working for France 2 and - Do you have an appointment? - [Sandrine] No, no, I because I called from France, - Just step inside, please. - [Sandrine] Yes, thank you. - [Bruce] He's not here now. - [Narrator] The good news, American lobbyists can be welcoming. We even managed to have Jim - Here, please, come right in here please. Jim, can you hear me? - [Jim] I hear you, yeah. - [Sandrine] I wanted to ask you some questions about Susan Preston Martin. - [Jim] No, I don't even know the lady. How did you get my name? I haven't read her works or anything. - [Sandrine] Because you to discredit her work for Oscar Mayer. So I wanted to know more about this. - [Jim] Bruce, can you? - [Bruce] What? Excuse me? I have no idea what she's talking about. - [Jim] But who is this press lady? Which newspaper does she work? - [Bruce] I have no idea so I'm going to ask you to leave. No, I'm gonna have to ask you to leave. - [Sandrine] You have seen my passport. I'm just asking for an interview. - [Bruce] Look, I understand, - [Narrator] If you liked you'll love the angry one. - [Bruce] I am asking, you now please leave, now. Do I need to? Leave! - [Man] We can leave if you want. - [Bruce] Yes, please, leave! I am ordering you out. - [Sandrine] Okay-- - [Bruce] Leave now! Out! Get the fuck outta here! Do you understand? Get the fuck out. Now get the flying fuck outta here and do not come back! Thank you. - [Narrator] Pity it had to end like that. In the end, Mr. Tozzi did a great job. Well, at least for the industrialists. Back then, his were brought into the media spotlight by this health journalist on a few days after the - Let's get back to our hotdog story. Remember, they asked the They didn't ask them, &quot;Did you put ketchup on it? &quot;Did you put mustard on it?&quot; Now you might be saying who really cares one way or the other, but that's important because it may be that that's causing this Maybe it's the bun? Maybe it's the ketchup? Maybe it's the mustard? So you have to be careful not to say, &quot;Oh, this causes this.&quot; - [Narrator] The powers-that-be The 1970s nitrites file, which could have resurfaced, You're probably wondering what the woman targeted by the lobby. We showed her the documents was seeing that fellow scientists had played along with the industrialists. - These professors will get paid a huge amount to do review by, in this case, probably the I mean, thousands and They probably get more from than they do from their regular jobs. - Seeing your name like - My goodness, I gave a lotta - [Sandrine] Were you aware of this? - Well, I was aware that the processed meat But not aware of all the extent of this. - [Narrator] 20 years on - Not of interest anymore. That's how the public It's of interest and then - [Sandrine] So you mean you - But it doesn't matter. I mean, it's still in the literature and it may influence people in future, and it has influenced people in the past, and that's fine. (bouncy violin music) - [Narrator] But another has enjoyed a much more A scientist paid by the to shoot down Susan Preston-Martin's work, David Klurfeld. Today, David Klurfeld is head of the US Government's nutrition program, and he's invited all over the world for scientific conferences where he gives his expert's point of view. Totally independently. - I'd like to introduce the is an important component Spend just a very brief - [Narrator] On that day he was in France, speaking to scientists from and the link between in order to denounce, the climate of fear, And we know, because we were there. It was right at the start when we barely knew about nitrites and had the need of enlightened - So there are new reviews that say nitrite is not harmful, and others that say it is harmful. I don't think anybody really knows definitively what the answer is. - [Narrator] A few months when we had learned more bells started ringing. So we took advantage to ask him for another interview. Only this time, with a lot - [Sandrine] Do you remember being paid by the American Meat Institute? - No. - [Sandrine] Never? - No. - I was interested in a scientist called Susan Preston-Martin. - Yes. - [Sandrine] Do you know her? - I know who she is, I do - Do you remember writing a paper on her? - Yes. - [Sandrine] For the - No. - I found this, it was prepared for the American Meat Institute. - Okay. This is something different, yes. This was done 20 years ago, roughly, so I had forgotten about that. - [Sandrine] Do you remember how much you were paid for this evaluation? - No, I do not. As I said, it was 20 or 25 years ago. - [Sandrine] You didn't for the American Meat Institute that Philip Morris was owning Oscar Mayer? - I'm not gonna say yes or because it's more than 20 years ago. - Did you know that the was doubt is our product? - No, I never heard that. - No? - Doubt was your product too. - That was not my intent. My intent was to do an evaluation. If I had read these papers and found that there were not that there were not I don't think I would - But don't you think would be stronger and if I hadn't found that by the American Meat Institute? - No, I don't think that would change, it wouldn't change my point of view. It might change your point of view that you tend to not because 25 years ago I that I don't remember. - [Narrator] Ah, we're making progress. He can't remember how much, but he does remember getting paid. - But you have to understand that the industry is a money making business, so they're very risk averse. They would not fund a study that someone proposed to increases the risk of childhood cancer. Why would they fund that? They would only fund something that says, proposes that childhood cancer is prevented by eating more hotdogs, or there's no relationship. You know, they're not gonna fund a study that is bad for their business. - [Narrator] Well, at least he's honest. Much of the meat industry's lobbying depends on collaboration And that's still how things work. (rock guitar music) During a conference on processed a French scientist confirmed it. Denis Corpet is a an internationally renowned expert. He speaks and acts at telling us how things (eerie digital music) - [Narrator] A few days later, Professor Corpet sent us some he suspects of being close Among them, two Americans he came across at a conference on meat and cancer, Andrew Milkowski and Nathan Bryan. As we checked out these we discovered a document which should certainly an internal report issued by It lays out the strategy for influencing the decisions of This organization is the IARC, the International Agency This institution, based in Lyon, France, is the worldwide reference on cancer. In 2006, IARC scientists in the probably carcinogenic And that was bad for business. So lobbyists are fighting to have this classification changed. Page 64 of the document. Change in IARC from 2A to 2B, or possibly The strategy has a name, IARC Challenge. It notably involves the two scientists we were interested in, Andrew (country harmonica music) Armed with our brand-new to meet the meat sector's heavyweights. Welcome to Nashville, Tennessee, the capital of country music and notably the hometown of Johnny Cash. It's here that the American Meat Institute is holding its annual conference. In this huge building, to be precise. The meat industry in the US All of the world's Smithfield, number one in pork with a turnover of $14 billion a year. Cargill, the giant with $33 And Tyson, the - This year we'll make, between beef, pork, poultry, and prepared, between 37 billion and - [Sandrine] So it's a small company. - Very small company, - [Narrator] We checked, After half an hour, we that rings a bell. That woman there, tasting That's right, page 92 of Here, with short hair, the Senior Vice President of - [Sandrine] Excuse me, please. Sorry, hello, are you Janet Riley? - I am. - Yes, hello, I'm Sandrine Rigaud. I'm working for France 2 on and I have a question It is this document, do you know it? - I'm sorry, who are you with? - I'm working for France 2. - Okay, I don't see you registered here. - [Sandrine] No, no, but I have some important questions. - Could you give me your business card? - Yes, of course, I - Let's step outside. - Just a question, I wanted to know what do you know about the IARC Challenge? - You know what-- - [Sandrine] The IARC Challenge here? - Could you turn off the camera until I know what I'm doing? - But it's about nitrite and cancer-- - Can I have this? Thank you. - No, no, this is mine, sorry. And I wanted to know-- - [Narrator] Okay, so - Why are you, is he with you? Why are you recording? - [Narrator] Having been escorted outside. - This is my press card. - Okay. - [Narrator] And been ordered to show ID, we try one last time. - It's France 2. It looks like what tobacco - That's your opinion. That's your opinion. What we're doing is peer-reviewed evidence And that's all I'm gonna say right now. - But are you paying those scientists-- - And you know what, I know you've got that - [Narrator] Luckily, for such cases, we always have a plan B. On the list of IARC Challenge scientists, there was one who agreed to see us. The first on the list, Andrew Milkowski. (playful music) We head to Madison, Wisconsin. This city in the north is home to Andrew Milkowski Oscar Mayer, who we came across - [Narrator] America's number one. - [Narrator] The scientist worked for this company for 30 years. He now teaches at the university. But he doesn't hide his proximity to the American meat lobby. Presented with our IARC he acknowledges everything, or almost. - [Sandrine] So did the meat - I received some as well as the others. - [Sandrine] How much? - I am not going to say. - [Sandrine] I don't know, thousands or tens of thousands of dollars? - Small amounts. - [Sandrine] Small amounts? Can we have an idea? - No. - [Sandrine] No? Defending nitrites seems to be a very big thing for industry. - Looking for a substitute and was a total failure. Something as chemically simple as nitrite and as unique as nitrite has not been possible to anyone's ability. - [Sandrine] But if there is a don't you think it's important - That is where we disagree, because I do not believe - [Sandrine] You think - I think the risk is if it indeed exists. - [Narrator] On hearing that, So for Andrew Milkowski, the hundreds of studies on none of it exists. Off you go, nothing to do with it. (funky guitar music) In the United States, it's thanks to scientists like Milkowski that the meat industry has been able to cut another notch in its belt, surprisingly in the health-conscious This imposing building is home California Environmental We have an appointment with Sam Delson, Deputy Director for External He'll show us a document that doesn't exist in - Hello Michelle, long time no see. - [Michelle] Hi Sam. - [Sandrine] Hello, Sandrine. So this is the list? - Yes, of all the agents-- - [Narrator] It's a list of substances judged dangerous to man by To do business here, manufacturers are banned or they are obliged to warn consumers. And it's very restrictive because there are over - So a good example of that We talk about lead. There's other things like benzene, that would be something we have common in things like exhaust. Then here we have aspirin. - [Sandrine] You have aspirin? - Aspirin, yeah. It's a special note, Oh, here is kind of an odd one, but you know, things like bracken fern. If you wanna this, go for it, but be aware that you maybe don't wanna - [Sandrine] So we don't find nitrite? - [Sam] Nitrite is not on the list. - [Narrator] It's been years since nitrites have been targeted, but procedures have - When we believe a chemical we post what's known as a and that triggers a period public comments on whether it does or does not meet the criteria. We review the comments before to complete the listing. - [Narrator] Regarding nitrites, here are the comments Of the seven contributions, six come from food industry lobbyists. And with 31 pages, the winner is? Andrew Milkowski. - [Narrator] Before the interview, we show Sam Delson all our the IARC Challenge and Faced with an avalanche of proof gathered during months of investigation, he ends up taking out his However, in answering our questions, he seems less inspired. - It's their business if influence a decision beyond the science, but we let the science do the talking. - [Sandrine] Do you think it might happen that sometimes you are - We do our best to make decisions based regardless of whatever pressure or attempts at persuasion may - [Sandrine] Okay. - [Narrator] California will re-examine the dangers of nitrites, For the lobby, it's a mini-victory. Time gained and profits not lost. In Europe, a new study on nitrites was expected in December 2015. Almost a year later, it (bleak piano music)