Today, we're checking out China's the 350kmh Fuxing CR400 in Business Class! complimentary food and drinks, Nihao and welcome to China for the very first and I'm super excited about this you a small taster of this highspeed Our journey starts in cosmopolitan megacity some 15 million residents. The iconic modern mixed with historic buildings, small markets and Let's head to the Station. We'll be which took over as the city's main 'Shanghai Railway Station'. You can Be aware, the vast majority of leave from the much larger Shanghai It might be a dull and dismal day today, as we'll soon be boarding the fastest ultra highspeed service. Unfortunately we'll as my transit visa limits me to Shanghai My Business Class ticket grants me access to all you have to present is your passport to simple process on how I booked these tickets The Business Class lounge is located on It's a fantastic, welcoming and comfortable place Complimentary hot and cold drinks, as well as My favourite part of the lounge like train compartments, complete There is a large departure board is called for boarding and from which platform. You can then head out to the dedicated passport again and head to your platform. there is always a friendly We're boarding from platform 1 today, the closest Beijing fast services do. However all platforms And here's our train for today, and what It's one of the newest generation homegrown the CR400BF-BZ, an 18-car variant of maximum in service speed of 400kmh (248mph), I also love the aesthetic of these trains, the I'd say you could probably guess it was one OK, let's board! Step-free access is once albeit with a small gap. There are also dedicated My first impressions once I enter the Business 1+1 configuration in these individual closing Door are closing, so let's settle We depart exactly on-time, at 11:53am. This is 284km (176mi) in distance, and is scheduled to The price is 612 Chinese Yuan (PS68.76, EUR79.22, Be aware that not ALL Chinese trains with are 3 or 4 different types, but found on the 'lowest' numbered trains, mainly on the flagship Shanghai to Beijing services. Now a quick word from today's video to for sponsoring this video, The trip.com app and website are by far the foreigners as you can do it with just a few clicks Just select your date of travel, origin and you'd like to search for, and every available Click on your desired train, and the available class options will Once you confirm your train, class, and contact Lastly make payment by international You confirmation will appear instantly You don't need any physical or station and scan your passport. Once again, a HUGE thanks to trip.com for making this video possible. Check them out Shortly after departure, a drinks service fact I had 3 on this short trip. Tea, offer. The lovely attendant spoke enough Waiting for me when I arrived at my seat, of traditional Chinese snacks. While many were If you want AD-FREE early access to every BIGGER &amp; BETTER reviews, then become a Just click the link above now, or the The rearmost righthand suite is missing storage. You can also used the luggage OK, time to check out this FANTASTIC seat. The suite has a fully closing The seat itself is superb, so so comfy, and Using these controls, you can including into a 6ft6 (200cm) fully flat bed! An extendible table can be and a headphones jack and volume controls Chinese, European and USB-A style underneath the very adjustable reading light. Up above, you'll find a personal air vent, An amazing product, absolutely world class, I'm ever travelled on. We'll take a look at the The sheer scale of the Chinese highspeed of this existed 20 years ago, and since network of 300kmh+ (186mph) capable lines, and it's growing by the week. They plan to Over 65% of all highspeed rail track in the As mentioned, these are also the with a permitted maximum speed of 400kmh (248mph), This allows the fastest services 1,302km (809mi) Shanghai to Beijing in just 4 hours and 24 minutes, at All these services all use these most with this Business Class layout. It's at this point, my lunch was delivered! There just picked around the rice and veggies. It was The train is fully WiFi enabled but phone due to registration issues by not Another thing that amazed me, was the endless on a massive drive to build, build, build and now We now cross the famous Yangtze River, the longest entirely within one country. It's the third Our only intermediate stop today, is Changzhou 4 million. Ruins have been unearthed here dating In the 1920s, Changzhou became one of the foremost situated all around the province. It still has The highway infrastructure is also weaving their way in and around flyovers and multi-lane This specific CR400 set has a 22 in Business Class, 148 in First Now let's go and check out the other classes... First Class is in a 2+2 configuration, with and an excellent recline. The price for Chinese Yuan (PS30.30, EUR34.95, price of Business Class. Drinks and Second Class is in a much denser 2+3 layout, and I found the seats quite narrow with reduced power sockets. Second Class costs 160 Chinese Food option are plentiful. You an bring your own, which were out of order on this service, a limited selection of drinks and snacks, or including fruits, noodle based dishes and Two wheelchair spaces are next to both the dining car, A hot and cold water dispenser along with a sink for hand washing. There is also at least one toilet in every Class one. Everything worked well, kept stock up throughout the trip. It selection of toiletry products were OK, back in my seat, and it's time to enjoy Eastern China. I don't think I'll ever get And have you noticed the ride quality... video I found of a coin and pen placed on the One last thing to mention is there is in front of you. I'm not going to lie, I really and when I did, it kept crashing. down point of this trip! But never Anyway, unfortunately before too long, it's so let me give my summary onboard the China I absolutely loved it. Without doubt the best trains in the world. great service and all the amenities you service across China, whether it be on a Yes, these trains serve that in just 8.5 hours. Btw, that's We arrive exactly on-time to Nanjing this city of nearly 10 million people, Opened in 2011, it's one of the in the world with an enormous floor Once again, a BIG thanks to trip.com and making this all possible. Be in the description below for all What a great trip, I thoroughly enjoyed my ride adventures coming up over the next few Have you been on any Chinese Bullet in which class and on what Please like the video and subscribe to the By the way, I'm always open to new or send me a DM on Instagram or Twitter if there's Don't forget to subscribe as Friday. Thanks for watching