Welcome to this year's special collaboration between Endgame and the Ubud The theme of this year's festival This year's guest is American investor and author of "Principles for Dealing Ray Dalio. The aim of this discussion is the idealism versus the realism Enjoy this episode. Hi Ray, thank you so much It's so good to be here. I know you've written and we in Southeast Asia are very keen that you could shed wisdom But I want to explore a little bit about what values that you were brought up with that made you the the famous Ray Dalio, who I think can share a lot of wisdom Well, I was lucky to have two parents My dad was a jazz musician, and my mom was And I don't know why, but I got into doing work such as and earning money. And then, when I was 12, and the stock market was hot. And so I got... I didn't know what I was doing, but I got involved in the stock market. I remember the first stock I bought, which was the only company that was selling for less than $5 a share, and I figured, I can buy more shares, so if it goes up, I'll make more money," But what happened is that I got lucky; a company came along and acquired this company and it tripled. And I thought this game was easy. The game is not easy, That had an effect. But mostly, My dad was a hardworking, he went through the Depression and was a jazz musician and hardworking but also creative; not a highly structured guy. My mom loved me a lot. I didn't like school. But anyway, I grew up in an era of almost Kennedy was president, the United States wanted to go to eliminate poverty--all of those things. I believed I could almost do anything, and I came out to a world So I didn't like high school. I got into a college but not a great college on probation. I loved college, did very well, and went on to Harvard Business School, And I was in that world of equal opportunity. So that's kind of the summary. You've talked a lot about those But I'm just curious as to whether or not you would have turned out if you had been born I mean, you're the true manifestation But would we be able to see if Ray had been born at a different time I think that... If you look at immigrants, it depends on how But when I look at immigrants and they're not having much and they have to survive and find the way, I think that that builds strengths and that those strengths drive you to what your passions are. And I think when you asked that question, I think I would have had than if I was born into a rich family. If I was born into a rich family and I had lots of privileges, I suspect I wouldn't have had I strived to make... learned how to make money If I didn't have those kinds of things, I think that would have caused me a more different type of person Interesting. I want to talk about and compare that with your generation. You were born in the late 1940s. You've talked a lot about how important We're sort of living in an era where I think the current generation is having a tough time What sort of advice would you have for the current generation There's this notion that there's not a whole lot of sense They want to get and do not want to defer gratification Well, I'm just going to tell you There are things that really, really matter, and there are things If you keep indulging yourself you are spending on luxuries now You have to be self-sufficient, I don't care whether that's and a high level of spending or a low level of income that's an individual choice But if you're not earning more you will be dependent on others, and you will be vulnerable and experience a terrible time I mean, if you spend more than you earn and borrow money to do it, when you pay it back, If you still spend more than you earn you're going to be dependent The only way that you're going to get is by earning more than you spend I used to calculate at first how many days, weeks, months, if money didn't come in. And I would feel good. The only time I felt security was when I could live which gave me a sense of having So don't waste it. I give my kids and my grandkids but I give them a gold coin as a gift. And then I'll give them another little gift, And I told them, "You're never to spend that coin unless there's a real emergency. And hopefully, throughout your life, you'll never have a need for spending And when you get an income, you buy another gold coin, you pass it along, and the day will come And what they're experiencing, is that they're developing a treasure. Most of the other stuff is junk; they buy something, a year or two, or whatever it's gone. So I'm saying that it's in your interest to prioritize to have a more austere that will give you power How more difficult is it to get in a world where, as you've values are diverging than we might have ever seen in the past And how does social media affect to share that sort of wisdom Well, there are a number of things in response to your question. Everybody will learn through When you learn through your mind it's intellectual learning; it's not going to stay with you; you need visceral learning So we'll all learn through experience. Then we have a problem in what do different people learn And we're talking about that if I didn't have an environment like the need to work hard and all that, I wouldn't have learned it. And so, with large wealth gaps, one of the real problems of the situation that has always been through is that as one earns a lot of money then they take care of their children and the children may not have to aspire. And so, you see that rich people and they are also not getting And you see the poor people... I see this a lot; we work, my wife and I, in the poorest school districts where there's poverty and in that environment, because there's drugs, and there's a problem in the school We live in Greenwich, Connecticut. The average amount spent per student so it's not up-to-date, was $24,000. In Bridgeport, Connecticut, which is a poor school district it's $14,000 per student. So there's less money being put They need more because of the basics, And when we had COVID, they're supposed to learn on computers, but 60,000 students in Connecticut because the families couldn't afford them; they didn't have it and society would not provide that. We bought those computers And when you have environments then you learn that your community your income is dealing drugs; and your path is crime That's enormously expensive. In the state of Connecticut because of that type of cycle. And so they learn different things. That's just the mechanics And unless we somehow as a society you can't have a living standard they deserve what I had, at least one parent; in some cases, they don't have that, but they need the support to get through and come out to So society must do that as homelessness, mental illness, drugs, and everything else increasingly as we're seeing take place now. So yes, you're going... Everyone will have different experiences, so somebody's got to rise above that. We'll have a war--an internal civil war And that's kind of where we are. And so if you see the cycles that's what always happens. The capitalists gets... There's capitalism, communism redistribute the wealth and unfair advantages. How do you do that in a way for the most majority of the people, That's the issue of our time. Special thanks to Find out how you too and open up a land of opportunities by clicking the link Would you be in a position Yes. First of all, let's agree that it has Most people. It's got to work for at least I mean, most. And let's establish the fact which we shouldn't let people go. And let's also establish that that it's not just giving people money. So if you keep giving people money, We talked about that; you have to build and convert that into productivity. Productivity is a key word. The society as a whole to be able to then have the income because it's not just financial income. Money just has no intrinsic value; It's got to produce, so you have to be productive as a whole. Almost everybody's got to aspire and you have to help them get there So if we all agree on that, there are wonderful things invest and aspire to Don't lower the high levels Aspire on how to raise In many schools right now, you have to go through a metal detector to make sure guns You have drugs. You have all of those things. You have to create an environment have those basics, educated well, We have found out... my wife through her work. Her mission is to get high school students who would have dropped out, through high school and into jobs. We find that that can be done And so if you do that, But it doesn't have to be our program. But in one way or another, We have to define capitalism What I mean by all-in-cost is that to not educating a student, to crime, and so on, or there are costs in our environment. If somebody can pollute the environment, and there's no penalty that's a cost to society. In one way or another, for capitalism and the profit system it has to be all-in-cost. But we also have to recognize is a great way of allocating resources because it means that is worth more than That's a good thing to have. But we also have to realize from those things that we need most, For example, makes education a state issue, and then within each state, it's typically a tax district issue. So if you live in a rich community, you're probably going to get and then your kids will be more privileged. There's nothing wrong but in some way, And I see it in my philanthropy. I see it. For example, okay, here it is; and the kids don't have computers. Okay, so there has to be you need to invest and there are intolerable things not be done, or done in a bad way. And you can design that. The way to design that, by the way, is not by any one person imposing We have a problem here of polarization, and all different people Now they have extreme views and they fight and don't resolve it. I think what we need as a country who are intelligent We should have a bipartisan president, this is a dream, who has a bipartisan cabinet moderates who agree more than agree with the extremists, and then who are smart enough. And they should have something or a constitutional convention in which there's something like a year and you bring them from who can work together or reforming of capitalism, and you can get there. Everything needs to be reformed; every machine, and every society needs to be reformed. And we need to reform the system so that it achieves those goals and making them productive, and that can be done. I'm in complete agreement with you It's quite pervasive; it's not just in the US; And I'm totally with you of creating some sort of But what I'm detecting beneath that is that there is a concern with respect to between power and talent, irrespective of the ideology, whether it's autocracy or democracy. I studied the 10 most powerful empires and the last three reserve currencies. It took me through the rise and decline the British Empire and the pound, the rise and early decline of and the decline and rise of as well as the rise and decline French, Indian, Japanese, along with their significant conflicts To understand China's patterns better, I also studied the rise and fall (dating) back to the year 600. Because looking at all these measures I'll focus on the four most important ones: the Dutch, British, US, and Chinese. You'll quickly notice the pattern. Now let's simplify the form a bit. As you can see, that lasted about 250 years, with 10 to 20-year transition periods Typically, these transitions because leading powers So how am I measuring an empire's power? In this study, I used 8 metrics. Each country's measure of total power They are education, inventiveness competitiveness in the global market, share of world trade, military strength, the power of their financial center and the strength of their currency Because these powers are measurable, we can see how strong each country is now, was in the past, By examining the sequences we can see how a typical cycle transpires. And because the wiggles can be confusing, we can simplify it a bit to focus on that drive the rise and decline As you can see, increased innovation and technology development. And with a lag, the establishment You can also see that these forces reinforcing each other's decline. Let's now look at the typical sequence that produces these rises and declines. In a nutshell, the big cycle often, a war establishes and the new world order. Because no one wants to challenge a period of peace and prosperity As people get used to they increasingly bet on it continuing. They borrow money to do that, which eventually leads to a financial bubble. The empire's share of trade grows, and when most transactions it becomes a reserve currency, At the same time, this increased so the wealth gap typically grows between the rich-haves Eventually, the financial bubble bursts, which leads to the printing of money and increased internal conflict which leads to some form of revolution This can happen peacefully or as a civil war. While the empire struggles its power diminishes relative to When a new rising power to compete with the dominant power external conflicts, most typically wars, Out of these internal and external wars Then the winners get together And the cycle begins again. And so if we're realistic, we understand that dynamic because that dynamic has So you have to get to the notion: Okay, what does it matter most? Who is weak? Who is in control? So I think that we as a population will go toward a form civil war, and external war. If we don't have fear of that... I have a principle: And if you don't worry, Because if you worry, you will take care and chances of happening are reduced. And if you don't worry, I think we're not worrying enough And only if we recognize and that there's a strong middle, there needs to be a strong middle, and we pull together and we're not so hung up just as long as let's agree on so that we can do it. I sense that the world And what would it take to be more worried in the context of the five forces indebtedness, internal conflicts, climate change, technological change, It just seems that nobody's It's because we've never What's happening now that comes along once And we only react to it. So we each go into our happy worlds. Let's think of our experience: you go into your neighborhood, I don't know, we go out to dinner, they watch their streaming of this and there's not the experience. And it seems so... Why worry about it? I mean, everybody's talking about it, The only way we learn and sometimes the pain And so we haven't had this. It comes along once the new world order The war. Okay? You have the war; you have the restructuring; nobody wants war again; you take that generation, who lived through the Depression and war, and they come out They have learned to save, they have learned to not get into war, and that learning and establishing sets the stage for the prosperity that then we produce a sense of unfairness, And we do the same thing again; you have a debt bubble crisis, and so on. So if you can get them and that's one of the things If you're worried you pass that along, but sometimes and then it's going to take so that you get through it. So you have to have agreement about what to do. That's just how reality works. Bridgewater has done excellently I would speculate you've been the great Now, would it help? I mean, would you advise be it in a household, in any social institution, as for them to have some sort so that the world will be I don't know. I think the world is (full of) and then knowing how to go while minimizing the downside. And I learned how to do that If you want, I could tell you about it. But anyway, through this painful I learned humility, and I wanted to find the smartest people to stress test me and also for me to learn. And I also learned could reduce my risk by up to 80% So I think people have got to They have to learn how they can have while virtually eliminating So you have to learn that I think experience is the best teacher. My dad learned it because He didn't earn much money; He raised me. He had everything that he needed. We had everything we needed: a nice house-- but a nice house--food; I went to public school; we had a car. Everything that he needed. And when he died, he had over a million dollars saved up, and that's a while ago, so that's a few million dollars. And he had a great life, and he learned it You have to give up overindulgence, and you do that. So in each of our own ways, we can learn it, Of course, we want to do it So I don't know that... The real question is: You have a Chief Worry Officer; Yeah, companies have risk officers; it's a good thing to surface those risks and also know that it's only one that'll kill you. Like, all companies die. When I decided that I did certain things to make sure It can [inaudible] because... but we would not go broke. And so, yes, that worrying is good. I don't know about... But you have to have it while you're also excited I mean, Bridgewater was amazing-- 1,500 people, and we made more money for clients They made money, We have a community. It's built around meaningful work It was great. But there is a way of doing that balancing, and you have to know it Yeah, you've done really well, man. I mean, you've made money in what? 28 out of the last 30 years It's awesome. Yeah. Because I don't want to lose money. And we made great money. And yeah, we made more money so yeah. You're one of the earliest observers You've done business there, and you've interacted with I want to talk about And I want to put this in the context in the context of Talk about that. Yeah. I've been very lucky. In 1984, I was invited over by CITIC, which was called the "window company". It was the only company to deal with the outside world. In 1978, Deng Xiaoping came to power, and he wanted to have so I went there. And I went there out of curiosity. They didn't have any money; And I went there out of curiosity. And I started to develop with these wonderful people about helping them develop their system, for a long (time). And we've been long old friends It was something like 12 or 15 years. I was there before I ever earned and it was the satisfaction And that's continued to today. I studied the dynasties, Since I started going, China's per capita income life expectancy has increased a poverty rate went from 88% the greatest economic transformation and there's a great understanding That's why Xi Jinping says that a one-in-100-year storm on the horizon. And that storm that we're facing-- In the United States, the same cycle I talked about wealth gaps, and international conflict. Okay, that storm. There's a great storm on the horizon. And then there's the reaction of There's internal conflict, So what's happening in China now in such periods of great conflict, and they know it; they've seen it through their dynasties There's no room for fighting There's one side, and everybody must line up and if there's any wavering, or something like, That's something, by the way, and democracies in their own ways You have to look at history, and when you go through those periods, even the most democratic countries, you cannot say a lot of things. You can't do anything; And so we're doing that while there are So for example, in World War II, when we had world deppression, there was a conflict, let's say, in Japan. By way of example, it happened with There's this conflict, In the geopolitical conflict, the United States cuts off oil to Japan And when they freeze their assets, The same dynamic is going on; And so that's the dynamic. There's a fear in China that they might get sanctioned meaning if you had dollar assets they would make them worthless. That particular dynamic And so that's where we are. We have a number of issues So we're at the red lines I could touch on them briefly, go to the history of Taiwan. Okay, we're going to go back. There's what's called The west and China lived in that then came together particularly the British, came into China and wanted to trade, and China said it had all its needs But they want to force themselves in; This started in 1840. And they create the Opium Wars And then they have military conflict, and different foreign powers Japan took Taiwan in 1895. Fast forward, you go to Japan loses the war, the new powers win to find and China is given back Taiwan. And so everybody agrees that Taiwan But China has a civil war between, the Communists and the capitalists. You have this war. The capitalists run to Taiwan. And so there's an argument But there's one China, 50 years later... Excuse me, 50 years ago, Henry Kissinger goes and everybody Now we have the possibility; there's a question, Over time, 50 years later, it would be considered if the United States said that That would be intolerable. But there's the pushing of the edge of that, which means that in favor the United States will act in favor send military equipment, and so on. And so that's one example of something and is kind of an uncompromisable If you take a number of the issues, like if I take the issue of support it's a big issue. If I take chips, if I take trade, we are at those lines, and therefore we have this Wow. You know, in the seeming trap what would be your views Do you think this is more of a threat Before I answer Southeast Asia, I want to emphasize that in that struggle, there will not be a winner or a loser, but the ultimate winner which will all depend on Got it. It will depend on how productive it is, and how people deal with So both of those countries but their main struggle and that will determine how And to answer your question, I'll give you the history. Neutral countries: In wars, there're winners, there're losers, Neutral countries do better than because the winning countries like when the British won the war The United States made a lot of money so all the gold that it accumulated... Gold was money at the time. The United States accumulated because it entered both So neutral countries The three big ingredients for a country are: do you earn more than you spend, so you have a good income statement Do you have an internal dynamic And are you in an international war? And so, when I look at the emergence of the nature of how Indonesia, other those countries. They're coming up with They are operating in a way They are... If they remain largely neutral They will do well. Singapore is emerging as for various reasons. And so that is an area of opportunity. India also benefits from this because you also see that because of the nature Not just military war, and they're worried about that. Then they go to these other countries. And then they benefit; capital goes, That's also, by the way, in the Middle East to some extent. So it is by and large a benefit if those three ingredients remain in place. Those three ingredients: have a good income statement work well together, eliminate corruption or minimize it, create capital formation, And then number three: That's great advice. I'm going to push on this, Ray. In the context of the need the need to borrow less than you make, and the need to be between China and the US, who's likely to be more competitive in the context of all those? The United States has that also with its capital markets is able to invent very quickly. It doesn't make a strategic plan; it's very much that also does create the problems about the large wealth and those types of things. And when Plato... This dynamic and question democracies existed for a long time. Plato wrote 'The Republic' and he made the point and what happens is that the greatest due to the internal fighting So the United States has those about that internal fighting and how that works and gets through it. Then you go to China, and it is now dealing in top-down-directed kind of way. So, that will direct resources like in a war economy, In other words, in many cases, You don't have a free market because of the profit system. People going and spending a lot are not going to be productive it's just not going to work. So you have that sort of directed, but that directed is going to be but it's going to be very focused, and you won't have people as long as you keep that. And so you see that kind of approach. Those are the differences in the approach. Both of them have their vulnerabilities, so as we go through that, I think one can't easily say one side Each has their vulnerabilities, So I'm not going to pronounce it. It's all a function of your circumstances. There comes a time doing what they're told to do: go fight the war, And there are times where because top-down leadership have to go to the leader, and because they're fearful, and that has problems. So it looks like that to me. I don't think we should worry about we just have to know that there's as there always has been. Got it. Ray, one of the five great forces you've And I've been alluding to the fact that resonates with only a small portion whereas most of the world population is more concerned about irrespective of how the energy is sourced. In your view, how do you think these two seemingly the narrative of development I don't know that I have the answers So let me just describe what I think We have a situation where, as you point out, one of the five great forces throughout droughts, floods, and pandemics have killed more people than wars, caused more governments and so on. And it's a huge deal right now, If you don't deal with it, it's a huge deal. If you deal with it, it's a huge deal; There are three types of costs for that. There's the cost of going from, let's call it, which is very costly. You have to invent the energy, And in that period of time, there's a gap in not investing And so there's a supply-demand issue, The second cost is to deal with climate change. Literally, in Indonesia, so you have to build infrastructure. How do you deal with And then there will certainly be damages; droughts, floods, all of those And the estimated cost of these things however you spend it, is in the vicinity of $10 trillion a year, depending on how you do it. Let's go up five to 10 trillion dollars a year. World GDP is a hundred trillion dollars a year. So 5 to 10% of GDP that is going to come So let's first realize that. How are we going to deal with that? Then, as you point out, there's the developed world And the emerging world has and is poor, and in many cases, is not efficient and so on. So how do you get resources in the underdeveloped world? First, where does the money come from? Where's the motivation come from? How do you get through Well, there are no easy answers The only answer to all of this rises above the individual good And then it becomes a common problem. So how do you get You know, during such times, I'm going to fight for me, So I think it's going to be Claudia, I'm going to be interviewing I know you're a big fan of his. Any questions you want me to ask him? Yeah, wow! I really like Ray Dalio; I'm a huge fan. Actually, I do (have a question). I'm thinking, what would Ray Dalio tell my 5-year-old daughter if I had one about the next 10 to 20 years of her life? What should she expect? - I'll question that to him. Very excited for your time - Tell me how it is. What would Ray Dalio advise in terms of what he or she I'm going to give you There are three phases in life, I think. There's the first phase in life you're being raised, and at 10 years old, it's just part of puberty. And you're learning in a unique way that actually the mind-brain in a way that you're having you haven't yet had the rebellion and so on. And so it's a wonderful time By the way, almost every really right around 10 or 12, got hooked on something and liked it. And so that's experience, so at 10 or 12, follow your passions, and enjoy that. Then there's going to be a transition into where you're gaining independence but you're still dependent when you're out from under your parents; you graduate school, now you're not dependent on others, you have to make your decisions, you make your choices, And then you begin where others become dependent on you; you try to become successful, you have your family, and you go through that dynamic. So at each level and at each age, For the 10-year-old, it's like, go imbue it. If you're learning a language, you will learn that language At post-puberty, So to have that experience, I'd say do that. And then recognize it; if you can, step back and say, "I'm now going through the next phase. Always know what phase and think about what the next and for those you care more about. So, for example, I'm 74 years old, I know where I am in my life; I know what the next 10 years what that's going to be like, and how I'll be different If I look at the people I love, I know what that'll be like, And if I think about the next generation, what will they be like And you're in the middle of your life, Imagine what they will go through and where they're going to be. And if you can understand how life works, it's kind of like, in most ways, at certain ages, Things happen in a certain way. If you know what that life arc is like, I would say one other thing; an advice I give to everybody. I would give it to the 10-year-old because 10-year-old is the age I've learned... I was very lucky when I was in college The Beatles went to India; they came back, Transcendental meditation helps and a perspective to almost rise to understand how reality works; it gives you centeredness, and it also gives you creativity because you transcend into where a lot of creativity motion is. If you can meditate, it will help you see it'll help you understand and accept and help you develop your principles That's a great and long advice The final question, Ray. What makes Ray Dalio happy? I feel there are many things I like evolving fast, learning fast, So I want to evolve fast, So evolving and contributing However, I love... The thing that makes me happiest now They're fabulous. So I have my passions, a compelling desire to pass along and also my wealth of philanthropy, So how do I pass it along well? And then, how do I save our lives? I want to save our lives. I love the philanthropy. I also have a passion for I was a diver. And then I do ocean exploration. One of the excitements is that that supports ocean exploration You can go online and see it; It's a new initiative. It's going to go to Indonesia, Indonesia, by the way, has the greatest It's totally undiscovered, and I'm excited that we're going to to make underwater discoveries So that's a great passion. And when I get to see that's exciting. So those are my friends. You know, one of the advantages is that you've got a lot of old friends; friends who have been friends So I very much enjoy my friends I like snowboarding. Oh my gosh. That's pretty cool. Not the same way I did in the past. Anyway, I know you got to go, Ray. Thank you so much And I hope to catch up with you. I hope so too. Thanks. Bye-bye. Ladies and gentlemen, that was Thank you.