In today's chess video, I'll show you some Gambit, and also, the best strategy for black game - e4, e5, knight f3, knight c6, bishop move - pawn to d4. Now black thinks that he can free. So, he captures on d4, and now instead of surprising move - the short castle. This is the so, black grabs it right away, and this is By the way, if he doesn't take &amp; plays push forward. Or in this position, let's say he so you'll simply recapture. In any case, the the most common move by black is to capture setup &amp; there are different move orders to reach you can even play the bishop's opening, knight knight c6 defends it and then you play d4, pawn position as we saw earlier. Okay, what next? this video is about the Nakhmanson gambit which knight to c3. You might ask, 'Jeetendra, what on knight for free.' But if he takes with the pawn, takes, we'll go for the killer move, bishop f7 have to take &amp; then you come up with queen d5 to move the king. He has four options - king e8 f6 or g6. We'll look at all these &amp; I'll show you start with king e8, this is what most players e1. Because you will anyways get this knight, so black could try many different moves like bishop case, your plan is simple. Just bring out all your capture with your rook, develop your bishop, and all directions. So, say for example, if he plays plays d6 to activate his bishop, we attack with rooks to dominate the e file &amp; target the king. Going back, in this position, even if he plays here, then you know what, you can just take then queen g8 is a stunning checkmate. And if king f8, we check with the rook, and ultimately, The engine gives us a massive 10-point advantage e8 - which does not look that great for black. Now no way for him to block, you can straightaway If he goes to d6, you can just attack the king the board, and send him packing. And here, even the sweety is gone. Therefore, king f7 is forced, then that's a checkmate. So, he has to come so many attacks, that he won't survive long. Say, king h6, then g4, and you have all these moves knight e6 check. If g5, then queen h5 is a mate, a checkmate. So, all in all, king e7 doesn't work button below this video! So, if you're enjoying Now coming back, what if he goes to g6? Again, to h5, then g4 is a brutal checkmate. And if he this. And if he goes to f7, you have the same idea as we saw in the earlier variation. Alright, now he plays king f6. This one is interesting. as the best move. Although, for humans, it's I mean, why would he let out his king in the a computer line that I'm showing you, and as you if you find someone playing this accurately, he or he is most likely using an engine! That's why, it won't be easy for black to find the exact This, of course, was a computer line, so black you'll always have very good chances in this accept defeat from the beginning? Well, No! I will to neutralise white's attack in the Nakhmanson thank Endel for sponsoring this video. Endel is soundscapes to help you focus, relax, and sleep adjust your mind and body with the natural The sound adapts in real-time, to various and weather, to give you what you actually need neuroscience! You can select any of these modes, your stress, improve your sleep, and boost your really cool artists. And their latest soundscape James Blake. I personally use Endel while I'm it can be really useful for all chess players If you also like listening to music while It's a much better experience than having Just check out the link in the description, and get a free week of audio experiences. So guys, coming back to the game, All the traps that we the pawn. Well, now let's look at some tricky And then, I'll also show you how to counter them at least you're not down a piece. But here again, then he's gone. Let me show you how. We start the bishop, and then you'll play knight to g5, Now you might think that black can simply that's not the case. There is one move here, that and that is queen to h5. Now you're attacking this probably the only option for black is to eliminate bishop, and believe it or not, this poor helpless course he can't block with this pawn, because of instead of castling, what if he plays d5 to block Well, the match-winning move is the absolutely and the rook. So, taking with the king is almost wherever he moves, you can use the similar Say, for example, if he goes to e8, you this time with bishop a3. You can also bring your with your entire army to finish off the king. in this position. But does that mean black has Of course, he has! I'll show you two simple traps and get into a decent middlegame position. So basically, in this position, taking this pawn Therefore, black shouldn't take it, instead Now since this bishop is under attack, white will black to bring out his bishop, and then castle black is up a pawn and the king is also and this is one good way for black to play against black, which I personally like, is to simply knight to d6. You attack the bishop, at the this knight is still hanging. From here, white he'll give you a check either with the rook or he can try bishop g5. In any case, you don't need out the bishop, exchange whatever is on offer, your king to safety. This works every single time. you, we'll block with the bishop. His best reply him capture on e7. You take back. After he takes don't try to hold on to this knight, instead just king safety is very important. Eventually you can a good position. This is a very simple gameplan, And plus, you also end up with a pawn advantage Here's how you apply it when he starts off with bishop, castle on the kingside, exchange your pieces. And finally, this is how you respond exchange the pieces, develop with tempo, and very effective. Alright, so it's puzzle and you need to find the best move continuation section below. Guys, don't forget to like and