This is officially your yacht. Congrats, man. The only catch is I'm going to do And it's up to you to protect it massive explosives, You got to be kidding me. And you have exactly 24 hours from Time has started. Good luck. All right, dude. Let's see if this yacht sinks. Sean, using my credit card, immediately and began building his defense Run me through your plan. My plan is to build a giant wall angled And after working into the next morning 24 hours, Because the time is up. Let's go shoot some cannons. Will his defense protect his new yacht from a hundred cannonballs or will we start this video over Phase one of four has begun. - I'm nervous. We're about to fire the cannons - Terrifying. Fire. That's just going right through. Dude, it is ripping through The cannons were melting I'm toast, man. I feel like I lost a little piece And probably a piece of your yacht. The cannons were already and we're just getting started. These cannons are tearing me up. I guarantee We kept firing cannon after cannon These cannons were way more hardcore After a torturous three hours. Oh, go, go, go. Let's go see this thing. Somehow. God, I hope my yacht isn't shredded. Sean's yacht actually survived. You have a tiny hole Dude. Bro, a cannonball hit right here. But that was only the least No. The bathroom in Sean's yacht Look at that mirror right there. Three cannonballs hit your yacht I'll take it. Three out of a hundred. No, I need you to take Ok. And if you don't think I'm Bring out the bomb. In 24 hours. Those 15 sea bombs Oh, no. And by the way, we tested They are extremely powerful. 15 big booms How am I going to protect this? I'm gonna go hit the hay in a yacht Come back Sean got up the next morning but because of the severe thunderstorm, This is brutal. We're doing everything today How are you going to pad up the yacht? Mattresses. That's right. Sean's big plan is mattresses and his workers bought All of those mattresses. We'll start There we go. All the way around, every inch. I can't even tell this is a yacht anymore. It just looks like In 2 hours, we blew up the mines as much as I thought. These are heavy. You know how much easier You know how much easier this Yes. Clock's ticking. This is not looking good. I don't think his yacht's going to survive. Three, two, one. Time's up. That's all I'm going to get. So he has some mattresses and water Karl, can you cover his ears? This might be the most hideous thing What I'm getting from you is you - Yeah. Yeah. Let's see if the yacht sinks. Any last words? Can I have the hat? I will give you All right. Three, two, one. Blow it up. No! Oh my gosh. - There's no way that didn't do damage. - Come on. My yacht. It looks good. She's still standing. You did it. It just burned the mattresses. I'm not sure what to say. Somehow, a very effective defense In front of us is phase three. This attack We're going to be launching straight at your yacht, followed by a barrage and finally catapults launching And by now, Sean's build strategies He gave his crew orders. Yeah, let's go containers moved into Then got some much needed rest Now it's on to trebuchets, fireworks What is your plan? My plan is to basically get more And I'm basically tall enough to block the fireworks from hitting the yacht. That's so sketch Today is my day. I'm feeling it. I'm hard... - Hard confidence now. Compared to phase two. This is insane. - You really stepped it up. You went from a pathetic build that to this, which I actually He is currently taking lake water, to wet his mattresses. All right, We're about to go Is now a bad time to tell you guys, This is a 40 foot tall, solid wall. When we fling the catapults, they're going to fly over and hopefully hit his yacht. Right? No, you're going to miss. Hey, Chandler envision you're catapult I got you. Ready? Aim, Fire. That's the one. Dead hit. Your boat's going down. Not going to happen. All right, You have 30 seconds where you can be We're ready. It's covered up. Everything's wet back there. Do we even need to wait 20 seconds? No, let it rip. Let's do it. Time's up. Phase three is upon us. Catapults, flaming arrows Let's see if this yacht lights on fire. Ready the fireworks. Any last words? Good luck. Fire the fireworks. Oh, my God. That doesn't look real, bro. That is wild. Oh my gosh. How is this... How is this doing that? While these pretty fireworks are going off, I'm going to tell you about Bloons Tower Defense is a game I've actually been playing - Oh my god! No joke. I used to literally play this Dude, I see smoke on his yacht. And they're back with their sixth Bloons Tower Defense 6. Oh, my God. How is this doing that? And if you've never played basically you defend yourself by placing monkey towers - I want to celebrate something right now. It's hitting his yacht. Oh, yeah. That firework just hit his yacht. Blow up the arrows. Now, it's time for Oh my God. The arrows are going - Wow. I wouldn't cheer yet. Ready to catapults. Ready? And because of the sponsor, the next ...on fire. Here we go. Basically, flaming bowling balls. Fire in the hole. There goes. That's going straight for his yacht. They hit the shipping container Let's go, baby. If you buy anything in-game, use MrBeast in the supporter creator code, and help me do more videos Make sure you download And if you download it right now, Oh my God! Dude, his boat is exposed. Sean, I'm feeling worried for you I'm still feeling good. This is a heavy balloon. Dude, this looks nothing like a balloon. You just don't look good enough balloons. The defenses are falling Let it rip. And if just one of these catapult shots This whole video might be over. That was a little closer Fire the final catapult. Oh, that's a direct hit. Water. The only thing burned today is me, boys. All right. You know what? Sean, you might be laughing now, but you are not ready for this In 24 hours from now, with a barrage of machine guns. Any questions about phase four? In addition to every single phase the fireworks, the catapults, You have 100 more cannonballs? And rather than a bunch of bombs, this giant monstrosity, questionably even illegal, All of that on top of machine Yeah. Today is phase The general plan is to just put a ton of stuff between my yacht We're going to use to try to block any cracks That container is just perfectly placed Use as much dirt as we can right in front of the wall where And since the giant bomb I'm just going to do what I can with the time remaining and close This challenge is tough. I mean, I'm away from home. I'm missing the family and the water element makes everything because you can't just walk out to the boat It's made it so difficult. That bomb has me nervous. He has multiple layers of metal shields a mound of sand and a bunch He still has the tall wall and the soaked mattresses. Five, four, three, two, one. Everybody stop. Time is up. I think this is all No, this is real life. Even though it's my job I genuinely hope you win this thing. Ever since I was a little kid, I just got to get through this If you think about it, 100 hours ago, And now there's all of this. I don't know how you did it. You nervous? No, no. That makes literally no sense at all. This final phase Ready your weapons. On top of all these machine guns, a giant mine, the equivalent of all All of the fireworks, arrows and Fire. They're in the boat. Bro they're actually aiming And if things couldn't one of the shooters accidently shot the fireworks in Well, it looks like you made What is going on? I'm going to be honest I don't think your yacht's But I think it's time for the next stage. Prepare the cannons. Let's from the last time we fired these cannons. Fire. I saw one hit. It's actually scaring me now. Although one of the cannonballs the crate and mound of dirt were And his defense against my flaming he even caught a burning death ball. I caught it. Wait, did that land At the rate we're going, I think we just send everything I want you to launch cannons, catapults, Three, two, one. Fire everything. Look at how much smoke is out there. It's like World War III. How much more is this gonna take, Jimmy? Dude, this is killing me. You can't even see anything. While we're watching Sean's yacht perish, we're going to enjoy some chocolate. Fire the cannons. Sean, so far, we've launched almost But like every YouTube video we're saving the best for last. Or, in your case, We took the 14 combined them into one mega sea bomb. And it is currently on an RC boat This explosion All right. There she goes. There she goes. - That was crazy. - Let's go see if it's there. Let's go see my yacht. Look at everything I'm done a lot of weird things. I never experienced You didn't say And after all of that, but it does look like some stray bullets So, boys, bring it up. Here's $50,000. - Yeah. Yes. Before we end the video, they're going to what is the name of your Its name is... Oh, and if you're wondering. Yes, we did ensure the lake For the love of God,