Let's go to Japan. &quot;But how are we Then let's cook a dish that is one of our This is Katsu. Basically when you say Katsu, that you are going to bread that we call Panko You're gonna serve this with a very delicious, and today, we are gonna the cabbage salad with So let's start first So I'm going to put I'm using Good Life and you also put You can use tomato ketchup, I like using tomato ketchup so that 1 tbsp of Japanese soy Japanese soy sauce and Just put it there. And then I'm getting a wire whisk, Then you already have That is just as Very easy to do. That's it. And let's make the To do the homemade 1/3 cup of good mayonnaise. So I am really enjoying this, &quot;What is that? I told her that it's mayonnaise, because what I like about this You know that? That you're still gonna scrape It's very beautiful and There it is, right? So 1/3 cup of mayonnaise and you So just a splash of Sesame oil. You will be needing Oh! My sesame oil is still close. So this one actually, 2 tbsp. 1,2 And you also need brown sugar, 1,2 In the recipe, So basically, you are just gonna put If you want your dressing very thick, If you also want it runny, So you just mix together first. Before you put the sugar, My mistake saying sugar, Before you put water, The sugar will melt down you see that your sugar It will just dissolve. So I'm going to put 1 tbsp of It's still very gooey as a dressing Oh see, I told you. The sugar will dissolve. And then you taste it for you to know It's perfect. I won't put salt and pepper anymore. There's still a bit undissolved sugar let's say 5 to 10 minutes, So next, I have here some lettuce that I You just remove that hard part. It doesn't need to have your My mistake saying it's lettuce. I am already confused. You don't need to use purple cabbage, Just like this green cabbage, Those Japanese restaurants you can see that it's very thin because but of course, I already know &quot;We don't even have food processor&quot; or &quot;The only dish that I am just So you just cut it very thinly. When you say very thinly, Like that, It's just like you are just When you are in a culinary school we refer to this It sounds so grandeur, right? When it's just like that, Chiffonade. So let's have this one, I am just mixing it so I have been saying the Cabbage. So that there is contrast, Okay. So we set this aside And of course, I will cut tomatoes too So there, The tomatoes float if you see it in the camera I won't remove the seeds anymore It feels like when I am gonna squeeze it, the So the seeds have So the tomatoes are so pretty. It might deform when So there. So the sauce is ready. The vegetables or cabbage- So I made it right already. The cabbage is ready. Next, I'm going to You can cover this with clean wrap and leave So now, let's prepare our meats. I have here pork I have here for and we have also So for the prawns &quot;How did he do that?&quot; I just slice it so it will get long; I already know that &quot;Let's also have Tempura recipe&quot;. Soon, okay. Let's just do it one by one for So just one by one, the So first, I'm going to season Season the meats You have to season it both sides. So let's just have pepper first And a bit of lemon juice. Okay, let's flip it. Salt and pepper again &quot;Can we use calamansi juice?&quot; Sure. If you have a plant calamansi So that's it. Now, I have here my I have the flour, the eggs, This is Panko bread crumbs, So you season Black pepper. And then you just That's it. You don't need to heavily season it because It's very important. And you know, Japanese it's very straightforward and their belief It's actually true too. In food and in life, proper balance So let's start. I'm going to show you the technique, Just very simple. It just needs that your one hand, and the other hand So I'm going to I am gonna soak You shake it and After putting it on the eggs, You shake it again and So this is where it will happen because your other Okay. So you just coat it like that. So I just like this, I don't have a Then I can use my There it is, right? You put your breaded pork there. Let's do one chicken. Flour.. You shake it... Into the eggs... I know that someone from you &quot;Why is there That is just to balance so that when the meat you use have a bit It will be balanced, And then into the bread crumbs, It's very important that you keep your Okay. So let's try one prawn. Into the flour... Into the egg... and into the bread crumbs... On the prawn, you left your tail So that you can really show that because maybe, &quot;That is just hotdog, Right? So there it is, it is prawn Okay, pork again. Into the flour, Into the egg. Into the bread crumbs. It's very simple to do, right? And it's better if you are just and then you just keep But I do not recommend freezing this what will happen is that our breading So always better if you bread it, you put in because it's better since the but for now if it's newly bread, there So let's try if- So our oil is already hot. So there, you throw it. So you have your pork, Okay. I will just fry this prawn later Some tips when you are deep frying: but at the same time, because if the oil is too hot especially if the Right? What may happen: the tendency is your breading would be toasted and your meat is also uncooked. Okay. When your oil is also cool, what would also happen is that What you are frying is And another advantage of you can easily go here to There it is, right? So you just deep fry I minimize my flame a bit It would be on you if you want to put this, You are gonna put it there. But if you think it would consume a lot of space, I think it just consume So let's just remove it. Since I also have the lid on and I'm going to continue So here it is, you Nicely golden. I have the chicken When the slices of pork is too thick, to make sure that it's Just to show you what I meant: Maybe they will say: &quot;What do you mean So you get a fork and then Right? So there, you just prick it; But if on chicken, You will prick it with fork to make So there. And then into the hot oil. Okay. So just as simple as that. So I'm going to continue breading and I look forward to plate this together with the sauce and salad and the sesame dressing we made. Okay, so there. We are ready to plate. So I steam Japanese Rice so I have here some because I don't have Bento Box, but it's still beautiful, So I have here: This may be the pork. So what you can We will turn it into So you put a pork there. You put a prawn and- You put the chicken. So just like that, And then you get So a bit of sesame seeds The dressing for the cabbage salad. And then this is the Tonkatsu Then if you also want, You may put lemon... lemon wedges... And then your salad, The dressing. What we did now is too grandeur And the Tonkatsu sauce. So what would really bring this: I know that you already What would really bring this up If you want to add a bit spice, What is this? Togarashi. The seasoned-chili flakes like. So there. So representing the Restaurant style foods at the comfort of It just look so fancy, it just sounds So let us taste it. Gosh! What shall I eat here first? So let's just eat the pork first. So there, as you can see, the Let's soak it here. Why I am using my bare hands when Japanese Restaurant. Japanese Restaurant-style. So there it is suddenly. Then fine. Let's taste it already. Delicious. Waiters, can we Because I personally like So here it is, It's very delicious Let's try the salad. Then after, let's also You soak it there. The sauce really The prawn... You can see that I am silenced. But you know? I really feel like I am eating because the flavor combination especially the sauce, the salad, and the freshly steamed Japanese Rice. And of course, when and with this kind You would really be silenced So what are you still waiting? Make yours already. If any meat is available on yours, I suggest because it's also delicious to You will really eat a lot. So take care, God bless and