I've been touched by all your comments since my but for now one more time: thank you all so much. If you're anything like me, you've Part 2 since they announced it a the cinema the other day, and let In case you aren't familiar with the Dune is a book series written in regarded by many as one of the best works book alone is almost 900 pages long, which The Dune universe is incredibly rich in personal shields based on subatomic particles, moons that tilt the rotational axis It got me thinking - how realistic are these or somewhere within the realm of possibility? I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. how much this pioneering work of science fiction Dune revolves heavily around the use of Which is necessary, given the story spans the author himself notes in an Appendix that there That's a lot of planets. So let's focus on the Geidi Prime is home to the Harkonnen, resources (which we'll get to later in the where little photosynthesis occurs, meaning with other worlds for their food needs. things with built environments, except for Caladan, by contrast, is a lush oceanic world, Paul. Water is abundant and Both these worlds couldn't be more most of the action happens in the Arrakis is a desert world that makes the planet from its sun, Canopus, orbiting at about twice as close as our Earth is from our hard for life to exist, given the searing So can Arrakis support human life? Well, from an actual star called Canopus, a white At the moment this star is in its blue-loop from a cool star to a hotter one before could have been considerably cooler and like our sun. This would have positioned Arrrakis at some point during its stellar cycle making Something I think is super interesting Arrakis sits third in line from its star On either side of Arrakis are two much Thanks to the dedicated fans over on accumulated an extensive amount of information elliptical orbits. These orbits pull Arrakis into and changing Arrakis's orbital pattern. A year on I wondered if we'd ever seen an example of Turns out, highly elliptical orbits are not exoplanets that follow this pattern. We also know orbit of nearby planetary bodies within the same shifts in the orbital period, or even orbital variation we see on Arrakis is highly unlikely specific unstable and chaotic conditions to exist. Speaking of orbits, Arrakis also has Krelln and Arvon are both visible in the Arrakis shares a lot of characteristics with is covered in a thin layer of meteoric dust, Avon is much smaller and While the Twins affect the these moons affect the length of the day about its own axis. The average day is under special circumstances, the day can be as Based on what we know about astrophysics, Planetary rotation is mainly determined It's pretty hard to change this momentum Technically, the moons' gravities but it is improbable that alone would be in Arrakis's rotation. Similar to the this configuration would also likely be Let's move on to two of the biggest sci-fi interstellar travel. In the Dune Universe, both principle, known as the Holtzman Effect. but it basically has to do with the supposed Let's start with the force fields, which We see lots of different characters They're generated around the creating a defensive barrier that is bullets. Slower-moving objects like a blade, Scientists have made numerous - creating force fields or invisible far focused on electromagnetism and plasma. so for now, this will have to I'm also not sure of the scientific reason why from fast objects but not slow ones. Perhaps introduce more tantalizing fight scenes. If the there would be no place for epic hand-to-hand This aside, the shields themselves technological capabilities. We are only just like bosons and quarks work - and so far, they Even if we could predict them, it's unclear how they'd interact with matter to produce the And then there's the issue of conservation objects that are repelled by the shield must to the shield, whether kinetic or thermal. but it is unclear how the Holtzman effect The other major application of the never-explained component of interstellar travel along with With the help of a Holtzman generator, space literally fold space, allowing spacecraft Right off the bat, we know nothing can surpass the speed of light without violating the few main reasons for this, and they boil Firstly, as a starship accelerates, a stationary observer. As they approach the still for the crew. Travelling faster than time. And it's in going down this rabbit hole paradox and other time loop paradoxes Secondly, a starship approaching the speed meaning you'd need infinite energy to of that energy would be is unclear. But from the it seems the ships somehow fold space at their destination in no time at science of wormholes in our analysis of The second half of the interstellar travel as &quot;the spice&quot;. It has incredible in the Dune Universe because, without it, The only place you can find this spice is by eliciting its effects on the pilots, not the The spice imparts some pretty crazy effects to the of Arrakis, known as the Fremen, it is considered and helps you achieve a state of prescience you to see the future. However, it is also crazy The Guild Navigators take this spice when state of heightened awareness. The precognitive folded space and safely guide starships Now, we obviously don't know of any substance that entire gambling industry would collapse overnight. Seeing into the future implies knowledge of events causality. The effect must follow the cause, you get paradoxes like time loops. It conservation which says no new information can The closest thing to the spice that might which humans all over the world have used to for millennia. These psychoactive plants people who use them, just like the spice That being said, there's no a spaceship will make it reach the speed of light. Another sacred substance on Arrakis is water. The planet is a total desert, without water bodies. The only water the Fremen have which they don't dare to use, because they dream make it more hospitable, and reclaim The only other water source they have processes. As you can imagine, this has led to You definitely noticed the full-body suits of their underground communities. They're known recycle as much bodily water as possible. other secretions through a series of microdermal a collection pocket. The Fremen then drink this It sounds disgusting but also intriguing. How First off, we'd need a material that can filter waste from water. This actually exists - it is of nanopores so small, they only allow water to like bacteria, will be held back. On Earth, these sadly would be hard to come by on Arrakis The second big hurdle I see to these suits are a few different ways to clean but only two of them seem plausible on Arrakis their Stillsuits with brushes, or apply air While it is theoretically plausible for us a very basic version of something like Bear Grylls and other extreme survival With Arrakis being a desert planet, alien life forms to discuss. However, that seems too big to be true: The Sandworm. survive without much to eat in the desert? large creature here on Earth that Apparently, sandworms feed kind of amounts of desert sand and filter out the Ok, but does the math add up? 1 to 4 tons of plankton per day during the in length and only feed in arctic waters Not accounting for differences in metabolism, would need about 8 - 35 tons of sand plankton consider that they have 100% of the planet's I guess they could sustain themselves like that. and I'm not aware of a single organism, doesn't rely on water in some capacity to survive. Arrakis. One big goal the Fremen have is to green, and more hospitable world. That's to them. Any kind of terraforming What I'm about to say isn't shown in either so if you are planning to, or are already Several thousand years in the future from when terraformed by the ruling powers. I couldn't find me from coming up with some ideas of my own. climate is a super ambitious undertaking, could do in a lifetime. Luckily for the people of so the time constraint is not such an issue. on Earth about terraforming Mars, including NASA's send a fleet of solar sails to Mars to sublimate the atmosphere. Another, slightly less delicate, ten thousand nuclear bombs on the polar ice Thickening the atmosphere would warm the planet still don't agree whether there is enough frozen The atmosphere on Arrakis is already Earth-like. I'm assuming you'd need to import water from soil quality, climate modification, ecosystem You'd also have to introduce species to build which is something the Emperor at the time In my opinion, Dune really stacks up to its It's got everything you could want - multiple alien creatures, and mystical powders Dune was never meant to be scientifically science fiction, and encourages us universes give us an opportunity to deepen our understanding of physics, and get a As Albert Einstein himself said, &quot;Imagination is limited, whereas imagination embraces and giving birth to evolution.&quot; And that As I prepared for this video, a lot of the thinking. I'm a big believer in the power we have about them. This doesn't just apply to scientific life. There have been times for me where life has me. But in those times, seeing my circumstances difference. That's why I'm a big believer in the BetterHelp. BetterHelp's online platform can match hours, and therapists are experts at helping but I've really seen the benefits of understanding influence our day to day in negative ways. Seeing and I heartily recommend it. If you want to see why not give BetterHelp a try by scanning my QR You'll get a therapist's helpful, unbiased Thanks for watching! And thanks to our crew of Astrumnauts over on Patreon, who help us to make science knowledge freely available to everyone. add some boosters to carry all the Astrumnauts much brighter with hunderds of new stars the call last video and joined Patreon, larger of a reception than we expected, with more to that we're already planning to do so much more so stay tuned for updates, and if you haven't never been a better time to get in on the party. When you join you'll be able to watch the whole video ad free, see your name in the credits and submit questions to our team. Meanwhile, click the link to this playlist for more astrum content. Once again a huge thank you from