On April 20th, oil markets did something they never had before and they crashed, went and closed the day at -$40. Meanwhile, in a place a group of nine traders made $660 million, over the The price of oil has We've never really seen anything like it. WTI this morning, down more than 35%. People maybe wouldn't if the oil price had fallen to zero. But the oil price went to -$38. It went far lower than And so lots of people in well, hang on, something A couple of months later, through a kind of network of sources that a tiny firm in had made a huge amount of money that day and potentially had some part The information we got at Vega Capital London had made in the region of $660 million in one day. As a group, I think they as Apple makes from its I mean, it's an insane sum of money. Did they pull off a fantastic trade? Did they predict the way the market was moving and get it absolutely right? Or was there something else done something that breached market rules in a bid to sort of push the market? And that investigation is ongoing. So Paul Commins is a trader who cut his teeth in the when everyone had a If you can imagine, cut-throat type of world you know, hundreds of thousands and millions of dollar trades Get five and a half! Giving hand signals and then sort of scrawling on scraps of paper. The culture of the trading pits in London was very influenced by the working class guys They weren't like the city bankers that had gone before Oxford or Cambridge, you Savile Row suits. who happened to have a talent for trading and a lot of them came from Essex. I think it was 400 traders in the pits and Cuddles, in his you was described to us as you know, in amongst that, and made you know, very as a young man, but and the arrival of electronic markets was the kind of death knell for the pits and in 2005, the IPE closed down. And when the pits shut down, a lot of the traders who worked there lost their jobs or quit or went to work for financial institutions, decided to start his own Some of them are ex-pit guys cut from the same cloth as him, lots of them are actually and they're, his, you Or they're his own kid's You know, they're young and he brings them into the fold. And fairly shortly, he's got you know, maybe a dozen or so traders that, they're independent, let's be clear but they're all part of this collective. Yeah, I'll let Liam deal with Essex. I am from Essex so I feel like I'm free to, you know, get into this. Sweet, as they say. If you are to ask someone in Britain how they would imagine an Essex person, they would say someone who's with a sort of Cockney accent, You know, not afraid to splash the cash, but is probably pretty bright and has done well for themselves. Don't even make sense, does it? But, you know, these guys, they drove around very nice they went to places like Theydon Bois is a very wealthy place. You have to have considerable income to be able to afford to It's a really nice place to live and it's 20 minutes tube Earlier in the summer, we have this lead, which is that there's this tiny firm called Vega Capital London, and they were the biggest winners from the biggest oil crash in history. You know, anyone that is going to be surprised about that. You know, you're thinking or your Glencore's, but And one of the big challenges that we had was actually finding out who It wasn't immediately obvious, and at first we had absolutely no idea. If you go to the Vega Capital website, it says it's under construction. If you do basic online to find anyone who's publicly So, inevitably, we were Like, who the hell are these people? The more reporting we did, the more it became clear that socially as well as professionally. They went to weddings together, they would go on holiday together. We found out that a number of the West Ham A few of them started companies together. So you could see all the and start to see a And it really just was this kind of shock, that, you know, this wasn't or a firm you've never heard of. This was actually a group of buddies, who all had the same and had all made a huge amount of money. So if you're an oil trader, there's a number of and probably the most popular And it's basically a contract that says I'm gonna buy a thousand at this point in the future, or I'm going to sell a at this point in the future. It's actually just a financial contract to gamble on, to predict whether oil was gonna go up or down. On the 20th of April in Essex, there had been signals for a while that this was going to in oil markets. And we know that some of them arose early and started their trading in while it was still dark outside. Essentially what they were doing is buying contracts that gave at whatever the price ended up at 2:30pm. So they're basically placing a bet that oil's going to But they're simultaneously and whether they make a profit, is the difference between and what they sell the oil for. Now, of course, we now the price dropped and dropped. So, this is going very well for them. You know, they are committed and the prices are continuing to fall which means they're gonna and buy oil at cheaper, Now, once it gets to kind of 1:30, 2pm, that's when things start Suddenly there's a kind of you know, as desperation and trading volumes go something bizarre and which is that oil passes And it fell to a record level of -$38. We've never seen anything like it, period, in terms of the contraction That huge gulf between what and what they were selling it for enabled them to make more money than they ever thought possible. So their profit was the and all of these positive numbers on every contract they sold. The price of crude For one group of traders it was a very, very profitable day. It's important to remember that this had never happened before, in the history of oil trading. I can't think of another example of where you enter a trade and you get paid both to sell and to buy. You know, it's unthinkable. One thing we know about is that, they were very and, you know, you have to be Yeah, we spoke to oil traders, both people that know these and they all say that this is, And that's actually what doing trading like this, they simply aren't willing But Cuddles and his friends were. So when the kind of final the group of the nine most profitable traders made $660 million, or I mean if you can imagine, in excess of $100 million each. One of the astonishing is that two of the individuals who made more than $100 were in their 20s. One you know, only a few years earlier he'd been posting on his social media about doing teenage stuff and going to see girls and rap music. And here he is a few years in a single day's trading. When me and Liam discovered we couldn't believe it, we couldn't believe what we were seeing. Oil trading is a zero sum game. Anytime you're making someone else is losing it. Amongst the biggest in this Chinese fund, There were thousands of them, Lots of people had put they lost money that day. Big banks and brokers who of trading parties, they And another interesting thing is that oil producing countries they sell oil as an average over the preceding month. So the fact that one of was -$37 meant if you can imagine, countries like Saudi Arabia and Kuwait potentially lost a couple of dollars on every single barrel of Vega Capital's traders made such an extraordinary sum of money, that it was inevitable of what they did. But it wasn't just the in the vital half an hour before the settlement price was set, they were by far the biggest in the market, which is an when you consider that in that oil market are gonna you know, oil majors, BP and Shell, and here you have a group who were having this significant influence over a global market for oil. I mean, I think you have to assume that if these guys had made $7 they probably would be but the fact that they has meant that they are facing We wrote individually who did exceptionally well that day, and we got a letter in representing the group, and the law firm was at pains to point out number one, they haven't been that they all traded and they'd basically all that this was what was going based on publicly available knowledge, and decided to execute this trade. What I love about these stories, is there's a real variance of opinion and some people will look at what happened and think &quot;that must be dodgy, they all traded at the end of the day, they all made a huge amount of money while all these people But lots of people say, these guys are at an acute disadvantage. They're in a market that's huge, technology-driven, that have got all the and when you get a bunch of Essex geezers, who essentially beat the market and find a way to make they should get a pat on the back really, because that's the dream. Since this happened, stopped trading the monthly settlements that they'd done so well at in the past. Several of them have set up new companies, they've essentially gone any kind of social media presence they had is kind of closed down. By all accounts they're, It's certainly too how the regulatory investigations you know, we just don't know. There's a number of potential you know, potential punishments of manipulation against Vega, might be, you could be fined, you could be banned from in the most extreme cases there have even been criminal of people who have been found to have been manipulating the settlement and misconduct related There are other outcomes too. is gonna be that they're able to walk away from this life-changing that they made and celebrated as heroes in the trading community, you know, they'll go down as legends.