Transcriber: Martina Tortorici Endometriosis has a nickname - It is estimated that one in ten women It takes roughly eight years There is no cure. It is among the 20 most painful according to the NHS, and it's the leading cause So these are some facts I wrote down, and I had this whole idea in PowerPoint and everything But then I changed my mind because last week I completely and I decided the best presentation So let's talk about what's Let's look at my body: In this moment, I am bleeding freaking waterfalls. My uterus feels like My back is killing me. I'm on quite a few pain medications - My brain is a bit foggy, But why is this happening to me? I hope that everybody knows So the uterus has a lining inside If an egg is fertilized, that's where the egg is embedded If it's not fertilized, this is the stuff that comes out, But in my case, when I was a fetus, somebody - we think it's the Hox genes, somebody made a mistake, and they took pieces of this tissue So now that I'm grown up, I have a whole body, I have tissue that looks and behaves a lot like the endometrium - everywhere. Bladder, colon, intestines - it can be found literally anywhere - the lungs, even the brain. It's estrogen-dependent, which is why the symptoms and so every month, my body panics. What is this? What is all this stuff? How am I supposed to push out How are you supposed to push out through your vagina? It's physically impossible! But the body tries, and it's chaos. Thirty days later, it tries and it fails. Thirty days later, it tries and it fails. And it hurts like hell That's endometriosis. Now, you might think: "Well, no way. She made this thing about the hospital up, Look at her standing on stage. I do look fine. I look damn great. I'm a woman, I can fake it. Your idea of what a sick person looks like does not correspond with the reality Just because you have an idea of what a chronically that does not mean that And you should always keep that in mind. This is a very big issue especially with endometriosis, because people don't believe patients Then you could also say: she has this really rare, Wrong. I said in the beginning, one in ten women. Now statistics, they tend so this is what I want you to do: Think of ten women that you know, and I just want to clarify, I'm using the word woman so we're talking about We're talking about people with uteruses. So think of ten women that you know: friends, family, coworkers, people Statistically ... Do you have the picture Statistically, one of them If you are a woman, think of nine others. Statistically, one of you And maybe it's you Sounds like something that I should Sounds like a proper horror story, but it's true. And then you could also say: "Come on, you know, this is something new. Give science time, give medicine Wrong again. The first written evidence the first ever written is in the Hippocratic Corpus. Hippocrates? Ancient Greek guy? So, we've known about this, not for decades, not for centuries, for thousands of years. Is that a bit weird? I want to recap before I move on, So what have I said? So it's common; It's extremely painful, one of the most painful It's a major cause of infertility. We've known about it It causes debilitating pain in women; But ... we have no idea how it works, why it happens, how it develops, we are nowhere near a cure, we don't have tools that can help us we can't even see it We know next to nothing about this. Isn't that weird? And we don't talk about it. It's not in the media. It's not in schools. It's not in sex ed. When your parents sit you down they don't mention endometriosis. Why? When you go to a gynecologist they don't sit you down They don't tell you: "Oh, watch out for this and these symptoms It would make sense that they did that Why? Don't you think that's weird? I think there's a lot of weird stuff It's a common condition, This is because of the silence This silence begins with the silence We don't talk about menstruation, do we? It's still a taboo. I think quite a few of you felt when I started talking about having I could have gone into more detail. I bet there are quite a few of you and imagining I'm bleeding from my vagina. But guess what? I bet a lot of you here And that should be OK; that's normal. Menstruation is an involuntary of a healthy female human being So why is it clouded in shame? In silence? Why do we hide it? We even lie about it. When you can't do something or you don't want to do you say: "Oh, I have a headache. You will literally invent an illness rather than say that you're going through a perfectly that's just as necessary as breathing. Isn't that weird, too? Our whole society has conditioned us to think of menstruation something to hide, something that makes you weak. We don't even talk about it Ooh, men shouldn't know Men should be hidden away from it. Why? Did you ever ask yourself why? Why do we use codewords? Why do we have so many metaphors for it? And what does this have to do Well ... how are you supposed to know if you never talk about and if nobody ever tells you? If you identified with any of the symptoms that is not a normal menstrual cycle. Menstruation is not supposed to hurt. You're not supposed to be vomiting, It can cause some discomfort. It can be difficult. It's not the best thing in the world. But anything higher than that, Maybe it's not endometriosis, but the cycle is very sensitive Something is up. What happens when you do go We have a lot of patient-driven and without fault, without any doubt, internationally, we have come The number one reason for the delay of diagnosis is the refusal of doctors again, because we are conditioned So you come to a gynecologist you mention your symptoms, I'm not making this up for real. They will tell you: "Well, everybody has their period. "It's normal that it hurts. You're weak. You're exaggerating. You're making it up. Are you depressed? Are you stressed? Are you anxious? Want some Prozac?" My favorite one? "Get pregnant." Endometriosis is the leading get pregnant to fix it? How exactly, how am I supposed to do that? This is all because we live in a society and we don't have Taboo is lack of information. Lack of information can be detrimental. You cannot allow yourself to have lack of information So what is it that's the point of my talk, Once that I'm finally done talking, Start talking about menstruation Men, too - you're not excluded from this. I hope none of you fell asleep midway, In case you've forgotten, you come from a vagina. So it's also your business. OK? Recognize the symptoms in others; Talk about it. Say the words out loud. Menstruation, vagina, uterus, ovaries. Those are not dirty words. Those are not swear words. Those are not bad words. That is our biological reality, and turning these words into the devil And that can be seriously So start comparing periods. Start asking people about their periods. Start talking about periods. Mention endometriosis. If you know someone who gets sick ask them: "Have you heard Maybe you should check it out." Talk about it. That's all it takes to make a change. Talk about it. Just talk about it. Thank you. (Applause)