I'm Mr. Beat and this x right behind me marks at the very spot where history forever changed John F Kennedy and his motorcade were making out good afternoon ladies and gentlemen you'll 10 or 15 15 minutes ago a tragic thing from all city of Dallas let me quote to you this and I'll Kennedy and Governor John Colony have been cut were riding in an open automobile when the shots the arms of his wife Jacqueline has rushed to Oscar Hubert of the Holy Trinity Catholic Church have just administered the last rights of the Kennedy has been assassinated it's official now fainted grown men Secret Service men standing their face there's only one word to describe it it's official as of just a few moments dead this video is once again sponsored in part even know that your home's title and mortgage unfortunately thieves used this information to massive loans using your home's Equity one poor tearing down her house as it turns out a thief house to be torn down without her even knowing it tile lock to prevent this crap from ever happening hours a day 7 days a week and alert you if any if fraud does happen their team of restoration to its rightful owner go to hometitlelock.com slbe title lock subscription and a free comprehensive I'm Mr. Beat, I'm standing on the exact spot States got shot. He took a bullet By the way, I was going to film ON but uh...yeah that would have The assassination of John F. Kennedy shocking events in American history, but for there is still...60 years Here is what we know....well...kind of... On the morning of November 22, 1963, President "JFK," spoke at a breakfast in Fort Worth, official aircraft of the president, known Jacqueline, joined Texas governor John Connally that was to go through downtown Dallas before speech. In other cars in the motorcade? A the president....mostly members of the Secret The motorcade began at Love Field and made its Folks lined the street cheering the president on. President Kennedy could shake hands with fans. the motorcade turned right onto Houston Plaza. The motorcade then made Street. Up there on the sixth floor of THAT waiting for the president with a 6 and a Soon after the president's car Lee Harvey Oswald shot Kennedy. One exited through his throat. Another entered screamed and climbed onto the rear of but Governor Connaly was. A bullet entered bullet actually did much of the damage to both limousine then rushed them to Parkland Hospital it was there that doctors pronounced Kennedy dead Meanwhile, as early as three minutes police sealed off the Texas School Book nor out. But by that time, Lee Harvey walking seven blocks before boarding a he got off and got a taxi. He had the taxi house at 1026 North Beckley Ave, which is behind now. Oh we checked it out all right. Anyway, gun, spending no more than four minutes here. Dang At around 1:15, Oswald came across Dallas police 10th and Patton. By this time, Tippit had got the man witnesses described as shooting President he looked at him and was kind of like...this kind of According to SEVERAL witnesses, Oswald walked over And then, after Tippit got out of the car, Oswald Three of those shots hit him in the chest, once again immediately fled the scene on foot. ducking into this store until the siren noises The owner of the store followed him to here, this theater without paying, the shoe store at approximately 1:40, notified the police. Oswald watching the movie War is Hell, before about and detectives, all showed up at once and burst theater and arrested him, but only after Oswald soon as Oswald saw the officers coming toward him, By this time, the country was stunned by They were especially stunned by just holy crap. It happened out in broad daylight, it happened...so violent...so violent that there is footage of it, kids. Quite famous footage assassination wasn't even released to the public "The Zapruder film," it's named after the dude complete footage we have of the event and is one Meanwhile, Jaqueline Kennedy and President One. At 2:38, Vice President Lyndon car behind President Kennedy with his wife, took the oath of office. 27 people surrounded as the 36th president of the United States. That night, Oswald was charged with the murder Also that night, two doctors did an autopsy of that the autopsy was...uh...not done well. The doctors autopsy would later fuel conspiracy theories theory is a hypothesis really, that makes the Conspiracy theories, unfortunately, often get a up with are not backed up by very good evidence. On the morning of Sunday, November 24th, Dallas of their headquarters. They had planned on taking a local nightclub owner and JFK fanboy named him at point blank range. And yes, that's...holy real photograph. Nonfiction is way more Oswald was rushed to the same hospital as Parkland Hospital, where he died found Ruby guilty of murder...huh...go figure...and conviction appealed before dying himself of Meanwhile, Kennedy's body had been brought including guests from at least 90 different St. Matthew's Cathedral. Four days later, into the assassination, putting together a team named after the lead dude of it, Supreme also included FUTURE president Gerald its conclusions to President Johnson on which I'm just sure everybody watching that Lee Harvey Oswald, and Lee Harvey Oswald Mr. Beat: So that's it. That's the Mr. Beat: (Looking over to grassy knoll) Wait a Evan: Are you really just well it's it's Evan from the channel Necessary stuff by the way thanks Mr be appreciate it well here other than the black site this is where I so you said there's more to the story what's that be Oh you mean the conspiracy stuff obviously you know I can maybe just go to the bathroom behind I think he's in that general direction yeah yeah CIA killed John F Kennedy I'm Evan from necessary based content on the internet and let me be clear citizen of the United States now I can barely completed Lego Millennium Falcon but what I am a fool of myself on a much larger YouTube channel yes tasty clown tasty Cloud so good and something whacked John F Kennedy harder than Chris Rock honestly like I said I'm still waiting for Han I've clearly had some lapses of judgment in the about the how let's talk about the why why exactly rid of Kennedy in the first place well to many answer has everything to do with the Bay of Pigs between the president and the CIA Center deep the fact that CIA agents were legitimately I'm not pretty much that entire decade but we don't have Bay of Pigs invasion was an absolute garbage fire the goal of a covert invasion of communist Cuba who had been exiled by Cuba's communist dictator along with paratroopers and a bombing campaign look like Cuban Air Force planes when the Cuban for them to say the least and the CIA and its air support to make sure that the invasion was the US Military and US citizens and refused to was quickly captured by Castro's forces the CIA Kennedy even came into office with the previous about this it was it was not their best day so Alan doas blamed Kennedy pretty much solely for air support even though their plan was kind of on the citizens of Cuba to join The Invasion even succeed it's it's a long story Kennedy on the Allen do for what he considered to be basically doomed for failure making him look terrible and as the cia's own personal meat puppet and promptly a high official in his administration that he pieces and Scatter it to the winds according to plan to cut the cia's funding by 20% a plan that know being assassinated before he could do so just put it even more briefly in the 50s Vietnam was an American aligned military government in the CIA hates more than anything else on God's green okay they hate Communists so much it's not even Eisenhower Administration the US started aiding however on October 2nd 1963 Kennedy made the military forces in Vietnam a move that many Saw for the battle in Vietnam and against the cia's then a month later Kennedy got a little bit shot and then a mere 4 days after Kennedy's death his intensified planning for covert action against huh the CIA so with the combination of Kennedy's Bay of Pigs his decision to pull out of Vietnam communist Cuba making the CIA view him as the agency's funding by 20% and the threat of and Scattered to the winds I hope you can see now that's the why and as for the how that involves Cuban Exiles the mob organized crime and most the grassy null but wow would you look at that I for brevity so for the sake of Mr beat's good ahead and cut it off here I guess you'll just have to learn more about how the CIA or dirty naughty firm one at that right after you finish this video like seven comments to drive up his engagement would you look at that here he is now Mr.Beat: go let's go! Some think the mafia organized who indeed had ties to the mafia, worked for was the Cubans. Some even think Lyndon Johnson be president. Some think Oswald couldn't have didn't even do it because he had no motive to. of the other limos. Or some dude in a sewer. Most who think there was a conspiracy, however, who promote a conspiracy theory argue that with the second being right about here. Notably, which I can't show you in this video because it description....show JFK going (back and to the experts said a bullet entering from the go (back and to the left). Critics of the "magic-bullet theory," insisting that the way However, nearly all conspiracy theories the mark. Ok, maybe that was the wrong idiom to the target. Oh that was DEFINITELY the wrong There has never been any physical evidence that other than the theory that there was a the United States House of Representatives Committee on Assassinations, to complete a as well as the Martin Luther King, Jr. What they concluded was that Kennedy was indeed conspiracy and that Oswald likely didn't act evidence that helped them reach this conclusion Kennedy when he was shot. Acoustics experts there was a 50% chance a sound representing a later experts have said the recording is NOT the recording took place nowhere near Kennedy should also add that an overwhelming number making Kennedy's body move (back and to the left) Despite hardly any physical evidence today most Americans continue to believe that person who definitely believes a conspiracy Her grandma was Gladys Johnson, Oswald's and she was the one who gave us a The thing is, Hall has good reason to believe know that the CIA and FBI lied about knowing they had been tracking him for a while before Journalists and historians have examined declassified mostly due to the JFK Records in part in response to the success of the There is also evidence that the CIA pressured acted alone and actively prevented them would link him to the CIA. Indeed, the and gave a lot of attention to less important that backed up its single-bullet theory as I mentioned earlier, the first look at the people who likely were just fine with It's not surprising why many...MANY Ameicans of events. And it shouldn't be surprising shooter at the Grassy Knoll. So wait...WAS First, let's get one thing out of the Oswald murdered President Kennedy. This is But regarding a SECOND shooter? Meh, there just isn't that good evidence but it's not likely...and...uh...well...we'll Now, this is just my opinion, but based on the documents, as well as the fact that the classified information, I think that the Lee Harvey Oswald before the assassination SOMETHING. I think it's reasonable to assume look bad. Perhaps the CIA and FBI could But what do YOU think? What do YOU think really Dallas, Texas, United States of America? I left A LOT out, but what do you expect? I make Check my sources in the description. There a big thank you to Evan from the channel Necessary video. It was great to hang out with him and he check out his channel and subscribe.