(Subtitles from Google AI translation,Thank you for watching ) Today we came to the west of Shenzhen, Guangdong. There are different snacks, seafood, vegetables and fresh ingredients in the Xiang Vegetable Market . Let's come today and take a look at what they have. This store is doing very well. I want chili for 6 yuan a box. How can I sell the pork outside It sells chicken feet and Yangjiang vermicelli rolls. These vermicelli rolls are filled with rich fillings. For example Shrimp, pork, eggs and chives are rolled into rice noodle rolls. After being steamed, the rice noodle skin becomes transparent and elastic. The taste is soft and tender. There are also braised pork with pickled vegetables, Maoming noodles and hand-shredded chicken. Shredded chicken is the most popular. The team all lined up behind the boss. First, we use fresh chicken and cook it carefully to keep the chicken fresh and tender while fully absorbing the aroma of the seasonings. Then we tear the chicken into thin strips by hand to retain the original flavor of the meat. Finally, we add the secret recipe. The sauce gives the shredded chicken a meaty texture without losing the refreshing layering. Although it looks like the boss just puts the meat in the basin and grabs it randomly , it actually tests the control ability to ensure that every piece of chicken is cooked. The perfectly delicious fried ? I dough sticks are an indispensable part of the traditional Chinese breakfast. Mix the flour with water, salt and baking powder. Then roll the fermented dough into a long strip with a wooden stick and cut it into small sections. Use chopsticks dipped in water to gently press the two small sections. Stack them together to make them adhere. Finally, put these noodles into hot oil and fry them. As the temperature rises, the fried dough sticks slowly expand and turn into an attractive golden color. want my son to pack it for you. I like to eat mung bean cake. I especially like that one. If it comes with that, there are a lot of things added in it. Generally speaking, if you make it now, there will be very few of those. There are very few of those that are made by machinery, right? This one-stop service is all pure machinery. You should make a fortune. There are some from other factories, but not that one. Do you still remember that you should be here? You should know where that feeling is when you turn over. Well , that one is called Rising Primary School, which is now called Pedestrian Street. Isn't there an ancestral hall over there? There is a small alley opposite the ancestral hall. There is a family that is also doing that. We are from the same place, the same town, and I know you still have this thing . You live here , so I thought you were coming from out of town to check in. There are so many questions. I am generally good. I usually like to eat. I won't leave because if I missed it this time, I won't have this store anymore. You know, I really don't come here every day. But I think it was delicious for many days. I think we came here for many days at that time. Well, beautiful women are the check-in. She works There are different flavors of bean cakes sold here, including red bean flavor, mung bean flavor, Chestnut-flavored scones are a classic Chinese snack Crispy on the outside and sweet on the inside. Each dough is filled with different fillings. The boss bakes a bunch of small cakes every half an hour according to different flavors. The dough is mixed with flour and oil and kneaded into a smooth dough. The dough is divided into small portions. with mung beans , chestnuts, and red beans. Is it okay for me to eat some? Come, come, come . You said these red beans are my red beans. My husband specially collected them from my hometown. They are not mung beans. If you eat them, you won't get angry. You know, red beans are not necessary. If you want to eat , don't care whether it will cause you to get angry . It just means whether the taste is right. Hahaha, don't care whether it will cause you to get angry. It 's a classic saying. If you eat something like this, you won't get angry. It's a lie. If you don't do advertising , you can't think ahead. I also need to think about it later. Guangdong cold water. Do you want to have a bottle of white and a bottle of white cold water like here? Do you want to buy mung beans and get cold water? Come on, a box of this and that. How long do you have to wait for that chestnut? It's not that fast. My husband is now He told me to bake it slowly and he told me to cook a pot in half an hour. Thank you for walking slowly. We don't have time. Are the egg yolks still sold here ? It's delicious and super crispy. This red bean cake is just fine. What did you say about two bowls? Two bowls of this and that. Juice tofu pudding is a classic dessert. The key to this dessert lies in the tenderness of the tofu pudding and the unique flavor of ginger juice. It is said that it has the effect of warming and repelling cold. Fresh ginger juice is mixed with appropriate sugar water to form a sweet and slightly spicy flavor. of ginger juice Pack it up or eat it now. You eat first. I pack it. Thank you. If the temperature is low, you can eat it directly tomorrow morning. Because I have no additives, don't put it in the refrigerator . If you put it in the refrigerator, the taste will be better. Multigrain rice cake 10 yuan 8 Multigrain rice cake worth RMB 10, rice and millet. It is made of rice. If you add rice flavor, it will not be so delicious. Boss, what kind of filling is this? Can you try it? What kind of filling is this ? There is no filling. It is just a different shape. Can children eat it? Any additives are very cute . Rice and millet rice cakes are delicious rice cakes. You are welcome to taste them . You can try them . Thank you. The white and yellow ones have different tastes. The ingredients are almost the same . Oh, it's so beautiful. Is it sweet? Is it salty? Where did those above come from? Ah, this is pork fungus, this is fungus , pork and bamboo shoots, what is this? Dustpan cooking wow, this is number one. Where is this delicacy? It's from Zhanjiang. The rice is ground into pulp and steamed directly. Steam directly. Add some garlic oil. Go down, 5 yuan, right? People in Zhanjiang call it Dustpan Cook. There is a box of dustpan cook. this thing, right ? You can eat it now . This is Barbecued Pork. Pretty lady, let's take a look. Can you buy pork belly? Pork belly, look good. Well, pork belly, it tastes baked with salt. Can you try it? It's okay. How much does it cost? 55 per pound. The pork belly is delicious. It's not hot yet. The barbecued pork is not hot yet. This is the barbecued pork but it's not hot yet . What do you want? What kind of girl are you talking about? Is it this kind or this kind? You can pay via WeChat for 7.5 yuan. Let you take a look at the pork belly. Look at the pork belly. Pork belly . The salt-baked flavor. You can try it. It's okay. How much is 55 pounds ? This should be a delicious