Eat a salty breakfast. If you want to reverse fatty liver, improve your cholesterol, triglycerides or blood sugar levels. If you want to lose weight and much more, eat a salty breakfast. We can greatly improve the classic toast with jam that we eat before going to work from a nutritional point of view and of course, benefit your health. Eating orange juice, filtered green juices, pastries, honey, sugar, ultra-processed foods for breakfast every day can turn you into a person with insulin resistance diabetes, heart disease, fatty liver and much more. Stay with me until the end of the video because I want to tell you healthy, delicious, economical breakfast ideas, but above all things that are healing. Join me until the end of the video. I am the nutritionist Camila Veller and in these 12 minutes I am going to tell you everything about breakfast. It is very likely that if you are one of the people who breaks your fast with sweet foods an hour, an hour and a half after eating, you feel very hungry and want to snack on anything you find in your way. You may also feel irritable, tired, fatigued. Why does this happen? Breaking the fast with something sweet generates such a rapid and abrupt increase in blood sugar and insulin that just as the curve went up quickly, it goes down again and the famous sugar crash is generated. Today your body is going to ask you for more sugar so that that curve goes up again and a vicious circle is generated, in this case negative for health. It is key to indicate that the morning is the worst time to sweeten our body, because that is when we are most sensitive to glucose, the hardest it is for us to process it and we store more than we need. And this will lead you to gain weight and an increase in diseases. My proposal is that from today you not only start having a salty breakfast, but that you start with protein breakfasts. Protein, apart from keeping your blood glucose and insulin levels stable, will make you feel fuller for longer because it takes longer to digest in the stomach. This will make you feel fuller and away from snacking for longer. Also, remember that proteins are part of the structure of our body. They are the bricks that form our muscles. That is why it is very important to consume them daily. So without further ado, let's get to the most frequently asked breakfast questions. First, is there a time for breakfast? The word breakfast means breaking the fast. You can break the fast at 07:00, at eight or at 12 noon. The most important thing is that you try to allow 12 hours to pass from the last meal, that is, from dinner until the time to break the fast. This will allow your body to generate cleansing and cellular renewal. Now, I am going to recommend to those who do have breakfast in the morning, that is, between 8-9, pregnant patients, patients who have type two diabetes and use some type of hypoglycemic medication, which are medications that can give you low blood sugar. or some types of insulin. The one that is used a lot here in the hospitals in my country is the NPH insulin. This insulin can cause hypoglycemia. If you do not have enough substrate or enough blood sugar, then these patients always consult with the doctor beforehand, but I recommend have breakfast and here, yes or yes, I'm going to tell those patients who tell me that they don't eat anything in the morning and come to lunch very hungry, very anxious, and eat the first thing they find. If you are one of those patients, I recommend that starting today, and no later than tomorrow, you start with a salty protein breakfast. Now, before telling you the three food groups that I am going to recommend for breakfast, let's clarify the most important part. When you wake up drink a glass of water 1 to 2 glasses of pure water. It can be with a splash of lemon if you find it difficult to drink water or it can be with a little cinnamon, but drink water when you wake up. This will help your body, especially your kidneys, to function correctly. And now, let's go to the three food groups that I want your breakfast to have. First, a significant protein load of at least 20 grams. And this is where we make the first mistake. We associate protein with eggs. And the reality is that if the egg is one of the best options to break the fast, but a single egg is not enough. If you are one of those people who is hungry in the morning, eating a single egg that has seven grams of protein will make you want to snack after an hour, an hour and a half. So as a protein load I am going to recommend 2 to 3 eggs for breakfast. And here we are going to banish the first myth. Eggs do not cause cardiovascular problems, eggs do not increase blood cholesterol. Consume 2 to 4 eggs a day. When is the egg going to harm your health? When you make it fried, then make the egg for your breakfast boiled, make it scrambled or make it in the form of an omelette without oil. If you do not want to consume eggs in the morning, you can replace it with a cup of natural yogurt or Greek yogurt, but you will have to incorporate the rest of the foods that I am going to tell you about below, because a glass of yogurt is not going to be enough for you either. as protein load. So, first group proteins. We said egg or yogurt. If you are a person who has kidney disease, consult your doctor before doing so. Second group Good fats. Fats are an excellent option to break your fast because they do not require insulin to be metabolized as good fat. You are going to incorporate a little fist that can close the hand of nuts like this. Or it can be a small teaspoon of peanut paste, for example, without sugar. If you don't want nuts, you can add a splash of olive oil or two thin slices of avocado. Remember that we should not go overboard with good fat for caloric reasons either. If we want to lose weight, always respect the portions. And the third group of foods that you are going to incorporate are complex carbohydrates. Here you can incorporate a slice of 100% whole wheat bread or it can be sourdough bread. I don't know if you ever heard of it. Leave it to me in the comments, but what you do with sourdough bread is let it ferment for 12 hours and this will lower the glycemic index of the food. So it is ideal for patients with diabetes or insulin resistance. If you don't want bread, it doesn't matter, you can replace it with a handful of, for example, cherry tomatoes or a handful of fruits with a low glycemic index such as red fruits or pears, for example if you want something a little cheaper. And as the 4th and last group that you can either add or not add are infusions. They ask me a lot. Can I drink infusions with breakfast? Yes, you can drink coffee, green tea or mate if you want to stay alert or if you want to make a more antioxidant and anti-inflammatory breakfast, you can make clove tea or oregano tea. You can drink this infusion before, during or after breakfast. Remember not to sweeten the infusions, you can add a little bit of cinnamon. Remember to use cinnamon. Ceylon, which is finer, is more brittle and not using cassia cinnamon, which you will see is papyrus-shaped, is harder because cassia cinnamon, if consumed in excess, can cause liver damage. Then you can sweeten your infusions with cinnamon, with a teaspoon of carob flour with ginger and as a last option you can add a little sweeteners, but remember that they are not recommended in excess because they can cause harm to your health. We use stevia very occasionally. If you are a person who is very used to consuming honey or sugar daily, I recommend that you do it progressively. If you were to add 2 to 3 tablespoons of honey or sugar in your coffee, I recommend that during the first two weeks you reduce the amount by half, making one tablespoon or one and a half tablespoons. Over the next two weeks, drop half a teaspoon and only after a month change to the foods I mentioned above. Then you give your palate time to readjust and you will see that later you will not want to have anything to do with sugar. And now, I'm going to tell you my favorite breakfast ideas. To start, I usually have a slice of 100% whole wheat bread for breakfast. Remember that it can also be sourdough bread, it ranges from approximately 30 to 40 grams, that is, general rules and I usually add two eggs, which I usually do boiled because it is easier to take to work that way and I also accompany it with two slices of avocado. You can also add a little of cream cheese to the bread to make it tastier. Notice that here I have a complex carbohydrate, I have bread as a good fat, I have avocado or avocado and as a protein I have boiled eggs. In this dish I have less than 200 calories and I have 20 grams of protein. If you don't want to do it like that, another idea can be two eggs. Here we have the protein. You can add that the cherry tomatoes are delicious, a handful of cherry tomatoes, that here would be the complex carbohydrate and on top you can add a splash of olive oil or a handful of nuts. Here you will have the same, less than 200 calories and 20 grams of protein. If you don't want to. This way you can make a cup of natural yogurt or Greek yogurt. I chose the yogurt that has the most protein, without sugar. Of course, if it has probiotics, even better. And to that cup of yogurt you are going to add a handful of blueberries or half a chopped pear with the peel and you can add a handful of nuts. I hope this video has been useful to you.