Will Dubai still be around in 100 years? This enormous, sprawling city, home skyscrapers designed by all the usual of the world's hottest desert climates. I traveled to this Emirati city, on my of how this fascinating metropolis learn essential lessons from it. Because the city uses staggering amounts And a huge international network of But is it really sustainable underneath the desert sands? And what can we learn from Dubai as seem to go down the same path? In this video I hope to find out and functioning in a less certain future. Dubai begins as a humble It's a trade outpost, with a small peace on the Persian Gulf. Then, oil is discovered, Dubai's leader, Sheikh Rashid bin to modernize Dubai, building roads, But that isn't enough. He wants to put Dubai on the map for good. There is one problem, however. He realizes that the oil So the leaders of Dubai They focus hardcore on tourism, They have a particular vision for Dubai. It will be a destination of luxury. And they also want to attract an strengthen the economy with their Over the years, the development speeds are announced, and countless skyscrapers structure in the world, the Burj Khalifa. And boy does this strategy work. Between the year 2000 and 2020, I was curious as to why all I wanted to see Dubai through the city as it presents itself, and to see So I packed up, went to the a cheeky little look at Dubai. By the way, you might notice The one I'm using is Opera, and so it makes my web browsing experience For example, if I have any question up ARIA, the integrated browser AI. It even generates images, and I love images too, which is particularly handy ARIA can be quickly summoned it far more accessible. I also love the tab islands, organizing After all, we all know how annoying it is What I particularly like is the Spotify, WhatsApp, Instagram and X. Opera's workspaces allow for easy switching between a space for I also love that the Opera browser built in VPN and ad blocker, without It's just really noticeable how this a truly practical browser. To discover how amazing it description and pinned comment. During my visit, I noticed First of all, the city Although highrises have many Dubai's skyline is very impressive. It is a kind of trick to And because of the sheer number Small cities in Europe sometimes try the The second thing I notice is The city is well maintained, These factors act like the opposite People love it when things Many visitors come from places Thirdly, of course, there's Fancy cars, bougie For those who can afford it or simply want And fourthly, of course, That alone attracts many. Dubai is seeing an enormous moment, while countries like Unfortunately, the low taxes and many criminals, who also integrate All in all, Dubai bustles with activity. It grows at a blazing speed and everywhere a skiing slope and other crazy things. To many people, Dubai is a futuristic you earn and consume without bounds. Until you wonder, how does And can such a city even Or is it doomed to just When one starts asking those questions, Let's take a closer look at Dubai to The city was designed with In the 20th century, we went Thanks to oil and gas, we had more We transitioned to a This did have many benefits. But we also made some mistakes. After the car was invented, we that were not really efficient. Or too efficient, but only for the In places with a lot of space, we car allowed us to drive long distances. So what does this mean for Dubai? As you might have noticed, Dubai is big. Really big. For example, the distance between Mall is 18 kilometers, or 11 miles. It's huge. Also, the city chose to just because there was space enough. The big distances make Dubai feel like a collection of destinations. And how do you get to your destination? You guessed it, the car. Dubai is a car city. The car is by far the easiest The 16 lane highways, sprawling car enormous intersections dominate the city. Of course, with such an abundance of oil, gas is cheap, There is a price to be paid. Huge amounts of energy are being wasted With some smarter planning, the Even getting around on Dubai's very nearby is hugely inefficient. Happily, there is an The Dubai Metro. Dubai's metro system has two main lines. The red line running from the airport line serving the historical city. It is well used and sci fi futuristic There's also a tram line around and a monorail that goes up However, this system cannot even One silly reason is the distance the final destinations, which The metro station at the Dubai Mall is shops, through endless boring sky bridges. You'd almost need another metro Next up are the skyscrapers. One could wonder why one has to build so Of course, towers are seen as And all cities want to But skyscrapers are hard They drive up land prices, need their glass designs, heat up really Requiring stupendous amounts And of course, the towers are mostly significantly reduces their lifetime. Then, the experience at street level. All these elements, like the wide roads of the city quite hostile or boring I must say that the landscaping is attention to detail is almost everywhere. But that doesn't fix the problem are simply unappealing or generic. Finally, the climate. People in Dubai generally only want The heat and humidity in Dubai People move from air Staying indoors unless To keep all this running, astounding Energy to move people around, people down, to make the Portland to forge the steel for the rebar. Then there's the water usage, landscaping in the desert green. Dubai makes it incredibly clear how solutions to deal with its size. It's hot climate and The problem is that those high tech Replacement parts for elevators, air that keeps Dubai functioning depend on a and producers overseas who could go out of Or if there were some disaster, the And that is why Dubai could But doesn't this also apply to us? Yes, it does. But because Dubai is more extreme in every And that makes it a very Then still, why should What happens, happens, right? Well, I guess that's true, but the worry and be afraid of the future. The real lesson here is that we are that are less energy dependent and And that is what the next and final So how do we fix this city First, we must do something Glass skyscrapers are a cliche of the would directly overheat in the desert sun. Dubai has all the means to build a with beautiful Arabian architecture, with narrow but lively streets, and The buildings could have thick desert sun and high ceilings. They could use wind catchers, which used to cool buildings down, originating They act like solar chimneys, But if there's a breeze, these towers into an underground cool tunnel system stream or pool cools down the air further. The air is then circulated through the conditioning that doesn't use any energy. In a new study in the Ain Shams discovered that these cooling wind they work much better than regular lower costs and lower carbon emissions. A city built with super effective low tech to get Dubai off its energy addiction. It can function with less modern machinery Apart from the architecture, metro and tram system radically. With a number of new lines more parts can be serviced. A nice saying by Gustavo &quot;A developed country is not a It's where the rich use By building compact traditional system would be optimally used. Another problem to be solved are the that break up the city in pieces. These barriers must be crossed. Currently, sky bridges are used roads underground would work, and If there were more There is so much wasted space If some highways were to be put instantaneously connected and the space Because the city is already too sparse. This might sound counterintuitive because would think it is a high density city. But these towers drown in an ocean of it helps to create a sense of enclosure. The opposite of how Dubai now seems to parts of the Dubai marina where you do Then a final point. Currently, the city gets a bad rap place built for plastic people, or being By crafting a science fiction image of nouveau riche appeal, Dubai reinforces rather go to Florence for example. And maybe they don't want that public, the city wants a wider appeal and It might be very hard or even But if the city were to go all something might just be done. When I was in Dubai, I enjoyed the get a thrill of all the spectacle. But the spiritual emptiness was it hard for me to ever live there. Together with all the modernist architecture of course. So, is Dubai doomed? If we are able to sustain our indefinitely, Dubai might survive. But the odds of that happening is, I think, close to zero. I fear that Dubai just consumes for longer periods of time. With smart compact planning and more focus on Dubai's unique spirit turn it into a thousand year city. But the same goes for all of us, that exist everywhere to the surface. In any case, I wish them good luck. They have the money, If you want to learn more about I'm working on something you might Find more info in the description. A big thank you to all my amazing patrons. Until next time!