In terms of deep work and to kind of practical Yeah. 'cause I didn't earlier, in your library with your it's a beautiful image actually that you've drawn for us in our minds. Is the wifi connection to or are you offline? It's connected because it you know, because what's I mean, the most I made, technically speaking, to be a cognitive worker is Like I think we underestimate our problem with digital distraction is not the internet, it's not our phones. It is specific products and services that are engineered at great When you take that away, the Internet's not that interesting, like I don't have a cycle of sites to go to, you know, I can check my email, where else to go, I mean, I could go to the New York Times, I guess, but then you've seen the articles, right? They change it once a day, I've set things up, so there's not much that's that interesting to me. We've all heard of FOMO, I feel like there's the other thing which is fear of missing There's sort of like an anxiety, a more primitive anxiety within us that if we are not engaged on social media or looking at our phone that it's not that we'll miss the party, we'll miss the emergency. You don't seem to suffer from Yeah, I mean, it doesn't happen that much. I mean, I have a phone, you know, A standard... No, I mean, I have my phone, I guess if I'm working away from it, yeah, I guess it's true, But this was the case for We didn't have smartphones 'til This is, you know, 15 years ago. So we were just used to essentially, that there's where you're out of touch. Like you're at a restaurant with someone, you're out of touch until Like we were okay, you by emergencies that that because we couldn't hear You go to the movies like, And it'd be a couple hours And so, you know, it's not something that's affected me as much. So maybe I'm working a lot of people have this response, they begin sort of catastrophizing, like, what if this And I'm thinking, you know, I survived, before that my parents my grandparents survived without that. I don't worry about it as much, you know. And some of this maybe is just, this doesn't upset people the fact I don't use a lot of but it really does upset people, right? There's, well, what about what about this, and I is just maybe I'm oblivious is people back sliding explanation for why they do need their phone, why they do need to But I get a lot of it. Yeah, well maybe they're because you're not looking at your phone. That's right, hey, I'll tell you what, that's a blessing not knowing Yeah, it's a blessing I'll tell you that. Oh yeah, I can comment I am on social media and I do enjoy it. I sort of got started posting on Instagram and then expanded to other platforms, including the podcast, beyond which it becomes counterproductive, for sure. I think there's information there that... Like questions that people It's sort of like ending a class and asking are there any questions? Sometimes the comments are truly informative towards both where they might have but also sometimes some Yeah. But I completely agree that And I'll just relay a quick anecdote. Years ago I gave a quick lecture down at Santa Clara University, and I was talking about this issue, I recommended your book, and and he said, &quot;You don't get it.&quot; At that time, I was in my early 40s. He said, &quot;You don't get it, you know, &quot;you grew up without social media...&quot; Yeah. &quot;and so you've adopted it into your life. &quot;But we grew up with he's speaking for himself &quot;When my phone loses power, &quot;I feel a physical drain within my body. &quot;And when it comes back on, I So I'd love your thoughts on whether or not you think the phone and, perhaps, social media as well are in some ways an extension of our brain, it's almost like another cortical area, that contains all this information. It's a version of us, this that we can talk about as well. I know you're involved in But, you know, to me, in that way, it really is almost like a piece of neural machinery of sorts. Yeah, I mean, there's two Yeah so there is the sort of Like you're extending, this neuro sphere like you have this sort of digital network extension of information and what's going on. There's also the much which is, you know, that of a moderate behavioral addiction, right? So you'll hear the same &quot;When I'm away from being &quot;to make my bets or do whatever, &quot;like I feel not myself and then, &quot;when I'm around it and I can play &quot;and make some bets, play The feeling of the chips. &quot;I feel myself,&quot; that chips, So both of these things could be true. I think the moderate is more true than a lot of Like it does feel bad because build these feedback response loops, and then you get the dopamine because what's on there is things that have been engineered this sort of highly engaging stimuli. And then you see the deliverance This really nice piece of I'm going to press this sort of carefully, this icon whose colors have been chosen because we know it's of our neural alert systems And I'm going to see something in there that's going to generate some So of course, when you see you want to use it and when you can't, it's a stymied dopamine response. You're like, &quot;This is not And I think that's a because, you know, I've had And, by the way, I see both sides of this. Like there are great advantages to what people are doing with these tools. It's just that it's all mixed up with all these disadvantages It's like the alcohol in the you know, and people are and they're coming home at passing out, you know, it's Not that there's not something good there, but the balance is off so it becomes pretty difficult to navigate. So I think some of that's what's going on, especially with the younger generation that was raised on it I think the cultural norms are I think we're going to think not as something that on youth as they become 10 years old, but something that we're Probably something that's going to be post pubescence going to once you've had more brain development, once you've had more social entrenchment, you sort of understand Because we recognize, of plugging this thing into your brain is, yeah, you have access to more information, but it also pumps that into your brain. So, I don't know, I lean a the pessimistic read because because of my books, who've really reduced the impact of these things in their lives. And on the far side of they don't, typically, report a great impoverishment in experience. They don't report, I'm The information at my fingertips is less, I'm missing out on life, there's of the fog on the other side of it where they're like, &quot;Oh, this is fine.&quot; So, you know, I'm a little exactly what this mechanism is. Yeah, I think you're right about the moderate behavioral addiction piece. Years ago when I was starting my lab, I had grants to write to be pretty intrusive for that process. So I used to give the and announced to everyone for it back prior to 5:00 PM that day, I would give everyone in the my lab was pretty big at the time. Yeah. They did not do... Sorry, to be named, pay us very much despite what people might think. And it was difficult. Several times Throughout the day or more I was like, &quot;Ah, I really want to look at that thing.&quot; But at the end of the day, I'll tell you that no one got But it's wonderful the amount of work that you can get done when I mean, it's my superpower, right? I don't work that hard in the sense that I don't do long hours, like I'm not constitutionally This was never my thing, I mean, I'm good for four, a day of actually producing good stuff with my brain, probably, max. But, you know, I don't I don't use the internet that much, and I prioritize it, and It just sort of piles And there's this sense of the midnight oil and you have But again, people I think underestimate, they underestimate the impact of this. It's not just the accumulation of time you spend looking on your phone, it's also this network Because like the phone a network switch, and that's energy consuming, neuronal operation. Task switching? I'm going to switch my focus of attention from this to that. Thank you for tuning into the If you enjoyed the clip please check out the full