Thank God, can your car move easily? I have to try. Can you walk to the road? No, if you can't move, take Marzieh to the road to take a taxi to school. Thank God, ride in the front cabin. The weather is cold. We are comfortable in the back of the car. Thank you, please. Good luck, father, give me a mask. Take this, girl. May God be with you. Thank God I was doing it. come in my son You may get sick. The wind moves the plastic. This part needs straw. be careful It almost hit my head. don't play around Stay here, come here, this goat likes to be with people more. Drink milk, don't rush, give it more milk. Make sure to stop the goats from leaving. Did the goat go back inside? I don't know Close the door so that the animals do not enter the platform and make it dirty.. The puppy is here. My love, come to my aid. Come, throw away the straws so that I can use the roller. Father let me do this. My son, you cannot do this. wait for now Don't get yourself dirty. Abbas, bring the saw, take the saw from your grandmother and bring it. Thank you, my son, where should I put this branch? It started raining again. thank God Take this, son. Go inside and get my coat, son. Where are the paddles and pickaxes? Do you think we should not use a pickaxe? No, I don't want to dig deep here. I am constantly sweeping the leaves. Wait while I take my bike off the track. Throw these leaves down while I go to the village and get sand. I want to pour sand here. bring pebbles They will stop the car from moving. Did you feed Arash? Did you eat Arash? Yes, I will pay you too, my dear. to buy food I take Arash to school and bring sand. I am also looking for Marzia. I have to pour the sand here. Abbas, where are you going? I will come with you Is it time for prayer? No, do you still want to be found here or should we go home? I will get off here. If the school is not open, you will be cold. Take this money, my dear, come back. Come back, do you want to take these stones? Yes, should we take these or use those sands? I think they are a better option. Go to my son to bring the sand. Come later is good. give me the shovel Should I check if the bucket is here or not? We'll take this one. One is enough. Abbas, let's go, dear. Get on my daughter. Hello, hello, my dear, did you get off? Yes, bye, thank you very much, did you get off? Yes, bye, should I park the car here and spread the sand, should I come later? Come, put a stone behind the car. Where can I get stones? Mother, don't do this, it will hurt your hand. I don't know why my hand always hurts. did you bring a bucket Yes, I brought one. it is good You should have brought the sand from behind the house. The weather is very cold. It used to be so cold that the bells of the goats froze. In the past, it always snowed. Be careful not to hit your face with the shovel. What about the village? I did not see anyone. Everyone was indoors because of the rain. Umm al-Binin did not come to you? No, I saw Umm al-Binin. where was he He was outside with an umbrella. So why didn't you bring him? I told him to go, but he said that my mother would not allow it. You told him that we should have returned his evening. His mother does not allow him to throw sand there . May God kill me because of this distance. Move away from the path of the car, mom , come back, put the stone behind the car. you can't It is heavy for you. Tell Mahbube Sang about Abbas. My hand was hurting. In the past, I used to move stones easily. We did the same things that now our hands hurt all the time. I used to go to collect firewood and bring 80 kg of firewood. Remove the hose. You should have brought pebbles. Thank God for the rain that the barrels were filled with water. Should I put one of the metal screens on the toilet? No, what do you want to do? I want to cook rice and curd. Do the same. It smells like gas. You were about to burn. I didn't know you opened the gas valve. Where is the mortar? It is with Fariba. should i bring it No, I'm going by myself. no dear it is raining I will go myself. May this umbrella be dear to the female cameraman. thank you I brought the mortar. Should I put shallots in the food? Cook the food as you like, my dear. I like whatever you like. Bring me a bottle of soda, search the house. I put them out. is a lot Take another amount. Now I will make a mortar for you. Take this, bring me another knife, pierce it first. give it to me don't do this Leave it, don't do it. I want to pierce the bottle. give it to me baby take this you have to meddle in everything? yes give me this do you hiccup Yes, you want to grow up. Bring the curds. it is enough It smells good. Don't do it, it will rain. thank god thank god It rains and it is sunny. Dad, the room is very hot. The weather is very cold. The cold of winter has not yet arrived. The barrel is filled with water. You interfere in everything. Do this slowly. Give me a curd, wait for now. Nasru, help me, do you put the curds in the food? no dear I want to eat It's not ready yet, my dear. Why did you break the bottle? If I didn't do this, we wouldn't be able to grind the curds. Remember the good old days, twenty children would gather around the pot and fill the bowls with this food. My daughter, give this food to Fariba and come. can you take the food Yes, if you can't, I will take it. I can Hello, I brought you food. thank you dear who is in your farm Grandmother, father, mother and Abbas, come and sit. What's up? Hello, where are you when I don't see you? I go to school. I will bring a plate to eat. Welcome to Medina and Marzia. Medina, do you eat too?? Yes, we brought you food before we ate. Thank you, Azim, you are very welcome, my dear, what have you been doing? We were sitting there. Do not bring your slippers inside because they are dirty. What was Fariba doing? He was sitting alone in his house. You told him to come here. I forgot Come on baby, knock on the door. Put the food in front of grandma. knock on the door The weather is cold. I want bread, you should not eat this food with bread. Thank you, my daughter. sit down and eat give me the oil Wait, they use less oil, Nasro. Let's take food for Akram. He is sick. I want to inquire about him. The lid of this container is in Fariba's house. There is no problem. Take him to Akram's farm by car. Close the door here so that the donkey does not enter. If I come late, feed the goats. What is this greeting ? It's a chicken nest, but it's not good. You should have built this nest in the corner. I built that nest before, but my hangar was filled with water from the rain. Don't stay outside in this weather and let's go inside. We have to move this wall. It is better to build the nest in that corner. It is also good if you build it here. Place the nest door in this part. Thank you, you know better. I do the same. thank you Come inside the house. If you have sand, pour it here. There is no point in greeting Asghar . It is very muddy here. My son, come and spread the blanket. There is no need. how are you Thank you, Nasru, sit down. This door is very light. It is the same. I have not put a glass for it yet. Nasru sit down. Thank you for the food you brought. baby hold the baby I will make tea for you. No. Thank you. Just empty the container, please no. Stay and have tea. Did you buy this lamp? Yes, how much does this cost? Did you pay fourteen dollars for it? It had a glass lamp itself. These types of lights all have glass. Did you buy grass for the goats? Yes, we put the grass inside the tent. thank you very much We don't want fruit in this cold. We should eat food and fruits both in cold weather and hot weather . Give me the baby. We are cold despite the heater. How do poor animals survive the cold in the mountains? God, you give coldness to each of your creatures as much as it can. We feed and water our goats and keep them warm. What do mountain goats do? Thank you very much, please. Navid has been sick for many days and is constantly crying. My hand hurts and the doctor's medicine does not help. Abbas, come, do you drink tea? No, mother, let's go, have some tea. Promise, calm down, mother, let's go. Stay here longer. We have to go and feed the goats. You are very welcome. You should build a canopy here so that the rain does not bother you. Our shoes are constantly filled with water. Pour sand here. Tell a car to bring you sand and dump it here. You are very welcome. Separate the animals. Goodbye, thank God