This is Russia's new showcase. For a long time one of the cities It is the largest naval base We are in one of the academies Nakhimov College. To the north of the city, its 560 students come together to celebrate the integration That the medal ceremony Break up! Recruit Pelebushka come closer! At your service ! Student Ivan Pelebushka, is not in school It already has automation Recruit Pelebushka at your command. We enter this Me Ivan Pelebushka a student These young people are destined to form Here is your badge, wear it with pride You are now part of our Break up! I am in the service of Russia. The ceremony took place He will be the first sailor in my family. I hope it is It will be these young people who will later be responsible for protecting the largest Russian city in Asia, In winter, it is -25 degrees. Life moves on the frozen sea. I love to ice fish, The locals love to confront each other Some take us In summer, the city is transformed in Russian fashion day but also at night. Impregnable stronghold of the navy today it is a city With its hills she has fake In this new Russian Wild West, we will see that we We will go to one of the biggest Privileged customers, the Chinese. For the Chinese, In winter, when this eldorado can also The city does not make gifts When it's really too cold, I light a small fire. I manage to warm up. Investigation in the news Located 8 hours flight from Moscow, Vladivostok is at the crossroads very close to China, The port was built in Tsarist architecture of the 19th century is still very present Vladivostok has been banned for foreigners and only accessible to citizens with Hundreds of HLM bars Today the city come from all over the old The strategic location of the city made it a fortress The military port houses 50 ships Behind these gates a state-of-the-art corvette. The Save Chania, Exceptionally, we have Captain nothing to report Major Dimitri Blinov is 33 years old. He was born in Vladivostok, it's been fifteen The Perfect cost It's a boat It can navigate up to 28 Its armament is state-of-the-art. This cannon has the ability to fire He is very powerful, much more powerful than This boat is the first warships On these pictures we see the cannon in full action. The other strong point of the building, it's his launch system He can throw 45. Each of them costs EUR500,000. To command this ship and its Lieutenant Commander Blinov was selected from You understood well Perfect, break up! His great pride, the president's visit This is our guestbook. Look what is written These are the best wishes It's a huge honor that it is the only boat of all Sign of the importance that the president he himself came to inaugurate He wants to restore This ship is the symbol. It's up to Commander Blinov The Russian President will visit The event is not trivial, Russia shares with North Korea, with most of its neighbors. The city is within missile range Being in Vladivostok, right next to North Korea, it's an additional stress, does the navy Because we know We are not afraid, not at all. All neighbors are But we are and our country Russia So no stress, But if they start we are ready For the sailor, it's the culmination of a childhood dream. I wanted to become a sailor I watched a lot and one day I had the a warship like this. He is still in the port, nearby. It upset me. I decided to become a military sailor. It's a few miles away in the Nakhimov Naval Military College. The establishment is very successful since coming to power The students all have Line up and you move on, Advance one Students have 8 hours of lessons The headmaster is a rear admiral, one of the highest ranks Rear Admiral Bourakoff. Please stand up, report. Comrade, Rear Admiral, I am the comrade Today's lesson It will be followed by a poetry exercise. Hello students of the class. Break up! Program for the day, students must I leave you three minutes to write your poem in five stanzas on the theme &quot;Vladivostok, Here, get on The first of the class, He was born in Vladivostok, Hurry up, Dennis! It's finish. Vladivostok is a glorious city. She is proud and prosperous, she Everyone has their own verse. Vladivostok is a city City of military glory, Vladivostok. Cheer ! You all managed to show that Vladivostok is a city There are even songs Students know them by heart. The apprentice sailors This is Denis' dormitory. They are two per room. Young students have Each moment In this exercise, you have to find words For example, here try As in adults, And the highest-ranking here, He is head of the chamber I have to check that there is no crease that they don't forget their books, To become a chef, I had to cultivate But above all, I must The interior is Spartan. Only a very small That's one of the few It's a model ship What is I want to become a submariner, take a long And why ? This is my dream Of course, in this college, mathematics, geography, Send the three torpedoes! It's OK The cruiser is destroyed. There is a course here The naval battle course. Change position! You must disappear If you don't get shot, simulation software where students are immersed in They play in teams We just had a workout defeated a team of three destroyers. In our school, we study everything This allows students to learn and the history of armament It's almost time It's time to change. Dennis and his comrades That's the ceremonial uniform Every week, comes to inspect the rooms, If everything is not right we have warnings. Every Saturday at 6 p.m., It's mommy time. Impatient, they come In a few years, his dream of sailing I'm so proud of him. Because it is extremely difficult He passed all the tests. It's so romantic But recently, Vladivostok is no longer It's a metropolis Cargo ships in transit They transport the wood, oil and gas from Siberia. Every year, in September, Koreans or Chinese for a large In order to attract the he gave to the city Billions of rubles have been Two gigantic bridges were inaugurated In this Eldorado, fortunes We have a date with two Two brothers, the Babokokian brothers. Like many people here, their family is from Their father, Georges, was Armenian. I will show you That's him in the middle. He was a doctor was still part of the U.S.S.R. He came here Edward, 42 years old, manages the family business on a daily basis. His brother Armen, 45, takes care of relations with the authorities, In Russia, when you want to do But who is the boss? The boss is him. No it is true. I am the smallest I take care of doing My brother takes care anything unofficial, The two men lead a small clinic empire In Russia ten or fifteen years ago, if you wanted to do business, A good look, classy chic suits But today, You can wear whatever you want. Yet I see that you have very Yes, it's a Roger Dubuis. But no, it's a bauble. It's still My brother's is worth 130,000 As with all new the garage of the two brothers German sedan for the whole family. That's Armen's car. There, there is my car, And then this is the car Neither of the two brothers is a graduate, but when their father died, they created the George Dental Group, Hello girls. Do not be Today they are leading They have ten Average price of a crown That's a lot of money in Russia. Armen and his brother consider themselves as community leaders about 8000 people. So, to hold their rank, We will make you With friends, we started It's been almost sixteen years now. They set out to renovate the only Armenian church By their side, over a million They brought these bricks The two brothers were even recruited there When the work is finished, Our big project is to enable to feel Armenian by coming here. They understand our culture, music, language for example. Don't forget we're at 10,000 We try to reconstruct To complete their project, the two brothers try to convince to hand over money But the man is made to pray. I have already invested EUR100,000 and there you ask me It is not possible. You have to ask your bank. But no, it's not like that, It annoys me, these works should I think we still have There are plenty of things to do. Lots of little things. It looks like You see French, No, small details to be settled yet. The case will not be settled immediately. Edouard must return to his Armen, the big brother, He owns a boat in the most beautiful corners of His speedboat is moored Here there are three-way boats Watch how This is a friend's yacht It's called the Mamba. It is a friend, His name is Roxelane, With his friend he decided to go to lunch on an island just minutes away The pope of the church To pilot his boat, The team lands on a small beach. With all these bottles, It is a small Italian wine. The place is one of the prettiest corners In summer, this private beach On this beach there is a small The owner is a friend. We're going to drink wine as well as scallops, Well, where is the food, Here in Russia, we always start Health, health, health. The price per kilo of this crab In Europe, it is at least It is delicious. It would be impossible There is no sea. I like nature, I like swimming, In Moscow you can easily get stuck in the A bit like on the Cote d'Azur, a musician comes to push His name is Vitali. He has a charming singer side In fact, the guitarist and he likes I like You know, people of the world A bit like in Saint-Tropez, he displays photos in his straw hut Vitali recovered this beach at the fall of the empire The property where he resides is located He lives there with his elderly parents. Survivors of the historic U.S.S.R. This is my father, he is 95 years old The father arrived in the region as You can see it here in a photo He was a fighter pilot. Come on, dad, tell us With my hunting patrol, I protected the whole region. For six years It was during the Korean War. I was shooting at the Americans For six years I shot them But that day, Vitali, did not invite Armen He has a small His dream is to build Look. He would like to convince in a project I tell you, full of artists and I know them all. They want a quiet place You understand ? In some hotel, everyone throws themselves at you, Yes I understand. If I could lodge them here, because it's protected here. Only one would come But no, but I know so much When I tell them about the project, There would be people Alright, trust me. Come on, let's talk about it Not sure, Armen, be convinced. And anyway, At the other end of town, this is the HQ of the two brothers. Monitored by a dozen cameras, Every Sunday it's here In the property and gargoyles inspired The interior looks like all over the house, GDG for George Dental Group. And this lion, the coat of arms Mom is nice She who welcomes is She is Russian, by his side, and Karina the wife of Armen. There are also some friends in all, three generations The youngest is seven months old. Where is mom? Come on, let's toast to friendship. To friendship and especially to meetings. In the Babokokian clan, we toast and we taste Russia is nevertheless subject to an economic embargo because of the annexation of Crimea. Look at that, it's a cheese But Armen doesn't care. It's contraband a Russian citizen does not have This is outlaw food. He's a Chinese friend He reported to me What else do we have? Italian wine, Australian wine and also French wine. We can have it all The two brothers and their friends are very attached to their The theme returns Look at me, I really like Still, it's Asia here. No but no, no. If we are in Asia, let's see. But if we are in Asia. Yes, we are in Asia, but me, I have the mentality of a European. But no, here But of course, Mentally we are We are Europeans, because we have an Asian sensibility. So we are really What is certain is that on the tourism side, Each year, it welcomes nearly A constantly increasing number. They come looking here To attract capital the government a special area where businesses The symbol of this The Crystal Tiger It was built almost exclusively There is indeed no casino in China, At the Crystal Tiger, Flights are coming The manager of the casino hotel, Theo Terzopoullos is Franco-Greek. He manages nearly 1,000 employees. We also have the group For the Chinese in Beijing, it is than going to play We are very close to Asian countries, we have 85% who come from Asia To attract wealthy Chinese, Theo has an ace up his sleeve, this presidential suite. 180 square meters with a sauna and a bathroom It is the most but the room With that, it's also That's about EUR1,500 per night. To pamper its customers, the casino has also recruited a Russian I present to you Kirill, for relationships He takes us to a room for Chinese players. We expect customers so we're not going The Chinese don't play because it's a game This game table has been specially As you can see, because, for the Chinese, Same attention to detail for The card is Chinese, and we eat the dish Until the name of the restaurant which has Once again, The restaurant is called this number symbolizes wealth. Today is evening Stellios Ciphedakis, do one last How's it going ? Is everything OK for tonight? At what time Stellios' ambition, all over Asia It's a bit crazy here. All our artists are in the process of We celebrate We're throwing a huge party to thank both We have seen for two years tourism throughout Hello gentlemen, how are you? Everything's good ? The owners of the casino They are also Chinese. They are from Hong Kong The attraction of the evening, it's the coming of Moscow Yucha. These clips accumulate more Everything's good ? You can tell them I love my country. And when I arrive here in Vladivostok, I measure It's really a long way I quickly felt how much the atmosphere People here are different 2500 spectators It's time for the come pop star It's extraordinary, It is a huge success. people carry on I could not behind the tinsel the soviet city most of the city, these are HLM bars, and vacant lots. In winter, temperatures can Not easy to survive It is Sunday An association and basic necessities. There is a lot of people. Do you still have apples? I still have. Plus, it's full of vitamins. They are half a dozen Most are under 30 years old. They come here every week. Here, take this. there is tea Among them, Sofia, she is a teacher, Many people come to see us. We don't just help the homeless. Today there is and old people In Vladivostok, This 45-year-old woman lives She comes every Sunday. I am a single mother, My young son has a genetic disease, Here we are helped a lot, In the middle of winter in Vladivostok, who in these temperatures This is the case of Nicolai. He just picked up supplies We accompany him. He has established his winter quarters, He sat in the middle feed the city He constituted himself under a single plank. When it's really too cold, i have a big blanket and if I stick myself against the pipes, It's been a year and a half He is 65 years old. He is from Kaliningrad, Since he lost his papers, he can no longer draw his pension, I have always traveled a lot. Today my dream is to go I dreamed and my dreams Oh my, my hands are really dirty. I'll try In Vladivostok, overnight accommodation This capital at the end of the world is nevertheless one of the cities Summer and winter, the whole city President Putin wants Good morning sir, insurance and driver's license. The police have or petty thieves. Where is he, the guy? Like tonight The man risks up Is it the police or is it the cold? The city in winter Vladivostok is the same And yet winter lasts six months, The sea freezes and the layer of The tradition here is So it bites today? The technique is original. You know, fishing here, The most when the ice is thin. But in the middle of winter, Well, it's true, But we, the fishermen, For miles, hundreds sometimes very far from the coast. Everyone confronts and makes her babies for a result Some young people from the city Neither do they, Half an hour from the city center, we That day, it was -25. Their own pleasure, what They take advantage of this bay Obviously, we prefer to surf in the summer in shorts with young people It is true that people They are surprised to see people Our courage, inspires some and others take us But for the rich, the chic, We find Edward, Each month, he takes with in the Siberian forest. The road is good. We have beautiful weather, I have a feeling we're going to have fun. After a few hours in the car, we reach The rest of the journey should The two brothers have An EMI2, which dates from the Soviet era. We fly over the Taiga, which covers almost It takes almost an hour and a half Lost in the middle of the forest, we are over This secondary residence is a complex Each guest has the right You can live there in total autarky, and in the greatest comfort. Armen, the big brother, The two Armenians to the widow died in an accident a few minutes away. His widow wanted In the end, we made him To live here, first, and second, you have to I do not know to live below -40 degrees. You have to be a bit crazy like us. Hanging on the wall all the trophies wolves, ibexes, wild boars, or a moose. Three years ago, a friend of mine It really is It is very rare and I had On the equipment side, snowmobiles and helicopters, the brothers have three This morning they decided Head to a frozen river several kilometers away. The Taiga is teeming with wild animals. Here, a herd of wild boars. There, moose. After 20 minutes of flight, the fishing camp. Stop insisting, you see Stop touching it You see, Armen knows the area by heart. Under this ice, the river You make a hole here and another there, Height of luxury, he brought which he brought from China. And tiny little fishing rods. under the ice, and then suddenly. He's beautiful there, We leave them in the snow Sometimes here, it doesn't bite at all because, Sometimes in 2 hours, it does not stop, we take That's a Linok. Five cigars, fifteen holes it's time to prepare the barbecue. For wood, What they adore is life It's the tradition when we come She's frozen Add fish, spices, The caught fish is prepared on site He is Armenian like Between us, It is the Paul Bocuse of Armenia. In fact, the result is It's not about catching fish, The goal is to have a good time here. spending time in nature, No fuss, no discussion It's relaxing, When I come home, I feel great Here, we clear our minds. If the two brothers all come here without a wife, among friends, Great, vodka! It's 70 degree vodka. The drink in a bottle We will toast for For Putin ok, Macron, he likes old women when, that's why We joke, we love These are We like them. The toasts are linked Go, to Russia friends! The night will end at the banya, Armen, you're ready, let's go. A kind of sauna. Me, I try to especially when you go OK, I know that helps. We whip each other before plunging into the snow. Even at -30 degrees, to the pleasures