I, as many people in science communication, Here you have a group of people steadfastly face. Today, I want to tell you why I nevertheless anti-scientific. Most of them, anyway. More importantly, I also want to explain why remember how we know that the earth is round. But first I have to tell you what flat earthers The most popular flat earth model is that and the south pole is an ice wall on the edge But not all flat earthers sign up to this. An alternative is the so-called bipolar model by water that's held by a rim of something, And a minority of flat earthers believe that They mostly agree though that gravity does attribute to gravity come instead from the As a consequence, the apparent gravitational I explained last week that this is in conflict acceleration is most definitely not the same The idea that gravity is due to upward acceleration For example, you have to assume that the moon earth so we don't just run into them. That's an ad-hoc assumption which disfavors the orbits of the moon and the sun can be But that's not the only problem. You also have to get the moon and the sun explain day and night and the phases of the To get the day-night cycle to be noticeable, to the earth. You also have to somehow get the radiation That's many more ad hoc assumption. But even with those assumptions, the size than we observe. And no one has ever successfully predicted the observed motions of the planets. The bottom line is: it's not easy to improve It was for good reasons that the hypothesis thousand years ago. Some people suggested to me that flat earthers they are just mocking people who take scientific And that, let us to be honest, is something And it is probably the case that some flat But I find it exceedingly implausible they To begin with, they would all have to be excellent Just look at some of the videos on YouTube. Also, they're putting quite some time and, And that's while most of them full well others doubt their sanity. All that makes it unlikely they are just in Now, you may want to discard flat earthers of them arguably are. But I think that would be somewhat unfair To understand why, it helps to have a look The flat earth society goes back to an Englishman 19th century. He was a medical doctor who believed he had for the rest of his life that the supposed He referred to his methodology as "Zeteticism" By "Zeteticism" he meant an extreme version Rowbotham's philosophy, which is still the if you want to understand nature, you should You can for example read on the website of "The world looks flat, the bottoms of clouds all examples of your senses telling you that world. This is using what's called an empirical from your senses. " your own senses only really is key to understanding But first, let me tell you the rest of their After Rowbotham's death in 1884, the flat British guy, Samuel Shenton, who once explained shape of the earth, but that portion we life No one will ever know what the whole complexity his sphere of observation, investigation and Again, note the emphasis on personally collected In 1954, Shenton created the International Few people cared. He died in 1971. After his death, the Flat Earth Society was But even after the advent of the internet, Johnson died in 2001, at which point the flat The job then fell to another American, Daniel Shenton but whose logic falls right in line. He said in an interview with the Guardian "I don't think there is solid proof. I'm not intentionally being stubborn about and it would take an extraordinarily level How many people have actually investigated Have you?" Shenton had the idea to set up a wiki page Still no one cared. But in 2016, everything changed. What happened in 2016 is that a few devout And that really got things going, by way of These videos have meanwhile been watched by And that had consequences: In a 2018 poll said they believe the earth is flat, while Reliable numbers are hard to come by, but than ten-thousand people in the developed by the middle ages. Let that sink in for a moment. How does someone end up rejecting something fact that the earth is round? There is not only one reason, of course. Some flat earthers find the idea is appealing who think NASA is evil, space a fake, and But mostly it's because they think they They have not themselves been able to prove only reasonable when they request evidence. CNN for example reports from a flat earth "Like most of the speakers at the event he couldn't prove the Earth's roundness." I want to leave aside here that, of course, fact; you can only prove mathematical identities, evidence that disfavors the hypothesis that Of which there is plenty, starting with the shift if you travel, how the length of shadows is the law for a sphere, not a disk, not to and the perihelion precession of mercury, and so on, and The problem that flat earthers have is that themselves. So if you buy the idea that it's only your accept, then it seems you cannot refute the earthers philosophy forbids them to accept Needless to say, if you want to hold on to do observations that could speak against them. There are actually many ways to convince yourself technically difficult. Buy a telescope and try to explain the motions So what's wrong with flat earther's attitude? Isn't it asking for evidence exactly what Sure, evidence is key to scientific progress, by which they reject certain types of evidence wrong. See, the only evidence anyone ever has of own senses. Except, as Descartes pointed out, evidence not relevant here. Relevant is that the distinction which flat types of evidence does not exist. All evidence you have is sensory input. If you hear an explanation of someone else's someone else's argument, that's your own A distinction which does exist, however, is little decoding, while some requires a lot. Flat earthers' problem is that they refuse A good example for the need to decode sensory Your brain tries to interpret visual input result as in this example. You almost certainly think square A is darker To understand your sensory input correctly this case your knowledge about optical illusions. Your brain interprets this image as if it calculates back to the original color of the be a shadow. This is the wrong interpretation if you want screen. The lesson is, if you do not think about your it, you arrive at a wrong conclusion. Flat earthers similarly arrive at the wrong indeed by simply ignoring a lot of evidence This is evidence about how society and science Whether we are scientists or not, we all constantly And I am sure flat earthers are no exception. Just consider going to the supermarket and Do you have evidence that what's in the Probably not. For one, the can's closed. And if you are anything like me, you probably produced. Why then are you not afraid of eating canned Isn't this entirely irrational? No, because you do have evidence that canned You know how the legal system in your country on what can be sold as food in a supermarket, harmful to you, then a lot of people along mistake, and they don't want that. Your trust in canned food is an entirely reasonable collected with your own sense, because what with? Now let's come back to flat earthers. Most of you don't have a physics degree how we know the earth is round you didn't By and large you are probably confident it's was plausible, and you know it is widely taught strives to give children in your country a So you have good reason to think the knowledge evidence. There is no appealing to authority here. You have totally yourself collected all this You have also yourself collected lots of evidence Any airplane, any laptop, any pair of glasses It's evidence that the system works. It's evidence for how the whole world works. So, if you cannot recall just what experiments if you cannot immediately figure out what's no shame in rejecting their claims, because that science works. What's wrong is that flat earthers' claim But there is no scientific argument about This argument was settled long ago. Instead, flat earthers' argument is about people have collected before you. And it's an important argument because this to progress. The only alternative we have is that each scratch with birth. You see, flat earthers would eventually figure But it might take them a thousand years until This is why I think scientists should take It's a problem that any scientifically advanced It is not possible for each and every one of science. It therefore becomes increasingly important works, so that people who cannot follow the that the system produces correct and useful To me, therefore, flat earthers, are a warning The more difficult scientific experiments the more care we must take to explain how Thanks for hearing me out, see you next week.