(slow paced techno music) - Dude, get out of the way! - [Boy On Bike] Put (dog barking) (dramatic music) (cabinet door creaking) (ominous music) - Hey, call you back? - [Male] Morning. - [Woman] Good morning. - Hey buddy. - Hey. - You get your homework done? - Yes. - Good. You make it a great day. - [Boy] All right. - Oh. (tires screeching) (ominous music) (slow eerie music) - Hey! Good morning sir. You're early. - [Male] Yeah. - I'm getting ready to make - No thank you. - I'll be in my office Moody this morning. Sir. - [Male] Yeah? - We're having a service Thought it'd be a good idea-- - I know all about it. I know all about it. I'm one of the members. - Care to join us? (male exhales sharply) - I don't know. I'll think about it. - [Woman] I'll just just in case you (egg sizzling) (solemn music) - John! John! John. Johnny? John! Johnny! John? John? Johnny! John! Johnny! Johnny! (door knocking) - You think I didn't see What's going on? - I was just trying had a chance to - I did. And chances are I'm - You sure? - [Male] Yeah. - But, I just-- (phone ringing) You serious? Yeah. Are you, okay bye. Johnny's missing. - Johnny's missing? Jake's Johnny? - [Woman] Yeah, I'll go so they could start looking-- - No, no, no, no, no. - We'll just gather and we'll deal with it if - [Woman] You wanna wait? - Yeah. - Why? - Because it's - Are you okay? This is what we We're the Community Ministry! - Yeah, well why don't you just (slow paced music) (rushing winds) - Enjoying your (door creaking) Drunk. (phone buzzing) - Hello. - Mom. Johnny's missing. - Did you call the police? - Yes. - Do you think he ran away? - [Woman] I don't know. - I probably shouldn't say this, but I mean, I hope but this is probably a sign. - What is that supposed to mean? - I told you and Jake They need to be You think he doesn't see that? - I'm not doing this right now. - Your husband died to raise him all alone. - Race has nothing Hateful people make it that way! I called you to let you know Bye! - Grandson. You taught her, She never listens (door knocking) - We came over as You okay? - Not at all. - [Male] It's good - Good to see you too. - I haven't been - I talked to my mom, and she just made things worse. - Let's just focus on - [Male] Yeah, is it okay Look for forced entry? - Yes. - Are there any leads - I have no idea. I'm not even sure - Have you talked to the - I called, he's not at school. The principal talked and nobody has seen him. - Do you mind if - Okay, thanks. No sign of forced entry. I spoke with the police. Because it hasn't there's nothing they - 24 hours? Somebody could have taken - Look, I have some of looking for John while And I also called - You mean the community - At least we have - We just can't sit here - Let's just calm down. We can think better- - Calm down? I lost my husband. And now I'm ab out You have yours. I waited until I was Trying to be obedient. Nobody does that anymore. I thought the Lord And instead he A couple of years we found out we That's why we decided to adopt. As soon as life Jake passes, and now this. I don't think I can God wouldn't give people - And we know that all things work for good for those who are called (birds chirping) (ominous music) - Yeah, there's this He has so many But he has that one Oh it's so hot. My Mom hates when they Hold on, my Mom's calling. Yes Mom. I'm on the way okay. Yes. I was on the phone. Wait Mom, Mom, Mom. Can I use the car later? (door knocking) - Judy! Judy. I just got a call. - [Judy] Okay. I get those every day. - Did you tell some people - [Judy] I'm busy. - I asked you to wait Judy. What if we have an It's Father's Day weekend and we're short of help. - I'm not gonna sit around and wait for another emergency when we have one right now. - [Male] What if he's not lost? Huh? What if he's at a friends - Exactly. You don't know where he is. That's why we and expect the best. - [Male] Judy come on. - What is wrong with you? This isn't you. I figured after what you would be the first person to wanna find You were born and Do you believe this - [Male] I don't - I said &quot;Do you believe this is &quot;what God wants from you?&quot; - Are you listening to me? I said &quot;I don't even - How? You work at a church. - So what? 'Cause I work at a I have to believe in God. I need a paycheck! - [Judy] What? - When I was coming up, I didn't have it was given to me. And as a kid, I couldn't - You were just being curious. - No, no, no. You try telling that You question anything she find the biggest, and she hit you it right And I didn't realize that she was afraid. Look, I never believed in God, I never embraced any of it. I mean I took communion, I got baptized. I went to confession. I was just faking it. I don't believe Jesus died Especially no one But after Lily died, I just stopped I didn't think He was real. Why would He do that? - Because He loves you. - If He loved her why Why did He let my baby die? I mean it wasn't her fault. I didn't take care of my health. And if he loved her She didn't deserve it. I was driving and I passed out and I was wrong and she had to pay for it. It's not love. That's why I don't I don't believe it. (solemn music) Oh my God, this is crazy. When did you know I asked you a question. It's a simple answer. When did you know - [Judy] When Jesus died - No, no, no, no, no. I'm not asking you when I'm asking you to tell me, when did you know that The moment. The second, hour, the minute that you knew what When did you know (somber music) - [Woman] Lord, can A long time ago I stopped Through Your son Christ and that I simply believe. I believed every word You said. After all, You're the same God that raised Lazarus He that wants some more, so I got a question, and not my daughter. This is not divine order. I wasn't supposed to bury her, she's supposed to bury me now. What in the world What do you mean that the It was your mountain Left to die and the to get from under my humbles. You never believed in me til you see miraculous I wonder, I wonder claim even real. When she touched the hem of What miracles did How did five loaves and That water into wine, Babies birthed by old Jonah in the whale, okay then, really. See up until now I But the prayers of the I begged to switch places. She was just a baby. Jesus was supposed to take my lifeline was killed. Awake me from this dream, Devil on duty, Mission accomplished I can't face the odds. The Lord said, &quot;Let - Do you ever feel like if you prayed hard enough, certain things wouldn't happen? - I never thought but I know what you mean. God's not punishing you - It feels like it. Or either He just isn't there. - What? - I just feel like If it did, why are all these - Remember when was asked He said &quot;So that God Let God get the glory on this. - So what do we do now? - Why don't we go inside be a clue as to where Yeah, come on. - [Wendy] No, no, no. No, no, that's not It's this way, come on. This way. Why is this missing? - [Woman] What is it? - [Wendy] John's knife. - You okay? - Jake bought John this knife as a souvenir from the John never took it - [Friend] What do - Hopefully it means and he's coming back. (birds chirping) - [Male] Come on - [John] Hey! - Hey. - [John] Look what - Wow, that came out great. - [John] Yeah, I got an A on it. - I bet you did. Can I hang on to this? - [John] Yeah. - I'll put it up here. That way, when I roll in a call, I can think of you. (ominous music) - I appreciate your help, but can you exactly explain - Okay, so say and our budget for you have to come up and show us proof before we can give - Well exactly how fast do - Just as soon as you can. It's based upon needs, but I'm sure we can - I understand. I'll try to come Thank you, thank you. - Sorry. We'll get it figured out. (door slamming) - Look, I just miss her a little. I miss her so much. I don't know why God I miss her so much. - It was a miracle. - What is a miracle? - Earlier today you asked me, &quot;When was the moment, &quot;knew I was a Christian?&quot; It was when I saw a miracle. Jesus said in John 4:48, &quot;Unless I see miracles &quot;they will not believe.&quot; Some won't believe until I believe we're so consumed by the worlds ways that We can't see clearly. My Mom had cancer. - [Male] You don't (slow paced music) - She had cancer. I prayed for my She wasn't getting any better. Nothing was helping her. Then there was this lady, Miss Grace. She came to see Mama and she prayed for her in a way I had pray for somebody. She was on her knees A few days later The doctors couldn't explain it. A few days after chance to spend some I understood why God that she was praying for Mama, she loved Jesus. I promise you, try loving Him. Just try. And you'll see. He's been loving A long time. (male sniffling) - Why don't we just pray? - [Wendy] We need more - The Bible says - It's gonna be - You've seen those You know what those mean? That means he's a winner. He's gonna be okay. - But right now we're losing, and I'm tired of losing. - Let's do something. Let's play a board game. - My kid is either lost, a board game is the - I'm just trying to help. I'm trying to ease your mind. You don't wanna pray. - I'll pray whenever Jake's shoes are missing. No, I mean Jake's Oh my goodness, what if it was a robber? Like a petty theft? - No, no, no, no. Don't jump to conclusions. Jamal already checked the house and there's no forced entry. Just trust God, God's got this. - Trust God? Trust Him? The one that let my husband die? The one that let my I'll trust Him when (birds chirping) - [Jamal] What's up? How ya doing buddy? - Jamal, how are you? - Not so good. Not so good. You know John is missing right? - Sorry man, I heard. No sign yet? - Nothing, nothing. Look, you got a couple hours, you can hop in the car - You know, I wish I - [Jamal] I really - You know the kids are They've been driving all day. We're gonna hook up, We've been looking - Father's Day weekend right? Slim, I really need your help. - I bet you if I make these few phone calls, we'll get you some help. - You still got - [Slim] I've got Wendy's, - Yeah, mine hasn't changed. It hasn't changed. - [Slim] I got it then. - All right. All right Slim, if please give me a call or - [Slim] You got it. - All right man. - [Slim] I'll get - Thanks. Happy Father's Day. - [Slim] Thanks. (slow paced music) - Talk to me. Just keep pushing. All right. All right yeah. Hello? Tell me something good. No leads? We gotta do something. Wendy's about to All right look, I'm gonna and then I'm gonna yeah, I'm gonna check All right. All right, yeah. (water running) (machine beeping) - Hello. Hello. Are you gonna pay or stand there and 'Cause we have - Looks like - They're coming. Hey. For whatever it's worth, listen, don't let bad habits hold Sometimes you just need Hey, you shorted me two cents! How in the world she smartphone and can't even count! Dang gone millennials! (woman exhales) - Nothing? All right, thanks. And Happy Father's (people chattering) They said they done Let's just let the - I'm going out there by myself. - Wendy! It's gonna get dark soon! (slow paced music) Everybody had big plans - I'm done. I lost everything. Back to what? I've got to move - [Natasha] Why? - The house is in foreclosure. I used up everything to keep it. - Wendy, why didn't We could of helped you. Wendy! Wendy. Talk to me. - [Jamal] Baby. How ya doing Wendy? - I'm just tired. Feeling depressed all the time. - Everything will get better as soon as everything - Yeah. - I'm gonna be honest with you, maybe you should I mean, the pictures can be pretty depressing. You have a photo of on your computer and phone. You mentioned the a photo of him on a You even planning a ceremony Look, I'm not saying I just think it's the joy of Jakes life. Immersing yourself in his death is only gonna make You probably don't - And I agree. You need surround that bring you laughter, You need to celebrate And remember, you have - Our intake in our Look, people say We're also what we hear and see. And we gotta be careful - Do you mind if - [Jamal] Lord God, the the heavens-- - Dear God, please (birds chirping) (heart beating) - Okay, take your book bag! - You stole my drink! - I was thirsty. Why are you at my house? - Your house? Wait, you live out here? - [Girl] Yes, why are you here? - I gotta do something. My Dad died here. I just need to cross the street. - [Girl] Why? - I don't know. I just got to. What? - I need to make it - Why? - It's a part of - Why do you keep staring at me? - I think we should cross - [John] I don't need you - I know. - You can just do - No I can't do that. - Why? You scared? - No, I have nothing to We are brought here for closure. (eerie music) Amazing Grace How Sweet The Sound That saved A wretch Like me I once Was lost But Now I'm found Was blind But now I see (slow light music) - I've avoided coming in here. Because every time I do, I can't stop crying. The last time I was in here was when Jake died. John would run up the to watch Jake's car go by. He would look through to watch Jake go to work. The last time he looked was when the wreck happened. - [Jamal] Oh my goodness. - Johnny! John! John! He's at the road! - We've been and he's out here (somber music) - Lily? Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. (male sobbing) Oh my God. (tires screeching) - We've been looking Why didn't you tell - Where is she? - Who? - The girl. Never mind. (door knocking) - Finally. Come on in Gloria, Where's Wendy? - Home. - Does she know you're here? - No ma'am. - You ain't got I'm not scared of you. - I hope not. I'm your grandson. Look, I just wanted - For what? - For raising a son that and love me. He knew people would - You're welcome. - Can I pray for you? - I definitely don't It can wait until (slow paced music) What are you doing? - [John] Serving. - I'm sorry I never forgave you for what you did to me. - I'll call you back. - Good morning. - Good morning. - Hey. - [Jake] What's up buddy? Oh hey, you're gonna need these. Have fun. What? Look, I am trying - I guess that's easy for you. - Look, we cannot be doing - I'm not gonna pretend I just pray that my had nothing to do - I am sorry! - [Wendy] That you got caught or that you hurt me? - Whatever. Look, we... - Don't touch me. Take your lunch. Why am I even talking to you? You're not here. This is just a I just need to let go and let God. (light instrumental music)