In 1942, after three years of war, German from the Arctic circle to Africa and from that has changed in 1943, a year sometimes the forgotten year of war. As the new year surrounded German forces in Stalingrad, who time an entire German field army has laid Stalingrad is a major turning point in the of the year will see more dramatic setbacks the very next major Allied blow against Germany - Tunisgrad. By late 1942, Axis forces in North Africa defeat at the Battle of El Alamein in November, Army chases the newly renamed German-Italian Shortly afterwards, Anglo-American troops Morocco and Algeria as part of Operation Torch. is Tunisia - home to the last major Axis For Rommel, the shorter supply lines in Tunisia bring it closer to being an effective force. unsettled the German high command. In Berlin, replacement, and continually ask Rommel to the time being. The Allies are also making plans. In January their invitation - meet at Casablanca to are disagreements though. Some of the Americans soon as possible, while the British are more softer Mediterranean front. The debates are some fear the US doesn't yet have enough By the end of the conference, the Western they would attack Sicily as soon as possible they would intensify and coordinate the bombing the proportion of Allied forces in the Pacific. the compromises, but Stalin is angry, since Roosevelt, perhaps out of frustration, announces surrender from Germany, Italy, and Japan. and debates still rage as to whether it stiffens to delay peace talks until the US is in a In any case, before any of the Allied plans finish off the Axis presence in North Africa. Luckily for Rommel, Montgomery's pursuit the best German units, most panzer divisions Italian troops lacking vehicles are not so On January 23, 1943 the British capture Tripoli, the US II Corps and French XIX Corps approach the Italian navy and the Luftwaffe move reinforcement 323 transport planes. There they join German Together with Rommel's panzerarmee, the troops in or around Tunisia by late January and Rommel's force has lost two-t hirds of its artillery in its retreat. However, local air superiority. African combat than the open deserts of Libya. and vast salt marshes, making manoeuvre and the Axis troops still pose a threat to the of the ports in late 1942. East Dorsale Mountains. Eisenhower requests and Rommel, but his British colleagues think for Montgomery's arrival. the inexperienced Americans. Many US officers in 1941 showed deficiencies in senior leadership, corrected some issues, Eisenhower himself Rommel has already dismissed US troop as &quot;Britain's The Axis wants to strike the Allies in the in the east in early March. Von Arnim's and French troops and he is confident he can Once Rommel arrive, the Germans adopt a two-part will see Arnim's 10th and 21st Panzer Divisions Sidi Bou Zid - a major supply base and headquarters von Arnim has pinned US forces there, Rommel's (Morning Air), a rapid strike from Gabes But things are tense at German headquarters. and their animosity grows as they work together has to intervene to smooth things over. The instead German commanders will quickly draw On February 14, Von Arnim launches Fruhlingswind, Faid. Supported by artillery and Stuka dive around Sidi Bou Zid by surprise. Isolated to move or support each other. With communications Infantry Regiment sends a desperate report "Enemy surrounds 2nd Battalion (located tank attack... Germans have absolute superiority, CP position. Unless help from air and armor (Kelly 194) and his commander Lt Gen Lloyd Fredendall On February 15, Shermans and Stuarts of the the experienced German panzers, but the result the US tank commanders into their turrets, Wolff recalls the results: guns than the first three enemy tanks were tanks ahead of us [and] the remaining enemy laughing like a boy, went from company to you ever see anything like [that]?'" (Kelly The panicked withdrawal turns into a rout, Meanwhile, Rommel's troops launch Operation already abandoned. But instead of ruthlessly advance cautiously, giving US troops time Rommel, who was still overseeing the final relocates to take command of the next stage. The success of Fruhlingswind and Morgenluft plan to surround allied forces in western Rommel thinks if he gets command of all of tanks, he can punch through Kasserine Pass at Tebessa. Once resupplied with captured to Bone on the Algerian coast, encircling the plan to Kesselring and the Italian Commando But von Arnim is against the idea. Instead, operation towards the British depot at Le the allies in the west, this will cripple a stronger defence against Montgomery when The result is a compromise. Rommel gets von towards Le Kef. Rommel's Operation Sturmflut strike towards mountain passes at Kasserine which ever thrust produced the most results. as he later revealed in his memoirs: were so wildly overoptimistic that they hardly when a little boldness really was required, decision." (Kelly 229) Colonel Alexander Stark. His cryptic orders last stand from the US Civil War: Jackson." (Citino 94)- troops and who have never seen action. They do plant 3000 mines, but simply lay many of from a horse-drawn French battery of 75mm stay at the rear to avoid a repeat of the At first, Rommel tries to force the pass with French artillery and US machine guns push Panzergrenadiers to scale the heights either Both attacks start with some success, but the Germans soon retire. Axis troops are slowly advancing. Fredendall Meanwhile, the German strike against Sbiba guns repel the attack and Rommel decides to Nebelwerfer rocket artillery. Late on February their armour unsupported. The French artillerymen, guns and fall back. There is now nothing to pass and destroy a small British armoured Now flushed with victory, Rommel splits his Thala and Sbiba simultaneously. But the Axis troops, with armour and artillery, rush to By splitting up his forces, Rommel has weakened briefly reach Thala, Allied material superiority clear skies bringing allied air attacks, it's off the attack. both a US and German defeat. Although German plan failed quickly. Some accuse Fredendall of hunkering down in orders. Following Kasserine, he is replaced Citino concludes: most simplistic form of military history, against [Fredendall] is overwhelming." (Citino Others have been more forgiving, suggesting issues concerning rapidly turning a small such as untested officers and tactics. Furthermore, performed relatively well against German veterans, "Die Amerikaner hatten sich vorzuglich excellently." (Citino 97) his decision to split his force following terrain. Some historians suggest it is surprising, Rommel did not clear the heights before his not have the luxury of time, given Montgomery's Rommel's relationship with von Arnim impacted find out von Arnim only sent half of the 10th himself. Von Arnim instead uses them in his 15 of his 19 Tigers. These are losses the receive 29,000 tons of the required 140,000 bring in 400,000 tons. What is left of the Axis army in Africa will in the east, and Rommel rapidly relocates Rommel doesn't like the new position, which But his superiors demand that he stops Eighth send new weapons and reinforcements, but by against 800 tanks in Eighth Army. Meanwhile, has almost disappeared from the Tunisian sky. so he orders a spoiling attack to disrupt his subordinates attack in the south after along the coast. In any case, Montgomery's powerful 17-pounders, are waiting for them: they? Some of us who were in the early desert clever. It never happened. They kept coming Montgomery put it more succinctly: (Citino 100) loses up to 56 tanks in what is his last action the Desert Fox finally agrees to take sick Montgomery now launches his attack on March a wider flank, largely made up of New Zealand, frontal assault initially has some success, Zigaou - but Allied troops soon lose the Frustrated, Montgomery prioritises the flanking experience to move through rough terrain and the New Zealand Corps rush further to the on March 26. Rommel's replacement, General Akarit position, but Allied forces overrun frontal charges, and mountain infiltration. The situation is now dire for the Axis troops. meatgrinders to deplete allied forces and equipment is lacking. By April, von Arnim's Fifth Panzerarmee Allied troops and 1,200 tanks. Patton also eventually linking up with the Eighth Army Now Eighth Army clashes against the new Axis assaults fail, but mountain troops, including artillery fire break the position open. For fire up to 30. under General Omar Bradley, also batter their Von Arnim sends Major Hans von Luck to Berlin to see him. late April, it is of little use since the On May 7, 1943, the Allies capture Bizerte along with tens of thousands of their troops. but many are also German veteran units like 90th Light Divisions which surrender to a division that fought in Tunisia is also captured, Almost immediately, Allied troops refer to to the recent Soviet victory at Stalingrad. the fighting, but also the seemingly decisive taken. Tunisia was not an easy victory for the allies, Pass tainted British perceptions of the Americans 70,000 casualties in Tunisia, with the US missing or captured in its first major theater. Soviet losses at Stalingrad, but they are casualties for the whole North African theatre to 62,200 with 12,200 killed - also far though, the capture of Tunisia trapped and thousand men. to Axis war plans as Sixth Army at Stalingrad, in manpower and resources. Its defeat also troops as well material that Germany desperately In fact, the Germans redirected transport meaning they couldn't supply either location from the losses it suffered over Tunisia and to 41% of the entire air force. would never be able to return to Africa or on move into a defensive posture concerned Meanwhile, allied - especially British - confidence the Kasserine defeat, Allied forces were starting high levels of mechanisation with sophisticated allowed them to effectively translate their battlefield. of war was faltering. German principles of emphasised autonomy and flexibility at lower Allied material superiority and firepower. against inexperienced and unprepared enemies, mistakes the Axis could exploit. As historian "German tactical analysts might growl resentfully and all about material superiority' (exactly remained that the Germans could not win such The rest of the fateful year of 1943 would But the Allied method still has weaknesses. the Atlantic, and although Germany is retreating sea - which the Allies need to stop if they From 1939, German U-boats threaten Allied do play a role, Admiral Karl Donitz hopes war' against British merchant vessels. This either massively degrade British military to surrender. calls summer 1940, "the happy time", in merchantmen, sinking 471. When the US joins The U-boat crews' term this the "second Season". the Atlantic is the critical theatre on which one of the few areas in which Germany remains In November 1942, U-boats alone sink 768,000 for the entire war. As a result, Churchill lays down new guidelines for referring to "Enemy submarines are to be called U-boats. for Allied underwater vessels. U-boats are while submarines are those gallant and noble At the Allied Casablanca conference in January and delay the invasion of France and Germany reluctantly, others understand it is impossible with a lingering U-boat threat. But even with promises of more US support, is significant demand and internal competition more U-boats than ever. In 1939, Donitz had just 39 subs, but by being build. Then, when Grand Admiral Erich in January 1943, Hitler promotes Donitz to to maintain the pressure in the Atlantic, the challenge in a radio broadcast: [means that] even more difficult times lie With a submariner in command of the entire menace to grow. One area of concern is the ground known to allied seamen as "Torpedo expansion of the Royal Canadian Navy, Allied they're still too few and remain vulnerable US and Canada have been improving coverage, gap off the Cape of Farewell. Allied commanders retrofitted civilian vessels - or Very Long-Range January 1943, British Coastal Command only bomber offensive against Germany or the Pacific. Beobachtungsdienst intelligence service cracked British communications, they organise group of convoys thanks to codebreaking. Operation Torch landings in North Africa, The Royal Navy diverts 125 destroyers and for African operations mean North Atlantic The result is an increase in sinkings in early ships sink 120 Allied ships globally, totalling the Atlantic. This rapid increase in tonnage often seen as a major crisis. A March 1943 "...[T]here is insufficient shipping to the enemy, which have been decided on. Every can no longer rely on evading the U-boat packs through them." (Haslop 210) far to suggest victory in the Atlantic - and More recent research though, has questioned mostly focuses on two convoys, which suffer vessels sunk. Overall, however, only 31% of the 52% attacked in November 1942. In fact, lower than any 1942 quarter. The allies are with a net gain of 2 million gross tons by Perhaps most significantly, there is nothing a moment of imminent victory. In fact, within Atlantic in defeat. Just as the March convoy battles are raging, to better pool resources and standardise procedures. Air Gap and taking the fight to the U-boats. is optimistic: from the defensive to another and better role Early 1943 also sees several tactical, technological around the same time. Ultra intelligence, well-known tool available to the Allies, but the most important. U-boats, which are tracked by the men and Convoys reroute around them - an effective sometimes it takes up to 72 hours to de-crypt blackouts when Germans alter their settings the number of U-boats at sea increases, the is vital as a wider strategic tool but cannot where other technology comes in. with better sonar and radar equipment. Underwater gauging range and bearing. Not only does this more accurate use of anti-submarine weapons, ships and aircraft equipped with the new 10-centimetre of these tools are perfect, but when combined network of defences: would be from the ASDIC people who would pick and the difference between the ping and the is away. When they think they're right over That means the depth-charges go... A colossal like lightning going across the water. In (Bailey 67/68) is on the receiving end of a depth charge "Alarm bells shrilled loudly... "Destroyer meters!"... A quick glance at the manometer same instant for the first time I heard ahead Now I discovered how appalling loud these on my hydrophone wondering if I would ever 49) Frequency/Direction Finding, known as HF/DF U-boat radio communications out to 25 kilometres, outranges surface radar and helps allow escorts since 1942, but in 1943 it's much more available, With this comes more powerful anti-submarine 6 escorts were considered adequate to protect Professor P. M. S. Blackett, find that eight as effectively. This combines smaller convoys can become mobile support groups assisting The convoys and their escorts also adopt new previous convoys. From February 1942, Britain's based on recent attacks to estimate and predict is carried out by staff of the Women's Royal who work as plotters, mathematicians and players search and convoy patterns which are taught 1945, 5,000 Royal Navy officers have received And finally, there are more Very Long-Range Command has 49 VLR bombers, up from 17 in of bombers attacking German industry, this like B-24 Liberators, Whitley bombers and vital submarine killers, quickly accounting The combination of new tools and tactics is battle balances out, as the Allies lose 39 May 1943 is the decisive month, especially from Halifax, Nova Scotia, the convoy has with High Frequency Direction Finding and identifies the convoy and gathers up to 25 Donau 1 and 2 approach from the south-east, The plan is to attack the convoy in the airgap, this. However, a system failure means the Even so, when the attack opens on May 18, and spoil their attacks, while the convoy moves within the range of approaching Allied them to submerge. By May 21st, U-boat command The Allies sink three U-boats and damage another U-boats - U-954 - is Admiral Donitz youngest The SC-130 battle is the pinnacle of a terrible lose a total of 41 U-boats - almost 25% Cremer at U-Boat Staff Headquarters later "This May situation was quite out of hand: that failed to return from patrol reached... "Black May"." (Gannon) from the Atlantic until better equipment and So why did things go so wrong, so fast for but there were also German weaknesses. Firstly, capabilities, especially High Frequency Direction a result, submariners didn't know how to top-down approach required constant radio gave British Ultra and HF/DF detection more battle, there were 104 HF/DF reports, allowing the Kriegsmarine lacked reliable air cover. Luftwaffe, but Goring resisted diverting The increase in U-boat numbers also didn't although the sheer number of active U-boats "By April 1943 the average kill per U-boat be interesting as a sort of sporting score, greatly increased that it was of little significance who shot fifty bears a year, was replaced bears saw no occasion to celebrate the decline But individual U-boat performance and crew U-boat commanders had on average two years' Most U-boat captains killed in May 1943 had In 1940, 2% of U-boat captains were responsible had entered the Kriegsmarine before 1935, were gone. Roughly 850 U-boats - about 75% - would never damage an Allied merchantman. per U-Boat per day was 430 tonnes. In January From 1939 to early '43, the Atlantic is maintained the offensive. But now even there, is not meant to be permanent though. He fast-tracks a smaller group tactics, but the U-boat wolfpacks Atlantic becomes the logistical highway for But as Allied leaders had decided at Casablanca, push would be in the "soft underbelly of than anticipated. In early 1943, Anglo-American troops decisively 250,000 prisoners. In spring, and after much Sicily as the next steppingstone towards the of Europe". of movement for Allied forces across the Mediterranean occupied Europe. It may also appease Stalin just as German forces launch their summer even force Italy to withdraw from the war expectation. among the Axis where the invasion will take operatives plant fake invasion plans for Greece officer, which is then dropped off the Spanish Germans move several divisions to Greece. muddy the waters about the actual invasion British Field Marshal Harold Alexander oversees the specifically created 15th Army Group, Army. The initial invasion forces consists guns. They`re supported by around 4,000 allied from North Africa and Malta. The Allied airmen's the island and provide close air support. Guzzoni's Sixth Italian Army. He has 10 static coastal defence divisions. Overall, tanks and armoured cars. They are supported of the 15th Panzergrenadier Division and Panzer-Division divisions are underequipped and filled out on the Eastern Front. But they can still field tanks. In the air, the Axis have up to 1,600 Sicily, Sardinia, and Italy. The Livorno and Napoli Divisions are arguably equipped with obsolete early war tanks, or Available Axis vehicles are grouped into mobile Schmalz. Its job will be to counter invading Officially, German troops are under Italian are largely independent. and George Patton, have been highly critical They request to u!!!se their veteran troops them to use fresh troops so these can gain concern for the landing force, so Air Chief using the well built-up enemy airfields in units to take off directly from Sicily instead more close air support during the landing, through bombing enemy airfields is a better From early June Allied planners prepare for and air force bombard the nearby fortress submission. Then on July 2 - D-Day minus come under heavy aerial and naval bombardment and defences. As a result, the Axis relocate Italy, leaving only around 125 in Sicily. has achieved air superiority over the region, and fighter reserves available to potentially Meanwhile, British and American paratroopers British and American planners developed the and some commanders are concerned about the Airborne commander, Major General Matthew a lack of night-flying experience among American All-in-all 5300 airborne troops are supposed from C-47s, while British paratroopers will trained glider pilots and US C-47 pilots have Once on the ground, the paratroopers will slow or stop axis counterattacks against the high ground around the junction at Piano Lupo, capture the important Ponte Grande Bridge As the first Allied planes head for Sicily gliders rapidly fall out of formation and when they come under anti-aircraft fire. The release their gliders. Of the 144 gliders 6 on target. Up to 69 may have crashed into This meant only around 100 men are immediately The US drop fares little better. Pilots again batter the landing zones. Most paratroopers immediately available to capture the Piano land and make their way towards the noise But despite the low numbers, Anglo-American A single glider team captures the Ponte Grande defenders at Piano Lupo. US paratrooper Bob Ridge: ripping burst from a rapid-fire German machine rounds per minute I wondered what in the world At Ponte Grande, Italian troops with mortars whittling their numbers down to 70. The paratroopers Despite the high casualties, the mis-drops landings make the invasion seem larger than with guerilla-style attacks. Although Guzzoni no serious effort to counter it on the beaches. Coinciding with the nighttime airdrops are SAS teams. Their job was to clear coastal At around 3am on July 10, the first seaborne Royal Marines, 1st Canadian and 51st Highland most Italian positions abandoned. In many their posts. The British 50th and 5th Divisions By 5am, the Brits and Canadians have secured tanks and trucks. Allied troops take Pachino aircraft. The British 50th Division runs into from Ponte Grande and together, they rapidly The US landings also largely go to plan, despite 3rd Division lands first, and sweeps towards flank. As they advance, they knock out coastal for other divisions. In the east, the 45th the landing beaches' right flank. The 1st a contingent of French Moroccan troops, and the town by 8am. arrive, as Guzzoni orders the Livorno and However, bombing and paratrooper activity counterattacks are poorly coordinated. To the Canadians, who easily push them back. port and key to continuous naval supply for its formidable defences will protect it, however reportedly "riotous" welcome by the locals. city, including with captured French R-35 up anti-tank guns and other defences. Italian "We left, my tank in the lead... After a and shouted "mines!" [...] The tracks mines, which duly went off... The second tank curve a gun hit its right tracks; this disabled down the escarpment. Right on its heels, the As soon as it had made the curve, its front By the end of D-Day, allied commanders likely ashore, beachheads are expanding, several fighters, and Syracuse has fallen. But there troops dispatched, only 2,000 are fit for ground also complain about a lack of air cover. and fleet escort missions, no close air support continuous air cover allows a German Luftwaffe get through and sink the ammunition ship SS The Axis forces are also recovering from the the landing beaches and allied forces, Guzzoni Schmalz blocks Allied progress towards Augusta, make a stronger move against the Gela beachhead. to break through to Gela. In the west and with heavy losses, however the Hermann Goring against the light anti-tank weapons of US the line and head for Gela and the beaches. elsewhere, the 1st Division rushes anti-tank of vulnerable catapult launched navy spotter stop the German attack. would destroy any further attempts to reach up blocking positions around Caltagirone. they do slow the progress of the American successful and are only able to offer sporadic Johannes Steinhoff from Jagdgeschwader 77 "With what we could scrape together of the the north coast over Etna's crater towards ourselves at the [B-17] Flying Fortresses numbers were so few that we would do little our breaking through to the bombers." drops are planned for late July 11, but the attacks have the allied anti-aircraft units spot the friendly C-47s are spotted, they on them. 23 of the 144 transport planes are aircrew and 229 paratrooper casualties. A a lack of communication and preparation among Admiral Andrew Cunningham blamed the pilots As the US advance bogs down, the British Eighth The Brits take Augusta on captured on July is stiffening. Montgomery now develops a plan troops. While continuing to push towards Catania swing around Mount Etna from the west, with this requires British troops to take over them exclusive use of Highway 124. to supporting the British manoeuvre. So, in to advance towards Agrigento. As Montgomery takes increasing control of taking control of the defence. General der Corps takes over de facto command of the island, to reinforce him. The elite 1. Fallschirmjager-Division 29th Panzergrenadier Division. On July 13, Montgomery opens his major push and seaborne commandos raids will capture dei Primosole. The 50th Division will then to the south, link up with the commandos and Once again, the air drops go poorly. Both nearly 30 percent of the gliders to return guns drop near to their target. To make matters the newly arrived 1. Fallschirmjager-Division. come under immediate German attack. The Brits the assaults, but casualties are mounting they decide to relocate to a hill to the south 50th Division arrives. against Italian units, not hardened German is particularly tough in dense vineyards and Regiment recalls: 20 yards [in the orange groves]... Some [unidentified] [...] As we were debating who they might be, of a Spandau [machinegun] not very far away." On July 14, the 50th Division reaches the solid German control. British troops wade and artillery soon pin them down. Only a small On July 17, after tough fighting around the towards Catania under a heavy creeping barrage. is on the receiving end: under the cover of the tank trench. [...] We Walther... gave the order... Thus, without enemy came unhindered into the range of fire by our furious defensive fire. The attacker off." (Klein 29) unable to breakthrough to Catania, or the The next day, Montgomery abandons the plan around Mount Etna. But what was envisioned On July 17th, the Canadians push along Highway resistance. The Axis forces have already shifted their to abandon the west of Sicily and fall back His plan is now to defend Sicily as long as the Messina Straits into Italy. However, the rearguard units continue to contest town after slow the allied advance. an opportunity. He demands US forces be given is a political necessity for the American Alexander concedes and allows Patton to capture on the island. US forces, especially the 2nd isolated pockets of mostly Italian troops Colonel James Gavin of the 82nd Airborne recalls: during the war. Suddenly a machine gun or white flags would appear. A shot had been likely to cause casualties as a shot fired The US troops have another advantage in their troops are Italian-Americans, some with Sicilian reception from locals and can use their connections US intelligence also makes use of criminal with ties to Sicily. Local Sicilian mafia and guide allied troops through mountain passes. attitude towards their continued presence. response to his unit's demolitions work: as spokesmen, waving old hunting rifles around kerfuffle did not end until our platoon sergeant up on the market square..." (Klein 29) into murder. The Hermann Goring Division likely as retaliation for supposed thefts. and the Allies have practically cut the island 50,000 Italian prisoners with only 272 casualties. Sicily to participate in the attack towards a race about whether the American or British Meanwhile, in Rome, the war takes an unexpected Mussolini is voted out of the Fascist Grand now over. King Victor Emmanuel assumes full a growing conspiracy from within his own general Allied bombing of mainland Italy act as a watching closely, Italy vows to continue the Mussolini's removal also ends any pretence now oversees the entire withdrawal and evacuation. towards the Etna Line based around the formidable towards Troina, another prepared defensive guns, machine guns and tanks take their toll. delay entire Allied divisions in the narrow Progress is also hampered by a lack of close process of requesting air strikes is slow equipment breaks down or cannot get through between US and British units add to the problem. fighter-bombers of the US XII Air Support commander General Oliver Leese phones General "What have we done that your chaps would on top of my headquarters! They have really Exhausted and inexperienced allied units are of the 7th Royal Marines - an entirely green "My God! When I think of the things that rush and hurry of the whole blasted amateurish many been buggered about by so few." (Ford) North Africa breaks the deadlock. Aided by Division, the British and Canadians capture 1. Troina, but only after the Axis counterattack lost, Hube knows the battle is now over. He continues his punishing rear guard actions. coast is especially held up at Monte Fratello. behind the enemy lines on August 8, 11 and runs" do ease the advance. The British also cut off retreating elements of the Hermann Both Allied forces now converge on Messina, of the US 3rd Division enters the outskirts. an end. The narrow straits, coastal guns and Allied forces mostly don't disrupt it, and last units to leave Sicily. Of the eventual 460,000 Allied troops in Sicily, in Operation Husky. An additional 3,500 are German losses are 4,500 killed, 13,500 wounded losses are especially high. 4,650 Italian 152,000 missing or captured. The loss of Sicily alone 711 German aircraft were lost in the Aeronautica is in the process of dissolution damage they were able to inflict. complaints with the first major joint operation. different branches as well as animosity and Although tactical air superiority improved claimed they rarely saw friendly air cover. targets further to the rear, a more important Better communication regarding objectives Alexander is also accused of giving Montgomery potential, while Patton too is criticised General Omar Bradley, who served under Patton, of his men, especially in his race to beat suggest Montgomery was not even aware of. slapped enlisted men and at Biscari on July The perpetrators claim Patton ordered for denied. as Hube's phased withdrawal preserved his August, the Axis evacuate 100,000 troops, tanks to Italy where they would continue the However, the Allies also learn lessons from will display clear invasion stripes to prevent while airborne operations will enjoy longer units to guide in paratroopers. They also rugged radios and clearer channels for requesting Arguably the biggest outcome of Husky is also opens the question of Italy's role in the surrender remains, Italy seems reluctant to In fact, many of the units - on both sides again on new battlefields. The next step for the Allies is the invasion September 3, an event that causes the collapse government to join the Allies. It's a political quickly bog down into grinding positional are able to gain a foothold, but the Germans of the country, and rush troops to the landing plus Italy's mountainous terrain, and skillful the year, larger Allied forces are stuck up known as the Gustav Line - with its strongpoint In fact, the truly decisive breakthrough was but far to the East. There, the Wehrmacht all time at Kursk - and although the Germans Red Army emerges victorious. In spring 1943, Nazi Germany's leaders are their 1942 offensive at Stalingrad, Allied in North Africa surrendered to the British the war against the U-Boats. cannot defeat the Soviet Union while fighting "This year we cannot undertake any large risks. I think we can only make limited strikes." Hitler believes that once the Anglo-Americans he'll be able to strike a decisive blow him is to draw the Red Army into a battle Soviets won't be able to launch a major important since in spring 1943, the Red Army 1 in men, 4.6 to 1 in tanks, and 3.1 to 1 And despite the catastrophic losses in men in 1941 and 42, Red Army commanders are indeed smash the Germans around Oryol which would East Prussia, while a simultaneous offensive Poltava and Kyiv, and threaten the German Romania. If the Soviet plan works, the war So the Germans have a conservative plan for Soviets have high hopes for major breakthroughs. town of Kursk. The Soviet General Staff, or Stavka, expects Kursk salient, so they deploy two army groups Rokossovsky, and the Voronezh Front under army group for a counterattack - the Steppe Red Army engineers also turn the salient into But some Soviet leaders begin to doubt the fortifications. Joseph Stalin and Vatutin first, to spoil the expected enemy attack. convince Stalin to start on the defensive going over to the counterattack - especially The Red Army had captured a Tiger in January is extremely strong. Regular soldiers are "But the Germans have gotten ahead of us that our guns and tanks aren't equal to Learning how to fight against Tigers is a anti-tank crews learn to target vision ports to shear off after a hit. the salient and prevent a German breakthrough. sometimes 4 lines deep, along with 1 million who work on the fortifications are women. allow the destruction of German tanks, and strongpoints. A typical strongpoint has a engineers with explosives, 4-10 anti-tank Soviet troops also dig in their vehicles so But German aircraft detect the Soviet strongpoints, on how to engage them: in aerial photographs [...] must be engaged [immediately] followed by Grenadiers attacking are to be suppressed by artillery fire and [followed by] a supporting attack by tanks." Aside from fortifications, the backbone of have lots of it, up to 70 guns per kilometer behind German lines also contribute to the attacks against German logistics and infrastructure, The Soviets are also planning for counteroffensives attacks. In Operation Kutuzov, the West, Bryansk, Oryol salient and continue west. Meanwhile would strike towards Kharkiv in Operation So the Red Army is preparing for a German counteroffensive. And it is these preparations to strike. Hitler originally wants to attack in the Donbass resources. It is his generals who convince Soviet offensive potential. And he is not German generals will later say after the war. his generals debate what to do. In April, Hitler that he thinks he can win at Kursk, Hitler decides to wait until reinforcements African surrender, and Hitler fears Italy might land in Italy or Greece. He decides is clear before committing in the East. But the roads in the Soviet Union to mud and render In June, everything is ready, but Hitler is and General Kurt Zeitzler have been telling stronger, and the longer the Germans wait, he'll wait for the Soviets to attack first Commander Gunther von Kluge convinces Hitler Operation Citadel is set to begin on July The German plan is to encircle the Soviets through the strongest Soviet positions in of the encirclement. The southern pincer consists and Army Detachment Kemp. Hoth's tanks will 9th Army and trap the Red Army's best forces Germans have about 900,000 men, 3900 tanks 8300 artillery pieces and mortars (Toppel Army that would not participate in the attack. badly underestimate Soviet strength. Including 8900 tanks and self-propelled guns, 5900 planes it can throw into the battle. They've also the SU-122 and SU-152 self-propelled guns. So the Germans have finally decided to attack preparing for. But when the battle starts, In the night of July 4-5, several German soldiers Soviets the attack is imminent. Soviet aircraft the Germans in their jumping off positions. "[Our artillery] fire plastered the enemy especially in artillery, and disrupted command and made them think that we were about to spread amongst [German] soldiers. It took started preparatory fire [which] was disorganized For decades, this is the picture accepted not true. In reality, Soviet artillery strikes fighters shoot down 300 Soviet planes on the When the ground attack begins on July 5, the belt in the north and south. The next day, commanders who expected their months of preparation and Voronezh Fronts both rush in their reserves, to drive the Germans back. Rokossovsky now against German armour, as he writes later: in heavy tanks [...] [our] tanks should only and even then only when our fire had already was necessary given the situation. There were only to be pushed back behind the infantry In the south, the Soviet counterattack turns try to encircle the German armoured spearhead. battlefield here too. On July 8 alone, they guns, against just 20 German. The Soviets result, and the Germans in the south push In the north, Model's 9th Army struggles Soviet mines, including anti-tank mines upgraded vehicles, and heavy Red Army artillery fire that Red Army tactics against their heavy "Particularly noticeable was that the commanders regulations for engaging Tigers were prepared followed them with all weapons." (Toppel Field Marshal von Kluge blames 9th Army's hopes to continue the offensive after regrouping. tanks and infantry, as in the case of the on a hill: should have, as discussed and agreed, immediately ran into strong enemy fire, some of it flanking On the crest however, there was extraordinarily literally to be dragged from every foxhole. of the hill and didn't move. While the top counterattacked with their tanks. The last own tanks weren't supporting us, and could grosste Schlacht, 145) and penetrates the third Soviet defensive that his forces are too weak to surround the offensive to continue. Hitler wants to avoid so he tells Manstein that the general's of its forces to help counter the Allied landings Hitler doesn't send any units from the eastern Hitler's ruse works and Manstein reluctantly lie that he needed to send reinforcements myths about the battle of Kursk, and still The German offensive has failed thanks to - and because the Soviet counteroffensive On July 12, the Red Army launches Operation positions facing Oryol, forcing the 9th German gaps, which seals Citadel's fate beyond later describes how the Luftwaffe tries to "That was my first experience of such a to find a comparison for it. You are just bombs are exploding all around, the ground to death and wanted to run away from that to stay with my soldiers." (Bessonov 39) Army's vulnerable spearhead. The 5th Guards will lead the charge after having sat in reserve German armour near the village of Prokhorovka, 30km. The Soviets use radio transmissions to think there are two more Soviet armies just a ruse. The attack is so critical to himself to Prokhorovka. But when Vasilevsky than expected, he panics and orders a rushed 12. But the Red Army isn't yet ready, and the II SS Panzerkorps, confusion reigns. German attack, so SS soldiers like Erhard Guhrs "We were all sleeping, then they were on infantry on them. It was hell. They were around man against man. We jumped out of our foxholes, It was hell!" (Guehrs) inflict a heavy defeat on the attacking 5th their positions, but also knock out 382 Soviet The Soviets are only able to knock out a dozen recoverable. These figures are in stark contrast a Red Army success. a local, tactical defensive success. The Soviets their main counteroffensive for three weeks so far. On August 3, they're finally ready Commander Rumiantsev. 7 Soviet armies, 2 of the southern part of the Kursk Salient. Three days - a total of 1 million men, 2440 tanks are the 4th Panzer Army and Army Detachment sending units to other parts of the front. and assault guns, of which just 270 are combat-ready. line north of Kharkiv and advances towards being surrounded, so they beat a hasty retreat. and Oryol - for the first time since the Army has beaten the Wehrmacht in a big summer massive 124-gun salute at midnight to commemorate On the 7th, elements of General Katukov's from Kharkiv and nearly behind the German rushes Panzer divisions from other parts of tank spearhead. In the following days, both the fighting, which develops into another weaken their forces defending Kharkiv - which this dangerous Soviet drive. The Soviets are the most important communications and logistics On August 11, the Red Army launches another Army of the Southwest Front. The goal is to Kempf is now surrounded on three sides, and The Germans are able to stop the Voronezh Southwest Fronts are getting closer and closer By the 18th, Hitler has to admit the situation and prolonging the city's defence risks Manstein to give up the city if necessary. from the Oryol sector, bringing Operation ever tighter around Kharkiv, and on the night to the Red Army. The Battle of Kursk, which The Battle of Kursk is the biggest battle in history. Historians still argue about Soviet never be known. In all probability, at least wounded, 7000 tanks and assault guns destroyed, 203,000 dead, wounded and missing, 1200 tanks (Toppel 154) Although Soviet losses are far its operational goals, Kursk is a serious deciding to attack and to exploit the initial had inaccurate intel -- and all this without and numerical disadvantages. They don't attacked in July either: they don't destroy don't weaken the Red Army enough to prevent to free up reserves; and they don't capture they wanted to put to work as forced laborers Hitler had hoped that a victory at Kursk would invincible. But the result is the opposite: German summer offensive within a few days, the offensive all along the Eastern Front. in the east was exhausted, and they could at Kursk also has repercussions at home: in victory over the USSR was possible, but after And the victory at Kursk was the start of to December, the Red Army throws the Germans forces recapture Kyiv in November, but German bridgeheads on the eastern bank. At German stabilization of the line in December are might have weathered the storm. skies above the Reich, as the British and to strike and German industry and civilian At the January 1943 Casablanca conference, Offensive against Germany. The goal is to preparation for an invasion in 1944. Allied at first, but by June 1943 the POINTBLANK and ball-bearing production. supports strategic bombing and has expanded the targeted daytime bombing of specific key cripple German war production. British bomber of such 'bottleneck' bombing, wants the but Arnold maintains independence. The RAF but are largely separate. will carry out most of the new mission for across East Anglia. By late summer, the US Groups ready for operations in the skies over The Eighth conducted small-scale raids, especially bombers limited operations against Germany. equipment are arriving, allowing for operations launch a series of raids to coincide with July 24, 1943, US bombers hit targets across known as Blitz Week - with mixed results. production facilities and kills and wounds setbacks nitrate production by a few months. fighter escorts are inadequate. Overall, the with 90 casualties. US and commanders plan new, even more ambitious Regensburg aircraft factories and Schweinfurt deepest yet into Germany. Colonel Curtis LeMay's factory at Regensburg before flying onto land "Shuttle Raids" confuse enemy air controllers Wings unexpected flight to Algeria will hopefully Bombardment Wing's outward and return flight both raids will lack fighter escort for much escorts will turn back near the Dutch border, scarce. wrong. Poor weather delays the departure of four hours after the Regensburg force, instead bombers pass into Luftwaffe operational areas, a 260-kilometre-long aerial battlefield: slightly above. The huge airplanes were quickly aimed at the fuselage and the right engines. lightning-quick - a fantastic moment. Some their huge, shark-like tails with their large Over Regensburg, the fighters withdraw and its biggest impacts is unintended, as it destroys The diversion south also works and confuses the delayed Schweinfurt force flying along German fighters have time to land, rearm, harder than the first. After a gruelling air bombing is less accurate. 60 B-17s are shot down, and 11 scrapped on 16 percent of the force. Certain groups, such 50 percent. US bomber aircrews claim to have figure is closer to 47, with only 16 German down by escorting fighters. The hugely exaggerated claims of shot down by commanders but accepted in the interest bomber crews face some of the worst odds for The B-17 Flying Fortress is designed to be in mutually supporting defensive air formations. all directions, US aircrews become especially weaker front of the plane. Machineguns are gunners lack training, and despite Allied One Eighth Air Force commander was critical: cases, were more a hazard than they were a how many airplanes we shot down ourselves guns..." (Ross 150) as the G model with a remote-controlled chin two of many dangers. of maintenance time - as are friendly fire, and poor weather. Many pilots lack experience with overladen planes: thousand feet met its spectacular end in seconds... gallons of high-octane fuel, about six thousand oxygen tanks, hydraulic and lubricating oil, miles an hour, left nothing but a steaming A whole crew bailing out is possible, but in time, fight against the forces of a tumbling the sky. Pilots often remain onboard to keep being shot while parachuting, and German civilians by Nazi propaganda regarding Anglo-American lynch mobs kill around 350 downed airmen, figure may be higher. German troops generally recalls his reception after bailing out: asked if I was armed. I said, "No," and "For you, the war is over!" Then they of people had gathered... A little blonde me over. She smiled at me, the only friendly Successive missions with high casualties also reassigns sufferers to non-combat roles, but stigma attached. The men also know that the which adds additional stress for airmen like "[Y]ou drop a load of bombs, and, if you're at least one quick horrid glimpse of a child down on top of him; or a three-year-old girl to turn away from the picture if you intend For Eighth Bomber Command crews, the stats their 25 missions. 57% are killed, missing, accidents, or discharged due to mental conditions. But numbers paint an incomplete picture. Casualty parts of the formation. Some may escape unscathed, 100th Bomber Group gains a grisly reputation "Bloody Hundredth'. At Regensburg, the 100th loses nine of 21 100th Bomber crewmen begin to suspect Luftwaffe perhaps as revenge. A story spreads among B-17 from the 100th dropped its landing gear the fighter flew closer to escort it to the the fighter down. The story though is probably The reality is likely more mundane. At Regensburg, vulnerable positions of the wing - the high the formation. These exposed positions lack were often targeted first, earning the nickname But the rumour sticks and in October, a new 'curse'. city of Munster. 274 B-17s will attack the to bomb civilian housing. The goal is to kill factories and transport facilities, reducing is the Munster cathedral on a Sunday afternoon. of intense bombing, but the Americans expect to its proximity to the Dutch border and fighter Fog prevents some escorts joining the bombers to intercept the raid, especially the 100th Frank Murphy aboard a 100th Group B-17 nicknamed "The German aircraft came after the 100th of fighters broke away, another was turning after fighter flew directly into our formation see the German pilots in their cockpits... fighters fully expecting a certain head-on Within moments, German Me 109s and Fw 190s Damaged bombers, falling out of formation, heavy twin-engine German aircraft, like the attempted to drive off attacks, but weapons out. The B-17s waist guns and turrets are Within stricken B-17s, chaotic scenes play "...I heard loud yelling behind me. I turned Navigator with blood streaming down his face. shock, was screaming at him, 'Get back on searching through his gear for his pistol." The US loses 30 B-17s. Of the 100th group's with 32 killed and 88 captured. The lone surviving engines, a non-functioning oxygen system, will go on to complete 52 missions - double lead bombers hit Munster, killing 700 civilians. For the bombers, the lesson of October's better long-range fighter escort. New fighters tanks are coming, but Allied plans to cripple often outrange fighter escort. Four days after ambitious mission deep into Germany. The target is once again Schweinfurt. Bomber plant can set back German fighter production yet: 383 B-17s in two forces will penetrate 100 kilometres of their route, around 1,100 of the first Schweinfurt raid two months prior "When the briefing officer said, "Gentlemen, groaned. The ball bearing plants would be would be one hell of a fight." (Bowman 16) weather confuse fighter escort rendezvous. border, some have only 15 minutes of fuel 291 bombers continue onto the target. around Aachen, the Luftwaffe attack with everything "...the tail gunner, shouted that a Me 110 at us and it was leaving a black stream of but we discovered later that it was a rocket... It felt as if we were on an elevator; it lifted 57) mutually supporting masses up to 100 strong, While twin-engine Zerstorer aircraft, like to cause disruption, single-engine fighters head on attack. Once out of formation or damaged, directions. guns, some crewed by teenagers, take over "Our fire control equipment registered the the alarm bell range. That means: "volley were densely surrounded by the air-bursts some places blood-red, clouds of smoke and were we stricken with fear. We 16-year-olds (Bowman 44) generally good accuracy. The Luftwaffe pursues reach the safety of escort fighters near the Some Luftwaffe pilots have flown three individual B-17s shot down, and 121 damaged, 17 beyond Ernst Reichert finds a crashed bomber: emergency landing site. [...] On the left charred and shrunken pilot. His hands still Fortress had already burned down and was still crewman, also charred, tilted sideways." Bomber crews claim they've shot down 186 Allied commanders claim the attack destroys the entire works. Privately, though Eighth losses. The second Schweinfurt raid ends USAAF weather stops major bombing until February progress, they're still not sure how much Assessing the damage is difficult due to inaccuracies war economy. Post-war RAF and USAAF surveys and psychologically. In the USAAF's case a separate, independent branch of the military. the results were disappointing. Firstly, allied was fully mobilised from the start of the However, Germany consistently found surplus debate whether this was due to lack of early-war In any case, general arms production continued Fighter and ball-bearing production was also the final months of the war, the Germans built for ball-bearing production damage with porcelain Sweden and unused stockpiles. Some historians, reduced German armaments growth by as little Others argue the 1943 Combined Bomber Offensive Although no bomber force was totally destroyed to cripple German war production. Armaments raids on bombed facilities could have caused too late, by which time equipment was salvaged But this potential German defensive victory wear down the Luftwaffe. In all theatres, every month. For a while new production replaced experienced pilots. New pilots received less flying and night flying became rare. Although Luftwaffe also adopted more desperate measures, against Allied bombing. The Luftwaffe converted heavy fighters and even theorised concepts bombs onto enemy formations. also being locked down in German air defence. other anti-aircraft weapons and half the electronics means fewer weapons on the frontline and more shells were fired per bomber shot down. industry for future failures. German authorities impacting output and quality. Meanwhile, factories Dispersal may have reduced fighter production Such isolated factories were also more vulnerable major allied target in 1944. more to do with Allied limitations than German of fighter escorts arguably played a bigger on solutions to these problems - like better and improved training. As soon as the weather continues on an even bigger scale. The bombing campaign of 1943 kills tens of heart of the Reich into a major front. Meanwhile, the Nazi regime's plan to murder Europe's continues. Berlin also targets remaining German were married to Christian German women. This to government policy in February 1943. Hundreds Rosenstrasse to demand the release of their The police release some, but send others to though, is a small exception in the midst Aktion Reinhard is the name the Germans give million Jews living in ghettos in Eastern for mass killings and settle on gas chambers, or death camps: Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka. the larger ghettos: Warsaw, Lodz, Bialystok, with thousands of Roma people. Once the deportees they're being sent to showers - but instead, describes the gassing of the Roma at Treblinka: Gypsies. The Gypsies went wild, screamed awfully climbed up the walls toward the apertures window. The Germans climbed onto the roof, asphyxiated everyone." (Arald, p. 152-153; In this way, by September 1943 the Germans at Belzec, and 874,000 (and several thousand and Belarussian Jewish population is now dead. But the killing in 1943 doesn't stop with kill more than 40,000 at the Majdanek, Trawniki, Harvest Festival. And in other parts of Europe, German and collaborationist other Jewish communities. Starting in February, 50,000-strong Jewish community in Salonica gas 2/3 of them. In Bulgarian-controlled Macedonia Jews whom the Germans then kill. Sofia then refuses to deport the Jewish population living After Italy surrenders in September, German tries to kill the Italian Jews, which up until In October, the SS and Italian police begin transport and murder in Auschwitz. In the In occupied Denmark, Germany declares martial deport and kill the 7500 Jews in the country. who agree to accept Jewish refugees escaping Most of the Jewish victims of Aktion Reinhard defend themselves, but in 1943, thousands In August, at the Treblinka killing center, guards and 200 escape, most of whom the Germans Red Army prisoners of war lead an uprising the center's deputy commander. 300 prisoners Two of these are Chaim Engel and Selma Wijnberg, later recalls the terrifying escape from the "Chaim took my hand and he said, 'Come, starts running [...] to this gate, everybody going and people dropping dead [...] You just Jewish emblems [...] So that was the first the camp]. [...] I was very nervous of course had to stop all the time. We heard shooting running and running [...]" (Interview) the Warsaw Ghetto in April and May. Once Operation clear to its intended victims, so the Jewish prepared to resist. They form defence organizations, which was resisting Nazi rule throughout Poland. soldiers, and when the Germans start deportations several days. The Germans deport fewer Jews wave on April 19, when the main uprising begins. around 2000 German troops. They know they commanders like Mordecai Anielewicz are determined "Something has happened which is beyond twice from the Ghetto.[...] I cannot describe Very few will hold out. Sooner or later the the bunkers where our comrades are hiding, for lack of air [...] The main thing is--the to see a Jewish defence force in the Ghetto of Israel 1:91; Crowe 268) ghetto, claiming to kill about 7000 Jews and - the vast majority of whom they kill soon And so the so-called forgotten year of 1943 Africa, Sicily, part of Italy, the Atlantic, Volga in Russia to the Dnipro in Ukraine. are making the Allies pay dearly and cling Italy is bogged down, the bombing campaign the Red Army loses hundreds of thousands of goals. are stacked against them, but they have stabilized As historian Robert Citino writes: "...the just possible that there were some in the among the staff and field commanders - who year, took a deep breath, and began to hope more willpower, and perhaps a bit of luck, (Citino 278) approach to war the German officer corps long for holding on to its supposed 1000-year Reich, of its more powerful enemies. The Allies have will make that abundantly clear. Since you are watching this two plus hour am guessing you might be keen to learn more campaigns that don't often get the time we made two other epic World War 2 documentaries: detailed documentary about the Battle of Berlin of one of the biggest battles of the entire River into the heart of Nazi Germany's capital. maps and animation, expert interviews and 45 about the last set-piece battle on the Montgomery attacked from the Dutch Border This 3 1/2 hour documentary was also filmed and animation, expert and veteran interviews Berlin and Rhineland 45 on YouTube because using authentic combat footage. documentaries with a combined runtime of over building together with other creators; where advertising guidelines and the mighty algorithm. you can watch all our content in 4K, ad-free in your browser, Nebula is also available TV or Roku. And all that for just $30 a year. can watch on Nebula, there are a lot of other content they couldn't upload on YouTube. check out the Battle of Britain series by military history, check out Jet Lag by Wendover, the world. Again, that's nebula.tv/realtimehistory and future history content directly. As usual you can find all the sources for If you are watching this video on Nebula or I'm Jesse Alexander and this is a production that won't forget 1943.