2024 will be the year of AI agents. So what are AI agents? And to start explaining that, we have to look at the various shifts that And the first shift I would like to talk is this move from monolithic models to compound AI systems. So models on their own are limited by the data they've been trained on. So that impacts what they know about the world and what sort of tasks they can solve. They are also hard to adapt. So you could tune a model, but it would take and in resources. So let's take a concrete example I want to plan a vacation for this summer, and I want to know how many vacation days are at my disposal. What I can do is take my query, feed that into a model that can generate a response. I think we can all expect that this answer will be incorrect, because the model doesn't know who I am and does not have access So models on their own could be useful for a So they can help with summarizing documents, they can help me with creating first drafts for emails and different reports I'm trying to do. But the magic gets unlocked when I start building systems around the model and actually take the model and So if we were to design a system to solve this, I would have to give the model access to the So that same query would get The difference now is the model would and that would be a search query that So that would go and fetch the information and then that would go back into the to answer, so, &quot;Maya, you have ten days So the answer that I would get here would be correct. This is an example of a compound AI system, and it recognizes that certain problems are better solved when you apply the principles of system design. So what does that mean? By the term &quot;system&quot;, you can understand there's multiple components. So systems are inherently modular. I can have a model, I can choose between tuned models, large language models, image generation models, but also I have programmatic components that can come around it. So I can have output verifiers. I can have programs that can that can take to increase the chances of the answer being correct. I can combine that with searching databases. I can combine that with different tools. So when we talking about a system approaches, I can break down what I desire my program to do and pick the right components to be able to solve that. And this is inherently easier to solve for than tuning a model. So that makes this much faster and quicker to adapt. Okay, so the example I use below, is an example of a compound AI system. You also might be popular with retrieval augmented generation (RAG), which is one of the most popular Most RAG systems and the example I So if I bring a very different query, let's It's going to fail because this the path is to always search my vacation policy database. And that has nothing to do with the weather. So when we say the path to answer a query, we are talking about something called So compound AI systems, we said So that was something that I defined myself as the human. Now let's talk about, where do agents come in? One other way of controlling the logic is to put a large language model in charge, and this is only possible because in the capabilities of reasoning So large language models, you and you can prompt them to break them down Another way to think about it is, on one end of the spectrum, act as programmed, and don't deviate And on the other end of the spectrum, you're designing your system to think slow. So, create a plan, attack each part of the plan, see where you get stuck, see if you need to readjust the plan. So I might give you a complex question, and if you would just give me the very likely the answer might be wrong, but you have higher chances of success understand where you need external help to and maybe take an afternoon to solve it. And when we put a LLMs in charge of the logic, this is when we're talking So let's break down the components of LLM agents. The first capability is the ability to reason, which we talked about. So this is putting the model at the core of how problems are being solved. The model will be prompted to come up with a plan Another capability of agents is the ability to act. And this is done by external programs So tools are external pieces of the program, and the model can define when to call them in order to best execute the So an example of a tool can be search, searching the web, searching a database at their disposal. Another example can be a This could be a piece of program code This can also be another language model that and you want a model that can be able to do that. And there's so many other possibilities of what can do here. So these can be APIs. Basically any piece of external program Third capability, that is And the term &quot;memory&quot; can mean a couple of things. So we talked about the models thinking through the program kind of how you think out loud So those inner logs can be stored and can be But also this could be the history of when interacting with the agent. And that would allow to make the experience So the way of configuring agents, One of the more most popular ways of going about it is through something called ReACT, which, as you can tell by the name, combines the reasoning and act components of LLM agents. So let's make this very concrete. What happens when I configure a REACT agent? You have your user query that gets fed into a model. So the instructions that's given is don't Think slow planning your work. Tried to act. If you want to use external tools to Once you get you call a Maybe it gave you the wrong answer You can observe that. The answer would determine if it does answer the on the plan and tackle it differently. So let's go back and make Let's talk about my vacation example. to go on one, so I want to take I'm planning to go on to Florida next month. I'm planning on being outdoors So I want to know what is the number of two ounce And this is a complex problem. There's a number of things to plan. are my planning to take? the system can retrieve from its memory. Two is how many hours do I plan to be in the sun? so maybe that would mean looking into the weather what is the average sun hours that are expected. website to understand what is the recommended And then for doing some math, to be able fits into two ounce bottles. But what's really powerful here is explored in order to solve a problem. And I can hit it with much more complex problems. systems, compound AI systems are here to stay. they're going to become more agent tech. you have a sliding scale of AI autonomy. would examine what trade offs they want in terms especially problems that are narrow, well-defined. weather when they need to ask about vacations. You can define a narrow system like this one. route because every single query If I were to apply the genetic approach here, looping and iteration. be more efficient than going the generic route. complex tasks like, say, trying to solve a variety of queries, a spectrum of queries. because it would take you too much effort to And we're still in the early days of agent systems. We're seeing rapid progress when you combine the And of course, you will have a human in the I hope you found this video very useful, and