The year is 1958 and Truman Capote is in a A young homosexual man from Louisiana with York City, Truman pursued his ambition largely succeeded. Before the age of 25, he was a best For so long, he had been the brilliant and he had still not written the literary He had just published a novella, Breakfast But he needed something new and exciting, among literary legends. He loved the stories that his rich woman They had taste and style and lived in an outsiders. But Truman was welcome. Marcel Proust had written a classic novel society. And Truman decided he would do the same in large part on the stories that his rich Taking out a notebook. Truman wrote down a number of names that including well -known society women of the Elsa Maxwell. He mentioned only one of his so -called would askew immortalizing the others in Truman wrote to publisher Bennett Cerf at on, a large novel, My Magnum Opus, a book not to alarm my sitters. in which I think will really arouse you mention it to a soul. The novel is called Answer Prayers, and if mine. Truman Capote met Babe Paley in January Sosnick and his wife Jennifer Jones Jamaica. When David told Babe's husband, Bill, that them, Bill thought that he was talking President Harry S. Truman. In Truman's opinion, Babe Paley was the most beautiful woman of the 20th century. When I first saw her, I thought that I had Her posture, the way she held her head, Mrs. P had only one fault, Truman wrote in his She was perfect. Otherwise, she was perfect. Babe slept in a separate bedroom from her She was up before him applying makeup She could never have a strand of hair blow displeasure to pass across her face. The saying, you can never be too rich or It was here in the early days of his that money did not buy happiness. Babe's neurosurgeon father, Dr. Harvey Cushing, was one of the greatest century. Associated first with John Hopkins institution in America, and later Harvard understood the prime value of education. But that was for his two sons, not his largely by their mother, Catherine Stone In 1926, Dr. Cushing's eldest son William died in a car some measure, never recovered. Catherine had what was any mother's dream. that her daughters marry well, only her Not content with mere wealth and certainly She was after European nobles with castles That or marrying them off to the richest As Babe's mother laid out her grand Her daughters were raised to please men they appeared to be ready. In 1930, the middle daughter, 22 -year -old Betsy was the first to go, Franklin D. Roosevelt, would become president two That Christmas, Babe attended a holiday By New Year's Eve, most of the college north. That left the president and first lady to included James and Betsy Roosevelt and The youngest of the Cushing sisters was Then, early in 1934, disaster struck. A severe auto -accident knocked out Babe's blemishes, and scars. Plastic surgery was in its infancy, but by operations, her beauty was back, Surgery couldn't fix her teeth, though, so the first thing Babe did when she woke up With her sister recovered by 1935, Betsy threw a tea dance for bait in the The dance was a serious business, not just Washington, but to put her in a position Betsy did the same thing for her elder game had taken on a special urgency since At a White House party, Betsy introduced fortunes went back to the fur trade in the One of the richest men in the world, Vincent had been married for two and a Minnie began spending so much time with appeared less a friend than a mistress. As Minnie chased after her golden prize, Leaving his ex -wife with their two start what he hoped would be a career in Cushing to find a new husband for Betsy. After Dr. Cushing died in 1939, she moved to New Babe later joined her mother in New York later an editor at Vogue. Photographed frequently for Vogue, at learned and made the camera hers. Designers vied with one another to give at large discounts so that she would walk parties advertising their wares. Babe was a talented, creative person and fashion editor, but she was not going to She was her mother's daughter. and being a Cushing meant marrying well. She was in her mid -twenties and time was Babe's mother had inculcated in her three necessity that they marry rich, socially It wasn't happiness or children that Babe had taken on that ideal as her own If the Cushing sisters had constructed a have done better than Stanley Grafton His lineage went back to John Jay. the first Chief Justice of the United Stanley's paternal grandfather had away. His son followed in his father's doing nothing productive. But still, there was enough fortune and Stanley Mortimer a strong match for Babe. And when she was 25 years old, she wed 27 at St. Luke's Episcopal Church in East Hampton. Babe's sister Minnie grabbed the wedding later. Stanley was a manic depressive and was painful decline that would come to a head attempted suicide. For all his self -indulgent qualities, December 7th, 1941, Stanley went the next Babe was pregnant and joined her husband training. Babe had just been named as the second behind the Duchess of Windsor. Babe was not the only well -born wife of a She had seen enough of how the lower intention of spending any more time in husband behind. Picking the train back to New York, Babe for her. As she faced the war alone, her sister a man almost as fabulously wealthy as Babe gave birth to a son, Stanley, in 1942 She had a mother, nannies, and maids close burden to others. By the time Stanley arrived back in the marriage was near an end. As the couple worked out their divorce, the assets. She accused Stanley of being habitually alcohol. and he gave up custody of his son and fund on his ex -wife. It was time for Babe to go husband hunting while she was still married. By the end of the war, Babe had likely Paley. William Bill Paley was Jewish, and Babe's anti -Semitic. After college at the Wharton School, Bill Network. In 1931, Bill met Dorothy Hurst. Dorothy divorced her troubled husband, Dorothy was seven years younger than 30 The Paley's could not have children, so But fatherhood did not end Bill's After her divorce, Babe and her two When Bill and Babe were married in a small month pregnant with William Cushing Paley. Although there was respect, affection and physical attraction, their Babe gave Bill entry into old society and the lifestyle that she and her mother felt William and Babe, in spite of their from being members of country clubs on Babe had two children with Bill, William Stanley and Amanda, while Bill had two -wife. The Paley's copied old society and so the children would often be shuttled schools out of sight and out of mind. In some instances, Truman took the place Babe didn't really have friends, she had It was too big a risk to trust people, be used against her and her husband. Truman was the exception. As Babe and Truman grew closer, He would come to understand that nothing seemed. She spent her life creating this image not true. Here was this woman, envied beyond measure only one who saw that her existence was a Babe was afraid of her husband. From the time that she put her teeth and when she bade Bill goodnight, she looked husband off. She never knew what would set him off. But whatever happened, it was Babe's It was difficult enough when Bill was another kind of worry. When he was not working or at home, he was To Bill, Babe was simply another He hadn't had sex with his aging wife for Babe had to endure, she was undoubtedly at Babe once took a lover of her own and even broke off the relationship as she was Bill's affairs embarrassed her. They challenged her own ideals of She told only Truman of her husband's afterward Truman ran out and would tell tales that he claimed were only for her and then the next. As dear as Babe was to Truman, her Babe may not have known that Truman was husband, but she did have a sense of her Truman claimed that Babe tried to kill her wrists, and that he saved her. There came a point where Babe could not decided to leave. Despite all that she had told Truman about he urged her to stay. Bill bought you, Truman told her. Look upon being Miss William S. Paley as a job, the best job in the world. Accept it and be happy with it. Like her sisters, Babe had sought wealth and she had achieved precisely what she She must, Truman advised, buck up and live And so, Babe did. At one of Diana Freeland's dinner parties, Her dearest friend was Babe Paley, and Her husband at the time was Leland become a powerful film and Broadway Like almost all of Truman's swans, Slim inches tall to be precise. Although the Hayward spent lots of time on quintessential California girl. She had a casualness to her, no matter Slim was as fascinated by Truman as he was She would later recall, I was enchanted by He wasn't just bright, he was riveting and led with his vulnerabilities and quirks, liking to him. Truman seemed to be exposing his most his most astute psychological games. These intimacies were valuable commodities his listener. Once he had their confidences, he had the It took more than one evening. Truman invited Slim to lunch and then to himself. From then on, when Slim's phone rang in Slim met director Howard Hawks at the Hollywood. Hawks had made such classics as Bringing With all his successful credits, Hawks was His prematurely gray hair had earned him Hawks had an emotionally distressed wife a fact that circumscribed his life very Hawks's greatest obsession other than This obsession was both personal and Women played iconic roles in his movies, his movies with immense care. The audience paid attention to her on the but because she stood up for herself. Her dialogue sizzled with wit as she should. Hawks liked it when they held their ground His women had a distinctiveness and a keen Slim was the Hawksian ideal come to life. The married Hawks considered women one of That evening at the Clover Club, when saw Slim dancing to the live bands. After an introduction, he led Slim to the Hawks's techniques worked so well and so his approach. Do you want to be in movies? He asked. No, Slim said. She hadn't been in LA that long, but she actresses. She wanted to live well, but she didn't studios. Well then, would you like to come to my She said yes, and the next day Slim headed Although he remained a perfect gentleman days they were having a full -blown It didn't matter to either of them that Slim. Slim had not had many lovers, but she'd From their first nights together, Hawks Sex was simply a physical need that had no said, but that did not turn her away. Slim was ambitious. She was interested in living a life of able to provide her with this. Hawks represented exactly the package I He had the career, the house, the four This was the life for me. Slim was born in Salinas, California in in Pacific Grove next door to Monterey. Slim's businessman father, Edward Gross, coastal town. Her father was the first and most man was to the little girl. To him, fear was a far more powerful like a cruel marionette. Consumed by hate, he lashed out against challenged him. Slim's mother, Raynelle Boyer -Groves, peace and love away from her husband, who But then, there was the terrible winter Her eight -year -old younger brother, fireplace in his long night shirt when the fire. In his panic, he tried to outrun the Eleven -year -old Slim, her older sister the terrified child. But by the time Slim's mother... was able to catch Buddy and throw him to soon died. Slim's father blamed his wife for the Slim's father placed a marble mausoleum on casket there. Slim went out to the cemetery to honor her four other places in the mausoleum for It took her a while to realize that the father were to be placed there. Her mother was to be buried elsewhere. In the aftermath of Buddy's death, the For Slim, it was an immense blessing when in San Rafael. The town was 140 miles south of Monterey, Yet Slim's mother never failed to show up One day, Slim was pulled out of class and reception room for the first time. He had left Slim's mother. Slim's sister had left too, siding with in her room. Now it was Slim's turn. If you also leave your mother's house, it unfit mother and I won't have to provide It was a cruel thing to ask a daughter to almost irresistible to her. I'll give you a horse, a little boat, and decision would define her. I love my mother, she said. I'm staying with her. Her father turned and walked away, and she to his deathbed. Several months shy of her high school yellow packer convertible. and in early 1935, she cruised south to Slim spent two months at the inn, and her One of her editors later speculated that During her stay, she met Warner Baxter and Powell named her his Slim Princess, the for the rest of her life. After her lengthy stay, Slim left the to live with her mother in Carmel. She had no interest in completing her high getting a job or doing anything much having a wildly successful social life. Slim's life was one party and ten estate of LA life and couldn't get enough of it. Every month she would drive down from spend a few days with the Hollywood set. Slim's mother was devoted to her daughter, Mrs. Every night, Slim headed out from the UCLA to one occasion or another, although rich and proper husband. From the night Slim had showed up in the nothing more than to be with him. Hawks' wife, Ethel, felt in and out of She had long struggled with her mental years. He wasn't living with her any longer, and Hawks' lawyers tried to work their magic, but it was difficult to divorce a wife as Until Hawkes was free, Slim tried to spend sharing his life and traveling with him. In December 1939, Slim and Hawkes drove in Key West, where the director wanted to novel, To Have and Have Not. To an entire generation, Ernest Hemingway he and Slim bonded in a way that lasted Hemingway was attracted to her, but he was to the next. Not every bride had a renowned movie star wedding like Slim did when she finally three days after Pearl Harbor. She had practically been living with the his sick wife, whose advisors had her file In the first months of their marriage, and more from the relationship. Hawks finally possessed the woman who had the embodiment of his ideal in so many she had been chasing. Slim was excited with everything her new work as much as she could. Not only did she go out to the studios to passed on her thoughts. One day, she saw a picture of a model in perfect for the part of the female lead in Not. Hawkes had enough faith in his wife's woman, Lauren Bacall, Los Angeles and gave her a screen test. Bacall had an androgynous quality that to play opposite Humphrey Bogart in the The director was putting an idealized calling her Slim and naming the Bogart nickname. As he worked on the script, he noted his Bacall character would say in a given But Hawks's slim stand in Lauren Bacall rather than fall for the director to whom She began an affair with a decades older Hawks wasn't used to settling for second Not only did he have an affair with the Moran, but he also spent some time with an a bit like Slim. Slim knew about these affairs and many Hawks had hardly gotten back from their He would come home at three in the morning what began to gnaw at her. It was the man himself. Everything real about him was on the Hawks's heroes were truth -tellers, and everything about himself. He posed as the great captain of his boat, as soon as he left the dock. He acted as if he was an intrepid pilot, his own. He told tales of flying planes in World Escadrille until his lungs were scarred by had never served in combat. It wasn't the lying and philandering that there for her emotionally. She seemed to have everything, including but in truth, she had nothing that really one would understand. She entered Good Samaritan Hospital a rests, a mark of the emotional exhaustion As a young woman of certain class and concluded the best thing for her was to She had gotten what she'd wanted, and this Hawks's former wife had gone crazy, and that direction. There was only one way out, to marry Finding him while still married to Hawks up to the task. Slim soon began an affair with Clark wife Carol Lombard died in a plane crash Slim was eventually asked to pose for that her image graced the covers of four She was even asked to become the official she soon discovered that she was pregnant. Hawks had no interest in his newborn born on February 11th, 1947. Shortly after giving birth to her nanny to party in New York before Hemingway. There, she met William S. Paley in Leland Tower. When she returned to California, she He had been married to the actress three children, but their marriage was Soon Leland and Slim were having a found out. Slim and Leland divorced their respective beginning a career as a Broadway producer. In June 1949, they had a small wedding at friend Bill Paley and his new wife, Babe. Slim now had the loving, creative, wanted, but the jealousy did not go away Babe became Slim's closest female friend When Truman complained to Slim that she because she didn't trust him. When Leland asked Slim to go check on the Vidal was writing with Ernest Hemingway, Leland had struggled with his health for anymore according to Slim. More so than Slim's affairs, an even Truman. In 1958, she went off with Truman to She soon told her husband of her affairs. Her friend, Leonardo Hornblow, tried to that she could do and say almost anything. Hornblow was convinced she did it out of a She wanted Leland to know how desirable For years, he had tolerated her sharp marriage, and he had stayed faithful to He got up and left the room. But Slim thought everything was just fine. She was looking forward to traveling with negotiating with Baroness Maria von Trapp. her life story which would eventually be Music. As Slim was preparing for the trip, Lauren leave early and meet her in Madrid. Lauren's husband, Humphrey Bogart, had Leland had no objections to his wife's He would meet her in Europe in a few Just before Slim set off, Babe Paley For the first few days that Slim would be to be staying in the Paley's Manhattan With Slim mind of one evening, Leland Like everyone else, Slim knew Pamela's Since the early 1940s, when Pamela had had a staggering array of affairs. Although not as beautiful as Babe or Slim, irresistible. In the years that followed her first some of the most powerful men in the her. So despite her jealousies and suspicions, Slim was fine with Leland escorting Several months later, Leland told her that Carlton House where Pamela was staying. Slim noticed how close Pamela and her together that the two were having an She soon arranged for Leland and her to would bring them back together. Leland delayed joining her on the trip for that he thought that they should take a weeks. Leland wasn't good at ending things, and marriage was over. but Slim knew it was. After he left the room, she cried When she arrived back at the house at been there and had put red stickers on all divorce settlement. Everyone that Truman knew took sides in Slim Keith. Babe and her sister Minnie vowed to fight Babe's other sister Betsy supported the Hayward, despite the fact that Pamela has Jock Whitney during World War II. There was hardly anyone in Truman's social Churchill. Truman would anoint her one of his swans. A black swan perhaps, but a swan no less. Pamela was brought up in the countryside Her parents, Lord and Lady Digby, lived in by over 20 servants. Upper class British women were not When it was time for Pamela and her sister parents chose Downham. a school in Hertfordshire that had a than for its academics. Pamela's next great activity was to be She was considered plump and not When people praised her beauty, they luminescent pale skin. She dealt with her insecurities by that only made people move farther away After her debut, Olive Bailey, an Anglo wing. She would throw parties at Leeds Castle, And there, Pamela observed Bailee's social Olive had lovers, and this was something She realized that sex could be a useful Within a short time, Pamela transformed sophisticated, quick -spoken woman who She began the first of her affairs with They were often far more likely to give Some of her contemporaries were already her to be his wife. When Germany invaded Poland and World War Leeds Castle ended, and with them, the life. She got a small apartment and a job as a One evening, when things had hardly call from Randolph Churchill. Everyone knew of his father, Sir Winston Randolph was in the British Army and was mutual friend, Mary Dunn, had suggested After their first date together, Randolph asked her to marry him, and she Randolph told a friend in Pamela's he was going to war and wanted a male To Randolph, Pamela was little more than a Almost any other groom would have waited a womanizing, but Randolph didn't give up Pamela tried to make the most of her When she became pregnant in early 1939 and moved with her in -laws to Admiralty The Churchills treated her in an intimate, That spring, the Germans invaded France Minister. Sometimes a pregnancy brings a troubled birth to their son at Checkers on October of one of his lovers. Pamela lost the weight she had gained herself into a stunningly attractive Seeing no reason why she should tell her son, She spent weekends with the Churchills, officials. German planes unloaded bombs on London, threat of death. Pamela would later call these years, the She soon began an affair with Avril Avril was an important ambassador, and Checkers for weekends. It was during one of his days at Checkers junior. When Randall found out about the affair, He saved most of his anger not for his considered to be a friend, but for his affair. A man who had a long list of lovers was the same was shameless. Pamela had thought that she had gotten just as much as women, and they savaged Legendary polo player Tommy Hitchcock Jr. had come to London. He had heard the rumors about Pamela and ask if the story was true. I don't really know, but I wouldn't be Why not? Tommy asked. Let's just say if she had as many pricks into her, she'd be a porcupine. Truman appropriated the line for a chapter Pamela's affair with Averill had cooled by Within two months, Pamela had found her Edward R. Amuro. People assumed that with all her lovers, Pamela was a woman of wanton sexuality who they could not find elsewhere. But that wasn't true. She told several people that she didn't It was little more than an obligation, a When Pamela was in New York, she took up wife, Babe, was on her way to becoming Bill Paley. After the war, Pamela moved to Paris, and where he was brought up largely by a After she moved to Paris, she began an After Ali Khan abandoned Pamela for Rita complicated five -year -long affair with During their affair, she had an abortion. Gianni's sisters hated Pamela, and they They invited Marella Caracciolo de soon began an affair. After Marella became pregnant, Gianni Pamela was rich, beautiful, and available. It was not long before she began an affair married to a woman named Lillian, who toad. Pamela had been playing this game of She had gained a reputation as a woman If you had money in a certain way about formality. Pamela had not lived for love. She had sought privileged status and men whom she thought could give her what She had thought that would lead to it almost never had. After all those years, she became a bit So when Pamela met the highly successful Hayward in New York, she knew this was her Leland was going through a rough patch marriage. He knew little about Pamela's past. To him, the name Churchill still resonated Leland wasn't her first choice of had made it clear to Pamela in every way her. And so 40 year old Pamela sold her Paris with Leland. Pamela and Leland were married in a Las Pamela quickly became a part of the NYC To her husband, Pamela was nanny, nurse, Slowly she took over Leland's life, to her international friends. Pamela was an energetic woman and once she needed something to focus on, so in 57th Street selling antiques and Pamela proved to be a natural but Leland began to suffer from serious she had to sell. A few months before Leland married Pamela, few months later his daughter Bridget As he dealt with these tragedies, His professional life took a turn for the When Leland suffered a series of strokes, where he died on March 18th, 1971 at the During their 11 years of marriage, Pamela fortune and she was left almost bereft There was only one way she knew how to Despite being 51 years old, she was a death, Pamela went off to Palm Springs to stay He was only a friend, but in the winter, with millionaires, and from there, Pamela With no real money, she had to fly coach, stay with her son Winston in his tiny After spending a short time in London, she on their yacht. Sadly, Gloria had not set her up with any left before the trip was over. In early August, she flew to New York Truman claimed that Pamela came off the talked one morning and Truman said, Well Harriman? Let's remember, his wife Marie died a year K. Graham, the publisher of the Washington going to be there. Pamela arrived early at the dinner and Averill, she insisted that she be seated Poor Averill had to keep twisting and Averill was spending the week at his estate on the north shore of Long Island Shortly after the dinner, Avril received a for the weekend. About a month later, on September 27th, death, Pamela married Avril in a small Instead of a honeymoon, the couple flew out to transform Avril's life. It was not enough just to bring in stodgy great house into something with The great house and everything around Through the house, she placed the Digby holding a horseshoe in its teeth and two motto. Pamela put the crest on needlepoint stationary, and matchbooks. Not all of the guests who came to the to realize that the Digby family motto, fortune. Anyone who knew Pamela's story would have reversed. To be one of Truman's swans, it wasn't and rich. They also had to be amusing. And of all his friends, no one was more Of all Truman's friends, no one was a Gloria. Her Mexican birth was as hidden and There were rumors that she had been a bee but the real story was far more Gloria's journalist father, Jose Rafael Rubio Torres was a supporter Madero, the battering ram of the Mexican Glorio Rubio y Alatorre was born in beginning of the struggle for The next year, Francisco Madero was murdered as he was being transported Leaving behind his family, Gloria's father in 1916. Gloria's aristocratic mother took her to estate, but the revolution soon spread to giving it to the peasants. Over a million Mexicans died during those Senora de Alotore was astounded at her Gloria, you are the most beautiful girl in Never settle for anything less than the You can have anything you want. Gloria saw how her beauty intrigued men. It was like a magical talisman that could but it was also a dangerous gift. In 1933, 20 -year -old Gloria married 47 Dutch -born superintendent of a sugar He was over twice her age and one of a believed were exploiting the resources of Schultens had wealth and status though, But the marriage was a failure, and after almost penniless to Paris. All Gloria had was her beauty and her her almost anywhere. In Europe, she was considered an exotic eyes and her black hair. It was Gloria's beauty matched with her that gained her entries into the venues of With her ability to sniff out the of elites. There were Maharajas from India, merchant from Italy. American ex -patriots and married others. They traveled the world in their own as hard as outdoing one another. In 1935 Gloria married a man who fit Franz Egon Graf von Furstenberg, a young daughter from his first wife. The marriage gave Gloria the title von The Furstenbergs were one of the oldest Westphalia as well as a home in Berlin. Gloria gave birth to a daughter in 1936 As the Nazi theorists saw it, Gloria's going back centuries. When Gloria married, the Aryan racial laws married to such a highly placed husband, Gloria was a new bride in 1939 when Hitler In the years following, there were The streets lined with hundreds of the triumph of the thousand year Reich. But by 1943, British bombers began to kilogram bombs that could render an entire While her husband was off fighting, Gloria midst of a cruel war. The worse it got, the wilder the nightlife use of amphetamines. This was the life Gloria embraced. It was a choice that some women made in Some women would consider this a betrayal, dying, but guilt was something that never She would later say, I heard from my moment in the interim driving myself mad missing or dead. I started to go out at night to take my I guess I got lost in the social world. It was so easy. There were a dozen parties every night Even as the bombs fell, we danced and sang It was wild. At one of those parties, Gloria met Walter official. Gloria would never forget what she was nor would she ever forget the way They soon began an affair. During their affair, Schellingberg took frequented, places she could not have gone But there came a time in war ravaged enough. Not only did she want to divorce her and take her two children with her. It's believed that Gloria became a allowing her to leave Berlin with her After she left Berlin, she became engaged was a foreign minister in the Cairo That attachment likely gave Gloria the where she met Dove Cooper, the British He was completely taken with Gloria, mistress. They had dinner together, and afterwards He would later write in his diary, That December, she took her children and Gloria's third marriage lasted only three Without money or prospects, what was this to do? She had long since had her way of and she did it once again when she met While Gloria was partying with the Nazi planes with such distinction that the of Honor. Loewel's father had died recently, leaving billion in today's money, making him one Loewel was naturally suspicious and with Prince Ali Khan, who would later go Churchill. Their divorce was one of the most For Loewel's second marriage, he was the also ended in divorce. Most inheritors of great fortunes live and cut of their money and a windfall of good It is almost impossible that Loa would part of his fortune she might obtain. None of this negotiation was ever made Enteby, France. From the day 38 -year -old Gloria married sit atop the glittering social world that World War II. Although 44 -year -old Loa was a member of Gloria had no European social background, relationships with Nazi war criminals. That was a stain that was hard to wash background would have acted repentant, but She had no self -doubt and made no considered to be her righteous place in She soon befriended the Duke and Duchess The Guinness family tree was complicated. Lowell's son Patrick fell in love with to Count Fristenberg, so Patrick married Gloria decided that she wanted to be a and she began working hard at it. She wrote a play that a producer agreed to her that he didn't want her to do it, so He told her to cease and desist and devote He was very jealous of his wife. Wherever they went, she outshone him. If she became a writer of a play or she would be impossible. Gloria had built an incredible life with it wasn't really if Lowell wanted to take So she turned her back on her dreams of Just as Gloria was in a painful withdrawal her and asked her to do a four times a She could do that without upsetting her To Gloria, fashion wasn't just clothes, it Life was about dressing well, acting well, In 1967, Gloria received the first Best Fashion Journalist. Gloria flew on the Guinness Plane from Anyone who saw Gloria that day would splendor. Only a few understood, like Mary Wells saddest woman I ever met. Truman first met Lucy CZ Guest after CZ was born Lucy Douglas Cochran in Boston Her nickname came about because her sister began calling her Cissy, which evolved CZ grew up in Brom in Boston and she Great Depression. The 1930s were a great time to be reaching When CZ was a teenager, her mother sent -brought -up young women. No teenager in Boston was written about in chronicled all the pleasures of her She loved to ride and go to the theater What set CZ apart from most of the other Her looks were such that she won the North Shore's prettiest. Beauty had been CZ's magic wand all her All she had to do was wave it and she got Combining beauty with wealth, she walked she wanted to get. Determined to succeed not just in the CZ got herself a theatrical agent and took Her interest in show business got a boost star Victor Mature. For the first time, CZ had reached the Theater was in her family blood. And before her sister joined the Women's When CZ decided that she was going to be Broadway. She didn't have to go out to hustle her in her natural habitat. In Boston, she met the theatrical producer appear in the chorus line in Ziegfeld CZ had never experienced the tedious, parts. She knew the right people in the right herself by hustling to get ahead. It was at a Hollywood party that the to a film contract at 20th Century Fox. And just like that, she was off to But she didn't realize that overnight work. The auditioning process was often rejection, and she began to lose interest Though she had lost interest in acting, She spent a lot of time with Australian was almost twice her age and married. She eventually got an uncredited part in but that was it. Only six months into her film career, she she took up with a handsome bullfighter. Cece may not have been a great actress, One of those mesmerized after seeing one Churchill Guest, an heir to the Fitz Steel His mother had married Frederick Edward Churchill. the Winston guests had been brought up in Winston had no qualms about his wealth and do and what he wanted to do was to meet You can have affairs, god knows I've had own environment. CZ would later say if she married Winston his entire way of life. Winston had been previously married to a when he met CZ he was decidedly free. The couple flew to Havana, Ernest Hemingway's country estate to be Ultimately, Winston wanted a traditional down the publicity. Style is about surviving. It's about having been through a lot and Style was the essence, and by the time presence that had made her one of the Not long after meeting Truman, she invited guest at Winston's estate, Villa Artemis. Although Cece might parade with the best country girl. Truman said that she needed a home and a in that order. Cece and Winston both had reputations for was standard. Like their parents before them, Cece and Alexander and Cornelia, off to nannies, Cece was convinced that a good governess a mere mother. That doesn't mean I never saw them. She insisted to Sally Quinn of the Of course I saw them. I went fox hunting with them. Winston felt even worse about his wife's in 1962 that CZ was about to be on the American society. The fact that CZ was willing to post for estate, Templeton, wearing writing old guard was largely dead. Winston did everything he could to stop CZ's energy and will. Cece believed God had placed the rich just everything and everyone. She was convinced that the upper class was Soon, Winston's investments turned bad and Winston and Cece were no longer able to went bankrupt and was forced to sell their They would also be forced to auction off eventually would even have to sell their smaller estate and naming it Templeton. as if they had never even left. Truman met Mirella Anelli in New York City Born an Italian princess, Mirella was not was married to Gianni Anelli, heir to the of Pamela Hayward. Mirella was a reader and she had read met him and agreed with his assessment of Truman soon became what she called her In answered prayers, Truman intended to rip open the lives of darkness he found. In the meantime, he would accept their photographic memory, store away everything He would call, asking to visit her in in a grand hotel. Mirella came from a noble Neapolitan Her father Felipe was the eighth prince to Mirella's mother, Margaret Clark, was from distillery fortune. As a young woman, Margret set out for Italy, where she Florence shortly after marrying her Filippe's problems, like so many of money. So Filippe was dependent on his wife's When the 1929 crash took away most of to work. An elegant man with impeccable manners, he For a number of years, he was assigned to a different kind of life. During the war, Filippo worked in Lugano, Switzerland resistance. Before the war ended, he went to Naples to Morello's 18 -year -old brother Carlo also fascists. He was captured and could have been After the war, Filippo became the deputy Europe. With such parents, Morello was a After studying set design and art in she worked first as a model and then as a She had been engaged to a French delay the wedding for a week while he went Gianni was not a perfect catch. He was a man who did not love and could And in fact, he looked on the whole idea To Gianni, even women of his class were interchangeable. She saw that for her husband, a woman is And Gianni was a man of endless conquests. In the first months of his marriage, Gianni was present neither physically nor She was pregnant and alone, and she was Gianni had an almost formal relationship He knew something was wrong, but he didn't things were not right. Instead, he wanted her to get busy mistress of his homes. Morello gave birth to her son, Eduardo, in Almost as soon as Eduardo was born, she governesses, as was the upper class way. Morella's two children, Eduardo and lack of emotional resonance and closeness Years afterwards, Morella discussed Many women have chosen motherhood over I did the opposite. She said in a voice, touched with remorse, between the two. She felt that to protect her marriage, she children. Gianni needed an heir, but he was not running in and out of his life, disrupting And so Morella set out to become the kind My central preoccupation was Gianni and collection that he could relate to, she Morella was often consumed with jealousy. It wasn't the mere acts of her husband's something else. She was giving everything that she had to women that he could not find in her. I saw myself being so jealous for a long One realizes it was not worthwhile. The things were a very little consequence Despite what Morella said, some of and far from short. Gianni had a relationship with the several years. He even began an affair with one of Morella that Gianni was basically sleeping Gianni was what these days would be called Never able to stop, never getting enough, Some people thought Morella was one of the But even that wasn't enough to keep her Morella didn't think she was beautiful. That is why probably I gave myself so much I didn't like especially the image of project an image I liked more than the Truman had brought a few chapters of She thought him a literary genius and was work before it was published. Although she spoke English fluently, she would read the chapters to her. As Truman read out loud to her, she felt This wasn't the work of the great writer It was shallow and trivial and just plain Some of these people she knew, some she Everyone had seen Truman's dark petty consumed his writing. Truman had told her once, you must realize Proust did to France, but these chapters Rarello was angry at how Truman was Morella was having a great awakening and Her husband thought Truman the most was alone with Morella, he put Gianni down Morella noticed him doing the same with It was as if Truman would only be happy if undisputably the most important man in In the past decade, Morella had probably else outside of her immediate family. She was closer to him than to any other Yet despite all that, she had the For him, I remained Mrs. Adnely, the wife of a tycoon, Morella The next time Morella saw Truman was when On a foggy winter day, they went to visit While Truman was bargaining with the that he wanted, he kept turning toward stories about one of her friends. He kicked out her mercilessly. This was the kind of thing that Morella and in her way she had indulged him, savagery. But this time something snapped within Truman no longer existed for her. When he left Turin a few days later, she Truman was so self -absorbed that it took had cut him out of her life. The next time Mirella came to New York, When Mirella arrived at Lee's apartment, with all sorts of interesting guests, but It was not until Truman was driving night that he spoke the only words that Why don't you want to see me? He asked. But Truman, it's not true. I want to see you. But you know how things are. You live over here. I live over there. Mirella never saw Truman again. In 1962, Truman sat down with Lee Radswell restaurant. Lee had never talked with Truman like this suspicious. Her sister Jackie, was the overwhelmingly popular First Lady, Americans thought about dress, decor, and Lee had a gilded lifestyle. She was married to Stanislaw Rydzowel, a country with a title that no longer held homes in England and later a major With her sister in the White House, she said, and to whom she said it. She must have known that Truman was an It was a measure of the emotional pain reputation, she told him the most painful She was wildly jealous of Jackie. It was natural that Lee would be somewhat lady and the most admired woman in the But her feelings went far beyond an She was consumed with jealousy. It was all she could think about, all she She had what anyone would consider to be And she was so dissatisfied, so lost. After lunch, Truman did what Lee should He wrote his friend, Cecil Beaton, and Had lunch one day with a new friend, My god, how jealous she is of Jackie. I never knew. Understand her marriage is all but finito. Caroline Lee Bouvier was born at Doctors John Vernaud Bouvier III, known as Black and his wife, Jack's daughters loved He showed them endless charm and devotion, They thought him to be the model of what a Lee was a happy child until her parents Jack's endless philandering and self but soon the couple got back together All Lee had wanted was a happy home with a when her parents divorced. Lee and her sister Jackie set off each Chaffin School for girls. There was just enough space and age the same set and attended the same places that Lee could not. Lee was jealous, but that word could not The sisters were exceedingly close, and an impregnable fortress. Yet they fought incessantly. Once, Jackie knocked her little sister out There came a day when Lee was big enough down the stairs. From that moment on, she realized I could were over, Lee said. Their father visited on weekends and obvious to her that he preferred Jackie, Lee would comfort herself by retreating Her mother soon remarried to Hugh The first time she visited his estate, it But Aukensloss... had two children from his previous children with him. And soon enough, Lee and her sister were When Jackie went off to Miss Porter's a respite from her sister and yet Jackie Her mother eventually enrolled her at Miss And despite the fact that Jackie was now the school and Lee was always hearing Lee was very insecure and felt that she so she dropped so much weight that her She was so skinny that her mother and her felt she wasn't even skinny enough. Anorexia was the swan's occupational weight all her life. In June 1951, 18 -year -old Lee and 21 Away from all the strife of their that they were wonderful traveling In April 1952, Lee married Michael adopted son of Cass Canfield, one of the America. When Michael learned that his biological his mother a sexually adventurous nobility and took on an upper -class Just before their wedding, Michael's Manhattan townhouse. The guests got a little drunk and well father -in -law Hugh Alkenzlaw's mumbled, will never be able to afford her. Michael looked like the kind of man that she discovered he did not have enough of He was working at his father's publishing and the newlyweds were living in a two found acceptable. But Lee thought the life Michael was To placate his increasingly unhappy bride, would run Harbour &amp; Brothers British Once the couple got there, Lee realized the social cachet she felt to be She pushed Michael to become social Winthrop Aldridge. Taking that position meant getting an open in Britain. Lee and Michael went to endless events. Lee was obsessed with royalty, celebrity, With the social entry her husband's new a candy shop with a full purse. Upper -class Brits were known for being for a wife to provide an heir before she But Lee had no use of such formalities, of an invitation. In the fall of 1956, Lord and Lady Lambton weekend at Fenton, a country house near One of the other guests, and an avid Stanislaw Stasz -Roswell and his wife Born a Polish prince, when he took British hereditary title. In Britain people take titles very that Stasz ran around insisting that Lee knew nothing of this and with her somewhat intact, she thought there was weekend with the prince. Almost 20 years older than Lee, he had the generations of being told, the world is yours. He had arrived penniless in London, but estate business and made himself a Looking at Stass, Lee checked off every began an affair. The Radziwells became the Canfield's was going on. After Lee and Stass divorced their Prince married in March 1959 in a civil With her beautiful homes, her son Anthony, marriage, and her daughter, Anna Christina, born loving husband, Lee had what appeared to But she soon grew tired of Stass, and time in America. Despite the fact that noble and royal moved around New York City, she was Painfully, it had turned out that Stass childhood dreams, but an aging, quirky man Although Lee still bore his name, She had moved on and took as her lover, Jackie was having a terrible time after In that October, Lee asked Aerie to invite the Christina O. As soon as Jackie walked up the gang Aristotle was mesmerized by Jackie and He made little attempt to hide his gave the sisters when they left the yacht. Jackie received a superb necklace of three bracelets that were so dinky that Caroline would not have worn them to her Lee flew back to Washington a month later assassination of her husband, President As bereft as she was, Jackie was not going she moved with her two children, John and Lee also moved to New York. She had creative instinct, but she never She dressed well and lived well, but that In New York, she began writing again about But the disciplined routine of a magazine sought other diversions that her friend Truman had vowed his love and eternal nothing compared to the passionate vows he In 1967, Lee and Truman went on a vacation latest dreams. She had the idea of going on stage and There was no reason to think this was any which had been dropped as soon as there others. But Lee seemed determined. She was taking acting lessons in London was ready, she could take a small part in from there. Truman got her a top agent who booked her theater in Chicago. Because she was Jackie Kennedy's sister, But the reviews of her shows were almost She was a terrible actress. Back in London in 1968, Lee had been so assassinated that she couldn't even drive vehicle. Her sister was even more devastated, land of uncontrolled violence where if There was only one reasonable solution, to That autumn, a distraught Lee called She had just heard what she considered to Jackie had agreed to marry Aristotle Despite her pain to the world, Lee happiness with her sister's new husband. In the summer of 1971, Lee visited Jackie introduced to Peter Beard, who was The Yale graduate had become a wildlife Stoss had gone off on safari with Peter But that didn't matter to Peter or Lee, Stoss accepted his diminished understanding, patient husband. But Lee had dreamt of a grand future in America to live with Peter while keeping After a few years together, Peter had model. The affair had been the most daring of her aside 40 year old woman. Knowing how much Lee loved publicity, Truman gave her the greatest gift he June 1976. He called it Lee, a fan letter from Truman There was one assertion after another -class intelligence, her beautiful eyes brandy resting on a table in front of a Truman was not done giving. Later that year, in a cover story on Lee opened the piece. She's a remarkable girl. She's all the things people give Jackie All the looks, style, taste, Jackie never And yet it was Lee who lived in the shadow It was not enough to praise Lee, Jackie When 64 year old Jackie died of non nothing, not even a vase or a rug to Lee. It was the purest statement possible of Truman received all kinds of warnings excerpt of answered prayers titled La Cote the 1975 edition of Esquire. When his biographer, Jared Clark, read the He knew that Truman's swans, women who would be upset about the stories he told. Some of these were secrets that had been never mind that Truman had been telling You can't publish this, Clark told Truman. The characters are barely cloaked. Everyone you're writing about will Truman. And worse, others would recognize them But Truman dismissed his worries with a They won't know who they are. They're too dumb. As the excerpt opens, Lady Ina Coolbirth, privileged table, swallowing Cristal about those in the grand dining room and This big, brassy daughter of the American drone who doesn't like poofs. That judgment could not have sat well with hustler. Lady Ina goes on to reminisce about a was only 18 years old. Late at night, randy old Joe entered her The most painful tale was not about Lady Ina's recent ex -husband, Lord This dour, uninteresting Brit had the for another woman. After taking another flute of champagne, approaching an age where only gay men I adore them, I always have, she said. But I'm really not ready to become a full I'd rather go dyke. Truman's friends, Gloria Vanderbilt and several of their own names, referring marriages and divorces. He called Gloria, Gloria Vanderbilt DeChico DeKowsky Luma Carol Marcus Sorellian Sorellian, since Mathau. Truman didn't stop there and savaging his His fictionalized dialogue had both of in their social circle. He summed them up with a devastating kiss Charmingly and competent adventurists. But the woman most hurt by Truman's whose approval and attention he actually Babe. In the published story, Truman included a character named Dylan, a and laid out the tawdry details of his obviously the very real Marie Harriman. The story is told by Lady Ina, who had an He asked her never to repeat the story, The event in question had happened back in is governor of New York. Lady Ina set the question out very Why would an educated, dynamic, very rich, Go bonkers for a cretinist, Protestant lavender water, especially when he's most beautiful creature alive. Cleo Dillon was, of course, a thinly cheat on her with the governor's wife was The hermits were at the center of power, establishment that had barred the Jewish from its schools. As successful as Dillon was, and as much as he had assumed a wasp's the racket club, an exclusion that If Dylan could just sleep with the those brutal slights. When they spent their first night apartment, and they spent the night in his It did not go well. She insisted that he keep the lights out, already getting dressed to leave. When he turned the lights back on and been the decapitated horse head seen from sheets were so bloody. The governor's wife was having her period. Dylan had thought the governor's wife did time to worry about that. He had to get the sheets cleaned before The businessman did not finish until eight soggy sheets. By the time the November Esquire started Truman was in California, where he was staying with his friend Joanne Carson, the While not a swan, Joanne did make an Joanne is portrayed as Jane Baxter, the king. Bobby goes down to Miami where he calls woman. Truman's narrator gives two reasons why One, money, and two, identity. It was a devastating depiction and knew anything about Johnny Carson's But Joanne was so insecure and so desirous not let the shattering portrayal bother At first, Truman was excited about the But as news started trickling in about how their portrayals, Truman's excitement Joanne said that that week Truman looked As close as he was with Joanne, he did not Instead, he went into his bedroom and laid that had so offended. If only Truman could talk to his swans, he feathers. But almost no one was willing to deal with Slim was in her suite at the PR hotel when Have you read Truman's piece in Esquire, No, Slim said. Well, get it and read it and call me back, Slim sent her maid down to grab a copy. She had scarcely read a page before narrator on her. this so -called Lady Ina Coolberth who were Slim's friends and constantly her husband left her for another woman. Slim saw that Truman did not trash all of Truman's story had Lee using her real prominent table with her sister Jackie. Truman had pieced upon Lee's attitude center in the story. The author described LeGrand Jack Lean as female impersonator impersonating Mrs. Kennedy. As for Lee, she was marvelously made, like And there was nothing in there about also not a character in the excerpt, and following years. As soon as Slim finished reading, she I feel absolutely as though I've been hit. All the breath is out of me, Slim said. Babe never spoke to Truman again. The story of Dylan and the governor's wife the one in Dylan's marital bed. Had Truman ever really cared for her? Was any of his friendship real if he could Truman tried calling babe for days, but he could not get through to her. Finally, he reached Bill, who took the Have you read my Esquire piece, Truman I started Truman, but I fell asleep. Then a terrible thing happened. The magazine was thrown away, Bill said. I'll send you another copy, Truman said. Don't bother Truman, I'm preoccupied. My wife is very ill, Bill told him. Babe was in fact dying of lung cancer. She had always been skinny, but now with too thin, and she wore thick makeup to across her continence. A third of her right lung had already been May 1975, surgeon removed the rest of her For most of their marriage, Bill had been In the last months of her life, Bill as he had never done before and show her But Babe wanted none of him, and in these and faced her death without the two most Truman Capote. She died on July 6th, 1978, at the age of In her last months, she wrote her will and Gloria, and Mirella. She also prepared detailed instructions list that did not include Truman. Despite the initial fallout, Truman was much they needed him, they would all come But that did not happen. Babe was a gentle sort, and even if she spoken openly about Truman's betrayal. Slim had no such qualms, and she raged As painful as it was for the Swans, they other friends and extensive social lives. They could move on. Truman could not. He had realized too late that he needed Pamela Harriman died on February 5th, 1997 Pamela became a leading political figure, Democratic candidate. After the death of her husband, Averell her ambassador to France and she returned for many years. 76 -year -old Pamela died after suffering daily swim in the Paris Ritz pool. Gloria Guinness died on November 9th, 1980 CZ Guest died at the age of 83 in 2003. She was a defender of the old order. She didn't cook because she didn't have to She loved her gardens and spent most of When she developed cancer and lost her the dying light until the very end. In 2014, Sam Cashner and Nancy Schenberger dual biography they were writing of the They noticed that when speaking of Jackie, and never by name. That must have been a measure of how Her third marriage was to Herbert Ross and She became an interior designer, but when Her son Anthony died of cancer at the age She continued to project the image that the age of 85. In November 2000, Morella's only son, high bridge in Turin. His father Gianni was devastated, in part Gianni's despair likely accelerated the years later. To deal with her own grief, Morella did She built herself a splendid new home. A few years before she died, at the age of The last swan, and so she was. Truman Capote died on August 25th, 1984. According to the coroner's report, the complicated by phlebitis and multiple drug After blowing up his life and destroying American novel of his generation, Truman prayers. Thank you for watching this video. Please subscribe to my channel for more lives they lived.