Lead them to paradise. Lisan al Gaib! Welcome back everyone It's Charlie. There are a whole bunch of Easter Eggs and references So we'll break it all down. It's basically a series after the machine wars, telling a lot of the prequel story They haven't really done a lot in live action before. if you're brand new to the channel, for spoilers if you have not seen episode The episode title was The Hidden Hand, which is meant Because the series is all about the origin of the Bene The Great Houses to a better future. But their idea of what that better future what they're actually doing. The Desmond Hart figure, played by Travis Fimmel, is the counteracting force, the reckoning, as far as I know, Desmond So he could be using a secret name, like he could wind up name at the beginning of the series here. Or he could just be somebody But if it wasn't clear, this is meant to take place that they've been doing with Denis Villeneuve And about 10,000 years and as they say, a little over 100 years Butlerian jihad is they talk about it in the books. the actual opening scene starts with whispers, voices, each of the Dune movies with that different narration but one in the darkness, which is meant to be sort of during this. Like, are they villains or are they heroes a better place? But in order to do that, and as you can see, the series is also presenting the idea things that are believed in the Dune universe during the events of the movies that aren't necessarily just the idea that history is generally way in history is typically written by the victors, the energies are meant to be controlling a lot of history when you hear the whispering, voices rise, as part of the abilities that they gain when they take the water of Life, if they're able to survive that process, of all their female ancestors, including all the abilities The difference with the Kwisatz Haderach he also gains access to all the memories of his male On top of that, it also allows him to bridge Like he talks about seeing potential futures The super being is, timeline for humanity, But the idea is that they also want to be able to control There's a lot of talk about that whole idea Corrino, played by Mark strong, who you probably recognize I literally just did Batman Penguin episodes, and the very first voice over asking about the difference What's more important is the value. Hakkinen, One of the two Bene Gesserit sisters credited with creating the order as you see it in present day, But the way they explain is they didn't There was someone older, but they changed it breeding program. the whole idea, though for that breeding program to actually pay off, a little sideways when Paul Atreides is born that's where it veers into prophecy as she speaks of it. Like there's a lot of talk of prophecy They don't actually mention the words Only prophecy in the potential future. But there is a lot of talk about the breeding program, She narrates the Machine Wars, In the comics, the butler Marion's were the humans that they could do an entire movie series just about the butler Probably the reason why they brushed over it so quickly it is because of budget. You just expect them to have giant battles the whole idea in the Dune AI machines have become so good that humanity begins to depend on them And basically, humanity itself it winds up turning into more of a Terminator And that's kind of what this prequel scene It looks kind of like the beginning of Terminator two. that eventually culminates in a couple of the great houses with House Atreides, Duke Atreides at the time With them crowning an Emperor Corrino on the planet then they basically explain how the blood feud started during that event, like during the end of the wars, is thought to have deserted his post, in the rest of the great houses ostracize them And that kind of plays out here. But the way they make it seem that really pushed for them to actually change things Like we're going to get revenge for what happened to us, like a generally decent person in very stark contrast so the idea is that the blood feud between the atrocities but the way the value narrates it here, Harkonnen of something that was not true. Like the thing that they were accused of. They did not do. there are a couple big events So after the butler in Jihad is over, The countess that's actually Mark Strong's character. His emperor's grandfather was that first emperor. at that same time, the Spacing Guild was created. They used spies to navigate the universe which basically allowed the universe chum was created, They organize and control and this mother Superior Sayers that fought during the Machine Wars. that becomes one of the first big abilities saying exactly what it sounds like, detecting She explains the cannons were banished to a distant world, Prime will probably be visited at some point during the series where the current Baron Apparently. Whale sperm? Really big deal. I'll need to get in on this hot action right now. whole lot of money to make on this stuff. there's probably one of the funniest parts of the episode, trying to convince the emperor Then they explain sort of the beginnings in all the great houses, basically all the great houses to getting ahead on a political level, or their opponents or whoever so the sisterhood use that as a sort of toehold and now they're sort of pushing deeper into that idea ultimately controlling all the great houses when they pick up on things in present day, a marriage between the princess of House Corrino There are a lot of very clear moments during the episode. They're also meant to call back there's a lot of talk about the genetic archive We'll probably actually visit that later. I think this is the shot of it in the trailers. one of the interesting things, though, within the beginnings of the sisterhood here So the idea is that there's a bit of a power struggle because not everybody inside the Bene program. we find out their homeworld is on Wallich IX, Valya Harkonnen is the next Reverend when they jump to present day, then as she's dying, when she says Red dust Tyran Afael is coming. She's talking about the end of days The end of the universe is also referred to as cloud darkness of holy judgment basically, like a battle at the end of the universe a really good comparison to make would be in the Tolkien It's the dagger or dagger so the whole idea is that this Mother Superior starts want to lead humanity down a better path, eventually. he's meant to be the super being that's capable it eventually There are a bunch of different visions that she has that she has a vision of Arrakis. Shy collude, the Great Worm, which is meant to be Eventually, there's a vision of the worm being consumed, destroying their order, which is also a reference to what happens Then we actually found out that the burning flesh is from and from the sister who burn at the same time don't worry, we will unpack that later. In Travis Thimbles, character. Dripping blood is probably from Dora after volume For reference to later in the episode someone's blood traveling across the floor down the steps. Also a reference to Dorothea's blood the red gown being the princess is for the marriage. Later in the episode. Traveling to the Imperial throne of the Emperor. Corrino. Because that's what they see. They see to control the throne through the marriage. changing to the flecks of gold. Which are the spice into space. Likely a reference to the connection between the spice He who controls the spice controls the universe. They're couple specific references Like a couple of me moments the spice must flow. When space changes to the blue eyes in the growling sound. Those are meant to be. Pull a trade his eyes. It's a callback to something that they reference in how Reverend Mother see cold eyes and space Seeing Paul staring back at them. when she references the fall of the Bennett Gesserit comes to power. And essentially he takes over. Then his son Leto the second, splintering the original Bene Gesserit basically turns into complete chaos they mentioned tyranny fell again in a judgment That could also be another sly Later in the timeline. one of the things, though, is that a lot of the characters is happening right now, and they're not really thinking Like they don't know when the judgment will happen. this also similar to what's happening on House of series, we have a lot of Targaryens They think the next long night, Any day now, when really it's going to take a couple hundred years to actually happen. same basic idea during the Dune Prophecy series, but the whole idea here is that Valya seize Her first move is to put a bandage And that's going to wind up being the princess that we see 30 years later. this also meant to give you vibes Like she was also raised by the Bene Gesserit over her father in House Corrino, in the future. The reason why it's her to the current reigning emperor, Corrino. He has a son, but he's meant to be a half son from the whole idea is that this other house is marrying But also the Bene Gesserit will gain the Empress who's ultimately putting an Empress on the throne who has been door attire that she winds up killing to preserve of the other faction of Bene Gesserit, of the former Mother Superior, repeat to her, We've read the books. 10,000 years later, ultimately, these two Harkonnen sisters were going to have to gain control The Kwisatz Haderach program. one of the interesting bits of lore, two she created the voice, like she's the first person in, it sounds like as of right now, none of the other But you remember, So like, the order is still very new. then we jump to 30 years later, 116 years after the end of the Machine Wars. Exactly 10,148 years before the birth of Paul Atreides when she says House Harkonnen has been rejected Gesserit is because of their disgrace, like they're having one gives each great house or each house Being able to tell when somebody they're making dealings just a really big upper hand. they introduce the emperor's illegitimate son I say he's the princess's half brother, He's from one of the concubines. In the Dune So they usually have a lot of children And nobody thinks it's weird. The reason why Valya clocks him this way. He looks at him this way is because she senses Bene Gesserit is control. So she's sort of having a little bit of fun with that. But the reason why she's so relieved when they both stamp binding the princess to come train with them is because and putting the princess on the throne, This is meant to be the older version of Tula values. Harkonnen Sister. She gets into more of the nature And then they have a couple of demonstrations But there are a couple of big montages Then we go to Seleucid. Second is the homeworld of House Corrino And this is meant to be the princess Atreides giving you a lot of vibes of the original Dune fighting Gurney, Also a lot of vibes of the relationship in the timeline, with the difference being that whereas later in the timeline Quote unquote. The Princess that becomes a big thing during three, like the third movie, will cover they don't really get into too much of what's happening We'll probably learn in the next couple episodes, or If he's like the grandson of the current Duke. But at least during the episode they explained So for whatever reason, a member of House Atreides that probably has something to do with the very good that House Atreides has with House Corrino Like they actually have a very good relationship. This is also a big reference when the emperor during the events of the movies betrays House Atreides and orders the idea was that he was actually very close But this was all part of this big grand power he didn't want Leto Atreides to become too popular The idea was that all the other So much he could theoretically challenge the Emperor. So the emperor in present day, like 10,000 years we kind of get vibes of something with Mark Strong's Emperor, In addition to problems on Arrakis. one of the other things that they note The blades, like I said, a lot of references to the way they opened the first Dune But the reason why it's such a big deal, like the knives if were 10,000 years in the future Renders a lot of projectile weapons effectively useless. but the idea as Gurney mentions when he's fighting Paul which is why everybody across the universe starts part of the idea later in the timeline, too, people are constantly, like, always walking around we get the scene with the bandages. Overseeing the marriage negotiations between house They say, will aid him greatly on Arrakis in. The whole threat here is that if he doesn't get spice straw will rebel against him. all the issues that they reference on Iraqis are issues to control the planet at any given time, like they'll in addition to just the regular sandworms Like I said, they use a lot of these scenes for tutorials on Bene Gesserit abilities where, like, they conduct the real negotiation which is just sort of on the surface level, when we go back to the bandages. Right. They do a training montage that's meant to give you vibes martial arts in the rain. But I think generally the idea, I think the belief is that the Sardurkar training they practice truth saying in the whole moment here then trying to play it off like she was lying. We find out that the girl who has even better Meaning that she actually probably did kill her parents. when we go back to the Imperial Palace. You might recognize the Empress here. She also played Queen Calanthe The reason why she mentions her veil belonged to her that they're canonically supposed So it all comes back around to the spice there's all part of this long term plan It all comes back to Iraq in the spice. Notice the headpiece here kind of gives you vibes Like marriage is kind of a cage. They play a couple references to that later but the designs are also meant to give you vibes of some of Jessica's clothing we meet Travis Thimbles, Desmond Hart character, on Iraqis with the Fremen who tells the emperor seeking to control Arrakis and take over the Empire. the way they talk about his character as we learned later in the episode. Like, the whole idea is that it feels like the thinking They defeated them, only to be controlled by another group which is now the Bennett Gesserit. They're very mysterious about what's going on It just seems like he's connected to the Fremen on Arrakis The way you actually find out later in the episode, and surviving. Later I also think that's a bit of a misdirect. I don't think he has low level acquisitive powers That's like 10,000 years away. what he probably has is a really clever poison like the great power that he has But either way, he absolutely hates the Bene Gesserit, during the series to try and destroy them. do not know if he secretly comes from one of the other Desmond Heart does not sound like a familiar name, so you can let me know in the comments And he'll secretly be from like some other familiar The Emperor's Bene Gesserit sees some more nightmare visions with the red gown This is all meant to reference the princess's upcoming marriage, the Rotten Pomegranate, the whole idea that the marriage seems cursed this whole thing with the mouth of the sandworms were also just makes it seem like it's all connected back to what's happening on Arrakis Then we get the betrothal ceremony. They're marrying the Imperial princess to the Duke's And the whole idea is that the duke of this other house wants to eventually feel kind of bad for this little kid. Like, he seems like kind of a dick, but he is nine years Like he's briefly, we meet the current Baron Harkonnen, Just wants to get into some of the world trade, more economic gain for his house, but I love the way the Emperor just bailed on the conversation Like, And he boom, he's just out of there like, nope, I'm done. No more conversation for me. generally many tens of thousands of years later some of the trailer footage their family on the course then the Duke's son reveals that he has in the form of a newt, which Desmond Hart captures These capturing the poison dart during the first movie. everybody freaks out because remember, so it's still fresh on everyone's minds. Everyone's But the idea is the emperor Like he's kind of worried about the way that So he tries to chill things out. But later, we also find out that the Duke of this house doesn't want to go back to using thinking machines again, inside the Empire. People that want to use those again. It's not like humanity defeated the thinking machines is speaking of replacing thinking machines. One of the only things that we don't really see during So maybe we'll meet some men they're basically highly trained people Then the princess and her brother go out to a party, It looks like spice is a drug inside Desmond Hart meets the Emperor. They tease more of the growing insurgency When he mentions gods and higher powers. There are religions inside the universe of Dune, beyond the actual Kwisatz Haderach like Paul and his son so of course, the minute that the Emperor says if they can call the wedding off, they're going to pay off something like that, So clearly the Emperor is going to start believing when they go to the bar and you see the bartender She probably has been doing these spice drugs for a while, The Princess and the Atreides then get it on big time. The Emperor then watches the recording of Desmond It seems almost like he placed the thumpers himself, but then is consumed then knowing that he's survived, Like, higher things are at play here. Desmond then meets the Duke's son The reason I'm here is to fight this. Like the whole idea. The Bennett Jesuit, or like the new versions of thinking And he wants to stop them at any cost in one of the ways in addition to the casinos, Bennett Jesuit at the exact same time across the universe you also notice when he starts burning, If they're burning at the same time, so I think this has something to do with whatever way like I said, even though he claims that he was bestowed I think that's a misdirect. There's more actual, like poison, like Fremen based poison or something special in a just timed release. And he can control when it goes off so R.I.P. to this little boy. Even though he seemed like kind of a dick, in when Valya says I see Reverend Mother at the end Also seeing that the visions have come to pass, explained it, she thinks in this moment that the reckoning reckoning, is actually happening right now, but everyone post And if there are any Easter Eggs or references during the episode that you spotted, just write down below The series has a chance to be pretty decent, talk like the first four episodes seem like a slow burn So if the entire series is a slow burn, Like you have to really be in What I'll probably do is we'll just see Like, people really like the series, I will do an episode two video. Otherwise I'll probably just wait till the finale but there's a bunch of big stuff So be sure to enable alerts for my channel everybody, click here for my full breakdown Easter Eggs for all the Dune movies, all the Dune The Dragon Season three video and learn Thank you so much for watching,