Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. right now, in America, there are 106 people named Harry Potter. named James Bond and eight people named Justin Bieber. aren't enough names to go around. There are more than 300 million people in America but a hundred and fifty first names is all you need to name 9 out of every 10 of them. Perhaps it's already happened to you. If it hasn't, when? When will someone with your exact name become famous? changes forever to just being not the person people think of when And for that matter, when will every reasonably band name or brand name be taken? When will authors have no choice but to According to Rovi Corp, owner of AllMusic.com, the most used band name is 'Bliss', followed in order by 'Mirage', 'One', 'Gemini', 'Legacy', 'Paradox' and 'Rain'. fewer bands had already been created and every single band, overlap was easier to and one word band names were plentiful. of band formation, well, we have 'The Who', but we also have 'The What?', 'The Where', 'The When', 'The Why', 'The How' and even 'The The'. In order to stand out now, you have to be a bit more creative. 'O', 'Diarrhea Planet' or 'Betty's Not a Vitamin', which, by the way, is no longer true. What about Twitter handles or email addresses? Have we already reached peak username? use abbreviations, initials, numbers or just choosing something completely different. Will our children or our children's children live in a world where the only remaining are just random strings of alphanumeric characters? Are we approaching a name crisis? And if so, should we even call it a name crisis, lest we use up yet another precious name? Maybe you already share your name with But if you don't, how long will it be until you probably will? faster now than ever before because of the top Google search billing. long after you've been dead but names, not taken by notable people, eventually run out? how many famous people there are alive today and I think his calculation will be allow &quot;famous&quot; to simply mean &quot;being notable enough well, because there are 700,000 living people with Wikipedia pages right now, earth today are famous. Assuming at the least since 255 people are born every minute, that means every hour a future famous person is born. with them, not everyone else who shares their name. disambiguation or the post-nominal, not the famous one. of one future famous person born every hour, it would still take dozens of millennia for most of us to expect a future famous person with our exact name to emerge. Plus names change. others obsolesce, but for fun, let's use and instead look at how many possible names there can be. letters for a complete name. 27 letters filling 36 spots, with repetition allowed, means 3 sextillion possible combinations. That's more than Earth has atoms. our limits. are possible? the author of the fantastic 'What If?' did stars. in the observable universe a unique but English name, how long would the names have to be? His approximation is really unpronounceable word as a word that pairs, we can roughly figure that there such pair possibilities. 105. That's not too much different from 99. So, funny enough, consonant-vowel pairs possible as there are two-digit numbers, which means we could give every star in a sayable unique name with just 24 letters, the same number of number all of them. uniquely owning a word or name that's common today, but the potential number of names is really hardy. our species will likely evolve to way. Also, names aren't just labels. A name on a screen, a username, doesn't always act exactly like its owner. more quickly and more widely than and do things that their puppeteers away from the keyboard. online disinhibition effect. see the people you're interacting with you're all just online hiding behind why hold back? serious business. no one knows you're a dog. tell the truth? investigates and uncovers people who may of the Internet makes lies easier to get away with. Like this person, who posted an image for a year but had users found out posted three months earlier a picture of my girlfriend's cat. just what humans do when they can be anonymous or can hide behind different names, by the names themselves. can impact how you behave. Your own pre-existing stereotypes and shapes, colors can be confirmed by your behavior, in the same way that studies have found play more aggressively when wearing black uniforms. Studies have also found that the more sexualized an avatar is you make someone use, of their own body image. the more correlated you watching it exercise is with you being more likely to exercise more. the Proteus effect. cyberspace version of yourself, can actually change you, the meat space &quot;IRL&quot; you. aren't just handles attached to us. Psychologically, we often interact with them as if they're friends, distinct beings we created. They help us out but they also can influence us, egg us on, dare us to do things we us protection, entertainment. professional, funny, dangerous, attractive. The cool ones make us look cool. As we go about our daily lives and vie for attention, we are more and more with another name and exclusively only. we're not going to run out of them In fact, they might run out of us first and may, in many ways, run us. And as always, thanks for watching.