[Music plays] &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Welcome. Thank you for joining us for First My name is Bill Benson. I have hosted the Museum's Each month we bring you first-hand Each of our First Person guests serve as a Jews who experienced the persecution and survived and their collaborators. This included those ghettos, and prisons, as well as refugees or those who did not self-identify as Jewish, but were our program, please send us your questions and let We are honored to have Holocaust survivor Louise first-hand account of the Holocaust with us. Louise, &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: It's my pleasure Bill, and I'm very &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Louise, you have so much to share with us in our Before you tell us what happened to and the Holocaust, tell us about your parents and &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Before the war began, my parents lived father in the family textile business. They and they had a chain of stores where they sold and a fashion designer and they were very happy &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Louise, did you have a large extended family? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Yes, extended family. The immediate family wasn't that large but there were many, many cousins and second cousins and third cousins yes. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: and and when grandparents that time were still alive? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: yes. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: All four, okay. You mentioned your father being mobilized into the Dutch Army which happened in 1939, and then of course Germany invaded and occupied the Netherlands in may 1940. Tell us what &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: So my father was a reserve officer and every Dutch man above the age of 18. He was southern town of Maastricht, and he was part of an blow up the bridges over the Meuse River what is a and to try to prevent the Nazis from coming into parents had planned to move together to Maastricht drapes and curtains but she never moved because called her just a week that she was supposed to but my mom figured out that in an invasion by the Germans would be imminent and it was because they came into the Netherlands in 1940. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: And Louise after they came into the Netherlands and occupied your country, they passed a number of you tell us about some of those laws? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. So Jews had lived in the Netherlands for more than 500 years. They were integrated in the country. There was no antisemitism at that time, they just lived out of their own life or they lived a life in the Netherlands and all of it and it was I always say it was a big life and that life became What happened to my family is that their a Jewish business and Jews were Then the orders came that you had to hand to have valuables like cash savings books, gold, anything that was of value, he had to hand in. When and they said it was just for safe keeping, but the war never saw their stuff again because it Then also Jews were not allowed Jewish children were not allowed to go to Jewish doctor, a non-Jewish doctor could not Jewish hospital if you had to be hospitalized. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Louise, your father had been captured at and then he was released. You shared with me as the Nazis were saying you can't have that's valuable to you, they actually were able to &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Yeah my father and my grandfather got along really well and discussed everything. It was a very difficult time so nobody really knew what they could do to try to safeguard some of turning in everything of value, they also buried and especially things that had anything Kiddush cups for the kosher wine, anything with that - they always thought at that time that if if they didn't find anything Jewish, Jewish that was strange because my last name &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Right. At some point your parents then moved to a town called Haarlem west of Amsterdam where you were born. Tell us about Haarlem if you don't mind. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. I know now that it's a very lovely town. Haarlem had a good-sized Jewish community. So the largest Jewish community was in Amsterdam, but Haarlem had you could buy kosher food. And my they rented the house. My father, and I was born in that house and we lived there Germans called &quot;evacuate&quot; to Amsterdam &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: And here of course I think we see a a photograph of Haarlem. Before we go on Louise, I'd like to let you know today from all over the place, from around Washington, and Tennessee - that's Washington state. and we have viewers from around the world. France, and Italy among other places. So hello welcome. Shortly before you were born in July 1942, from the Netherlands to killing centers in German- for Dutch Jews when they were forced to badge. Will you tell us what this was like for Jews including your parents to have to wear this? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: So in the for Jews above the age of six in the Netherlands around the time that the trains deporting Jews So there's always a question: so why - so you were It singled you out. People might have known Holland it was not such a big thing, Religion - no was accepted. But now all of a sudden and you couldn't really leave your house The problem for not about not wearing it was that There was an incentive to turn in Jews for the that you were friendly with and that and he knew, he or she knew, that you were Jewish and if that person saw you walk outside they would get actually money for it. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Money for it. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Yes. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: You know the Nazis heaped, of course, abuses large and small constantly, and one of the ones that you shared with me was that you had a very limited ration to get were forced to use that ration to purchase the &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: That's correct. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Your family was close with another will you tell us about them? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. It was a very The father of the family was the You can see here before the war how people lived. The father of the family across the and one of the daughters in the front, her name my mom's. And Selma's mom is right behind her. So children and their two adopted cousins so there were about my mom's and dad's age, around 30. them were engaged. Also the father's parents They were very religious. They pooled - because all food for all Dutch people was rationed - My parents were very often invited, as often as and they loved it. And they celebrated Shabbat, It starts at sundown on Friday &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: I would like to, before we continue, I'd all your questions for Louise via the chat from a viewer named Brittani, and Brittani Thank you as always for providing these interviews. happened in January 1943 that had a major impact &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. So I have to track back a little bit about Selma. Selma and she was fired because she was Jewish. So to our house just across the street quite often After the war she actually became my best the underground, the resistance - and I call them people that needed help - they worked against the deportations had started they tried to any of the Nazi rules or things that they were shot one of the German sergeants, occupying Nazis took 10 of the most and so was the rabbi - and you see the rabbi here on And they shot them in front of the population. and sent them to a concentration camp in the Netherlands, and from there they were deported to death camps in Poland. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: So every man we see here was executed. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: That's correct. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Along with another 100 plus people at that time. Tell us then what happened to the rest of that wonderful family that you described to us, that lived across the street also around that same time. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: All Jews in our area, the coastal area, got orders to move to Amsterdam. The Germans tried to make it easier on themselves and have Jews concentrated in Amsterdam, and then all they had to do is pick them up and and deport them from there. So they wanted to make that whole coastal area what they called &quot;Judenfrei&quot; what means &quot;free of Jews.&quot; So after Selma's dad was murdered, she was again in our house and she heard a lot of noise across the street. This And she looked out of the window and she saw house and some screaming people jumped off, all her family members that were left in the house, was already murdered. Two of her brothers escaped promised his father that he would take having escaped, he actually came back so away and this family was deported to Auschwitz, So Selma and her brother were the only ones &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: And Selma witnessed that taking place from your home. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Correct. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Where did your family and - including Selma now - where did your family and Selma go when you arrived in Amsterdam? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right so my father was so scared after this happened to Selma's family that he figured that same night we had to move to Amsterdam. He had waited with, about moving but he figured we had to get out of there, and we moved in temporarily with one of my father's trusted resistance friends in a small apartment. So it was my mom, my dad, my brother, and And our friend Selma who stayed with us during the rest of the war most of the time. And my father went out to look for a place to hide. and he was very lucky, he had studied in Amsterdam. Amsterdam, and he knew Amsterdam really well. they showed that he could trust them, they had not And he found a more permanent place in a &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: The resistance, the heroes that survival. Tell us what actions that they were taking to try to slow the deportation of Jews from the Netherlands. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: One of the very important things that they did is they realized how easy it was for the Nazis to registration system, really thanks to Napoleon so within 24 hours, your father had to register your your address, and your religion. So all the office and they knew they could find where the resistance bombed these registration offices, those bombings in Amsterdam. And then they burned if this was done that the Nazis were very angry. to find the people that actually did it but didn't killed them or sent them on an early transport to &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: I can only imagine that the retaliations were beyond brutal. And what we're looking at here then is like, hundreds if not thousands of file cabinets and the cards stored, and they're all destroyed in this image. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: It's pre-computer times. Everything was on little cards. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Louise, your father was able to manage to get false identity papers for the family. Will you tell us about that? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. So this was another They found a specialist who could work make false identity papers, because everybody Jews there was always a letter 'J' written in it. also not with that 'J.' It was very difficult do today. If I see a fake identity card today I and the fake one, but at that time it was difficult. erase certain things, but you had to leave certain people did it and we got fake identity papers. and my name became Maria. That you're supposed to and my parents never told my brother &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: So until after the war you &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: That's correct. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: You mentioned that your father was able - a permanent hiding place. Tell us more about that. And I think we have an image. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. So this is an Amsterdam row house. These houses are more than 700 years old but are very well kept up, so it still looks exactly the same. And you see a little indicator that points to the top part so that's where the storage attics are. It's has its own walk-up, so its And you can rent space, so it's owned by a live in the apartments. So my father was able to that kind of money with the help of his father and to pay the rent would probably be dangerous. The been a good person, he never questioned it. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: 10 years. So your father anticipated that you might need that for that long of a period. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: He had no idea. It could be a week, could be a year, it could be two years. He just didn't know. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Tell us - I'm just looking at that picture realizing your attic space was. Tell us about the attic Tell us about moving in there, what you know about it. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. So it was a rough place right underneath the roof. It's not very well-insulated so it's really very cold in the winter time. These storage attics had a toilet - with a a small sink with cold running water. There was and there were already a couple of things stored was a couch that was actually a broken down couch, could jump on it. It was really one of the very few and there was also a cupboard with some things out and to discuss before going in what we the underground my father had stored some of the resistance, but we were able to borrow my mom, my dad, Selma, and my brother, a crib for they could get. They took in some food supplies. no kitchen, so if there's anything to cook or And she took in some oil lamps just in case thought ahead because he thought, I'm going in lot of scrap paper and a lot of colored pencils &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Tell us what you can about what your family's life was like then in the attic, in the circumstances that you've just described. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: So I was six months and I could only crawl at that time, but I was very alert and I saw that most of the time mom and dad, Selma, Here you see me on the broken down couch. I and you also see that I really have very Selma were always sewing, sitting around the some of their old clothes making new clothes. I did I started walking and my mom couldn't take me to because we never went outside. The only person that whatever else we needed. So I saw them sitting sewing, but they were also playing games with my and talking and I could sit with them that They were teaching my brother color and later They taught us letters and words and numbers It was clever to do that because it was a form And we didn't know that it was actually a they were paying attention to us what they &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: And because you had no other real basically it was a full-time education that describe to me, a real head start later in &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. When we were liberated I was almost three years old and I could read a book. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Wow. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: But it's not because I'm so smart. It's because we had, just like you said, there was nothing from the outside. This was all we did. Since we did a word - for instance, you teach a child the word 'tree' and then you take a child outside: this is what the tree looks like. So we didn't have that would draw a tree and said, this is the This is the word 'bird,' this is what the bird on a tree branch and she said, and when the So we had an idea except when you see two together but it wasn't that strange. So she that you had to turn a page. They really tried &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: They sound remarkable. Before we turn to an you had mentioned that you had a dormer window. meant it was a high window so that even though And it also meant that you couldn't be spotted looked out the window. We have a question manage to get the small children quiet in &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: So we were never told to be actually quiet but the way we were talked to was not in a screaming fashion. We were talked to in a soft you as a child are screamed at, you scream walk around and we did make noise but it they were never screaming at us. We had neighbors because they must have heard us flush the They never turned us in. They didn't know who we better if it came from far. If they had known had become friends, if somebody had rang that They could say no because they didn't know us. Had you give it away. So by not turning us in, in &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Before the war Louise, your father had How important was that to your survival? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: It was very important because my father used his art, and this was not Rembrandts or Picassos, this was small artifacts that were actually stored by one of his friends so if he needed to buy food for us or medicine, we had no income, so he was able to barter for things that more or less used everything that he had. again, that is very lucky and he just wanted a whole loaf of bread maybe a little bowl he thought that it would be, a lot of stuff, but it &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: And to use those items it meant, as you attic. He had to venture out at great risk to get some fuel for the little camp stove that you tremendous risks for him to go out there. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: It was, So the rest of us did not go out, he made contact with - we had three people Two of them survived, one of them The resistance, when they got organized, they had you're planning to go out next Monday. 'Something' was always a roundup in the area, or it for a while. One of these three people from the only people who knew where we were. Even relatives had don't exist anymore and nobody should know where all if you were still there. We could have been Pretty amazing heroes. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: They sure sound it. the attic, as you've a celebration. So you have &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. So again backtracking a little bit, my parents were really amazing people and of course you always discover that when you're getting a occupation and hiding time. But they hiding, and that was to try to keep their children stay together and have a life and they tried is they never talked to us about the outside occupied, they didn't tell us that we and they didn't tell us anything that we they never made a big deal out of it. before we went to sleep. Sometimes we shared our parents always saved something for the father had gone out again in June 1944 and when my parents always looked worried but I didn't know brother and myself, but my brother said, Papa you to explain but my brother and I of course did not on in the outside. But my father explained to Mom that the Allied Army had landed in Normandy, And he became more hopeful. He said, so there is but I'm hopeful that we might make it. Because hour of the day, every minute of the day, because mean deportation to a death camp. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Right. And the Omaha Beach, June 6, 1944. So on top of celebrating the Normandy invasion and the hope that that would bring liberation soon, it was also your birthday. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. My birthday was a couple of weeks later and my father picked of help on the way. And they had to go to a store like today, you can organize couple of hours, but that took a while. So mom cut Selma from old rags made a doll like the Raggedy My brother had only one toy when we went into to bring one toy and he brought a little wooden not allowed to play with it. It was his toy. So on my birthday. My father also talked to one of his over on the birthday, and he brought over socks bit too small, but for the picture they put them on chair. He said, she's going to get a doll, now she can My best gift when I opened it was my brother's mine. Except he told me it was just for the day and mine for the day, it was fine. I saw the chair and it and I could sit in it. So here I'm sitting on this because my father's friend took the camera and get the picture. And I also realize it's a tribute little two-year-old without a worry in the world worried. They never told us what was about their relatives they were worried about, and that's really a tribute to my parents. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: And that's such a incredible photograph in so many ways, but you're wearing that special dress that your mom made for you for your birthday. You're holding the doll that I believe Selma made day that's yours at your feet, and the And you're sitting on the little &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: So this is the wicker chair, what was really one of our very few toys and it's very beautiful. It was 150 years old, was already And now it's way older because that's we were rough with this chair. We stood on and but it survived and of course it And you can see a lighter area on the bottom where during when our children grew up but a lot of room around it. And I asked one of our then we have to be careful with it. So I said Museum in Washington? And they said, that's stabilized it and they take good care of it, and in the Permanent Exhibit. And we're &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Louise, of course in the summer of 1944 after the D-Day invasion and the Allies are on the march, there is the constant danger air raids, bombs being dropped. That must have Do you remember anything about the air raids? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. we had warning signs. They were very sharp to actually go into a shelter because the bombs and not always attached right because the So some bombs would fall off, so people were warned couldn't because we couldn't go out. Also we didn't knew that the strongest part of a row house in alarm goes off, my brother would grab my hands, a front door all the way up in the attic and my and then point to us to sit on the staircase. Mom and some other things that we might And we would sit on the staircase till another clear alarm. So when the bomber had flown over houses or apartments, there was a second alarm attic. And sometimes there were days that this it was not always fun to get out of your warm bed, It's also funny when you walked around in time to restore houses. There were some bombs houses didn't exist but the staircase was &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: It may have been but just, you know, imagine everybody else, you know, who wasn't in you remained in a stairwell four stories absolutely terrifying to have happen once, much &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: For us it was just following what my parents told us to do. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Right, as you said you didn't know differently. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: We didn't really know except we didn't like the alarms, and I still don't &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: In late 1944, Allied Forces made their way to the but they were forced to stop short. Will you from reaching Amsterdam and being able to &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: So the country south of the Netherlands is Belgium, and when the Allied Army liberated western Belgium and they crossed the border into the Netherlands, one-third of the Netherlands is separated from two-thirds, the northern part, by three They really cut the country and the largest river So when the Allies came to the rivers and they they realized that we had an early onset of a that they didn't have the right equipment to part of the Allied Army, Canadian Army, camped rivers thaw in the spring, liberate the rest of the into liberated eastern Belgium and into Germany. are dancing in the streets, supply lines are coming but I mean there is food at least that they in the street, they can wave Dutch flags, have another eight months of a terrible winter. all Dutch people, not just for people in hiding. winter crops are frozen because the winter started way too early, and we have eight more months of Nazi occupation. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: How do you think your parents were able to get you through that terrible winter of 1944 to 1945? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Yeah, I have but my father had emergency food. When he found he was able to trade a lot of his things baked cookies that he sealed in tins that emergency food. There was so much butter in those but I do remember being hungry and and getting they were not really edible, like tulip bulbs. that we developed chilblains on our and that's caused by the cold, and it still And a cream existed at that time but it was we were in so much pain. So my father remembered feed their livestock in the wintertime, they also And they knew exactly what to do. They put And the uric acid in the urine is the same thing of the pain. We didn't have horses or cows of a potty before we went to sleep and put our hands yucky or disgusting, all we knew is that the pain would go away. We could fall asleep without pain. So we were fine with that. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: And that's a memory Finally on May 5th, 1945 Canadian Forces liberated Tell us what you know about what it was like to come out of hiding for you and your family and Selma after all that time. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: When my father pulled a chair next to the dormer window. He think it's over. Well we didn't know what But miraculously he had one tin of cookies left the tin on the table and told us we could all the cookie before. So my brother said, oh that We had no concept. So after a few days, my parents father said we're going outside. So my brother and my father four flights of stairs. My father opened and the sun blinded us. We walked onto the very strange for us and we were scared. We you walk to - we lived in the middle of the street, you will fall off the street. We didn't or into a square, we were just afraid. My brother I cried too. My brother said, I don't want So it was a tough thing for my parents no idea what had happened to any of their there yet - took a long time - but they have saved So they took us back upstairs, also explained that my real name was Louise, so from then on, no more Maria. And after a So we walk outside again, again crying, holding these people on the streets. My parents took us and people were celebrating freedom. They were were just happy. Everybody is wearing rags new clothes if they were even in the in the stores. Dutch people and talking to them, and then they I have no idea what they were saying, I didn't and I a Hershey bar, and my mom said we could taste you taste chocolate is magic. We couldn't finish took the rest home. But the next morning my brother &quot;Can we go outside again?&quot; He wanted more Hershey are. No more crying. Hershey bars. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: So at that point, you were able to begin to sort of normalize life outside in the world. We we have a comment Catherine says, &quot;I'm amazed at the foresight To keep you from feeling trapped and isolated, Such love and wisdom they had. What did your &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: So we went to the country as soon as my parents could, and then my father had a friend in Sweden - Sweden had been neutral - in Stockholm And he offered my dad a job because there was really worked into the ground. All the machinery just four walls left. So my father needed my parents had three more children after the war. Just before - my father went first so the my parents had enrolled my brother and I in is not on the same page. We were so far ahead in And we lived in Sweden for two years. My father and restart his business. So we moved back to to the Montessori school. We stayed there for the good thing for us. The rest of my siblings My father was able, with the help of the Marshall his business and it took five years of very hard &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: Louise, at what age do you think - do you of what had happened during the Holocaust? And finally had that realization of what it really was about? &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. So I knew that we were different. I knew different things that happened to us, but my parents didn't want to talk about it. I did ask my friend Selma some things but I realized what the Nazis had done to Jews when I started working as a physical therapist in Amsterdam. I joined a large practice and a lot of my patients were camp survivors that had all kinds of in the camp and the hard labor they had Netherlands talked, but they talked. You have and you try to put them at ease and they And then I wanted to know more about it and I - not everything, nobody knows everything - but volunteering at the Holocaust Museum in 1994. And &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: I've been amazed at what you're still I have one more question for you today and that tell us why you continue to share your first-hand account of what you and your family went through during the Holocaust. &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Right. So during the Holocaust the Nazis. Out of those 12 million, there were 6 there were a million and a half innocent Jewish in life. They were murdered because they were and did absolutely nothing. I want people to be genocide, and when you learn about it, Never, never. But people didn't learn. It's still in Cambodia, 1992 in Bosnia, 1994 in Rwanda. Genocide in countries in Africa. There was genocide in China - there is a Muslim group that lives in And the Rohingya people in Burma. We cannot be innocent children were murdered and people when people learn that, my hope is that they will I will talk till I can't talk anymore, but I need they hear that there's something horrible going on, So the website of the United States Holocaust going on in the world, and it can also help you and always do something together. Do it with a group. and that bully wants you to do something and you want to be confronted. He or she will bop that bully as a group, he or she has nothing Tell people what happens when you don't different religion than you, have different color We need to respect each other and we need to help you've heard from me and people tell you the it from somebody who was there. Yes it did happen. That's why I'm still speaking and I will speak till I can't speak anymore. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: And we are so grateful and doing today. Before we wrap up, I'd like to share Douglas writes, &quot;Thank you for sharing your And Cheryl writes, &quot;As the grandchild of a survivor, Ms. Lawrence-Israels, your story is absolutely to hear you speak.&quot; And I think Cheryl speaks Louise, thank you so much. There's just so most compelling for me is you gave us about the big world your parents had, the big your parents did everything possible for that life. That is just extraordinary. So thank &gt;&gt; Louise Lawrence-Israels: Thank you very much, Bill. Thank you all for listening. And please do not forget: help. It should never happen again. &gt;&gt; Bill Benson: I would like to take a moment to thank our donors. First Person is made possible through the generous And I also would like to invite you to at 1:00 PM Eastern Time for a conversation Rose-Helene Spreiregen. At the age of 12, Rose-Helene as finding food for her and her grandmother.