- [Jared] This is a 3D printer. It takes three dimensional and physically creates them 3D printers are both Each year, the technology In this video, I'd like one of these machines My name's Jared, I create 3D animations to show and explain how things work. Hit the subscribe button to be just like this one. This video is sponsored by Bambu Lab. In science fiction, they sometimes have this You can ask it to make almost any object, and it somehow materializes Today, we don't have replicators, but the 3D printer is starting to do some of the same things. It doesn't happen instantaneously, but it's still quite 3D printing is a type of You start with nothing and then add materials layer by layer until it's complete. Compare that to subtractive manufacturing. Start with a block of and you remove parts from it to form the final product. Notice all the excess waste. With additive manufacturing, there is much less wasted materials. This is an advantage to 3D printing. Yes, it's true. A 3D printer can be used to mini figures, movie props, you name it. But keep in mind that a to create objects that A lid holder for your kitchen, zip ties, adjustable supports a wifi QR code sign, and even a customized broom holder. Very useful for your kitchen. You can even 3D print You are only limited In the real world, there are some other interesting uses: 3D printed food, yes, it really is edible, 3D printed clothes, and 3D printed prosthetics for those that need Large scale companies to manufacture products and quicker to produce. Companies like SpaceX parts of their rockets. NASA is hoping to use 3D printing to create items when This means they don't have and spare parts into space. And there are even 3D printed houses. Instead of plastic, they're made with a special concrete-like material, and yes, people actually live in them. It looks quite nice if you ask me. There are different types of 3D printing. The most common one, and is called Fused Deposition It takes a long strand of filament, this is usually some form of plastic, but it really depends Then it melts it into specific These layers go one on top of the other until you've finally The filament usually has a about the thickness of two credit cards. Filament for the printer comes in these large spools. You can get them in almost The filament comes in but don't worry, you don't need to memorize just know that PLA or polylactic acid is the most common and Some of these materials are more rigid, meaning they don't bend. Others are more flexible, and some of the advanced materials have more strength and can For this video, we're gonna walk through the A1 3D Printer by a This company is really on the and has a lot to offer. As of October 2024, the A1 costs 339 US dollars. Bambu Lab has been working to get these 3D printers like you and me. The printer is about as very easy to put on a desk right next to your workspace. Let's take a closer look at the A1. (lively music) This part is called the gantry. Your 3D object will be printed on a metallic build plate. This can be removed so or even replaced with a different one. It's held on by strong There is a touch screen right here to control the 3D printer, but you can also control such as a desktop computer At the top of the machine, there is a plastic support arm that holds the filament spool. The end of the filament is hand fed into the tube opening, shown here, then through the plastic tube which connects all the Inside, the filament will be melted and come out the very bottom. Inside the toolhead, which will spin to pull to where it is melted. Now, in a regular electric motor, it uses electricity and magnetism to continuously spin in one direction. A stepper motor is different because it can be precisely positioned and will stay there until There is another stepper motor over here. When this spins, it moves the belt that goes all the way across here. Moving the belt causes the toolhead to move left and right. This bar is called the X-axis linear rail. There are two threaded rods on each side. You can actually see them if you move in far enough. When they spin, the rail and the toolhead move up or down. They call these the Z-axis linear rails. This means the toolhead can but this is a three dimensional printer. For the third dimension, the build plate moves back Down below, there is another stepper motor that spins another belt. This is what moves the Three dimensions of to create your 3D models layer by layer. There is a camera up here to take images of the objects as they're built. You can even make a time-lapse video, which is really fun to watch afterwards. 3D printing can be as short or as long as several hours, or even a day or two if your object is complex enough. The area inside of this imaginary box, this is called the build volume. You can only create 3D objects that fit inside of the build volume. If you wanna print something bigger or maybe more complex with you can still do that, you just have to find a way to print it in several different pieces. The 3D printers from Bambu Lab come with a handful of and built into the 3D This little boat is commonly which is short for benchmark. It's a common first item that you print to test the speed and To get more 3D objects, you can download them from Maker World or one of several other websites. Many of these are completely free. You can also create your but this takes a little You can even use 3D scanning to take objects in the real world and create the 3D model. But either way, once it needs to be converted into a format that the 3D printer can understand. Your 3D object will probably be in one of these formats. Then you take that and run it through a program called a slicer. This takes your 3D model and splits it into many distinct layers that can be 3D printed. The slicer uses this and This is the step-by-step instructions for how the 3D printer These are very specific instructions on how to move the stepper motors. This controls where the toolhead and build plate moves, as well as when the filament comes out. Fortunately for us, you don't need to understand this G-code, you just need to send and it does the rest. So let's walk through an example and see this in action. Once you press the print button, the build plate starts warming up, as well as the hot end of the nozzle. Inside of the toolhead, the stepper motor starts to spin, which pulls the filament through. The part at the bottom, this is called the nozzle. It's the piece that gets really hot. If you're using PLA, one of the most common types of filament, it will heat up to 220 degrees Celsius. Even with the protective cover, you definitely don't want during the printing process. At this point, the toolhead and begin to purge some of the filament to make sure that it's flowing. This is called purged filament or informally known as printer poop. Yes, the printer has Many people will actually to catch all of this purge filament. Now that the filament is flowing, the 3D printer will take additional steps to prepare for printing. One of them is called bed leveling. This is making sure that the build plate is completely level. Any offset could mean Bed leveling usually takes Modern 3D printers make much easier than previous Right before it actually starts printing, and it usually draws a to make sure it's still flowing correctly. At the back of the build Make sure the hot end is nice and clean. And after all of that, we are finally ready to start printing. The first layer is extra important because it has to stick really well. This is why the build plate is heated. The build plate is usually textured to help it stick a little better, but sometimes, a special glue is used. Oftentimes, the printer of the layer first and then the inside. This inside part is called the infill. You could make this part completely solid, but that would be a waste of filament. It's common to do about 15% infill, just enough to give it so that it maintains its shape. When it's done printing, keep in mind that the so use caution, but you should be able to grab your new item It cools pretty quick. Here's the A1 3D Printer in action. (lively music) Let's take a look at this 3D model. When printing the overhanging it would be necessary which is not possible. For something like this it needs to have supports added. It's the green tree-like Another example, let's try In my last video, we saw it would've collapsed The 3D printer is doing this but the same idea still applies. The Bambu Lab software that will be printed along You'll notice that the with some overhang, but once it gets to the When it's done printing, the supports can be broken off. Look at that, 3D printed Gateway Arch. There was a time when you in one color, but the A1 3D Printer has the ability to print in For this to work, you called the AMS Lite, that stands for Automatic Material System. This connects directly to the A1 Printer. You have room for four And then there are four that connect the AMS This is called the filament hub. The end of each filament spool is fed into the holes inside the AMS Lite, and a motor starts pulling Filament spools from Bambu Using this, the machine the type and color of filament. Very convenient so you don't When it starts preparing to print, the AMS Lite will push and the melting process begins. The 3D printer will warm up and calibrate just like we've seen before. When that's done, we're At some point, the printer gets to a place where it needs to switch colors. The toolhead moves over to the side. It will press this lever against this piece sticking out here. Inside the toolhead, you can see that pressing the lever cuts the filament. The filament is now retracted Then the second color Notice how we still have inside of the nozzle. We can't start printing Toolhead moves over to the other side to get rid of this extra filament. Let's take a closer look at what happens on this side. We have a small lever here. When this lever is pressed, The toolhead moves over then the purged filament comes out. It has to do this long enough to completely get rid of the old color. When the toolhead moves back, the sweep will get rid Now, the printer is ready to continue with the next color. This was a simple 3D print because the filament really Now it takes something like this. The color will need to on an object like this. It takes longer and there but that's the trade off to get your 3D objects printed in several different colors. The A1 is an entry level 3D printer. You can do a lot with it, but there are some downsides. It's informally known as a bed slinger. This is because the build plate actually moves back and forth. This means you'll need to plan for a little more counter space, and the rapid moving back and forth can sometimes be a problem when you start printing It's also 3D printing on the open, there's no walls enclosing this area, that makes it impossible and humidity during the printing process. Let's take a look at one of that solve some of these issues, the X1-Carbon, also made by Bambu Lab, a more expensive model, but there are many advantages to this. The first thing is that to control the climate inside. There is a glass panel on top and a glass door in the front to access the inside. Up at the very top is the toolhead. It can handle higher temperatures, giving you finer control and quality of the final print. The X1-Carbon is referred to as a CoreXY. The toolhead does the and the build plate moves Compare that to the A1 bed rapidly moving the build The X1-Carbon provides rapidly moving the toolhead, but slowly moving the as 3D objects are printed. The X1-Carbon has three threaded rods. When these spin, it moves The X1-Carbon uses something called LiDAR, which will scan the first layer On the side, there is an improved camera that will monitor the rest and take time lapse videos. It is a bit darker inside but the chamber LED light makes it so you can see a little better. Here's the fan to better and filter the air in the chamber. On top, you can usually put your AMS to print in multiple colors. Notice on the A1 printer, but this one is just called the AMS. It has a lid to fully This keeps out the moisture allowing for a higher If you're interested in a 3D printer similar to the one shown in this video, click the link in the description below. The future of 3D printing Thanks again to Bambu Lab My name is Jared. Thanks for watching. (relaxed music)