Ah, those buns! 25 options for molding homemade buns! Shaping simple and sugar buns If subtitles bother you, turn them off! My friends, hello everyone! Dina and the In this video, I want to share with you a few simple ways to mold yeast buns. Use your favorite dough for this, and I will leave a link to a video with Who remembers, we used the same dough to make sweet pies with apple jam. Bun &quot;Snail&quot; Roll a thin string and roll it up in a spiral in the form of a snail shell. We turn the free edge under the workpiece. &quot;Pretzel&quot; A piece of dough, as in the first and twist each end in a spiral to the middle towards each other. Bun &quot;Curl&quot; Roll out a thin and roll each side in a spiral from the edge to the center in the form of a figure of eight. Twisted bun We roll a thin we twist the ends in different directions, take by the edges and shape a twisted bun. Bun &quot;Spirals&quot; Roll out a thin and put it in a spiral. We make a recess along the center with a wooden stick. Bun &quot;Knot&quot; From the dough we roll a Bun &quot;Bird&quot; Roll out the flagellum 20-25 cm with a slight We make a tail from one end, and on the other, which is on top of the flagellum - the head, the nose, and with the help of peppercorns or small raisins - the eyes. Bun &quot;Larks&quot; Divide a piece of dough into two equal We put one in the form of a horseshoe, put the second on top of it and thread both ends into the resulting loop. We shape the beaks ponytails and make &quot;eyes&quot; using peppercorns or small raisins. Bun &quot;Pigtail&quot; Roll along the center, grease with butter and sprinkle with sugar, you can put your favorite filling, make cuts on both sides and plait a pigtail. &quot;Sugar cone&quot; We cut a flat cake with a diameter grease the middle with butter, lay out any filling or sprinkle with sugar and then cover first with one side and then with the other. &quot;Puff cone&quot; Cut a round cake with a diameter and, on the one hand, with a knife we make cuts for about a quarter of the entire cake. Grease the remaining surface with oil, sprinkle with sugar and fold the workpiece into a conical shape so that the cuts are on top. &quot;Spikelet&quot; Roll out with butter and We fold along, slightly press the edges. On the side of the fold, we make diagonal cuts, we open each petal and form a semblance of an ear or twig with leaves. Roll with cloves or &quot;Scallop&quot; Roll an sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, cover, Bun &quot;Leaf&quot; Oval cake 20 cm long sugar and pinch the edges along We fold the workpiece crosswise with a seam inward and, without pressing, make cuts obliquely. Bow - shape-shifter Roll an oval-shaped cake, grease with cinnamon, cover, but do not press, make an Bun &quot;Bow&quot; Roll out a round cake, Layered bow Prepare an oval cake, grease sugar, cover with the second half, without Bun &quot;Sloechka&quot; Lubricate a round cake with a diameter roll up into a tube, pinch the edges. We bend one and the other end to the center, press it slightly and turn it over. We make cuts on both sides and open the petals in the form of a butterfly. Bun &quot;Heart&quot; Roll the bun as in the previous we twist a tight roll, pinch the edges. Fold in half with a seam inward and make an incision from the side of the fold, not reaching the edge of 1.5-2 cm. We open the bun in the form of a heart. Bun &quot;Butterfly&quot; Roll out the dough in grease with butter, sprinkle with sugar, we roll up a tight roll, we pinch the edges well. We make longitudinal cuts on both sides, not reaching the center of 1 cm. We twist all 4 ends to the center with a cut outward. &quot;Puff wreath&quot; Roll a piece of dough grease with butter, sprinkle with sugar and roll the roll along the workpiece, we pinch the edges well. We make a longitudinal cut, not reaching the edge of 1 cm. With a cut up, we intertwine both halves together, and then we turn in a spiral. We remove the free edge under the workpiece. Sugar ring Lubricate a cake with with butter, sprinkle with sugar pinch the edges. On the one hand, we make transverse cuts along the roll and fold it into a ring. Bun &quot;Braid&quot; Roll out the dough into grease with butter, sprinkle with sugar, roll up the roll, pinch the edges, make a through cut in the center and turn one of the ends twice through it. Bun &quot;Rosette&quot; We make a thin most of it - about 2/3 roll out with a rolling pin, grease with butter, sprinkle with sugar and cut it lengthwise into 2 parts. We intertwine both halves together. We fold the braid, starting from the edge. If desired, we make decorations on the remaining piece of dough and wrap a rose with it. We hide the free edge under the workpiece. Bun - spinner Spread sugar on 20 cm, make cuts along the entire and roll up into a tube. We curl it in a spiral and fix the free edge. As usual, we let the products come up, grease with a mixture of yolk with milk or water, leave for 5-10 minutes to dry the grease and bake in the oven at 190 deg C with top and bottom heating without convection for 16-18 minutes. When ready, grease the hot buns with melted butter for greater softness, let them rest for 10 minutes and you can enjoy! Dear ones, I was glad to share my experience and traditionally wish everyone bon appetit! If you still have questions - ask and if you want to see the ways of forming burgers - write, and I will shoot such a video for you. Friends, if you also love homemade baked goods - like and subscribe to the &quot;Collection of Recipes&quot; channel! Dina was with you.