"I heard you were the best, and I have are you won't survive it, and I can't The enormous Marine Captain, large enough football team, shook Hathcock's hand violently. A hand numb after the Captain finally released it. standing next to the Captain in the hooch serving and looked as if he was already sold on the plan. The Captain shook his head. "Sorry son, this is than one man on what's probably a suicide Hathcock. He really did admire the skinny sniper, If there was anyone who might have a chance at "I know you're due to go home in you turned it down. Just let me know so I The Captain glanced over at Burke, and Hathcock volunteer'. It was taboo to take up one and superstition ran deep amongst combat veterans, on one of his sniper students, or Burke. Then it'd fat behind happily flying home. The whirlybirds blades chopped into he'd gotten himself in deep on this one. For he checked the plastic laminated map. It had what part of the country it represented. He wasn't direction of his helicopter flight it was either The job was simple- all he had to do was shoot a significant thorn in the US's side. More than a message- no matter where you are, we can to the NVA's strategic capabilities and killed before ever getting a chance to fire. compound- the less that Hathcock knew the less matter anyway, only layout, terrain features, him and his prey. It was a bona fide NVA fort, machine guns on towers, barbed wire and mine enemy had dogs, but Hathcock hoped they didn't. He guessed by the fact that the fort hadn't flying pretty deep into Laos, past the border free-fire zone for US Air Force bombers The night air had an unusual chill- if Rain would be a godsend. It would muffle his trail leading to his shooting position. Hathcock sipped from his canteen and surveyed covered in light and dark green grease paint, and gear were studded with various bits of against the trunk of a tree he resembled Getting here from the helicopter drop off point all the cover. What lay ahead of him was suicide. him and his target, the only cover a foot-tall could clearly spot the machine gun emplacements making use of binoculars to scan the terrain. field, making a big circle around the fort. and he didn't want to risk such an extreme skill and experience wasn't confident he'd get in close- at least to 800 yards. That with random NVA patrols swarming across it. easy part. The hard part would come after- the be in an uproar, NVA swarming everywhere. It would or the mortars he was sure the fort same way he went in. Invisibly. Hathcock took one final sip from his canteen. the movement would be too risky, and he'd rarely he began to replace the dark green vegetation Hathcock crawled slowly, deliberately, moving at be nearly imperceptible even to a man standing soon, and he was already too far from the treeline fully committed. At the rate he was going it would position. Hathcock couldn't rush things though. Suddenly, there was the sound of voices in his arm outstretched from his crawl. All he useless at close range- and the ka-bar knife at only defense was to remain unseen and undetected. joking while out on patrol. Their lack of that he was in fact somewhere deep behind enemy the men on patrol felt safe enough to kid why shouldn't they? Other than a massive air raid anything short of an entire armored battalion. Hathcock, landing just an inch away from his arm. way of the patrol- but the movement might give him The man moved on, and then another pair of away. Hathcock gave a silent prayer of unaware of how close they had come to the infamous on his head so high it would've made any Confident the patrol had moved once more, moving centimeters at a time. taking short ten minute stints. It was a he'd developed the ability, but the micro naps because real sleep would likely get him killed. sight of his prey, a short, balding general looked over the defensive works surrounding his once been a French plantation. The general was too his inspection he went back inside the house. Hathcock continued crawling forward, taking a came he saw a white sedan pull up to the house came out of the home and got inside. This was a local security would be lax until the general's crawl. A whole extra sixteen inches per hour. stings. At one point he'd crawled right through his clothing to deliver their tiny wrath. wondered just how many ant bites it would take or if they were even venomous. Eventually, the or maybe he had finally crawled far enough because they left him. That only made room for vast jungle being in no short supply of them. returned and home. At the same time, an NVA started straight towards Hathcock, but their eyes men walked right by Hathcock, completely unaware Once they were safely behind him, he resumed his His destination was a gully that he'd spotted on depression, Hathcock estimated no more than to lay in. The gully ran from where he planned where he could try to make his escape. days since starting his crawl, and the only thing of water. Getting out the c-ration crackers and far too much movement. He'd lived on crackers and normal c-rations being far too bulky for and right now peanut butter and crackers He pushed the thought from his mind- the last state was steak dinners. Inching forward, All thoughts of food immediately vanished chilling cold ran down his spine and to his legs, to keep himself from leaping up in a panic. no more than six inches in front bamboo viper. The creature's red eyes took in and its emerald head lifted slowly to stare at One bite, even a small one, and he would be dead likely only discovered by the NVA patrols when his He fought the urge to duck back, the sudden It might also startle the snake into biting. perfectly still, and hope that the The bamboo viper flicked its tongue again, Hathcock's face and body. It recognized this that often came with loud noises and trampling the snake underfoot. It was a scent of threat. noises. No sudden movements or trampling of grass. With a final flick of its tongue, the snake turned With a sigh of relief, Hatcock finally began to clear from his system. His blood the sudden drop in adrenaline gave him a bad case stop them, so Hathcock simply lay in the grass, Darkness was falling once more, Hathcock just two hundred yards ahead. He could also he'd been watching couriers coming and going all orders. The patrol that came and went were the grass around them, but judging by their ground assault coming through those trees. sandbag cover on the tops, and the anti-aircraft with an air assault. Good, Carlos thought, He could take his shot from here. He won the other tournaments and competitions- Striking would be no different, no harder a shot. compromise. This shot was more important even the Wimbledon cup that recognized He pushed the thought out of his mind and legs were covered in bug bites, stings, and grassy and stretch. Every muscle in his body seemed to But he pushed all those The gully was shallow, only six inches deep, but for a man to lay in. It wouldn't be much cover, Hathcock crawled to where a slight rise presented barrel of the rifle on. In front of the rifle the expelled gasses coming out of the barrel from Looking through the scope, he scanned the compound The next day, Hathcock told himself, the General the luxury of a small sip of water. Getting The first rays of dawn found Hathcock with old plantation was coming to life, guards shifts,as camp aides began to get around to their a puff of smoke signaled the cooking of a If Hathcock had it his way, He scanned his sight line, watching the movement house, he watched how the smoke from moved as it wafted into the air, pushing slightly Once the sun was fully up and bathing the scene off the roof of the plantation home. It too it- he watched carefully, calculating He'd done it a thousand times before, both bush when lives were on the line. But still ten times. He had to be sure. The sound of the white sedan starting up him to jerk in surprise. The fancy vehicle house, stopping at the porch. A half minute He was standing with his side to Hathcock's though. To ensure a kill he'd have to and while he was confident in his abilities and to risk on anything but a sure thing. If and even until tomorrow if necessary, to make supposed to rendezvous with the following morning find his own way home... somehow. He waited, watching patiently. All the general or away, both would give him the shot he needed. general, no doubt briefing him on last minute urging the aides to move, and to his surprise, one leading the General to the vehicle. Hathcock's The sun was now fully up in the sky and heating that the elevated temperature would have on the loaded round- it would burn faster, causing the crosshairs a few inches higher than normal- at the bullet would be in its downward The NVA general approached the waiting car, the "Ok, now stop." Hathcock thrust his the man stopped, turning slightly to face an Hathcock's crosshairs were placed on the the wind picked up as the bullet traveled and fundamentals ran through Hathcock's brain, his pull- don't jerk it. Wait for the natural pause in A sharp crack rang out. 7.62 x 63mm round crossed the distance to the target, the warm gunpowder had caused the bullet its target it was already arcing downwards. the broad upper part of the sternum, a half-inch bullet, already losing energy before striking the manubrium, causing it to arc up and to the left, The vein, bringing in oxygen-starved and arms straight to the heart, began to flood The bullet however continued in its trajectory, energy onto the spinal column, shattering the bullet's impact point, causing the collapse down onto the weakened section. in a tumble, tearing a large hole embedded itself into the side of the vehicle. the camp aides could only stare at what had just before reality suddenly came rushing in and they Soldiers began shouting out, machine gun fire Sergeant Hathcock was already crawling down the distant tree line. On the way in he'd moved at a brisk pace, but still only measured in a few out of the compound, he forced himself to remain The enemy soldiers poured through the field, focused on the distant tree line. Meanwhile, whisper in the grass, easily mistaken for the the field on what was quickly becoming another never have any idea that the man who took reach the safety of the forest. And in four