If you have discipline and no talent, you're and no discipline. The more that you love the more resistance you're going to feel, That concept is a one just to get paint on every part of that canvas. forward is everything. Gatsby just so he could feel what it was like Really? The entire thing. God bless him. Great. your writing improved throughout your career, and plateaued? I think that I hate to say this, but you know, of the box. The Legend of Bagger Vance and 24th book or something like that. So I hope as hard as I ever did and doing, you know, Working as like for you? You know, it's a seven day a say over the years, I know, at least I tell I used to do in four hours. It's like going the writing process. can, until you can't anymore, until you start. I start making mistakes. Yep. When I start I know I've hit. The point of diminishing after that. Is it like a lack of flow? Like, what is, think it's just plain exhaustion. You know, Cause I can go, you know, the first 99 percent know, not make typos, but all of a sudden after the other. stop for the day. needs to be done from the other work that agents, all that Um, I'll put a certain amount of time on that it's over. thing. When I do sit down to actually work, no emails coming in, there's no phone calls me about 15 a month in rent or That was a long time ago and I really was working as a truck driver at the time and you had to have was a pulse, you know, to on the job. And I was just sort of running badly, you know, and I always carried my old even though I never touched it. in In New York City, I was driving a cab. just at that point where, what was I going chase women, get drunk, whatever was I going I just can't stand this shit. fed up with it. I can't do it anymore. So expecting, you know, for no real, like, what The Sun Also Rises or something? So I sat a bunch of crap that I just threw away immediately. was a big pile of dishes sitting in the sink them. And as I was washing them, I realized turned a corner here somehow. Wow, you know, for all these years, trying to write, now At least I felt like I sat down crazy, And was going to be forever until I got anywhere anything good was going to happen. And in before, you know, I had a book published, So you talk about, uh, how I, do I believe that something Clicked. And, and I found the was sitting down and trying to fill a blank You don't still write with a typewriter, do No, I used a computer. Yeah? But, uh, my first there was. doesn't? thing as a computer at the time. I definitely can move paragraphs around and correct things stuff. Well, it's funny. I've been thinking terms of style, what typewriting gives you you in terms of style. accessible with a keyboard. And what I mean I would write. I didn't feel like my writing speaking. And I think it was because when off somewhere, I kind of have to follow it. when I'm typing, there's a rigidity to it. hit delete. Copy it, remove it. Sometimes or something so that I can't see the mistakes. those mistakes, letting the, the schmutz pour Ah, well, I, I would agree with that. I mean, correcting the stuff. Huh. I just let it go, correct it later. Well, that's what you're to do in your first draft. You're just trying Um, I have a mantra that I use for first drafts Oh, that's good. And I feel like, you know, If that's a, if that's a canvas, my job on part of that canvas. You know, doesn't matter it's going to be bad. It's just has to be Um. It's like Jackson and Pollock and that's analogy that I use, uh, I wrote a book a few the 1967 war of Arab Israeli war. And, um, general named Israel Tal, who had a good armored And although they didn't know this at the And the, uh, And I liken this to a first draft. slowing down. Whatever you come to that blocks lose nine tanks out of ten. Keep advancing Yeah, and so that's my theory on first drafts or and it's it's the idea of blitzkrieg Yeah stop you so that you're getting into it's That's the worst thing that can happen in too. you know, even if you leave your rear exposed, in a first draft. Yeah, what I think heavy, masculine, war, side, the king, the this magician lover of like this tenderness and the duality there is I think what makes If you only had one, you wouldn't even be But I don't think I'm at all unique in that. working artists is like that, that, uh, They seeking inspiration, you're seeking the flow, level, that you have to be, your instrument, to be ready for that, has to be ready to be Like if you're a choreographer, if you're inspiration for a move or whatever it is, it to her dancers and stuff like that. So out training like an athlete or like a soldier. to make it work. What are you hinting I'm speaking from his perspective and not Oh, wow. I mean, way beyond. I mean, I obviously Yeah. But he talks about as you get to higher so I don't know. You're receiving stuff from gets higher and higher and higher. And supposedly... be physically capable of absorbing that, you weren't trained enough to do that as an athlete, through, you know, there'll just be a block. actors, filmmakers, certainly dancers, certainly is getting inspired from somewhere. Totally. can just do it, right? You know? I don't know do that, you know? Podcaster. Yeah. Why do you recommend copy Uh, I used to sit down with just pages of on my old typewriter. And I think it's sort or any artist would go to the Louvre and just Or whatever it was and just copy it. They how people to talk to at an art museum. I was and he had this easel right there and it was a beautiful sort of old Roman sculpture and like the wisps of the pen that he was almost The movement of the sculpture, I just started young guy, studying. He's like, I do this like three, three and a half weeks. This is But think about Kobe Bryant learning how to shot. this is where your one foot goes this where, forever. One of my favorite articles of the and it's about Jason Tatum, Boston Celtics commenting on how much better his footwork And so what he would do is he would pause what the movement of the feet was. And the a very perceptive, hardworking basketball is as good as it used to be when a player years in. Yeah. So copying is, is great because at some just, you're just searching for a voice at Bob Dylan saying like Woody Guthrie, you know, specifically in Miller and Hemingway were to emulate? sure. It was just something I just loved the just reading it closely and actually writing again. You know, it just sinks in more on than, you know, purely intellectual. Gatsby just so he could feel what it was like Really? The entire thing. Oh, God bless him. different from Scott Fitzgerald. Yeah. That's you know, people will copy Tiger Wood, swing when they have YouTube and slow-mo, you know, with a, a teacher, you know, to match those But sooner or later, their authentic swing Legend of Berger Vance? No. Well, you should it's about this. Exactly. Yeah. You know. your first book? Uh, I mean, I grew up in caddy. the, the concept of the legend of Agar Vance swing. And what, what I mean by that is like question, like, think about somebody here, listening won't, but think about Jim Furyk's You know, that big loop swing, or Fred Kuppel's distinctive swings. Um, that, uh, the idea with a swing. Whether we know it or, like, And it's a, and that our job... You know, self or perfect writing style, but to find That's what, for instance, I had two friends identical twins, same DNA, right? So you would different swings, radically different. So that possibly be? You know? But obviously, you know? the book. The Authentic Swing, The Legend Oh, interesting. Do you feel like the movie Um... Um, you know, it's, it's very hard to book about golf. Other than Caddyshack, there's there's never been, there's never been a real you know? in other sports like they've been great boxing movies and other sports, baseball. So they lot. You have to, obviously have to cut and stuff. with The Godfather? you know. It didn't have layers that you could Vance does, and when you read it, you'll see. You know, what's funny about golf, the game of moves around the sport. that now. I think it's moving back towards is, the swings have gotten a little stale. with golf swings and I wonder if the internet Part of the reasons that the swing gets stale so many videos that you can watch you can get coaching and because of that you don't Fred couples and I do feel like with online that you get with a Joyce or that you get Thompson. And I wonder if these two things pulling from the same thread of what's happening onto something there, you know? Cause somebody so many other writers sort of marinated in Before they kind of came out of the the chrysalis you know Like you say with the sort of the so much stuff of do this do that the other You know, you're real authentic voice people Anymore, having written so much fiction? that apply to a story or a narrative apply has to have a hero, everything has to have be about something, has to have a theme, has a climax, that you could use those, those And the great nonfiction people, um, definitely studied great question. I had about a ten year career that I worked with, uh, an older established of a team. And, so, there's very definitely a story is. second act, midpoint, all is lost moment, that you learn, uh, as, uh, as you go along, asks you what's your second act curtain, you was sort of from me, my. idea of a story is. I buy that completely in my brain as a, what a story is and what me about this concept of Neshamah from Kabbalah. thought that'd be an interesting rabbit hole Well, as, as you know, the Neshamah is, uh, concept of souls. And, um, it's what I was plane, but our inspiration comes from the Like there's a thing in Kabbalah that above grow. level, the Neshama. is trying to, well, let the lower level and there's a soul at a higher that is called prayer. And the artist's prayer You know, uh, Homer, invoking the muse, goddess, the same time that we reach up to that level, soul, the Neshama, is reaching down to us, not that the world we inhabit as writers or That it's a very living thing. Um, and that that, as there are forces working against trying to give us ideas, trying to pull us I first heard Neshama, it wasn't... New to I call something else. my prayer has been make it obvious Make it Just that it gets revealed and it is Handed do Exactly what the answer is and there's Uh huh. And in what form does that take for It like a one liner and bullet points, and it gets distilled into here's one, two, three, give you an example. I wrote a piece about Thiel's Religion, and even in the title, it Peter Thiel. a religious component to his, his philosophy. a Stanford professor named Rene Girard. But hold on here, hold on. Peter Thiel wrote Zero Zero to One is... and the 10th commandment applied to business obvious, and I just went one level deeper It is what the obviousness looks like for idea. into the talking about here. Totally. So what, what are asking for make it obvious? What do you, I'm a Christian, so why I'm a Jesus follower. Uh huh. Tricky connotations. I'm a Jesus follower, and I just say it out loud and I just speak just try to be as honest and talk to God like in, I always think daily and desperate dependence. obvious. Ah. I mean I do sort of a similar down at work each day, I say, uh, out loud that a friend of mine taught me and typed similar thing, you know, where, where, uh, unknown higher force is. nice, right? Because you've written that these write them. So do you see them? And then it's is that an analogy that I use for myself is like, buried here, a fossilized dinosaur, we might We'd get kind of, uh, the, uh, thigh bone, paint brushes and, you know, we'd say, ah, then. We know there's, there's a whole dinosaur You know, and little by little, I think you and, and, uh, you're excited at first cause There must be a, you know, whatever it is project in your mind, ah, maybe this is a you go along, you go, Oh no, it's not, it's, a meat eater, you know, and then you sort reveals itself like the authentic swing reveals In what ways the pull of your imagination different when Nonfiction, I think, I mean, the only stuff about the six day war that I, where I interviewed. this? the War of Art and books that are about writing, because I've thought about them for a long sit down... Almost like you would write an need to come in? know? Um, whereas with fiction, for me, the it's so complicated, and there's so many different it's a... You know, a giant machine with a work together like a Ferrari or something So, um, that you're, I'm really more at a the goddess, you know, help me, you know, sure. You know, and you're constantly, you Yeah. know, um, so the, the. music and at least he was a very early pioneer And one of the things that he says with ambient he does is he makes the song and then he basically heuristic. And the reason is because he spent the consumer who's hearing it for the first, And I'm wondering when you're editing your if there's like a pacing that needs to change of someone who's just reading it for the first You know, I, each time I sort of go do a new I'll put myself in the reader's point of view know anything about this story, am I going suck me in at all? And sometimes I'll do another of mine, you know, my friend, Jim, let's say you know, or I'll pick two or three different And I'll say, you know, if Jim was reading certain attitude to it, you know. Would he this? Is this, you know, and I'll constantly that. How does the editing change as you go like you get almost different knives, like rid of this and then towards the end it's it Self editing is really tough, you know, without... um, and, uh, had a kind of a, So when I really I've, I've sort of got to do it myself and funny, I'm just, I'm working on a piece of to me sort of every time. I'm on like a fourth or fifth draft. I've in that sense, but this would be the point inevitably come back with something that was would send me back to square one in a way. by myself. I was on a trip, as you know, I And so I wasn't working, I was just doing percolating with me. And I had this moment and I'm thinking, Oh, this doesn't work at This thing that I thought. That happens to you're not and it's it's not working. You that you've left that you thought you would have to sort of go Address it again, and then it. did writing Wednesday publicist at the time Callie Archer where even, I don't know, what, 2007 or something I was trying to do. And it originally was It originally was about, um, Afghanistan and the War of Arts came out, that the comments of art here. There were people asking about or anything like the military aspect that And so Callie, who was my publicist, she said, talk about writing on this blog. And she said, W's. And so I sort of resisted that. But then seems to be the area that people want to Reach areas of stuff as much as they do about that you had to teach your readers how to write need to know I would not talk about the craft the the mindset that you need the professional sabotage and just about the the, um, obstacles you need to have to make it all the way from Because people, everybody thinks that they think that they could become a concert pianist. think that they can become a brain surgeon thinks they can write and I would like to can't you know, and Even though there are you need to have the level of mental toughness think so I would just if I were giving a one I was my main Thought that I would try to hard like they say raising kids as hard as that and it's the same sort of thing here ten times harder than that. And be ready for Gear yourself, ratchet yourself up. That's, Writing is the simplest thing ever. You show and yet that is so hard to actually do. There writing about why that's just so brutally resistance, Like, just the moment that I was just talking where I now have to basically go back to square the kind of thing that a lot of people are your ego, away from all the sunk costs that teaches you. the, uh, the skills that you need to get from of them. And nobody teaches you any of them. first nine months to a year, I am racked with dumb idea? et cetera. I'm not good enough to do this? if you don't feel it, I think it's a really face of that? That's a skill that nobody teaches, Um, the way to advance in the middle of doubt knew about when I started. I didn't know about nobody sets you down and says that, unless with Aaron Sorkin or somebody like that. don't have another dozen skills that have not going to get, you might get to the end, it's not going to be you. It's not going to just as a, uh, I'm sure you saw The Last Dance, And if you think about here, Michael Jordan player, right? You know, but along the way Would get beat by the Detroit Pistons every know that punishment, right? They the Jordan They would get as soon as he left the floor. he had to go through a number of stages including how he was gonna Make them better and how the last shot, you know, and All those things maybe Phil Jackson helped him along the way He had developed one skill and then another and then another and another and another to else take the last shot, that kind of thing. the greatest that ever played, had to, had so I run a company called Rite of Passage, a year. And one of the biggest things that I feel like I'm supposed to write about, whatever Whatever internal story that's a great example, to write you that nobody teaches you that. Right? Yeah. learn. I mean, that's what Hunter Thompson got to write that Scott Fitzgerald, right? if he ever wrote about this. There was a moment sure if he did Scott Fitzgerald, he wrote people's style too. Right. And he probably crazy style, but nobody writes that way. to laugh me. Right. And finally he said, I'm he was. He became Leonard Thompson. How do someone the courage to actually just do the to like comport yourself into these things you're supposed to be in. think it's a question sort of for me. I can Yeah, I think you reach a point where you do what you think you should do. What writing okay, I just can't do this, you know. And gonna be interested in but me. like this. Um, but I do think you have to think of it as a surrender to your nature. is that to do? Can you just tell somebody person himself has to kind of have a moment, You know come naturally. They come easily, they're know if it's the residue of the Protestant idea that things that you're successful in need to grind, because that is the price of I see people who are in a flow, there's like like Jordan, there's a little scene in The suicides, And he's a mile ahead of everybody Like, you can just see that those are NBA basketball. And yet, you could park a football next guy running. And I know that he's gritting like him, a guy like Kobe, there is still And it still pours out of them. They can't think that that has been a real struggle of that come a little bit more easily to me and actually good at these Except within that, then it's still arduous, those skills and you still have to, you know, you want to call it, where you're spewing look at it. And with cold eyes and say, you can I fix it? word discipline you know, it's everything. If you're going I would say if I had a one day class. Think you're going to write something that's going day. time pretty much full time like I think it Lee child. It was some very successful You that for him, a first draft is 400 hours, that's about right. weeks and nobody can work a 40 hour week as it's more like 20, 20 hour weeks for a first something like that. How are you going to Um, if you have discipline and no talent, talent and no discipline. or any kind of, not any kind of creative artist, that alone. It's not like... You're on the and you have a trainer, and you have, or it's be a brain surgeon, where they actually have You're going to go to this class, and that of a semester you get a grade, and you can have peers that you can talk to. If you're new, and everyone, everyone is, you can't You know, it's boring. And you, you know, by yourself, you know? Except for the muse. I do as much as I can, but of course there's externalize your thought? Or do you, or is head? I have a whole, um, idea of what a story is And, and the principles that a story needs So what would an example of principles be? So, I ask myself if I, if I have, uh, an idea what's act three? like that. Um. And, uh, I'm a big believer of... Who is the villain? Is it a person? mind? Is it a societal? So the villain in War of Art is the Resistance. Even in a non fiction work. There's still a villain in a non fiction work, in my opinion. got... The hero, the villain, the axe, what I have a whole lot of other stuff there. It you one thing as a thing. I have a principle And if, if you think of a classic example, Faye Dunaway and Jack Nicholson, right? Yeah. it's a male detective always. There's always femme fatale always carries the mystery. Or, be a woman. sea carries the mystery, right? That's the, Lawrence of Arabia. The desert is the female gorgeous, right? And Lawrence himself falls watch that movie, it's hit again and again You know, um, the Anthony Quinn character, is only the desert, you know? And, um, even the movie. The, which is like, uh, I don't seen it? Uh, it's, it's the Magnificent Seven And it's the same story of a village that and the female in that story are the rice want. And that, and, and at the very end of have won and the bandits have been killed So I, that's a principle that I will have. myself of any idea that I have, what's the And why, what is it? What is, what is the Something that cannot be solved. It's like, What is death? That's the mis... You know, What is it? You know? And it gets back to to life. So that's one... I have like many questions of the story. Is this working? Does You of experts talking like experts. I'm going the video list. What a villain in our own life, whatever, whether our novel or are creating our sympathy, our We're all up against that. The ultimate villain gives life to the whole story. If there isn't a great story, right? The, the greater the I'll give you an example of somebody, an internal Have you seen the movie Silver Linings Playbook? be a joke on how I write moving forward that I just read. I don't really watch movies. and maybe it'll explain it. There we go. It and it's, I'm maybe about 10 years old or about Bradley Cooper He's coming out of a thing and he's obviously nutty. to get his life back together. And the one sort of new sanity around, is he's gonna get restraining orders. He's insane. And this gonna get Nikki back. Lawrence. Another sort of, and as soon as it, we know these two are meant to be together. right? Somehow they're going to get together. obsession with his wife, Nikki. to be happy, he's got to get rid of that. this is bullshit, I'm driving myself crazy, love her. You know, so that's a villain that's head. by David O. Russell, who also directed it. obsession, it just plays and plays and plays it. how do you think about building the suspense long that the story moves Another rule that I have is to always start This is a screenwriting principle, like if this into your head, you know, what's the try to think how am I going to build to this but yet it's huge and it works. if that's suspense or not, but I certainly, Yeah. Tell me about Paul Rink. was. Um, I'd, like I told you, I'd failed again and again. I'd saved up money, worked, and I had 2, 700 I moved to this little town in Northern California, who just happened to live in a camper down uh, take a walk and I would stop at his camper coffee together. told me like he would tell me books to read. to me. Read this, read this, read this. And that a writer needed, you know, and, um, he say this prayer to the muse. it out for me and gave it to me. Uh, so he needed it when you Do you feel like you had more of a, uh, like to make it. Oh my goodness. Or do you feel will come through for you? I wasn't, I was coming from so far back. That, I found this thing, the act of writing that hope, but I knew, well I take that back a the way. to be good, maybe I'll, you know, break through I still haven't really like broken through. like that. A few people sort of know, but know, I, for me. you know? Uh, but no, I didn't really think like that. I just had found something that better at it. You know, I could see that I and so many people were so much better than my voice. in the Italian leagues, you know, trying to when you talk about your struggle, other people nature of that Yeah, exactly. So what was What was that um, I wasn't blessed with any great gift. that I really wanted to get across. I wasn't know, it took me forever. Um, and I, you know, good writers and I'd say, oh man, that's no So um, but over the years, I sort of think least in writing, maybe talent is not overrated In, uh, but at least in something like writing, enough work and, and enough luck, you can of. didn't uh, you, you get the right agent at the right hands at the right time. You know? Um. Um. completely out of your control. You can do luck, you know, an actor that gets cast, you You ever go back Yeah, you do. Ah, yeah. Sometimes when I need But, but, uh, yeah, I do. Yeah. Which ones you've never heard of called Tides of War. the Peloponnesian War. and Sparta, the 27 year war. And, uh, about heard of either. But, uh, it was a real ambitious me that sometimes when I read passages over me I didn't think I could do that. who the work that they interface with the Yeah, wouldn't surprise me at all. Yeah Why the most popular stuff is a fastball right because people can relate to that, you know, that kind of thing, where sometimes, uh, something then, you know, it's not, it's not a fastball. a, I don't know what, you know, loopy slide it. If you're a baseball fan, you got to go, outside. You know, nobody does that since can appreciate that. like that, uh, I think you yourself appreciate the story Uh, where does that question come from? That you lay out certain stories and then it's You get to the story of Christ at the end resonant know? Um, otherwise it wouldn't have lasted of the interface between the mortal and the we nail it to a cross, you know, um, and, it's really the story we all live. and pain to quote Mick Jagger, you know, um, know, Jesus was a sailor, he walked upon the from a lonely wooden tower, da, da, da, da, men could see him, he said, all men will be So that's, that's it. You know, it's, it is Man, when the divine disappears, we nail it But it's true. You know, Martin Luther King, you know, over and over. That is a crazy idea. You know, you're asking for... Make it obvious, appears, you accept it, you know, but a lot happens. So it's too scary. resurrection that, you know, I mean, this think that, that, uh, a lot of stories are Are you, you're familiar with the concept a bell in there? Ah, this is another, we talk is another screenwriting thing. Where they you're delivering a script to a company like with executives, they'll ask you, where's And the all is lost moment always comes in, start of the third act. And it's the moment moment when the hero is as far away from achieving the moment when the hero sort of hits bottom Has to go, can't solve the problem by material means. And when the hero makes that switch, starts to happen. But that's sort of the, um, like the typical story of an alcoholic, Somebody who's in denial, they have a drinking you know, they come home at, uh, two in the been changed. Their wife is gone. Their kids of the, the on the cross moment, right? That's You know what I mean? And if you go to, um, tell their stories, it's all the same thing. And then the resurrection moment is when the I've got to do something about this, you know, And then they go to AA or they do, they go they are resurrected, you know, but again, not a resurrection. Of, uh, smooth sailing one day at a time. Get through this day, you Mm-Hmm. . And, um, but that is, in my opinion, you know? And so for me, like my moment when down and started to write, that was sort of on. It's still incredibly hard, right? You year, day after day, week after week, right? Yeah. It's every day. the same time, it's fun. the edge of yourself, and you've actually there's a surrender. There is something very self reliant and just acknowledging that there's that you can just serve. mean, it's the old question of, are we material we spiritual beings in a material world? And We're spiritual beings in this material world we sort of accept that there's another level, workables. writing that Has felt so magnetic for you. need to express yourself? Is it a desire to Is it a vision that you had as a kid and you is it? That's another great question. as a kid Never was an ideal of me never idolized of fell into it for all the wrong reasons I was one of those, you know, really, I was do that. my first job was in advertising in New York of like eight or nine people. And then a boss and it was it. And I sort of said at age 22, was hit. you know, 35 years later, I finally did have I got in because I thought it was easy. I in it and I had kind of fallen through the I'm going to get out of this paper bag is You know, I've, uh, it was, there was a lot I've never felt like I had anything that I to get out or that it was fun, but it was, for me. Yeah, I validate and I'm really feeling it now. And the second is that anyone who you meet is on the flip side of an incredible amount they had to make sense of to actually cultivate when you said 35 years, like that's longer That you struggled with this craft from post what 52 years old when you finally were able But I think there's a certain reality to that. Of course, yeah, he had laws of power and I mean, his story is very much like mine, jobs, you know? And, uh, tried to write various to write a novel. And finally sort of found And, uh, and again, it was sort of with luck I want you to write this book and the 48 laws I think that's a story. And worry, it wasn't it was like, ah, this is it. I found my voice. built to. up in your work, or do you feel like I just And. I don't, there's no, I think a lot is, Is that right? Yeah. Um, you know, like you your shit. I love that book, man. So the concept, idea that you realize in advertising. Nobody stupid commercial, right? Right. They want They hate it. And they should. I hate it. to see this stuff? So, you then realize from good job, you got to get around that and you message so compelling, so interesting, so break through, you know? A one act play you're going to write, a dance write. You know, nobody wants to hear, listen song about my heart was broken, you know, in other words, you got to work hard and you and what doesn't work and what's, what works What's your thing and that is art. Well, Shit is to streamline your message. Focus. to understand form. not say that applies to, say, the 48 Laws it, you know, a massive amount of stuff. people are going to spend two seconds looking go over. Really, really quick, but I would make it really, really long, as long as it's I like this idea, this is from number 167 Saying yes to A, saying no to B. And I've I think it resonated. So, I think about writing hang out with a friend, and it's a 90 minute the price of that hangout is one writing session. the writing process that you and I were both Yeah, very definitely. I just saw a video called it vitamin N. It was on the subject to say no to that 90 minute thing. um, I've stolen this from him, where somehow and scientists saying no, and what they said. Dickens. Where he said it was him turning or go to lunch with him. sometimes, you know, it's a half hour to get about that in the morning when I know I have morning. He says I cannot do it. I have to so I'm saying no. read one last night. From the CTO at HubSpot, had signed up for right of passage. I was company joining, joining the course. I'm like, 30 minute onboarding meeting? He goes, I don't never seen before that totally depersonalized He sent me a link to an article and it's called and I was like, boom, nailed it. That is exactly how do you have the tenderness and the grace but I'm in service of creative work and not Like I've, I know a few people who are really No one likes them. Like they're real a holes Like I tell them, I say, you, you don't do been trying to figure out how do I get better feel like a right hook. all taught to be nice guys and we don't, you you, you know, you're an asshole saying no. I say yes to somebody that, that wants to going to my daughter's soccer game. to say yes to this guy and a no to my daughter? of how do you do it nicely. But if people understand, you know, there are people out Yeah. You know, all they, all they know is give a shit, you know, about your time, or or something, if you write them a blurb or uh, blow those people off and just say, I You know, I to you, but I probably asked you to do an Ah. But you know what else you did? You sent my readers, and I really appreciated that. So here we are now. Tell me about the method. That's again, it's kind of a screenwriting 60 scenes, and so it can be on index cards, time. We'll cover the wall, you know, Act you know, you can start with, I call it kind a clothesline and you're hanging, you might ending. you know? Or here they, uh, he almost gets he sort of asks himself, well, how do we fill has to happen at the very start? You know, Do 60 scenes and just keep changing them as to get at it so you get them all out and then you might upgrading and revising. kind of boring They're really repeating what You know and then you'll take out some other style in your really good question. Each book, I think, And it dictates that style to you, the writer. the War of Art has a kind of a tough love me, you know. But that was sort of the style my historical novels are set like in ancient of Thermopylae. going to write this? Am I going to write this sort of decided was to pick, I picked a very sort of the way, um, like a lot of ancient by Cambridge and Oxford dons. and they use a very formal style, you know? to make the reader feel like he's, you know, you know, and, and the characters will talk in, uh, in, in each. each piece. definitions have gotten so much less interesting? 100 years ago, like Webster's 1913 dictionary, then Google the same thing now, Yeah, certainly when you Google, I haven't right. Those old dictionaries are so great. she has one of those dictionaries. It's like like a little library, right? You gotta lift grandfather or something like that from like to read that stuff. The definitions are so good, like, there's and now you'd be like That's, that makes no And then I picked up an old dictionary and And it's beautiful. I agree with you. depth, the nuance of a word when it's of how to use it and you know, yeah, yeah, Do you use it at the source? I actually, I version of it. You know, I'll use whatever more words in the English language. of 20 or 30 and it's not enough, you know. Definitely. But you like making up words. like that. You know, I used to, when I was it's set in ancient Greece, to make it feel Greek words in there, you know, that, you get it, you know? And, uh, so, uh, I had a I used to do was I would, I would make up him and ask him to give me, like, to translate Or like, just one simple word was, an exercise, and was called an eight nighter. thing, you know, and when you put that in story, it, it helps. It makes the reader go, he's talking about. And it's kind of a, it's a fake, but it's, it's a, it's a trick. it's happening in that era. Yeah. you really like? Like for me, I really like with breath and breathing in and out. And way that breath and spirit are actually connected. then inspires you. I think that there's so Yeah. There's the one, the example that comes how to write Japanese, but supposedly the little squiggly lines or it's part of it that bowl. that's part of the, of the ideogram or whatever really cool. There's a Chinese word of revenge but it is for the way that you procrastinate. doing and then you get home and then after comes up, there's a procrastination that you you have your freedom. can sort of just be in that flow. Wow. I love That's it primal. Tell me guy who wrote Save the Cat, uh, Blake Snyder. he was talking about screenwriting, he was uh, uh, the, uh, the ideal movie should be To communicate to a caveman, make it primal, it should be, the visuals should be able to, but that's where, yeah, it didn't come from agree with that? How come? I think a lot of And, uh, it, it, it isn't all, movies aren't agree that a story should work for a caveman know, the ideas are pretty subtle and pretty And why do heroes need to story is about learning, I think, right? you know? And suffering produces learning. one of my mantras is make your heroes suffer. work, the heroes, the writers put the heroes suffer, the more, the better the story is. about a movie. Actors love to suffer. My left suffering produces, makes, makes the hero, learn from it. You know, the suffering produces, is no real learning without suffering. example of a story where the hero suffers nailed it? Uh... I mean, if you think of just that I learned this from was called The Forgotten that's watching this. And it's about, it's about the German army in World War II on the the shit out of them. The tide had turned and the Russians had them outnumbered, you happening in the worst winter, you know, ever. mad. And the experience of reading it. Was to see the Nazis suffer or anything I realized about these guys suffering such hell, you heroes suffer, you know, if it's, uh, some know, we want our guy, you know, swallowing we love to, we love to see that. going to get anywhere, we got to go through know, a hero deal with that stuff, male or mantra that you find yourself repeating? of them, but this one doesn't even have a, about self doubt just keep going in the face is a form of resistance and the more resistance can be that you have to do it. dealing with self doubt. And just to keep, I was reading about that this morning and a one move checkmate. That the more that you going to feel and therefore the more you need I feel like you just won, I was going to say mind. You called the book the war of heart, Well, I want to close by talking about this things that I think are really interesting The first is, this is a book that you can working on a creative project. I think you Years worth. Years. And I think that this to you when you're stuck, when you're feeling Tell me about this book and why you chose that, uh, the book is structured. This actually idea was Ryan Holiday, who wrote, uh, The event and he said, you know, you've got so to organize this into like a 365 day thing right beside where they where they're working. book is structured, if you're starting a novel, in this book, day one, is titled Resistance thing on the first day and what you have to how to deal with your own self sabotage. talking earlier about certain points that, subject where you're going to get hit with of act one, in the middle of act two, right it hits you like a ton of bricks. those moments come that on that day, that it. So that was the idea. I wanted it to be from, you know, fade in to fade out, you know, them through it. fun. Okay. It's a pleasure. Yes.