A couple weeks ago the LA Rams became the first team ever to punt away every one of their first eight possessions. It was the worst football game anyone's ever seen. Except for this one. September 27, 2015, Bears versus Seahawks. On their opening possession, the Bears can't And they punt. A few minutes later they're next drive stalls After a Seahawks field goal, the Bears suffer In the second quarter Chicago finally makes Facing a very make able fourth and five, they On their next drive they tap out around mid It's now the third quarter and the bears are On fourth and 17 they punt. Shortly thereafter a couple penalties put They punt. As the fourth quarter approaches, Chicago Time is running out pretty quickly and if of winning the game, they absolutely have Close to midfield they find themselves at The Bears have very favorable odds if they They punt. It's the fourth quarter. The Bears now trail 23 to nothing. They punt. Four and a half minutes left in the game, It was the last time they would ever have Game over. The Chicago Bears had ten God-given possessions every single one of them. It's the only time an NFL team has done that It's possibly the only time it's ever happened. But these are only ten of the 46,377 regular Here are all of them, sorted horizontally the punting team was when they punted. So now you've seen nearly 50,000 punts. Congratulations, and I'm sorry. In order to really understand this data we're different angles. There's a lot of responsible, sensible punting But there's also some of the most confounding, This is our quest to find the saddest punt We're limiting our search between the years play data is either incomplete or unreliable. Thankfully pro-football-reference.com contains Now here I've sliced up these punts by the the punting team would have needed for a first We've got fourth and one, two, three, four, and very very long. In doing this we can identify a few very broad For instance, while we see thousands and thousands totally empties out back here to form a sort There is fourth and five here at the six yard That's because it's logically impossible to And if we look from a certain angle we can Form another angle it resembles a step ladder. So many punts happen here for very good reason. Fourth and one from the 34, fourth and two what do all of these have in common? Well most of these drives necessarily started where you start after the majority of kickoffs. We can see the footprint of a recent rule Starting in 2015, the ball was placed at the Prior to that it was placed at the 20 which there. But if you ask me a lot of the most interesting A few teams elect to punt within the opponents from a first down. And of course nobody would ever punt on fourth Well, almost nobody. Now an offense can legally punt anywhere on nearly 50,000 back here, none of them ever People who don't watch American football might And actually a lot of people who watch Chart going to take just a minute to explain what Since I wouldn't want to bore those of you providing some alternate programming for football Please enjoy. The game of football is all about possessions. In other words the times that you have the Over the course of a typical football game it's very important to try to make the most Suppose you get the ball here, your possession the field and score. You have four downs or chances to do this. That's a really long way to go though. You're probably going to need more than four Luckily football comes with check points. Every ten yards your health meter is restored. Suppose it's third down and you've only gotten make it here it resets to first down. That applies to every time you manage to get It resets and you can resume your journey. But if you can't that's trouble. If you burn through all four downs and you is over. And the other team gets the ball. If you run out of gas all the way back here, and is a lot closer to scoring than you were. And this is where the punt comes into play. Say it's fourth down and you still have eight line in just one play are not that great. NFL teams only do so about a third of the So if you want you can admit you've lost this Which is to say you can get as far downfield Your opponent will still get the ball, but be stuck with it all the way back there. In this fourth and eight situation, that is When an NFL team gets the ball it ends up A possession ends with a punt far far more outcome. The punt is more likely than the touchdown Consider that. Pro football is not primarily a game of scoring, It's a game of in a sense giving up, failing. Punting is often necessary and often makes At the most extreme end of the well sometimes I watched this happen live. It's very near and dear to me. October 13, 2013, down by just a touchdown have driven to the 50 yard line. And almost any conceivable scenario the Raiders first and ten becomes a first and twenty thanks And when they repeat the down, quarterback It's now second and 32. This is becoming a nightmare scenario for on his throwing hand. Arrowhead Stadium is going nuts making it They fail to snap a ball in time and are hit They are now so far back that the CBS crew It's second and 37. This season across the NFL there will be 11,830 And this will end up being the only one that's And then Pryor is sacked again to bring up after an incompletion becomes a fourth and Just a couple minutes ago this punt wasn't Now it's the only reasonable option. That was a freak occurrence but the majority There were tens of thousands of cases in which do. Now it's true that in sports this is often NBA players miss more than half their shot fail to get on base more than two thirds of The difference though is that the shooter trying to get on base. A punting football team on the other hand field. It quits trying to advance in the hope of It chooses to quit. On average, an NFL team chooses to quit about It's a very sad sport. So we know why teams punt. I thought it might be interesting to look On a fourth down a team has three choices. They can punt, they can go for it, or they If the team is deep in their own territory the time. That's the red. Over to the left in green, we see the rare They pretty much only do this if they're in But I found one massive exception. This might be the boldest play call I've ever If you can call it that. It's November 11, 2012. The Rams are facing fourth and four at their They're up by a touchdown and there are only This is just about the most obvious punting So 22 year old rookie, Johnny Hekker, trots But then! At the last second, the 49ers Chris Culliver Rodney McLeod wide open. Hekker sees this and within a two second span McLeod's a defensive player to this day it's in the NFL. But it works. The Rams pick up 21 yards for a first down. Do you understand how brazen this is? We have to consider the risk-reward here. Hekker averaged about 46 yards per punt that If the Niners were stuck at their own 44 with very little chance of doing anything and the Now if the Rams were to screw up this fake The Niners would be at the Rams' ten and a field goal. And if the fake punt actually works, what Great, their own 31 with less than a minute Predictably the Rams got absolutely nothing That first and ten very quickly melted into The Rams took a huge risk to gain pretty much And that's what they got. Unbelievably enough, the Rams tried this again In the same game in an even more dire situation. It was fourth and eight deep in their own And they were losing by four. Even more unbelievably it worked again. Johnny Hekker has successfully passed on a Now clearly this was awesome. It was tons of fun. But was it good, smart football? I don't know. Seems like the football gods didn't know what in a tie, a result that happens about once Anyway, back to the chart. As you can see punting is still wildly popular yard line. Now a few sickos have tried to kick field punting territory all the way up until the field goal will swoop in. In fact the only spot on the field that which all the way up at the one yard line. So a few things stand out to me here. First, the fact that punting from an opponent's Several punts have even been attempted from We'll visit some of those in greater detail this particular horror. See that little guy? Yeah, someone actually punted from the opponent's I promise you, there is an explanation. November 12, 2000. In the final seconds of the third quarter They've driven all the way to the Dallas 24 Cincinnati badly needs a touchdown, but picking order. It would be understandable to inch a little goal which is what NFL teams do an overwhelming Compounding the stupidness of this punt is explain for non football fans. If a punt rolls into the end zone without which results in the receiving team getting Now this is why punters often try to coffin-corner way back here. If the ball goes out of bounds here, the ball The receiving team doesn't have a chance to is stuck with terrible field position. That did not happen here. It rolled straight in for a touchback which Down by 14, the Bengals gave up possession We don't have film of this probably because it. But a couple of newspaper articles are enough A few minutes prior Bengals punter Daniel The snap was high and by the time Pope was over him. Rather than getting off whatever punt he could, Now that informs this decision. This is not a planned punt. The Bengals are in fact trying for a field The guy in charge of taking the snap and holding The snap is bad, again. Pope has to stand up just to catch it rendering So in desperation he squares up and punts. Considering everything, it made sense. And that's the story of the furthest-downfield For a moment let's forget what teams do on they are on fourth down because I found something Here are the locations of all 72,394 fourth The spikes of the teams own 20 and 25 yard Because teams so often start their drives nowhere and in fourth and ten just kind of But look at all the other spikes. At the five, ten, fifteen, not the 30 or 35 virtually every other five yard marker all pronounced. Why would that be? Why would these spikes be all neatly settled yards? I mean it's not as though teams routinely It is true that a lot of penalties typically but these only occur at the rate of one every And besides how would that explain all the A team is only commonly anchored to a white I don't think there are anywhere near enough that perfect five yard stride for such a long I like my theory better. My theory is that officials and or score keepers They appreciate neatness and order. Officials typically have a little bit of leeway the 49 and 50, eh, let's call it the 50. They see a big solid line on the field and You know what? Who can blame them? Isn't that adorable? I think that's just adorable. One last thing about that chart from earlier, where there's a somewhat balanced confluence for it? For our purposes, this part of the field is If we unstack this same chart, we see something Here are those same punt, go for it, and field The three come very close to converging. In particular if we focus on this slice between are almost perfectly even. As even as they'll get on any slice of the This set of data gives us a unique opportunity toward one decision or the other. All else being equal. So let's look at some splits. First let's see if the decision is influenced team it's punting. Of course it doesn't in any meaningful way or K through Z or still 32% to 35% is likely We're only looking at this to establish the And more relevant is the time of year. As you can see teams later in the season get slightly less often and going for it slightly This might be because the stakes are much Now, of course you should be trying to win isn't a rational approach but it's easy for urgency than a 2-2 team. If we drastically narrow the time scale, this In the first half of the game teams go for This spikes all the way up to 40% in the second We can also split it by whether the team in This is dramatic, but very predictable. If a team is losing in this situation they're Similar story here. Obviously if the team is further away from to go for it. What I find interesting are the punt and field They basically switch places despite the fact irrelevant here. If you're punting or kicking a field goal, ten has absolutely nothing to do with anything. Now this might just be the level of statistical nothing at all. Want to know what I think though? I think that being far away from the first punt when they're sad. And that voodoo aside of all the splits I Look at that. In the odds teams opted for a field goal just rate has just about doubled to 45%. There's clearly been a massive shift in behavior It's because kickers have gotten better at This decade from this range, kickers have about 20% which has been enough of an incentive When they're all laid out like this, you can With the field goals in yellow, and the punts They're situated horizontally by year and The earlier on in the century you get, the This was especially so in a third and fourth Take the second-half decisions in the 2001 They chose to punt 61 times while trying just There are fewer dots up here. In part because there aren't all that many in your opponents 30s in overtime, the situation is an unbelievably sad thing to do. This thoughtless behavior which we saw a few about eradicated. It did pop up once in the 2010s. Well after punting habits had evolved, teams than to punt the ball in overtime from the Years later, it presents itself to us as a surely dead. Who were you? It's our mission to find out. But in order to find the very worst, saddest This is the Surrender Index. Is it a scientific instrument? No, not really. It might incidentally be instructive here but primarily this is a tool I built to communicate The higher the number the Surrender Index All 46,377 of these punts will be fed through Now four factors will be taken into consideration. First, the punting team's field position. If the team punted with line of scrimmage of one. This score inches by 10% per yard as we approach Once in enemy territory, the pressure intensifies This gets out of hand very quickly. While punting from the 50 earns a score of from the opponent's 40. Five yards closer, it's about 40. Five yards closer than that, it's about 100. At this point it goes completely out of control. If you punt from the opponent's 24, the side you're hit with a score of nearly 300 points. This is cruel. It's supposed to be cruel. Second, we look at the distance the team would for it. Punting from further upfield is a little bit at fourth and long, right? As such, we offer some leniency here. The further away a team is from a first down, For example, if you punted on fourth and ten, You can see what this does to the score. Punting way up field hurts, but punting way is just a little bit more forgivable. Third, we look the score differential at the In other words, whether the team is winning, If the punting team is currently winning, If the game is tied, the score receives a If the team is trailing by nine or more points, goes up to three because after all, you're If you want to win, you're gonna have to stick You might wonder what's up with this gab. Well, I saved it for a very, very special Because if you're down by just one score and with a score of your own, you have no business You want to play it safe, go be a bridge inspector. It's a very important job and it's apparently And fourth, we add one more very important This only applies if A, the team is tied or And, B, the game is past half-time. If both these conditions are met, the gears slightly with each passing second. I'm doing that with this formula. Why? Because it does that. This won't affect the score that much until After about a minute into the fourth quarter, Toward the end of regulation, the multiplier The worst is saved for perhaps the most nauseating Punt right at the end of overtime, which believe a multiplier of 20. Now, I'm told that episodes of Chart Party Your algebra teacher, rightly so, is probably Why is he doing that? Why would he raise it to the third power? What basis does this have in anything? Where's any of this derived from?&quot; Well, it's derived from my dissatisfaction. It's a reflection of how I feel. I'm misusing algebra to throw a fit. Finally, at my own discretion, I can rule There are certain uncommon scenarios that Maybe you've made a decision to punt that other reasons. If I had to determine to something other than for the punt, I'll hit the button and spare Index. Fair enough? Let's go ahead and throw a couple of punts how this works. How about that Raiders punt, the one on 4th Well, the punt was inside the 40 so there's Since it was way, way past fourth and ten, However, they were losing by one score when the four times multiplier. The punt occurred with 5:38 left in the fourth of approximately 4.13, leaving us with a surrender That's slightly higher than most punts got, After all, they did punt while losing in the But it's not even in the same galaxy of how Let's take another example. Remember this one we talked about, the Bengals' Putting this through the Surrender Index is disposal. To find the field position score, we have 24, which returns a value of almost 300. It was fourth and fourteen, though, so we They were down by 14 points at the time so It occurred 73 seconds into the third quarter 1.00039 and finishes with a surrender score Remember, the last one was a three. But remember, also, that this was an emergency They didn't plan on doing this so we can hardly This is a rare instance in which I'll exercise This punt is excused. Two down, 46,375 to go. This is what I was hoping for, easily identifiable The vast majority of these punts are very They range from "fine" to "I wouldn't The obscene content is up here. And, because you might be wondering, I calculated and, yes, teams seem to have grown less timid. In 2000 punts averaged a Surrender Index of In 2018, it was down to about two and a half. This may be thanks in part to a very well One day Romer was listening to a game on the goal line but decided to kick a field goal It seems to have irked him so much that he it in 2002. Here's the entire thing, I'll give you a moment How did you like it? What was your favorite part? My favorite part was this, quote, &quot;At midfield going for it, on average, desirable. Even on its 10 yard line, 90 yards from a down is better off on average going for it.&quot; That's too radical even for me but he's the He studied this intensively and he knows what This paper was passed around in NFL circles specific piece of advice, I think it really decline in cowardice over the years. But there are always outliers. Of the nearly 50,000 punts assessed by the are. Washington versus Philadelphia, October 8, Washington punts from their opponent's 35 The score is tied at 14 and they're about All that combines for a score of about 313. Remember, the average score for a punt that But the funniest thing about this one isn't This punt fell into the end zone for a touchback yard punt. Punts from all the way up here a bummer not great field position but because the punt Part of that is because you can only stick But the touchback is a major factor here as It takes a huge bite. From back here you can reliably stick your you're at midfield, it starts to deteriorate. In fact, whether teams punt from their own with the ball in basically the same area. That's only a 10 yard difference. Not only are you giving up very good field your punt. Teams are less likely to punt from out here Even in 2018 we were still doing this. Which brings us to number nine, Cowboys-Texans. The dreaded overtime punt, brought to you His Cowboys were lucky enough to receive the to the Texans' 42 so they could punt on That is disgusting. Now, late in the process I realized I made I failed to account for the fact that as of to 10 minutes and since I was inverting time in these two seasons have slightly inflated I thought about correcting it but I hate overtime it there out of spite. That's the number one rule of data journalism, however you need to in order to prove your Anyway, if we take another look at the champagne one of the most disciplined years on record, smarter. It's blemished by this one outlier so extreme of the year's runner-up. Thank you Cowboys. Naturally, Houston beat Dallas in football else. For number eight we return to the age of nu-metal. December 2, 2001, Bucs-Bengals. It's another punt from the 35. As you can see, it's a lot further up than a fourth and one. Why the higher Surrender Index? Again, that's what punting in overtime will In this situation, going for it on fourth Kicking a field goal is if you have a reliable Martin Gramatica was pretty dependable as In this situation he would have needed to He tried six from at least this far out and If you want to increase the sample a little, he had made 17 of 23. If he makes it, you go home with a win right Seems like your odds of that are slightly To punt instead would be to give your opponent No matter where they get it, they punt it. This is a reminder that winning is only one win if you don't want to. At least not usually. With number seven we learn that if the fates be dragged kicking and screaming to that win Halloween night, 2013, Dolphins-Bengals. I watched this one on TV as it happened and I mean, what a crummy game. Earlier in the night it was at least interrupted But by overtime the kids had all gone home The Dolphins received the ball first in overtime, The Bengals took over at their own 25, marched and eight and punted. Bengals take it from their own 14 and reach Now, these days announcers are a little bit Just five years ago, it was a different world. I'll play the broadcast audio right as the Listen to the nonchalance of the announcer "Here comes the punting unit." The angry Floridian mob makes a very good This could well have been the best chance those two yards were just too scary for them. But fate would deliver them victory no matter When a player with a ball is tackled in his This is known as a safety and it's pretty It often happens because of a fumble, penalty, the player did it on purpose. Excluding those, we're left with a straight up tackled in his own end zone. These are very rare. A tackle safety with a line of scrimmage at happened 24 times this century. In other words, once every 200 games or so. For it to happen here and now was completely It was a game winning, walk-off tackle safety. It is the only time in NFL history this has See what I mean? When the fates decide you're gonna win, they You can try to overthink or cower your way Sorry Dolphins, you won. I know it's not what you wanted. Number six. Ah, look, it's the Bengals again. This one's actually just a few weeks earlier In overtime Cincinnati drives all the way It's fourth and five and their field goal this distance the only time he's ever tried. But a 55 yarder is still a pretty long kick. I'll accept that you might not want to try No, apparently not. Let's run through the number when we go for The Bengals have one of the best offenses They are 6th out of 32 in scoring. But for simplicity sake let's just say they're On average if a team goes for it on fourth Yes, a little worse than a coin flip. But, if they make it, they're at least at That's sets them up really well for a field then and there. If they fail, well, their opponent likely drives at their own 37 end up scoring 39.2% So, if you go for it with these odds and fail, Now, what if they punt? There's always the danger of a touchback, this punt basically worthless. But let's stick with just about ideal scenario, They punted and stuck their opponent at the Now, you have to dodge a bullet. There's a 22.6% chance a team will score from If you avoid that, a team that starts from yards on average. If you stop them there, great. They average about 40 yards a punt, which 33.9% chance of scoring. In short, if you punt from here, you're passing a free chance to score and win the game. Even if you stop them, your award is having You're trading a better chance for a worse ball for no reason. The Bengals choose the second one. They didn't have all these stats in front But, if you trust your gut, it'd probably you. I guess they didn't have guts either. Number five. Some of the weirdest games I've ever seen study, including this one. Steelers-Falcons, 2002. This was a punt very deep in overtime from Its sole saving grace is that it was fourth completely off the charts, but it's a familiar For the Steelers this would have been a 51 Long, but very makable. Their kicker, Todd Peterson, had hit 8 of so almost a coin flip. Instead they decided to punt to place the Now, since a missed field goal gives the opponent put the Falcons at the 36. Teams who start drives from there have about At the 11 that only evolves to about 21%. That's a difference of just 14%. Essentially, the Steelers traded a good shot could give their opponent the ball with somewhat This was a poor decision. Was it an all time bad decision? I don't think so. But remember, the Surrender Index is an expression hate it and so do the fates who were so annoyed to make sure no one would win this stupid See, both the Falcons and the Steelers ended and both of them were blocked. That two of them happened back to back in But not as silly as this. At midfield with the game still tied the Steelers happen. They try for the hail Mary. This almost never works. It's successful 2% of the time. Tommy Maddox heaves it, Plaxico Burress catches of inches the ball barely misses breaking The most confounding overtime in the history The Steelers could have tried a 51 yarder them. Number four offers a lesson in recognizing, has arrived. December 26, 2010. With 5:43 left in the game the Jets punt on makes this one especially nauseating. The Jets are losing at the time of the punt. They're down by just four points, which earns But this is another one of those punts that would indicate. Losing late in the game ought to light a fire had the luxury of waiting for something easier They did not. A couple of minutes after punting this one fourth and five back here. Essentially, they traded having the ball at own 45, a loss of 20 yards. That was a mistake but mistakes happen and very makable fourth and five around midfield. Remember, there were only about three minutes They punt again. The Jets are behaving like a team that has Ultimately, their reward for this extreme at their own 28 with a minute left and no It's hopeless. The drive goes nowhere and the Jets lose. They just kept trading their way out of opportunities, They could never get it that good again. It's poetic. Though the Jets would still make the playoffs was about to come to an end. Eight years later, they still haven't been They could never get it that good again. Our next punt is only third highest on the that makes me the very saddest. Bills-Colts, December 10, 2017. The Surrender Index has now entered the 400s, that's very late in overtime. See, when you punt with less than five minutes something very particular: that you're playing a tie. That's because there's a very solid chance do you won't have enough time to do anything Now these bars represent field position, as So for instance, these four fellows were facing on other factors I might actually still go punting's still very understandable. Now if you're around midfield at fourth and instead of tying, I don't agree with these I think you have to go for it. But this Bills punt, there has never been Unlike their neighbors, who faced fourth and one. Now, when NFL teams go for it on fourth and The Bills, however, have someone the average Their star running back is the only component gained 129 yards on the ground so far. Of his 28 carries, he's gained at least a Their odds of converting here are very, very This punt honestly makes me question whether thing to wonder, considering they're in the At 6-6 they're one game away from a wild card With only four games remaining, they need worst way. A tie game just won't do it. See, for the Bills, this isn't just any playoff Should they pull it off, this would be their They played through the entire Bush administration, without a single postseason appearance. It's the longest active playoff drought, not sports. This is the city of Buffalo's only pro sports Their fans have been sitting in a snowstorm After sending out the punt team, Coach Shawn time out. Thank goodness, because their opponent, the pass, which eats up more time. If they get the ball and string something they spent a time out just now. On the other hand, this time out gives McCoy fourth and one. Things are looking up. McDermott sends out the team. The punt team! Yeah! The Bills called a timeout specifically so to punt anyway. Just imagine you're a Bills fan in attendance in nearly 20 years, you've sat outside in can finally go home, they finally get to the What do you think they sound like? Bills fans certainly don't like the call, punt. That's about right. With number two we once again see a punt that's Ravens-Steelers, October 29, 2000. This one comes earlier in the game than any nearly eight minutes left in the fourth quarter. That's only a multiplier of about three, so be really, really bad. It is. But there's a special consideration to be The Ravens were losing by three points, they 51 yard field goal. Their kicker, Matt Stover, had made a 51 yarder it turns out that it was Stover himself who He would've been kicking into the wind, and Kickers like to kick, and if he said it was I still think they should've went for the acknowledge that this isn't quite as bad as So I figured I'd go ahead and hit cancel on But then ... I skimmed the rest of the play-by-play On the Ravens' previous possession, they Steelers' 37. The Ravens, while losing in the fourth quarter opponent's 40 twice in a row. It's as though they were more afraid of risk It's such a sad way to play football, and see what made them so sad. This was the Ravens' fifth consecutive game That's tied for the longest such streak in And it's not as though they didn't come close, side of the field more than half the time, Maybe they just forgot. Maybe they just forgot that if you can make they give you six points for that. At any rate, these two punts are very, very As you know, this punt has the second highest the 17th highest, and remember, that's out You can see how rare this is. The vast majority of punts barely register To even get a score of 50 is unbelievably To earn a score in the 200s is essentially twice, in the span of a few minutes. Unreal. So in light of this, never mind, I'm reversing This punt deserves infamy. And finally, here it is: the saddest punt This punt was from the opponent's 34 yard punt occurred while the team was losing by minutes and 45 seconds remaining in the fourth This returns a mammoth Surrender Index score I didn't notice it at first, just thought It is without peer; no other punt of its era Vikings-Lions, October 8, 2006. It's finally time to talk about the &quot;pooch A pooch punt is sort of the inverse of a fake for it, or kick a field goal, only to catch Believe it or not, there are some cases in Take this one for instance: the Patriots are picking up the first down, Tom Brady performs The idea here is to surprise the Bills' don't have a designated punt returner back Because of that, ideally the ball will bounce be more successful than the inevitable fourth Problem is, since it's third and 32, the Bills guys back there anyway. The ball is caught comfortably, and the Patriots a little shorter than they would've achieved up a few yards, and then sent out an actual So was it genius? No, not really, but it was worth a try. The pooch punt started coming into vogue in For a time there it was happening nearly once Then one day, in 2007, everyone suddenly realized anymore. I found what I believe to be every pooch punt Pooches almost always happen between the 30 in which there's no general consensus on what I've arranged them here from least to most In red you see how far it went, and overlaid to go to get to the first down if they went Now a lot of these pen their opponents inside Even though they chose a punt over a makeable But remember, in order to fool your opponent place kicker or a quarterback. They aren't exactly marksmen, so plenty of and place their opponent at the 20. This is a fun one: on the opening drive of it on fourth and five, or trying a 50 yard It ends up as a touchback, the ball goes to much for free. Fantastic. But up here is where it gets really funny. These punts were so ineffective that the opponent scrimmage, even though the very point of these Essentially they would've been better off One of these was even returned all the way And buddy, they 1,000 % deserved it. See, Panthers coach John Fox was seemingly Between 2003 and this point in 2007, he'd it six times, all between the opponent's 34 Within this same span, Casey attempted 15 a field goal at this point on the field, any to watch out for it. It surprises no one. It doesn't surprise the announcer, who matter-of-factly Sometimes they will snap it directly to Casey, And it doesn't surprise the Packers' Tramon distance. This is what's known as getting too cute. The Panthers totally had it coming. Throughout the rest of his career, John Casey That was in the middle of the 2007 season, pooch. My theory, which I can by no means confirm, that it single-handedly killed the pooch punt. It's dead, I'm thankful for that. That seems like it would be the saddest punt It's not. Let's look at the scoreboard at the time of It's relatively uncommon to pooch punt while So let's take those 24 pooch punts by trailing game they occurred in, and the distance they I hate every single one of these, but the are relatively understandable, they had 10 I guess they didn't feel good about a field These happen on fourth and feasible, but it presumably had the luxury of time as they One of these punts does not belong. Yeah, a team pooch punted on fourth and one, They were the Brad Childress 2006 Minnesota 34. They were trailing by just one point, this for Vikings kicker Ryan Longwell. It was a kick he was absolutely capable of, territory, but over the course of his career Was Longwell injured? No, he was not. Was the weather an issue? No, this was in the Metrodome, so they're You're down by one point, and you have coin if you miss, again, you have nine-plus minutes if they take the ball down and score. And your kicker is good at long field goals, Okay, we're getting nowhere with this. You don't want to kick a field goal, and that's So how about this, how about you go for it? Remember, NFL teams are successful in fourth Your running back, Chester Taylor, is three on fourth and one. When your quarterback Brad Johnson has thrown seven, and when he's just taken the ball and 11 for 11. He's made it every time. You could call a quarterback sneak, you could kick a field goal; all of these favor you. Just don't punt. And yet they did. This punt is all alone. Fourth and one inside the 35. No other team has ever dared to venture here. Never mind for a moment that they were losing whether winning by seven, or 14, or 31, or fourth and one, from this far out. It wasn't smart, wasn't bold, wasn't fun, It wasn't anything, but the signifier of a This is what losing teams do. Except, they won. That's right: the team that committed the made a stop, got the ball, kicked a field They won 26 to 17. And that Washington team that punted into They won. And those Buccs who wouldn't let Martin Gramatica They received a miraculous fumble on the very and they own. The Dolphins? You remember that game ending safety that They won, thanks to that. The Bengals, after their tasteless decision from a great punt return that immediately Of course those Steelers who wouldn't let judgment, thanks to the weirdest overtime And those Bills, who chose to potentially that miserable game in the snow? They ultimately won, somehow they even made And that Ravens team, who punted deep into when they were losing? The team that week after week couldn't score Well, obviously they lost. And then they came out of absolutely nowhere And then they got to the Super Bowl and they Yeah, the teams that, according to the Surrender of the 21st century ended up with a 6-3-1 They won twice as often as they lost. So what am I to make of this? These were awful punts. They were, if you ask me, objectively terrible they won anyway. What does that mean? What do you think buddy? Think we're going to punt on this one.