(warm twangy music) - This piece of metal is an There doesn't seem to be until I push this piece out. How amazing is that? Until the part is pushed out, it's as though there is no seam at all. Look at this one. This is called a MetMo cube. What's cool about this is that slide in and out, and internally they're So when you push one of them It's very satisfying. But like, how on earth is How can there be almost between these parts? Well, these curiosities are made with a technique called wire EDM, or wire electrical discharge machining. Wire EDM is used for all These curiosities aren't useful as such, but they're a good way to demonstrate the ridiculous precision of wire EDM. You may have seen other When I did, I became obsessed with figuring out how it was made and more importantly getting hold of one. There are actually a couple involved in the manufacture Like when I heard that these were made by a process called wire EDM, I immediately got distracted by what I assumed that must mean. I just thought, &quot;Oh, right, If you want to cut a circular hole, then you drag the wire cut the circle, and then Or if you don't want this cut here, you first drill a hole in the cheese, we've all done it, feed the wire through, reattach Another good analogy analogy is cutting styrofoam with a hot wire. The wire melts the styrofoam. It's quite therapeutic, actually. There's a problem, though. You either need to have a cut in this part or a cut and a drill hole in this part, but neither of these Also, look how much wriggle That's at least half a millimeter. Whereas here, there appears Like, how thin is this flipping wire? And actually that's the first trick. This is actually made from First you cut the hole, then separately you cut the And you just have to make sure that you compensate for so that when one part it's a nice snug fit. And actually, that's something because the piston was And if I put that piece back you can see the wriggle room. Measuring with calipers, it's about 0.2 millimeters That's consistent with And look, there's that I managed to do the same thing Fits perfectly. Now, what about this second trick? Well, we'll get to that in a moment, but first how does wire EDM work? I went to a machine shop called Travelling Wire in So this machine does EDM without a wire, and it's a bit easier to see So this is the part and this is the tool that's except it's not cutting The way it works is you between the tool and the part so that if there were to touch, it would complete the circuit. But in reality, the voltage is so high that the part and the tool They would only need to get close enough for a spark to jump from one to the other. And every time the spark jumps, it erodes the surface For the purposes of EDM though, you don't allow the spark Instead you surround the part and the tool with an insulating liquid. The liquid has well controlled properties so it breaks down at predictable It's also a better heat sink than air, keeping the bulk of the part Why doesn't an electrical spark erode a contact point though? Well, interestingly, One impossible explanation is heat. When there's a spark, a huge is converted into heat energy in a very short period of time, so the metal gets very hot, very briefly. And some of those metal atoms will vaporize away from the surface. So if you want to etch away at something, this is the tool for you. But if you want to you need a different tool. That's where wire EDM comes in. This is one of Travelling By the way, check out the in the description for They're not paying me to say that. So we want to cut out a little bit of this sheet of metal here. There's already a hole in the middle so we can feed the wire through there. This jet of water helps to guide the wire as it's being fed in, and once it's through the hole, some machinery underneath grabs it. The whole thing is then Actually, water is only if it's free of ions, so this water is deionized. There's a machine around the back that takes tap water It does something with it and Unfortunately, once the and the thing's filled with water, you really can't see what's going on. Not that it matters when you've got a One big difference between the is that the EDM wire is constantly moving. These pulleys are constantly turning, and if we go around the back you can see it's being That's because the wire itself erodes as well as the part you're machining. This spool here contains about And look, there's the part now, cut out exactly how Richard here drew it in his CAD software. You can also angle the wire in clever ways so you can cut tapered parts and holes that have a than they do at the end. You can do all sorts of But what about that second trick? Well, look, here's the when it's halfway through The piston is already cut But look, because it was cut from a different part of the metal, you can see it, right? You can see that it's a So the final trick is to the two parts together in situ. By grinding the two parts they obtain a matching finish. The grain of the abrasion across the seam. And so it seems as though And look, you can achieve Even knowing how this is done, the precision is unbelievable. A typical wire EDM machine of around 5000ths of a millimeter, which in inches is a different number. Why is wire EDM so precise? Well, it's mainly because the so they don't perturb that you get with an abrading tool. So there you go, wire EDM. The mechanism that joins is really clever but not in and actually not in a good way. In fact, it's in an evil way. Let me explain. The mechanism is just complicated enough and just novel enough to be patentable. That means no other manufacturer is allowed to make blade cartridges that go with this handle, which means if you buy this from the same manufacturer at a significantly inflated price. The same thing is true for The same thing is true for the heads of electric toothbrushes. And amazingly, the same thing that go into certain nuclear power plants. Like, wouldn't it be nice if you could just pay a reasonable price for your nuclear power plant? And then you get to buy the uranium rods from wherever you like. Wait, sorry. I mean, wouldn't it be nice if you could pay a reasonable price for a really well-engineered and then you get to buy the And actually, even the really good quality And that's the idea behind Henson Shaving, the sponsor of this video. The Henson AL13 is what you get when a family-run aerospace machine shop pivots to making its own products. Its CNC machines to aerospace standards, and because it's all metal, unlike the multi-blade And it's just nice to own something that's well made that you're nevermind the fact that would easily be cartridge But what's it like to use? Well, I shaved this side of and I shaved this side of my face with the leading cartridge brand, and the difference is remarkable. Go to hensonshaving.com/stevemould and use promo code STEVEMOULD at checkout to get 100 free blades with Just make sure both when you apply the code. The link is also in the description, so get yourself a precision I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit Subscribe. And the algorithm thinks (upbeat music)