e to the pi i equals negative 1 is one of the most famous equations in confusing. Those watching this video likely fall 1) you know what each term means, but the statement as a whole seems nonsensical, 2) you were lucky enough to see what this works in a calculus class, but it still feels like black magic, or terms themselves are. Those in this last category might be in the best position to understand the explanation I'm about to give since it doesn't require any calculus or open-minded to reframing how we think about numbers. Once we do this, it will become clear why it's true and most importantly why it First let's get one thing straight, what we we write as e to the x is not repeated multiplication that would only make sense when x is a and even then you'd have to define the function actually does, we first need to learn how to think We are first taught to think about numbers multiplication are thought of with respect However is more thinking becomes tricky very tricky when we talk about when we introduce things like the square Instead we should think of each number as a point on an infinitely extending line, in which case we call it an &quot;adder&quot;, and an action which stretches the line in which case we call it a &quot;multiplier&quot;. you could imagine adding it with all all at once. But instead, forget that so that we can reframe how you think Thing of adders purely as sliding the line You slide until the point corresponding with the adder itself started When you successively applied two adders, the effect will be the same as just applying some other adder. This is how we define their sum. Likewise, forget the you already know anything multiplier purely as a way to stretch Now the rule is to fix zero in place, one, to where the point corresponding with the multiplier itself started off, keeping everything evenly spaced as you we can now redefine multiplication of two different actions. The life's ambition of e to the x is to transform adders into multipliers, and to do so is naturally as possible. For instance, if you take two adders, then pump the resulting sum through the each adder through the function separately, then successively applying the two multipliers you get. More succinctly, e to the x plus y equals e to the If e to the x was thought it as would be a consequence. but really it goes the other way around. You should think this property is defining e to the x, and the fact that the anything to do with repeated is a consequence the property. Multiple functions satisfy this property, but when you try to define one explicitly, and we express it with this infinite sum. By the way, the number e is just to find to be the The numbers is not nearly as special as the function as a whole, and the convention to write this function as e to the x is a vestige of its relationship with The other less natural function are the exponentials with different at least seems to have some meaning, but you shouldn't think about this infinite sum when trying to make sense of it. You only need to think about turning adders into multipliers. You see, we can also play this game a sliding and and this is what complex numbers are. the plane an adder, which slides the plane so lands on the point for the number, and and brings the point for one to the everything evenly spaced. This can now include rotating along with All the actions of the real numbers still apply, sliding side to side and stretching, but now we have a whole host of new For instance, take this point here. We call it slides the plane up, and as a multiplier, it turns it a quarter of the way around Since multiplying it by itself gives -1, applying this action twice is the same as as a multiplier, it is the square root of -1. All adding is and sliding up or down, and all stretching and rotating. Since we already know that e to the the most natural thing you might expect slides up and down, directly into the new rotations. In terms points on the points on this vertical line which correspond to adders that slide the circle with radius one which corresponds with the multipliers you could imagine doing this is to wrap the line around the circle which would mean it takes a length of since by definition this is the ratio the This means going up pi would translate to When in doubt, if there's a natural way this is exactly what e to the x will If you want to see a full justification for see this additional video here. So there this function e to the x take the adder pi i to the multiplayer -1.