We don't celebrate our heroes so many of our heroes we chastise them we bring them down it's jealousy, its hatred heroes that we don't acknowledge Greats after Nelson Mandela we always go nobody else can live up to that, yeah you don't even have to look our great sign language interpreter Thamsanqa Jantjies. the man who made it all happen he was there at Nelson Mandela's memorial service a service that the and because of that the service was translated into all languages so Jantjies was there translating unfortunately he also didn't which is a small problem, a problem where others see obstacles, People go, &quot;He's a conman! how could he do something so deceitful!&quot; Yeah you got to go, that man Jantjies showed us something because he showed you shouldn't listen to what people say if you believe in yourself and you work hard enough anything is possible. people told him his whole life they are like, &quot;Jantjies, he was like, &quot;We'll see about that bitches.&quot; and he did it, he did sign language for every single one of them, doing it and doing it well. Nobody even suspected him, nobody people where just like, People ask like where did he he didn't sneak in, he's been the for the government for the last 5 years. Yeah, official and apparently before this but obviously the so nothing was done about it. So he just carried on. and now he was here, signing for the world, in the zone, nobody suspected I suspected, no I did Let me tell you why not because I know sign language but because I know my President and if there's one thing that's specific it's when Jacob Zuma reads a speech Jacob Zuma reads a speech he's a very deliberate man he's very calm, very measured takes his time. the rhythm is the most important thing Jantjies didn't match his rhythm I knew there was something wrong you remember this, Zuma was there reading Mandela's Wikipedia and while he was reading Jantjies was doing totally Zuma was there like and thereafter Nelson Mandela (sign language) went to Robin Island (sign language) for his imprison (sign language) em ment to (sign language) the rhythm didn't match right, Zuma was on page 1 like page 17 or something. it didn't match up at all it's almost like Zuma was that's how slow it looked &quot;can, can, also, sorry, it didn't match up, none of it but Jantjies did it, he stayed there yeah, he did sign language for everyone we have to ask ourselves we don't ask enough questions for instance, how he could speak every every leader came from countries everywhere they spoke in their language Jantjies translated for everyone. did nobody stop to ask, the President of Brazil is standing up there (Speaking Portuguese) Jantjies was there Did no one say, hey Jantjies &quot;I'm in the zone baba, I'm in the zone.&quot; &quot;I'm in the zone.&quot; did nobody think to ask? he did sign language for everyone, (speaking Chinese) Jantjies was there on the side (sign language) No, no, no he just made it up he made everything up and he did a great job at but then like, like true South African he just took it too far, he just enough wasn't enough, he just you know, that's our problem in South Africa we don't know when to the same thing happens with guys are stealing houses and everything , I go guys I understand you want to I understand, but if you get steal 1, build 9 at least 9 people have houses. don't steal all the houses somebody's gonna notice and then you can't steal more houses. but no, we want it all in South Africa. that's what Jantjies did he had done it for everyone, the best fake sign language he had gotten away with it too, this was a speech that by the most powerful 90 million people watching that speech this my friends is the point where you pack up your little bag of tricks and you call it a day. not Jantjies. if I was Jantjies that's where &quot;Hey Jantjies, next one.&quot; &quot;Barack Obama, the whole Hey no sorry guys, sorry sorry, hey my fingers are cramping I've lost my voice, sorry. No, no not Jantjies. You are like, Barack. and he was doing sign language for Barack Obama and they found out that while he kept on using the same the few real signs that he actually knew and apparently all he knew was 4 things 4 things that he kept they are, afterward real they found out he was doing this alright, which means greetings. greetings, he kept on doing that another one he loved doing was circle, yeah yeah, circle one of his favorites was smoking, yeah and every now and again, he'd go (gibberish) that's all he did, can you imagine that Nelson Madela's memorial Barack Obama pouring his heart out there he is, Barack Hussein Obama and Jantjies. Uh As Americans Nelson Madela's a man that showed that uh through peace you can free not only the prisoner but also the guard Nelson Madela's a man he's beyond a man, he's a legacy a legacy I can never aspire to be but we can all look towards and a for me Nelson Mandela showed that sometimes in life you've got to say the things that matter and always remember to do what counts I can never be Nelson Mandela can you imagine how horrible it must have been for every single deaf imagine what that must have watching that at home, sitting there it must have been the craziest thing deaf people just watching like &quot;Hello hello what? why is he talking about smoking? why is he talking about smoking? talk about Nelson Mandela stop talking about why is he talking about, what, hello why is he this is the worst speech ever, the man has a smoking talk about Mandela, this is the worst speech I can't listen anymore, it's horrible! its horrible, I don't want to see it I can't do this man.&quot; that speech must have been ridiculous by the way, that's only the second time I've ever told a joke only the second time I told one joke when I started because I believed you shouldn't it's the wrong thing to do, it's wrong. and I never did it again I got asked to do a show. In Sun City, I was asked to do a show. Sasol was organizing a going away party When they were going out to London. And so they invited me. They said Trevor we To perform for Ama Kroko Kroko. We'd like. Oh, you forgot? Oh, you forgot that's the name Not a nickname, We had Ama-bokke-bokke, Bafana Bafana and Ama Kroko Kroko. We called our Paralympic Which means, the broken things. A bunch of crocs. That's the worst thing you can Ama Kroko Kroko. that is what we called You can't be serious, Ama Kroko Kroko. That's That's the only thing I can think of. "Don't you call me Ama Kroko Kroko! Ama Kroko Kroko. So anyway, I have to do a And because I am there I did no jokes about disabled I did nothing like that. And after the show I was meeting some And one of the athletes came up to me, I'll never He was partially deaf. And he introduced He was like, "Hey! Trevor! I said," Hey buddy, how you doing? He said, "Great to meet you, I am a big fan." I said, "Well, thank you. Thank you very much." He said, "Yea dude, I love your stuff. "because sometimes I don't get it." "because I am partially deaf." I said, "Oh, I didn't even notice." "Yea, cool. I didn't even notice, I just "Nice to meet you." He said, "Yea, cool man. I just have I said," Yea, go ahead. Go ahead." He said, "How come you never I said, "I'm sorry, what?" "I don't tell jokes about deaf people." He said, "Yeah, how come you never I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "you make jokes about everyone. Tall "but I have never heard you telling "So you've never heard me." "tell a joke" "about" "deaf, deaf people." "Yeah" "No man, not like that you stupid." "No man, you're an idiot." I said, "No, I don't know." "I don't make jokes about deaf people." He said, "Why not?" I said, "I can't, I shouldn't "because If I did that, deaf people would "Why would we be hurt?" "It's not like we don't know we are deaf." "I thought I was protecting you." "Protecting us from what? Laughing?" "We also want jokes. Yeah, we know we are different" "but we still want the same things." I said, "you know what is funny? "but even if you are cool with "people that can hear, "because that is what people do, "They will be the ones going, "He made jokes about deaf people." He said, "So?" "Why do you care?" I said, "Because it hurts, it hurts." He said, "Dude, you are a comedian. "You know it's easy for you to say." "No, you just make the jokes. "and then we move on." I'm like, "Yeah you know what? You say that, He's like, "Dude, if they complain, then they complain, okay?" "You know what? "and then, if they complain. Just do what I do." I was like, "What do you mean." He's like, "Just don't listen."