Cats are curious and fluffty. They're also made of cells that are made made of particles that are made of quantum But quantum fields are neither curious nor They have no subjective qualities and have They seem to be completely describable by defined by equations. In a sense, the quantum world is made of math. So does that mean cats are made of math too? If you believe the Mathematical Universe Hypothesis And so are you. In his essay "The Unreasonable Effectiveness said that "the enormous usefulness of mathematics on the mysterious". This statement was inspired by the observation seem to be describable and predictable by The idea that the universe is in some sense Pythagoras taught that all things are made Plato had some notions too, which I'll come But it was the program of reductionism of statement. One by one, the seemingly disparate theories cases of more elegant, underlying mathematical describing all of nature: the Lagrangian of Einstein's field equations of general relativity. All the incredible complexity we see in the -- appears to ultimately emerge from matter, these equations. So if we can describe baseline reality in one step further? What if we say that the universe isn't just way it actually is mathematics? This is the proposal of MIT cosmologist Max He calls it the mathematical universe hypothesis. It states that: our external physical reality Tegmark makes the case for his hypothesis Any theory in physics always comes with two of sentences explaining exactly how these what we can observe via experiment. For example, quantum mechanics is usually along with a list of postulates relating to as Tegmark calls it. I have to say that his choice of the word bias towards the primacy of math over anything Tegmark points out a pattern in the math-to-baggage First, let's arrange the world into a hierarchy For example, you might say that human culture from the neural dynamics of brains, which from molecules, which emerge from atoms and In terms of scientific fields, that list corresponds then biology then chemistry then physics. And maybe then you have a presumptive theory In principle, each theory in one of these it. Tegmark points out that theories at the top at the bottom are mostly math. A sociology textbook will be filled with paragraphs wall-to-wall group theory and algebraic topology. If you're willing to extrapolate this trend, our coveted theory of everything, there need equations. If we define baggage as the stuff that encodes human perspective, then if you remove humans So now we invoke the external reality hypothesis: physical reality that exists independently minds are emergent from this baggage-free In Tegmark's view, that leaves only math If there's nothing else to, say, an electron momentum and charge, can we say that the electron The mathematical universe hypothesis hinges equals physical existence. This is the most controversial part of the implication of this statement. If mathematical existence implies physical that exists mathematically also exists physically. More precisely, any self-consistent mathematical said to mathematically exist, and so it therefore our universe does. By the way, in this context a mathematical that obey certain axioms. And mathematical objects are number-like entities etc. and the things that relate these entities Every independent, self-consistent such structure So what started off as a sort of intuitive about an infinity of parallel universes--what It's a much bigger multiverse than the other from the infinite space generated by eternal the fundamental constants change over that into parallel tracks of the quantum multiverse. Level 4 potentially encompasses all of these, of the lower levels for every consistent set OK, let's reign this in a bit. Before I go believing in a new type of multiverse, What does it even mean for the universe to What types of mathy universes exist out there? Can this idea tell us anything about why do set of equations? And is this whole idea even remotely plausible First up - what does "made of math" mean? How can an equation or a number have a type The idea is akin to Plato's Theory of Forms archetypal versions of the things we find It's a sort of concept-space, where exist fundamental cat, the essence of beauty, the The forms in the material world are just crude In mathematical platonism, mathematical entities etc. exist independently of the material world. But Tegmark takes this one step further and is all there is. There is an ongoing and unsettled debate over whether math has a fundamental existence "out there" and is so discovered by humans, or rather is it invented by us. For now let's just assume the former. But then we still have to ask how a bunch of abstract math can end up looking like a universe. To generate a universe from equations, those Numbers need to be plugged into the cosmic That suggests you need a computational substrate But in Tegmark's story, that's not the He defines his Platonic mathematical structures like numbers and operators, but also every Actual implementation isn't required - the to grant a mathematical structure its full In this view, our own universe is just one We don't know its full nature, but it incorporates relativity and quantum field theory. We can imagine an enormous - perhaps infinite We could change the number of dimensions, of freedom of the quantum fields, in general But completely different mathematical structures For example, the set of integers with the According to the Mathematical Universe Hypothesis, Cool. So does this mean I could whip out my portal Not at all. Saying that all mathematical structures physically universes exist. Tegmark's condition is that only self-consistent Within a mathematical structure it's possible the language of that structure that are provably According to the mathematician David Hilbert, in which it's not possible to simultaneously structure. Tegmark proposes that all mathematical structures a corresponding physical manifestation. In order to explain why we see the particular anthropic principle in its weak version. We're naturally only going to see a mathematical Our structure has the internal complexity mathematical structures arise within the larger That's us, by the way. We observe the structure from the inside, when you play time in the right direction. But there's also an outside view, where in time, just exists. This is related to the idea of block time have an eternal existence when viewed from OK, that all sounds totally reasonable and Hm. Let's look at some possible objections. Several of the great thinkers of modern physics a fundamental aspect of external reality. Rather, they believed that our mathematical of our experience of reality. These sorts of sentiments have been expressed by Arthur Eddington, James Jean, Erwin Schrodinger, Neils Bohr, and Werner Heisenberg, among others. Jean described the mathematical methods of with ultimate reality. Instead they lead to a shadow-world of symbols, And there's actually some good evidence rather than a perfect, cosmic language. For a long time it was thought that all statements unambiguously either true or false, and that But in the 1930s, the mathematician Kurt Godel incompleteness theorems. There's way too much to unpack this in detail, mathematical framework that contains at least down mathematical statements that are neither or wrong using the rules of that mathematical We say such statements are undecidable. So if the mathematical structure that describes true nor false, then there are laws of physics This violates one the the basic tenets of its mathematical structures must be internally It also gives us some doubt that a Platonic concept. The incompleteness theorems seem problematic, that the only mathematical structures that One way to do that is to demand that the structure A computation is the abstract concept of a does some operations on it using a computational some other numerical value. If a function can be computed then presumably However not all computations are immune to The halting problem of Alonzo Church and Alan to determine whether any given function will this is related to Godel undecideability. To satisfy the self-consistency requirement now need to require that, to qualify for physical functions that can be executed as computations With all this in mind, Tegmark posits an updated Computational Universe Hypothesis. It imbues structures. But note that he's still not requiring that they exist by virtue of being in-principle Tegmark is certainly not the first to imagine his hypothesis would encompass all possible Fun side note: this idea has a weird consequence we ourselves might be living in a simulation. If all simulatable universes exist already, universe? OK, so is the Mathematical Universe Hypothesis Well, the fact that Tegmark has to perform around Godel undecidability is a point against The notion of Platonic existence of mathematics On the other hand, Platonic existence may reality popping into existence without prior The mystery of the primal cause is often expressed rather than nothing?" That framing has an implied assumption that If you flip that, you might instead say that that is possible exists. This is the Principle of Fecundity, or Principle Tegmark's hypothesis refines what "possible" And finally, is this idea even testable? Not currently. The only obvious test is via anthropic reasoning. We should expect to find ourselves in the of supporting our existence, but until we impossible to evaluate. So, are we made out of math? Well to find out the answer, the mathematical universe to the point that it makes testable predictions. But perhaps then it'll be able to tell us we find ourselves in this particular mathematical