- [Announcer] Kevin Seth Macfarlane, David Joseph Gordon-Levitt, John Stamos, Kathy Griffin. (upbeat music) - Welcome to the Comedy (audience cheering) Here's the thing. Justin Bieber has tens I mean, most of them are or standing at least I mean... (audience laughing) It's the truth. I'm not saying anything He's a worldwide superstar. There's even a wax in Madame Tussaud's in London. It's incredibly He's face down in a wax (audience laughing) That's a dick sucking (audience laughing) Yeah. It's gonna get dirty tonight. Tonight, here's the thing. Tonight, we're gonna and the legal system should've (audience laughing) We're about to give that he deserves, we are. (audience cheering) We are! (audience cheering) Why invite me if you I don't understand that. I mean, come on, we got We got Ludacris, we Shaq, this is crazy. Usually, when I see this many Maury Povich is about I've never seen (audience laughing) Shaq, take that dumbass You look stupid. (chuckles) Here's how did you even end That's what I wanna know. They must've called up and said you know what? Send us the third funniest guy. (audience laughing) Wait, he's unavailable? Send us Shaq, let (audience laughing) My man Snoop Dogg is here. There he is. (audience cheering) Yeah! Wait, wait, let me for all you young Snoop Dogg is a rapper. Yeah, that's my aunt's (audience laughing) (Kevin laughs) For all the Black about that old white that's Martha Stewart. (audience laughing) Yeah, right there. That's Martha (audience cheering) Martha, do me a favor, and on vibrate so we (audience laughing) Before we get off to any I want everybody Justin Bieber really I'm serious. He has a dick and a pussy. Justin, stand up, pop Show 'em, give them that (audience laughing) I've seen it. No, no. Let's be honest. Justin, you made a few mistakes. You're not perfect. He's done some things. Dude, you got caught peeing (audience laughing) Why are these idiots taping you pissing? That's why I don't understand. When someone's filming if you don't want you turn around, you say, Unless it's mandatory, of his parole officer. That's different. Snoop, that guy's gotta Don't worry about it. That's a criminal joke to (Kevin chuckles) You on the cover He's getting a lot of slack for taking his shirt I don't get, I don't Justin, let me tell Okay, if you can take You do it as much Seriously. Look at Shaq. Shaq hasn't taken his shirt Okay? That's a true story. That's a true story right there. (audience laughing) Martha Stewart had her shirt (audience laughing) Stop, stop, stop. Don't get the wrong idea. She just wanted me Yeah! (audience laughing) I'm sorry. I'm sorry, stop. (audience laughing) I'm just trying to I'm sorry. Martha, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Is that gonna affect after this, Martha? Please? I messed up my chance Goddamn it, Kevin. Me personally, I'm not mad. I'm not mad at Justin. I'm not. I'm gonna tell you I'm mad at his manager. You, Scooter. That's right. Scooter Brown, right there. Scooter is the man that actually Scooter Brown was 25 years old. He was a single man when he found Justin in the middle of the night. The middle of the night. He found a little white boy (audience laughing) Sounds to me like of a dick beating (audience laughing) Now I don't know where Chris That's a goddamn predator if (audience laughing) Now Justin, unfortunately, she couldn't be here tonight. - [Audience] Aww. - No, she couldn't, Just because she There's no reason, she (audience laughing) She didn't wanna be here. I wish I had something better (audience laughing) No, Selena got word of Justin dealing and that shocked me. I was like, what the (beep)? (audience laughing) That's what I said, (audience laughing) I was like, if you gonna I thought it would be Bruce. That's what I thought. If it was a- Just one, I'm sorry. That's the only one, I It's no secret that Can we all agree on that? Justin loves the Black (audience applauding) My thing's this. Justin, I just want with the fact that That's Justin's You're not a gangster. Accept that. - I mean, come on, Orlando That's not gangster, Justin. It's not! He's got a perfume That's not gangster, Justin. You threw eggs at a house. Gangsters don't Snoop, when the last at somebody goddamn house? (audience laughing) We don't do that! It's not gangster. Justin, Justin sang in a song that was about That's pretty goddamn I'm gonna give you that. That's as gangster as (audience laughing) He actually got in when he got caught saying That right there, that Reason why I say that didn't get caught, Justin? The billion other white every goddamn day. I'm talking about you, Martha. I know you say it. You probably thinking (audience laughing) Look at that little in his little nigger tux. (audience laughing) With his little nigger up there dancing. Thankfully, Justin I guess you could say former He hasn't had a sex tape. That's good for you. He hasn't killed anyone. You haven't bought a monkey. Ah, shit, you did, (audience laughing) And you abandoned the What the (beeps) was that? (audience laughing) Like you abandoned That's was a privileged You showed him your you dropped him off in Germany? (audience laughing) Now that monkey's German zoo sucking rhino dick, 'cause of your bad decision. (audience applauding) - My name is Seth Rogen. Welcome to the Comedy Central Why? Why are we here? Why I don't know. How high was I when I (audience laughing) It's crazy. Is this punishment Is that what this is? I'm just glad I'm I got Nick Kroll, Jonah (audience cheering) Andy Samberg. This dais is literally in all honesty. It's got Jews, gays (audience laughing) This is so (beep) up to (audience laughing) I really like these people. Anyway, I'll start with the Sarah Silverman is here. (audience cheering) Sarah and I actually worked &quot;Take This Waltz,&quot; She actually did full which was fantastic. It was amazing- I always thought she but it turns out, she's (audience laughing) Huge. Aziz Ansari is here. (laughs) (audience cheering) Yes. This is actually has heard me talk if someone more (audience laughing) I wanna make fun of with Kanye West, but truthfully, it's the only cool thing So I can't do that. Jonah Hill is here. (audience cheering) A lot of people compare Jim Belushi. Jonah's actually started It happens five minutes into (audience laughing) Andy Samberg is here. (audience cheering) Andy plays a cop on His first case will be of his new Fox show. A lot of people are live Speaking of 140 characters Bill Hader is here. (audience cheering) Bill's a great impressionist. Right now, he's doing who really regrets (audience laughing) Nick Kroll is here. (laughs) (audience cheering) Yes. Nick Kroll is the scary runs from in his (audience laughing) Let's start talking people actually give a (audience cheering) You know, who is the Is he an artist, is he an He's tough to pin down, many guys have (audience laughing) Why are we here, James? Can you tell us why - No (beep) idea. - I know why I'm here. 'Cause whenever you do (audience laughing) We're here tonight one of his unfulfilled to have a roomful of his (audience laughing) Franco, you look Did you just read a (audience laughing) He's had a great career. Judd Apatow gave both on the show, &quot;Freaks and Geeks.&quot; (audience cheering) Yeah. It's true. Judd was actually gonna but Comedy Central to be 40 minutes too long. James became famous which makes sense, 'cause and made three good movies. (audience laughing) You asked us to do this, man. I don't know why... To prepare for his he told me he spent five days with his arm inside the rock. Actually, he goes by I keep forgetting that. He's the last guy I should be Literally, (beep) kill me. Look at me doing all the talking while you sit there I feel like I'm co-hosting (audience laughing) (audience applauding) - I wish. - Say what you will and borderline contemptuous (audience laughing) In this world, there can 'cause if there were they'd never stop (audience laughing) - Good evening, I'm Seth Macfarlane, and welcome to the Comedy Central (audience cheering) Or as Donald calls it, Trump Roast of Donald Trump, (audience cheering) How do you prepare Personally, I (audience laughing) And clearly don't give So I'm... I'm kind of the perfect or for the Oscars. Before we get started, though, I do have some sad news. Recently, the Roast and beloved performer, not to acknowledge him and to Larry King died 10 minutes ago. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) Come on, Larry, you're Every time you lie, (audience laughing) We've got some other familiar We've got Whitney Cummings (audience cheering) Very nice. You ever play (audience laughing) Let's see, I think I marry Lisa and kill myself. (audience applauding) And my friend Marlee - Yeah! - It's fitting for the Roast of Trump, on the new &quot;Celebrity She will be competing that's yet to be announced some deaf bullshit. (audience laughing) What does that mean? (audience laughing) Now since our man of the to agree to this, making one more piece of garbage with Donald Trump's name on it. (audience laughing) You know, it's good - Well, thank you. but it's good to see you. Tonight, we honor a He started with and made a fortune. That man is Fred (audience laughing) That's right. For all of his he's basically Jaden (audience laughing) You're a grown man, you've got What's going on there? Did you fall head-first What? What happened? And Donald, as long it's pronounce huge, not yuge. (audience laughing) And here's another one. It's pronounced, I not I am running for president. (audience laughing) (chuckles) That's right. Trump says, he says he's gonna (audience cheering) But if his plan for America he's about two years too late. (audience laughing) But for me, it's kinda whose resting facial (audience laughing) (audience applauding) He also sells Trump that stuff can Basically, you pour and press it to a (audience laughing) stops struggling. But even when you're in your mouth, hard and that's just what He was even forced into the starring in his (audience laughing) And soon, the top-rated starred a total asshole who were stupid enough In addition to &quot;Two &quot;The Apprentice&quot; was also (audience laughing) This guy has an ego. When Trump bangs a and imagines he's jerking off. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) - That's funny. - All jokes aside, when they offered me such a brilliant, charismatic, who I believe will one (audience cheering) And then the Facebook and we got stuck with - Good evening, Welcome to the Comedy (audience cheering) That's right. We're here to honor one of (audience laughing) With some of the (audience laughing) Ralph Macchio's here. (audience cheering) Ralph's a great guy. I drove over here with (audience laughing) Many of you know Rob A lot of you know him (audience cheering) A couple people know (audience cheering) And if you swiped right, you met him in person (audience laughing) At one time, Rob was one of He was an A-list actor. He was named one of the in the world, and he (audience laughing) These are compliments. Is this guy hot or what? There's not a dry (audience cheering) Cleanup on every chick's chair. (audience laughing) For years, Rob Lowe but he cured it by (audience laughing) Rob was in a movie called &quot;The (audience cheering) (audience cheering) His character was because at the time, (audience laughing) I remember the first time I was at a casting when I came across and I do mean came across. (audience laughing) He's good looking. It's not easy being Rob. He said being so handsome for him to find I wanted to ask Brad but he was too busy acting (audience laughing) Rob's not a gay man, but he plays one every (audience laughing) Rob has a line of You can buy them online. You won't, but you can. (David giggles) Our younger audience might so kids, this is who when she's (beep) your dad. Rob looks great for his age. Many people have wondered if Those same people have wondered if Caitlyn Jenner has (audience laughing) Rob came up at a could really ruin your career, but Rob had to do with his acting. Rob was in the Austin Can you believe it, 16? Or as he calls it, 18. (audience cheering) Yeah! These are little jabs. Rob was in &quot;Austin Powers 2.&quot; He was excited to meet since it had been a a movie with a hairless pussy. (audience laughing) Rob has been clean and To put that in perspective- (audience cheering) (audience cheering) 26 years! To put that in perspective, he would've (beep) (audience laughing) It really makes you... Rob has been called No, I read that wrong. Rob has come on That's right. In the video. That's right. Glad we got that out of the way. All right. There we go. It's time for me and to bring up Pete Davidson. Pete's dad- Never got to see him on &quot;SNL&quot; because he passed away on 9/11. Pete's mom has never because she blinks. Is Pete white? Is he Black? Ann Coulter needs to if she hates him. (audience cheering) Pete, I actually but I guess you just have (audience laughing) - Welcome to the Comedy (audience cheering) They say you only roast but tonight, we said (beep) it. (audience laughing) Alec, I think we can all an incredible philanthropist, (audience laughing) Can someone please what a huge dick is? (audience cheering) It's great to see all the We have a gay, trans, I don't know whether or register them to vote. (audience laughing) Let's get to the real reason to meet Robert DeNiro. (audience cheering) (audience cheering) Robert, by the way, doing at a comedy roast? I mean, is this the that did &quot;Little Fockers&quot; (audience laughing) Yeah, I guess it kinda (audience laughing) I can't wait till someone (audience laughing) (audience cheering) We've got NBA All-Star (audience cheering) No offense, Blake, but I'm a (audience laughing) Caitlyn Jenner is here. I can't believe you're here. Wow, you've got balls, girl. Yeah. Caitlyn, being here than anything you've ever done, but don't worry, any parts (audience laughing) Don't worry, Alec. Nothing said here than what you left on - [Audience] Ooh. (audience laughing) - Alec once said that I which is why we haven't (audience laughing) Of course, I wasn't his His first choice but even Tracy said, quote, &quot;I'd rather go &quot;with the Walmart (audience laughing) A lot of people think Alec but someone saying you're is kind of like your &quot;You have the best (audience laughing) Alec almost got the but the part went because he actually had (audience laughing) (audience cheering) - I never thought of that. - Of course, Alec's true passion has always been the theater. Alec loves to hit the stage, because it can't press charges. (audience laughing) Alec used to be a before he became a (audience laughing) It's true. Alec had a substance but he worked through it, of substance in 20 years. (audience cheering) Alec is a romantic. He met his first and his second wife (audience laughing) (audience cheering) Her name is Hilaria, and they already have But he finally got it right. His wife is a calming presence and an amazing yoga instructor. She was able to get Alec where he has to (audience laughing) (audience cheering) The good part about young, strong pallbearers. (audience laughing) - Oh my God. (laughs) - Now, Alec, sit back, and I promise, this'll you've ever been a didn't carry you through. (audience cheering) - And welcome to the of Bruce Willis. I am thrilled to be here. I've been a huge Bruce My father was a huge his father was a huge and his father before him. But as an actor, I really He can play anything to an asshole ex-cop. And when you got it takes no effort to (audience cheering) Yeah. No effort at all. We have domestic guru, Martha. (audience cheering) Martha's gonna do great tonight. She's used to working (audience laughing) Lil Rel, good to see you, sir. (audience cheering) Little Rel was on and now, he's got his own show. And critics say it'll be similar to &quot;The Carmichael (audience laughing) And it's awesome that (audience cheering) What's up, man? One of the world's is going to get roasted (audience laughing) We also have peacemaker here with us tonight. (audience cheering) - Well, shit. I'm gonna roast- returning once again You know, Dennis may on the planet who can (audience cheering) I guess this is goodbye. So Bruce Willis. What a career, right? &quot;The Fifth Element,&quot; &quot;The Whole Nine Zero Oscars. Quentin Tarantino, M. Night Michael Bay, these are just who refused to be here tonight. (audience laughing) Bruce Willis is what the white part of (audience laughing) (audience applauding) And it's not just action He's actually a great I love &quot;The Sixth Sense.&quot; It's a great movie. And it's a really I don't know how you pretended while a 10 year old kid (audience laughing) And the ending, I did not I mean, I shouldn't (beep) it, it's It's so good, okay? So at the end of &quot;The Sixth to making shitty movies. (audience applauding) I had a blast working with called &quot;Looper.&quot; Thank you, thank you. So in the film, I play and he played a washed But it was this crazy sci-fi in the future and Bruce made after 1999. We want you to have but don't get too because later, we're with Ashton Kutcher. - [Audience] Oh! Relax. Bruce gets along with him fine. He was even at Ashton His gift was a toaster (audience laughing) Well, listen, whatever here's the truth, okay? Deep down, every that we could have that courage, that swagger of like, that you embody better of our time, really. You give us what we want, (audience cheering) And so, tonight, let's honor of Planet Hollywood. Not the one who won an who became the but the one whose agent is that says, &quot;He'll take it!&quot; Walter Bruce Willis. - We are here to of a groundbreaking comedian, a hugely successful woman, &quot;Celebrity Apprentice&quot; (audience cheering) And a legendary bitch. Tonight, we're here for the one and only, Joan (beep) Rivers. Give it up! Yeah. We can only pray Joan a nervous breakdown as she did on &quot;The Celebrity Apprentice.&quot; (audience laughing) That's juicy, wasn't it? Poker player! White trash! You're worse than Hitler! Worse than Hitler. And she still won. (audience cheering) That's kinda the (audience applauding) You know why? Because Joan has got the biggest and maybe hairiest (audience laughing) Next to Brad Garrett. And what an honor to have a Mr. Carl Reiner. How 'bout that? - Very lucky. You're very lucky. Luckiest people in the world. - Carl, you're a (audience laughing) Now you remember God made her out of (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Now as you know, Joan and I (audience cheering) And he's here tonight. Let's hear it for Brad Garrett. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) Brad, Brad, Brad, look at you. Sitting there with a and by resentment, I (audience laughing) - Good. - But for all of you Tonight is gonna be from &quot;American Idol&quot; this year. (audience laughing) Ryan Seacrest. Um... But let's talk about the Not only is Joan a director, and most importantly, (audience laughing) And now, let's do what Take a close look (audience cheering) Now a lot of people are a lot of terrible things but as the saying goes, sticks and stones but at your age, you taking a. When Joan was born, the doctors &quot;Holy shit, we're gonna (audience laughing) Then they got on the Mayflower (audience laughing) Our Joan started as little Joan Bellinski. You know, my Joanie, to grow up and marry (audience laughing) Joan is not an Orthodox Jew, but men still (beep) so they don't have (audience laughing) Joan, can we talk? My guess is you don't much The only people you're are your customers at QVC. (audience laughing) By the way, I've I've got the earrings on. I've got the earrings on. Joan Rivers Collection, (audience laughing) Joan, look, you You're an inspiration to me. You have made it for every female You're a trailblazer. You're the first and of network late (audience applauding) You put the red Nobody watched the red (audience cheering) You put that whole (audience cheering) You've got a fantastic career. You're famous all and no matter where everyone says the same the first time he What an ugly (beep)! Honestly, Joan, You know that. So let the roasting begin. - Welcome to the Comedy (audience cheering) Huh? (audience cheering) Oh my goodness. What a night. Roseanne, Ellen Barkin, It's like a menopause-a-palooza. (audience laughing) This show is serving up that a Chick-fil-A. Oh, and that reminds me. (beep) Chick-fil-A. (audience cheering) Okay? Thank you. Tonight, we honor a She is one of those so famous that she's referred (audience laughing) Ellen Barkin is here. Huh? Ellen, your sex scene is the reason I'm a lesbian. (audience laughing) There's nothing like bare ass on the wanna eat pussy like she's (audience laughing) Right? Carrie Fisher is here. Now Carrie's here to and drug problems (audience laughing) Carrie was once one of the but that was a long time ago, (audience laughing) And one of the good ones, (audience cheering) Now Wayne, you're gonna about how you're not but I just want you to know- I still hid my purse. - Good. - Roseanne, it's great You know, I waved but then I realized of those inflatable (Roseanne laughs) What a huge mark you've made There's your groundbreaking and then there's- Yes. (audience cheering) And then, of course, there's (audience laughing) And having a hit show to do what you truly (audience laughing) Of course, you've Everyone remembers your version of &quot;The Star Spangled Banner&quot;. (audience cheering) Now who could've predicted that your beautiful wouldn't translate to singing? (audience laughing) Then you moved on to Roseanne, you're a Jew who converted to of course, you (audience laughing) Now Roseanne, it's not your You thought, with all that there must be a donut somewhere. (audience laughing) Roseanne said she to get away from Tom Arnold, much like a non-crazy (audience laughing) By the way, Tom Arnold but at the last minute, (audience laughing) - Tonight, we're to an actor, an humanitarian and (audience laughing) I'm talking, of course, (audience cheering) Now if you younger to watch Uncle Jesse find a tender way to solve go (beep) yourself. (audience cheering) So the good news is, we're (audience laughing) The bad news is, starring Bob Saget. Which means it won't be for (beep) ever. I was with you for 192 And I can honestly a funny bone in your body. (audience laughing) Unless, of course, you sat on Dave Coulier's cock. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) And by sat on, I mean (audience laughing) And by one time, I (audience laughing) (audience applauding) You know, the whole time Bob he was also hosting &quot;America's He did that show for so unless a six year old with a wiffle bat. Bob's last HBO special was It should've been called (audience laughing) It was the most pathetic And need I remind you, I did (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Bob, you're an deserving of the you lost in the divorce. Bob, you are a class act, and you've been there for me through the good times and bad, and I'm so flattered to be the Roastmaster I think this is gonna be I hope you have the time - Thank you. (audience cheering) (bright jazzy music)