(dramatic orchestral music) (light orchestral music) (peaceful orchestral music) (horses neighing) (dramatic orchestral music) - Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! (woman screaming) (woman sighing) (light orchestral music) - There. - Thank you. And I thank the gods with such a strong - I'll admit that the sight had me worried about you. Are you all right? - Better. Oh! My legs are still quite weak. Why do you stare at me? Is it so strange that a girl - Not in the least. I doubt if anyone could - Then why stare? - I was looking at you. It's very difficult to find a - Oh. You say it so very simply, as though you were speaking I almost think you are sincere. - I am sincere. I always speak the truth. - Now I know you. You're Hercules of Thebes! There are waiting They expect great - I-- (sniffing) Minor gods, I forgot my roast! It'll be burnt to No, well it seems all right. (chuckling) Would you like to taste it? - Oh no. - Go on. Some more. - Mm, no, that's enough. - I'll begin where - I can't decide whether - Not bold, only hungry. - Hmph. - That's no work for a princess. Yes, you are Iole, daughter The royal standard on the Here, let me do it. I can work faster than you. - Take your time. I'm in no hurry to return - That's an odd welcome - If I were you, I wouldn't go. - I was invited by your father. - That isn't true. You're the one who and teach my brother - Isn't that the same thing? - No. You were wrong in I'm sure you heard the - I know the story of Iolco. But how can you - I was only a child, and are like clouds that come but I do recall that We were returning from the hunt. Our host for the day who at that time was He had wanted his son Jason with my brother Iphitus (light cheerful music) At our side was the captain who the day before had had but we didn't know what it was. In the wood, we saw a platoon with them, a man in chains. My uncle stopped the chariot. I tried to see the but I didn't succeed, with his head bent very low. The king murmured something and he got down from the chariot and went to talk to the - What's the man done? - [Soldier] He killed of what little money she had. - A murderer then. - [Iole Voiceover] Murderer. That was the only word of the brief conversation but I knew then that the man My father came and whispered The king rejected his words. Then we were off again. For Aesin was a good and fair in his justice. The thought of the began to sadden me A strong wind was beginning to And by the time the sky was overcast, and the The people who always were hiding in their homes, and the Great (wind gusting) With the coming night, became even stronger in me, but my cousin Jason's invitation to go and see the Golden We waited until the king and Then Jason, Iphitus, and I very excited to see which the people considered For us it was more important It seemed to give off It seemed to vibrate, and This was the last and I remember his irritation when he saw Iphitus Later that night, my sleep The memory of what happened in Again and again, I pictured the end of that terrible story. The condemned man came to The executioner advanced He lifted it. (screaming) (people shouting in distance) But with my scream, echoing from the farthest My terror was even that my nurse's bed was empty. Out of my mind with fear, - [Man] They've killed the king! - I could barely see among the clamor My father, petrified, was there staring at Then he turned, and a look for the stand behind The Golden Fleece was gone. But the rage of for Jason and Chironi and more important, the - So that was why Chironi was and taking Jason and the - Yes. - And for what reason? - For revenge. - You don't believe - What's the difference? That's what the people say. - But there are also those who murdered the king of Iolco. - That's not true! - And if it isn't - Yes, at Iolco they They whisper that he to steal the throne. But isn't that a You know, reigning is almost impossible, and of lies, but my father did - It's only right that - What a fool I've been. I should remember that you You two have come to harm - Come, I'll go with you. Wait. I'm sorry I'm not much but we can both ride Please, Iole. It's getting late. There's hatred in your eyes. You were raised in among unpleasant surroundings, but now I'll watch over you. I'll protect you. I swear it. (light orchestral music) (suspenseful orchestral music) - As the worm eats as light dissolves darkness, soon a man will come who is Beware of him with The dream is always the same, beware of this man. - But why does he - As yet he is - Oh father, I never and The Sybil sounds - Destiny knows your name well. Death sleeps in - What are you saying, witch? - I can say no more. This is all the - No. No, we must respect the and those who speak for them. I will give the order that wearing one sandal will be You! Who are you? - Hercules, whom you - Leave us, Sybil. Answer, Hercules of Thebes. (eerie ambient music) Welcome to Iolco. - They say you're a demigod. Can you make yourself invisible? - Be quiet, Iphitus. He saved my life. - Good for him. He's gotten off to a good start. - Listen to what I have because it concerns all of you. With his help I'll strengthen With his guidance, I'll make And then I'll leave you - Father! - We can hardly wait The throne seems to be nothing humble and futile. - Father, you've had - And with good reason, but Hercules has a winning and we badly need his Show me you are sincere, my chief counselor. Goodbye until Wait, who can assure me that you are really - I can, father. He tamed my horses. They were wild with fright. He saved my life. - Certainly. Certainly, I believe you, but I can't depend upon - What are you trying to say? - Nothing. You're too young to understand. Well then-- - Wait, father. Go ahead. Show us how strong you are. (dramatic orchestral music) (grunting) - That's good enough. You may go. Iole will show - Until tomorrow, Pelias. - You've been too You've let yourself be charmed, - And you hate him because Hercules is your guarantee. His strong arms will Tifi, the twins, and who want the throne of Iolco, Only yours. - You'll sleep here. The sun rises on the other side, so you'll be able to - Thank you, Iole. Until tomorrow. - Mine is a strange - It's much too - Can't you smile, Hercules? - I'm being cautious. - You're right, I'm willing to release - Never. (Iole laughing) If I ignore your if I remain in Iolco, - You've already Look. That was his room. In that room the And Jason slept in there. Only Chironi could have killed - I am sure you mean well, Iole, and I'm also sure (light orchestral music) (suspenseful orchestral music) (soft clattering) - What do you want - [Eurysteus] Nothing, but you - No, Hercules will make of - [Eurysteus] Hercules was and they were close friends. - Too many years have gone by. - [Eurysteus] and honesty always finds the and he won't rest until - He might find something love perhaps. - Duty. - If it happens, I won't - Your daughter will regret it. Like you. - Of course, of course. Go out. - Yes, I'm going. I'll fade back into the shadows. That's my reward for all And the girl's gold, but in the shadows it turns - [Pelias] Get out! - I'm going, but I'll return, and you'll be the (door clicking) (exciting orchestral music) - You must give up the games. Your heart can't - I know it, Aesculapius, but I should like to - Take him away. - But I've been - Go. The disease of fanaticism of Iolco, and with it the - They become careless for the glory of the arena. Isn't it so, Orpheus? - Yes, Laertes. Unfortunately, poetry declines. It won't be long only of heroic deeds Look Tifi, Argo is coming. - He seems to be angry. - You two here in the arena, by the new star? Heh, in Iolco they also speak - He's conquered the I think that at they'd stand by to - Don't worry. You can tell from his eyes and his strength is a Look at him, between Deceit does not go with - Look. Good job. Very well done. Be careful though. You must go slowly if you - I wanted you to notice me. I want to become - And I'm sure you'll succeed - My father says that you're but I know that you in the service of intelligence. - And so I do. All right, if you stay by me, but not only with friends and enemies will (horse neighing) - [Trainee] Four horses. - [Man] He must be crazy. - [Trainee] Get out of his way! - Halt! - I might have known it was him. - Forgive us, but Farewell, Hercules. - Until tomorrow. (angry murmuring) Get a bow. The sun is already high. You sleep too much. - You don't really expect of being entertained just because the great - Here. No. From where you're standing. - I never had the honor of (arrow whistling) The distance was absurd! You've done it on purpose to - Do you think so? That's the minimum distance If the enemy is close, you And remember that it is With a little intelligence, can hit the center from - Go ahead, prove Show me that you haven't got (hooves clomping) (light orchestral music) - Follow me. - What is he going to do? - Be quiet. - Now aim carefully, and You must calculate the Look at the top of those trees. They will give you the proper The arrow must travel perfectly straight, like this. (suspenseful orchestral music) All right. That's it. Pull another two inches. - [Ulysses] I can't. - You must do it. Come on. Another one. (soft grunting) Shoot! (arrow whistling) - Wonderful. - What a perfect shot! (giggling) - Well done. What's your name? - Ulysses, son of Laertes. - Remember what I'm Your destiny will be - No one in all of in throwing the discus. Do you accept the challenge? - [Hercules] Certainly. - Iphitus has chosen wisely. The heavy build of Hercules in this trial of skill. - Let's wait and see. (grunting) - A throw of 137 feet. - That was an - It will be difficult for - Don't be too sure. - Hercules, show us your style! How do you throw the With two hands? (laughing) (suspenseful orchestral music) (discus screeching loudly) - [Man] He must truly - Get out of my way! Get out of my way! (horses neighing) (gasping) - We'd better go, father. (light orchestral music) - You won't find any Return to Thebes, Hercules. - I promised I'd - What good will that do you? Iphitus will seek revenge - You know I couldn't leave you. - And I'm sure I couldn't Oh, I was so afraid and I imagined myself alone again, without a friend. - He's back. Dependable as summer. Cruel as the hailstones He prefers the young, the Stay in your homes - [Man] He's right. - [Man] We must kill the lion. - [Man] Who will go after him? - What has happened? - The lion has returned. - Where were they? - In the Valley of Godoro, (intense orchestral music) (Iole shrieking) - Yah! - [Man] Don't go, Hercules! - Hercules! Hercules! No! Please Hercules, don't go! He'll kill you too! (dramatic orchestral music) - Go back to Iolco. - No, I wouldn't for anything in the world. - [Hercules] Go away! - I want to see now that you have - [Hercules] Your tongue is - You'll find out it's not true. - Go back. I'm responsible for your life. - You were also responsible in front of my people, that if the lion my sword will stick your skull. (lion roaring) (horses neighing) (horse neighing) (lion roaring) (grunting) - Oh. Great Jupiter, was - Your empty chariot as a messenger of death. - Yes, but I'm not the - You may still become one. - I gave you warning, Pelias. When Hercules came, doom would - [Pelias] My son is dead. Iphitus-- - No use crying now. You must think of revenge. - Revenge myself How can I make him suffer - Ask him to redeem himself. Ask him, (whispering) Then you will have the pleasure of seeing Hercules - [Soldier] King Pelias, (sorrowful orchestral music) - No one asked you If you hadn't acted in Now the lion is and husbands who feel that their anger has But who will appease my anger? You, chasing your glory, have brought deep You'll pay for this by Go fight with him, This is the redemption May there be no peace for you. May the curse of the May the hatred of until you have paid for (weeping) (dramatic orchestral music) - I don't want to go because I know he is suffering, as are his bitter accusations. - Of course, Hercules He doesn't understand the - Listen to me, Iole. - Go away! (somber rhythmic music) (dramatic orchestral music) - [Herculues] Why did Answer me, Sybil. I don't understand. A man I could crush with A woman humiliates me. - It wasn't your Iphitus died because Iolco's Go find the Cretan Bull In this fight against the bull, - I'm tired of being sent out to do the bidding I'm no puppet, not even - What do you want to do - Listen to me. The events of the the punishment of Pelias, conflicting emotions, but that prevents me from - It's your - If immortality must make me - Beware, Hercules. It's very easy to but you have to and you must think of death. You would be like the seized by fear, - But I want to And to fight like them. I want to have a family, - Enough Hercules. As you choose. From this day on, you shall reserved by your destiny only You may win your battles kill others, or be killed. - I accept. It will be a challenge - Follow your destiny then, The gods have no use for (thunder crashing) - I thank thee, Jupiter, Now I have battles to win, the woman I love to and my destiny to fulfill. (shouts echoing) (suspenseful orchestral music) (bull roaring) (suspenseful orchestral music) (bull roaring) (bull roaring) (grunting) - [Sybil] Kill (bull roaring) (panting) (water splashing) (mysterious orchestral music) - Chironi. - Who are you? How do you know Chironi? - Hercules, the My time has come. And yet, the gods have been - Be quiet. Don't talk. - No, I must, because I Listen to me, Jason. He is the son of Aesin, - Chironi saved my life He brought me here when He taught me knowledge as a father would. - He must recapture He must sit on the The time has come, and now the ways of justice. - You shall return to Iolco, with Jason and - Hercules, my beloved The Golden Fleece is not here. The ship on which managed to make our escape was forced by a strong of the Colchides. - The people there wanted To keep them from seizing Chironi hid it among the (sighing) Then, somehow we and resumed our journey. - You know who killed Aesin. You were there. - I can't tell you. Jason must regain his This I have taught him, - Who killed Aesin? Tell me! - You'll find the answer (cheery orchestral music) - Look over there. The city of Iolco is It can't be more than Let's go. You know Jason, you're for we'll never know now that Chironi is dead. - How many times I tried but he wouldn't talk about it. He could read my thoughts. He felt my desire for revenge. - And I can see by the look to kill is stronger than - It's true. The thought of revenge but the assassin has (grand orchestral music) - Hey! Just a minute! Please wait. Come back. - [Hercules] What is it? - [Woman] We must I don't want the - [Hercules] Very well. Up you go. And now you. - Here we go. - I'm sorry. It's my fault. - Don't worry. In Iolco I'll buy a better pair. Besides, I haven't (eerie ambient music) (woman chuckling) - Goodbye! Goodbye sir, and thank you. Now kids, let's go. - [Pelias] I will give coming to Iolco will be put to (eerie ambient music) (soft orchestral music) - Iole, Iole he's returned! - Hercules? - Yes, but he's not alone. He has brought a who claims to be - Hurry, please. - And so, I was saved by waiting for time and return to my native those who killed my father. - I am willing to but I hope you'll I need proof. It is possible that you but I cannot give up my throne and the government of this who comes and claims Now, you say that and that the Golden Fleece a land very far away, a Therefore, you might have - I heard what - There is nothing you can say that will alter my You've already brought You also want to - I won't, but (eerie ambient music) (people murmuring) - King Pelias, with I think that arguing If what this young man says is The Colchides are far away, risking a journey there of King Aesin's death. The Colchides are a fabulous and the seas surrounding Who knows? Perhaps this was the adventure was destined by the gods. This quest will give the in the years to come. Find the Golden Fleece, or disappear in the Then the people shall know is upright and lawful. We shall go there and return - Orpheus is right. I am ready to leave. - I am with you. - Me too. - [Man] I'll go along. - [Soldier] And we're with them. - As you wish. Your decision is But I shall not wait a lifetime. Nor will I remain here in doubt for the few years I have left. You have three months' Farewell. - [Man] You can - What he says is true. - We shall not fail. - Your gaze is sincere. - Of course, it's worth trying. - Have you heard about Ulysses? - No. - You will now, because it's me, and I'll be of great (laughing) - [Hercules] Iole. (light orchestral music) - What is it you want? - [Hercules] Don't think I'm - Really? Then what am I to believe? - [Hercules] I'm only - Truth? From the very beginning you wanted to uncover. - Believe me, Iole. I tell you this - What are you waiting for? Didn't you hear Now you have another job Go with the one who Win victories for yourself - Do you recall what you That you weren't happy surrounding your So it's our destiny to search-- - No, Hercules. Your destiny is not mine. - It's he, I'm sure of it. They'll come back with They will accuse me. They'll kill me, and whose only fault is When I saw that man - [Eurysteus] Enough, Pelias. You can't help - What do you suggest? Speak up. If you know a way out of - Your son is dead, and your daughter Iole will not be - No, you shall never have Iole! Never! - The Argonaut ship No one knows me. You have tonight Goodbye. (cheery orchestral music) (singing in foreign language) - Why don't you sing? - I'm not in the mood. - You're brooding Don't. Women are a nuisance. At first you suffer Then you suffer and when your you end up suffering because (laughing) (singing in foreign language) - Here comes the wind. Ready with the sails! (grand orchestral music) (men chanting) - The first day at sea. This will be the calendar. A notch for every day. (soft orchestral music) - What has happened to you? You don't smile anymore, Iole. You make us all sad. - Don't worry, he'll return. - Leave me alone. - Can it be that to see my fate accomplished? - Yes, father. King or no king, as Even if that boy is Jason, &quot;The throne is a burden. &quot;What we really need is - It's too late for At least for me. - But with the help of - Don't say that! No, no Iole. (suspenseful orchestral music) I'd like to wipe him (boards creaking) - From now on, we drink water. - But wine is We could swim. That land's not far. - Nah, we won't touch land (thunder and waves roaring) - [Man] Hercules! - Let me take that. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Pull in the oars Raise the sail. - [Man] Help me - Throw the cargo over the side! - Quick, from the hull! (men shouting) Follow me below! - [Man] Go find a crossbeam. (peaceful choral music) - I can't stand and I'll handle the I won't give up my and if any of you have or in the worthiness of my ship, I'll gladly put you ashore - You can't just leave You've got to - I don't know who's among you, but I find that a mere storm could force - Our provisions are at Our water's turned stale. All the gods are - He's right! - Well Argo, what's - He's not the one to decide. We shall. - You won't. Scared dogs. You can't even think straight. But understand this, whoever - Watch out, Argo. We don't like the - What's going on here? Tell me. - Let go of me. - I'll let you go - Take your hands off me! - How would you at the provisions at - No, Hercules, no! - Hold it now and listen to me, all of you who had a hand We've had a storm. All right, since if only in fair weather? What's wrong with you? Have you lost your nerve? Come on, speak up. Who started this trouble? - All right, back to the oars. We're reach shore soon. - Get up. Just a minute. Where do you come from? - The country near Iolco. - Is this your - First and last, I hope. - Why is that? - I'm not a man of muscle. - I see you like a joke. - It's the only way I - All right, if you're I'll give you a much In a little while to look for provisions. You'll remain here in charge - Who, me? - Yes you. You are the one who started and you'll pay with your life if any of the crew are - Wouldn't I be more use ashore? - No! You'll stay right here, and I'll hang you from the mast. - I'll do as you command. - Serves you right, eh? (soft orchestral music) - Come on, get moving! Get back to work. - See you soon! - [Sailor] Good luck! - [Man] Goodbye! - [Sailor] Good hunting! - I think it would be better (animal screeching) (suspenseful orchestral music) (intense orchestral music) - Who are you? Why have you come to our island? - We thought the We landed because we need But I assure you - Put down your Our queen will (men gasping) - Why not? This might prove interesting. (weapons clattering) - [Woman] Follow me. (light orchestral music) - What's your name? - Where's your queen? - Who would have I would embark on such Oh Venus, I thank you. - And I thought this another tale invented If I'm dreaming, I - What do you mean? Who are they? - They are the This country is inhabited You know, like in a beehive. - I hope we don't end - The drones, yes, The females kill - Look. Only men. - Kirlifis the Phoenician - [Castor] Huh? - Is that clear? Uh. (screaming) (laughing) - Why is that so different? The lives of all We're wrong in Let's enjoy life. Let tomorrow take (lively orchestral music) (women chattering happily) (light orchestral music) - Hail, my queen. I hope you'll forgive us but with your help we'll be We have no intention your peaceful life - Don't laugh about Yes, we are a tribe of females. There have been no men on this (distant rumbling) Listen. The men were all when the volcano erupted, Think what that and you'll share our sorrow. - Forgive my indiscretion. I am called Jason, and Laertes, Castor, We were sailing but a storm forced us to and we were unable to-- - You look sincere. I believe you. Treat these men as our guests. They are welcome to all of our - You see? Things are looking up. What did I tell you? - I don't know your name yet. - My name is Antea. Anything else? - I want to know if you've been Yes, the story of the volcano that killed all the I also heard about it from but according to him, it took - And you wondered how could have survived alone. Follow me. - Let me teach you to swim. Or do you already know? - [Castor] When I finally it was too late. - It's how you feel that counts, not the number of - Have some, it's good for you. - Several years some seafaring men arrived here. The women welcomed But for our hospitality, we were repaid by It taught us a lesson. And the women that to learn the use of arms. From that day on, we made sure that they - By loving and - It gave us a feeling As our older women passed on, and were trained to take their to be the only inhabitants - Didn't they ever fall in love? - Love is a word that - But-- - We haven't used it (Jason laughing) Why do you laugh? - You are an intelligent woman. You're beautiful and healthy. You can't believe - I know men are all alike. They don't love women. They desire them. And the gods who shape have put us here to punish them. - Not all men are alike. Some of them have They desire women I could never possess a - Would you be to possess a woman (women screaming) - With him here, I'm quite (cheery orchestral music) (laughing) - There, there they are! (coughing) Hey, wait for us! Don't run away! (romantic orchestral music) They're in the water! (laughing) - You are a greedy one. - One more. - Why did we have to meet? What strange wind I had thought of - A lesser destiny? No. You're brave. You're ambitious. That's why I like you. - Can't we escape from here? Go away, the two of us together? To live like simple mortals, - That way your love for me No, don't deceive yourself. We are different. - I won't go then. I'll never leave you. My heart is now The smell of your hair, the sound of your voice. I couldn't live without you. - [Sailor] I'd give to solve this mystery. - Use your brains. There's no mystery. They live a grand life - Hercules, Ulysses, and The others are gone. They've been missing and by now we have - [Antea] But you should also - Your feelings are The term has expired I had warned you, Antea. The law is the law. It must apply to you Those men must be put to death. Jason will be first. They ought not live so you act quickly, before dawn. (fast orchestral music) - Hey, Aesculapius, wake up! - What's the matter? - If you had to put what would you give him? - What a question to ask - Come on, wake up, It's important. - What's more - Nothing, what can you - Crushed poppy seeds and whoever drinks it at the same time. - Poppies like these? - Yeah. - Thank you. - Here comes Ulysses. Well? - I hope they drank enough. - Let's go. - Now where are There's something - It's all right for them to when we have to stay onboard I've had enough of this. - I've had enough. Keep quiet, all of you. I'm trying to get some sleep. (grumbling) (cheerful orchestral music) - This drink is intoxicating. You look like two Tell me about your twin. Why does she have sad eyes Come on, tell me. In fact, most of you It's a party, not a wake. (laughing) (laughing) - You know, many &quot;Where shall I be (laughing) Strange, but all of a - Don't go away. Dance some more. (light orchestral music) - Why have you What's happened? - Nothing really. It's just that my heart has Before you came my Until that day, not a that fate brought to my island I considered worthy Then, you came. In your arms, I found I (drunken singing) - How did you manage to - I imitated the so the women rushed I slipped inside and - The wolf's mating call? - Yes, like this. (howling) - Shh. - Hey. I remember I used to imitate the mating Why yes, Ulysses. Maybe it's Ulysses or it's the wolf (suspenseful orchestral music) - You carry Aesculapius. He's lighter. And remember to - Orange blossoms, It's enough to make - I'd rather have my head - [Man] Me too, I hope I get (laughing) And you're not only - [Man] Why not? We're still young. - [Soldier] Did you see the - Where do you Who gave you permission Speak up. - [Sailor] Let's - Don't try that. And I'm glad you I've got a little job for you. Come with me. If you value your health Have you had enough? (shouting) Are you ready to go to work? Then get over there! (lively orchestral music) - Get up. Come on, all you men on deck. Come on, hurry up! All men on deck. - [Man] Let's go. - The wind and the - Antea. (men laughing) - Let's go. (all murmuring) - [Sailor] Hercules, We want to go back - Orpheus, Ulysses, I've decided to go ahead. - [Man] What? - [Amazon] Castor. - [Amazon] Laertes. - [Amazon] Pollux. - [Amazon] Argo. - Well, what are - Me? Um, I have a very sick You know how it is. (laughing) - Castor. - Laertes. - Aesculapius. (eerie ambient music) - Come on, man the oars. (hammering) Orpheus, let's have a song. All of you, sing along with us. I need wind in the sail! (singing in foreign language) (light orchestral music) - If this be the Colchides, - [Sailor] Why did they Couldn't they wait for daylight? - [Sailor] They could not The others followed. (low somber music) (ape-like crying) (men shouting) - Here's something - Jason? Where is Jason? Jason! (mysterious orchestral music) (spear clattering) (deep roaring) (gasping) (roaring) (yelling) (spear whistling) (roaring) (light orchestral music) - [Aesin] My brother killed me. Pelias armed the hand May the gods forgive but may they persecute and I commit Jason into and I ask of you to free for no more blood must be (choral music) - Yours was the deed of a king. We acknowledge you as What is written on the On whom will our vengeance fall? - On no one. It was the last It is his will. He pities those You'll return this to Iolco, where you'll place the Golden - Oh king, it's wise to to look deep into the eyes - I follow only what and my conscience dictates. I must do it. I'll take the responsibility. (pleasant orchestral music) (excited shouting) - We made it in three months. Where's Hercules, do you know? - Come down and see. There he is. - [Man] Look, Ulysses. - Get back to your places. - Where is the Golden Fleece? - Stolen from under our noses. We allowed ourselves to - But no one went ashore. - Just a moment. Where is he? Where's Eurysteus? - He's missing! It must be he. - Now the people of Iolco It's the end of us. - No, not yet. I shall go ashore. I shall find the Fleece. The people of Iolco I swear by the gods. And you, you wait for my signal. I'll wave a torch. (suspenseful orchestral music) (door thudding) So, you've stolen the I wouldn't soil my hands As for you, you're an old man who inspires only - Look there, the signal. - Let us go to the palace. (men shouting) - Listen. Now beware of Jason. Jason is king. Jason will judge you. - Don't forget that we'll fight. - You will never beat Jason. - Don't be too sure, because - That's enough! Everybody will know (people murmuring) - What is this for? - [Soldier] You're not The king's orders. - Orders you say? Tell me, where is Hercules? - [Soldier] We know - But that's ridiculous, - Don't be worried, Iole. Now that Jason's who the king of Iolco is. - Iole. Hercules. In there, locked up. - Watch the sentry. (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Soldier] That will keep - Hercules! Hercules. (door thudding) - The door does not We are trapped in The gods have abandoned us! - [Iole] No, he's still alive. - You report that your that you found the Colchides, and in the Colchides you May I look at it? - Where is Hercules? - What has Hercules If I give up my throne, not Hercules. - Tell me, I demand it. - You already assume But now you dare Bring to me the Fleece, and but I promise that if I you will be condemned and - I told you, the You can ask your own men here. - They're your partners I want the Fleece now. If the Fleece is yours, show because you're an impostor Arrest them all. - Prisoners, never, Pelias! (suspenseful orchestral music) (swords clashing) (chains shattering) - Look out, Ulysses! - Let me by! - That's it! (grunting) - Hercules! (grunting) - Pretty good, that's the way! (ominous orchestral music) - [Iole] Father? - Iole, pardon me. Men sometimes make mistakes, and now mine have I've done so, so badly. Jason should reign in Iolco. He may have mercy on my memory. - Tell me about everything now. You mustn't lie any longer. - It's useless. The poison's working well. - Poison? Father! - Iole, you mustn't Go away with Hercules. He's a good man. I must join Iphitus. Now the gods take me May I be forgiven. (cup clattering) (suspenseful orchestral music) - All of you get back. (rumbling) (light orchestral music) - [Jason] Now there is justice, and the clouds over Out of great sorrow forces of good are Hercules and Iole are leaving They will seek amongst where justice and peace Farewell, Hercules. Farewell, Iole. Life awaits you, with all its But even through the the gods may prepare for to the end of time. (triumphant choral music) (pleasant orchestral music)