- He said very specifically, &quot;Depending on the questions you ask Putin, you could be arrested or not.&quot; And I said, &quot;Listen to what you're saying. You're saying the US government has like control over my questions and they'll arrest me if Like, how are we better Killing Navalny during the in the middle of a debate over $60 billion in Ukraine funding, maybe the Russians are dumb. I didn't get that vibe at all. I don't think we kill to affect election outcomes. Oh wait, no, we do it a - The following is a conversation with Tucker Carlson, a highly influential and often controversial When he was at, Fox, the most powerful conservative in America. After Fox, he has continued to host big, impactful interviews and shows on X, on the, &quot;Tucker Carlson Podcast&quot; I recommend subscribing, with his views, it is always good to explore a diversity of perspectives. Most recently, he of Russia, Vladimir Putin. We discussed this, the topic and the war in Ukraine at Please allow me to say a few that I did this interview. I have received a lot and privately when I announced that I'll be talking with Tucker. For people who think I with Tucker or generally think I should never talk to. I'm sorry, but I disagree. I will talk to everyone to talk genuinely in long form. for two, three, four or more hours. I will talk to Putin and to Zelensky, to Trump, and to Biden, to Tucker and to Jon Stewart, AOC, Obama, and many more people with very I want to understand people and ideas. That's what long form conversations are supposed to be all about. Now for people who criticize me for not asking tough but again, I disagree. I do often ask tough questions, that doesn't shut down the other person, putting them into a defensive state where they give only Instead, I'm looking of genuinely held ideas and When done well, this gives us a chance to really hear out the guest and to begin to understand And I trust the intelligence to make up your own mind, to the degree there's bullshit and to see to the heart of the person. Sometimes I fail at this, but I'll continue working All that said, I find that this often happens when the guest is a person the listener simply hates into embarrassment, called a killer, maybe even an If you are such a listener, what you want is drama, not wisdom. In this case, this show is not for you. There are many shows with hosts that are way more charismatic and entertaining than I'll ever be. If you do stick around, to do this well and to keep improving. Thank you for your patience I love you all. This is the, &quot;Lex Fridman Podcast.&quot; To support it, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, dear friends, What was your first impression when you met Vladimir - I thought he seemed nervous and I was very surprised by that. And I thought he seemed like someone who'd overthought it a And I don't think that's the right way to go into any interview. My strong sense, having done is that it's better to to say as much as you can honestly, so you don't get confused by your own lies and just to be yourself. And I thought that he went into it like an over-prepared student. And I kept thinking, &quot;Why is he nervous?&quot; But I guess because he thought a lot of people were gonna see it. - But he was also probably prepared to give you a full lesson - (chuckles) Well, I was and very annoyed because I I thought he would, I mean, the most obvious dumbest question ever, which is, why'd you do this? And he had said in a speech I don't speak Russian, so I haven't heard it in the original, but he had said at the moment he had given this address to Russians, in which he explained we have seen so far why he was doing this. And he said in that speech, the United States, the will preemptively attack us. And I thought, &quot;Well, that's interesting.&quot; I mean, I can't evaluate rooted in reality or But I thought, &quot;Well, that's And so I alluded to that in my question and rather than answering from my perspective, kind of tiresome, sort of greatest hits of Russian history. And the implication I thought was, &quot;Well, Ukraine is ours, or Eastern And I thought he was doing that to avoid answering the question. So, the last thing you want when you're interviewing And I didn't wanna be rolled. So, a couple of times interrupted but he wasn't having it. And then I thought, &quot;You know what? I'm not here to prove that It's kind of not about me, I I think a Western audience, has a right to know more about the guy, and so just let him talk. 'Cause it's not, you know, I don't feel like my reputation's on the line. People have already drawn I suppose to the extent they have. I'm not interested really so just let him talk. And so I calmed down And in retrospect, I thought that was really, Whether you agree with it or not, or whether you think it's relevant to the war in Ukraine or and so it's inherently significant. - Well, you said he was nervous. Were you nervous? Were you afraid that says Vladimir Putin? - I wasn't afraid at all, - Did you drink tea beforehand? - (chuckles) No, I did my normal regimen of nicotine pouches and coffee. No, I'm not a tea drinker. I try not to eat all the which is that is my But you eat a lot of sugar, as you know before an so I successfully resisted that. But no, I wasn't nervous. I wasn't nervous the Why would I be? I'm 54, my kids are I'm almost never nervous. But no, I wasn't nervous, I mean, I couldn't. I'm interested in Soviet I've read about it my entire life. My dad worked in the Cold War. It was a constant topic of conversation. And so to be in the Kremlin in a room where Stalin made decisions, or decisions about murdering I just couldn't get over it. We were in Molotov's old office. So for me that was, I was I thought I knew a lot about Russia. It turns out I knew a lot the 1937 purge trials, Like I knew a fair amount about that, but I really knew nothing less than I thought I did it turned out. But yeah, I was just blown And that's kind of one of the main drivers at this stage in my life of, you know, that that's why I do what I do is 'cause I'm interested in stuff and I wanna see as much as I can and try and draw conclusions from so I was very much caught up in that. But no, I wasn't nervous. I didn't think he was gonna And I'm not particularly - Not afraid of dying? - Not really, no. I mean, again, it's an age I mean, I have four children, so there were times when they were little where I was terrified of dying, 'cause if I died it would But no, I mean, at this I'm really enjoying my life. But I've been with the and I have four children Well now five, a daughter-in-law. And I love them all, I'm I tell 'em I love them every day. I've had a really interesting life. - What was the goal? Just linger on that. What was the goal for the interview? Like, how were you thinking about it? What would success be like - To bring more information. - To the public, yeah, that's it. I mean, I have really what's happening not just but around the world. I think the world is resetting to the grave disadvantage I don't think most Americans And so, that's my view. And I've stated it many but my goal was to have more so people could make their own decisions about whether this is a good idea. I mean, I guess I reject the whole premise of the war in Ukraine from which is a tiny group of has decided to do this for reasons they won't really explain. And you don't have a role in it at all as an American citizen, as the whose children might to shut up and obey. I just reject that completely. I think, I guess I'm a I'm a child of participatory where your opinion as a And I guess the level of lying about it was starting to drive me crazy. And I've said, and I will say again, I'm not an expert on the regional, really any region other I just don't, you know, I'm not Russian. But it was obvious to me in ways that were just, it And I'll just give you one example. The idea that Ukraine would Now victory was never, as it nothing's ever defined precisely, that there's deception at But Ukraine's on the verge of I mean, I'm hardly a tactician For the fifth time, I'm not an I just look at Wikipedia. Russia has a hundred million A hundred million. It has much deeper industrial capacity, war material capacity For example, Russia is which are significant in a ground war at a ratio of seven to one compared to all NATO countries combined. That's all of Europe. Russia is producing seven as all of Europe combined. What, that's an amazing fact. And it turns out to be a In fact, the significant fact. But if you ask your average even a fairly well informed who's just trying to who's gonna win this war? Well, Ukraine's gonna win. They're on the right side. And they think that because our media, who really just do serve the period, they are state have told him that for over two years. And I was in Hungary last summer talking to the prime who's a, you know, whatever you think of, he's a very smart guy, very smart guy. Like smart on a scale that we're And I said to him off camera, And he looked at me like I was deranged, like, or I was congenitally, No, of course they can't win. It's tiny compared to Russia. Russia has a wartime economy. Ukraine doesn't really have an economy. No, look at the populations. He was like, looked at And I said to him, I think that because NBC News and CNN all of them tell them that in moral terms and it's And of course Churchill's And it's just so dishonest that what I want to happen or That's a distortion of what is happening. And if I have any job at all, which I sort of don't but if I do have a job, it's And that's a lie. - There is a more nuanced discussion about what winning might look like. - For sure. - A nuanced discussion is not being had, but it is possible for Ukraine with the help of the United States. - I guess that conversation needs to begin by defining terms. And the key term is win. What does that mean? - Peace, a ceasefire, who owns which land. - Yes. with as you call the - Yes. - Putting leverage on the negotiation to make sure there's a fairness. - Amen, well, of course, and I am not emotionally involved in this. I'm American in every sense. And my only interest is in America. I'm not leaving ever. And so I'm looking at this what's good for us. But I also as a human I mean, I hate war. And anybody who doesn't hate war shouldn't have power, in my opinion. So I agree with those, A victory is like not of your population. It's not being completely by BlackRock or whatever So yeah, we were close to And the Biden administration the briefly prime minister and to say to Zelensky, who 'cause he's caught between these forces that are bigger than he is to say, no, you cannot come to any terms with Russia. And the result of that has It's just been more dead Ukrainians and a lot of profit for the West. It's a moral crime in my opinion. And I tried to ask Boris Johnson about it because why wouldn't I, as a tool of the Kremlin or something, and he demanded a million - [Lex] Oh wow. - And this just happened last week. And by the way, in writing too, I'm not making this. - Just for the record, you demanded a million dollars from me to talk to me today. And you paid. No, I'm of course kidding. And I said to his guy, I said, I just interviewed Putin as a bad guy, and he did it for free. He didn't demand a million dollars, he wasn't in this for profit. Like, are you telling is sleazier than Vladimir Putin? And of course that is the message. And so, I guess these are really, it's not just about Boris Johnson being a sad rapacious fraud, but it's about like the future of the west and the future of Ukraine, we care so much about all and like what is the end game? It's also deranged that I that I could like add to the conversation because But I felt like I could at the very least, puncture some of the lies. And that's an inherent good. - Vladimir Putin, after the interview said that he wasn't fully satisfied because you weren't aggressive enough. (Tucker laughing) You didn't ask sharp enough questions. First of all, what do you - I don't even understand it. I guess it does seem like that Western media ticket face value, everything else Putin says is a lie except his criticism of me, which is true. But I mean, I have no idea I can only tell you what my was not to make it about me. I watched, you know, he of any kind for years, but with an English speaking was like many of the other interviews he'd done with Western media reporters, Mike Wallace's son did that was of the same variety. And it was all about him. I'm a good person, you're a bad person. And I just feel like fruitless kind of interview. It's not about me. I don't think I'm an I've definitely never claimed to be, but people can make their own judgements. And again, the only judgements that I care about are my So I'm just not interested And I just wanna hear from him. And I had a lot of... I mean, you should see. I almost never write questions because I had months to, to think about it as I was which I did myself. But they were all, it was all about internal Russian politics and Navalny. And I had a lot of, I thought And then at the last second, as you know since you often you make them on the fly. And I thought, no, I want that haven't been talked about and that I think matter And the number one among and what it means for the world. And so, I stuck to that. I mean, I could have asked. I did ask about Gershkovich, who I felt sorry for, and I wanted Putin to release him to me. And I was offended that he didn't. I thought his rationale was absurd. Well, we wanna trade him for someone. I said, well that doesn't You know, which of course it does. But other than that, I to the things that I think matter most. People can judge whether but that was my decision. - In the moment, what was your gut, did you wanna ask some tough questions as follow ups on certain topics? - I dunno what it would mean - Clarifying questions, - I guess. I just wanted him to talk. I just wanted to hear his perspective. Again, I've probably asked than like any living American. - [Lex] Sure. - I'm has been noted correctly, I'm a dick by my nature. And so I don't, I just feel I didn't need to prove that I could, like, &quot;Vladimir Putin answer - Sure, for sure. - You know, I think if I I definitely would've done that, 'cause I would've thought, and I need to prove myself and all stuff. No, there's a war going on that is wrecking the US economy in a way and at scale people do not understand. The US dollars going away. That was of course, inevitable ultimately because everything dies, But that death, that process of death has been accelerated of the Biden administration particularly the sanctions. And peoples don't understand what the ramifications of that are. Ramifications are poverty So, I just wanted to get to that because I'm coming at this I'm coming at it from - So, you mentioned Navalny. After you left, Navalny died in prison. - [Tucker] Yes. - What are your thoughts on, just at a high-level - Well, it's awful. I mean, imagine dying in prison. I've thought about it a lot. I've known a lot of including some very good friends of mine, so I felt instantly sad about it. From a geopolitical perspective, I don't know any more than that. And I laugh at and sort of resent, but mostly find amusing the who really are the dumbest politicians in the world actually. This happened and here's what it means. And it's like, actually we don't know what happened. We don't know what happened. We have no freaking idea what happened. We can say, and I did say, I don't think you should put I really don't. I don't, period. It happens a lot around the world. Happens in this country as you know, and I'm against all of it. But do we know how we died? The short answer, no, we don't. Now, if I had to guess, I during the Munich Security Conference in the middle of a debate over $60 billion in Ukraine funding. Maybe the Russians are dumb. I didn't get that vibe at all. I don't see it. But maybe they killed him. I mean, they certainly put him but here's what I do know And so when Chuck Schumer Joe Biden reads some card in front of him with lines about Navalny, it's like, I'm allowed to laugh at You don't know. - There's a lot of interesting ideas about if he was killed, who killed him. - [Tucker] Yeah. - Because it could be Putin, it could be somebody in - Yeah. 'cause it would benefit the war. - They killed Dugin's daughter in Moscow. So yeah, it's possible. - And it could be, I could also be involved. - I don't think we kill to affect election outcomes. Oh wait, no, we do it a And it's shameful. I can say that as an American, 'cause it's my money in my name. Yeah. I'm really offended by that. And I never thought that was true. And I spent, again, I'm And so I spent my worldview And very much in the house I lived in Georgetown, Washington, DC, that's what we talked about. And yeah, and the left at the time, I don't know the wacko MIT professor who I never had any respect for, who I know you've interviewed, et cetera. Like the hard left was always saying, well, the United States government is interfering in other elections. And I just dismissed that and actually a slander against my country. But it turned out to all be true or substantially true anyway. And that's been a real shock for me in middle age to understand that. But anyway, as to Navalny, but we should always proceed on the basis of what we do know, which of truth, knowable truth. And if you have an entire that is making the biggest decisions on the face of the planet, that are bullshit or lies, you're gonna get bad outcomes every time. Every time. And that's why we are where we are. - Does it bother you that basically the most in Russia is sitting in prison? - Well, of course it does. Of course it bothers me. I mean, it bothered me when I got there. It bothers me now. I was sad when he died. Yeah, I mean that's it's one of the basic Are you imprisoning people who oppose you? Are you imprisoning people who I mean, there's some involved in these things, Yeah, do you have It's not a politically free society, and Russia isn't, obviously. And as I said, a friend an American actually lives in Russia with his Russian, Moscow, with his Russian wife. And I had dinner with him. He's a very balanced guy, and speaks Russian and loves and loves the culture. And there's a lot to love. The culture that produced Tolstoy. It's not a gas station Sorry, only an a moron would say that it's a very deep culture. I don't fully understand it, Who wouldn't? But I asked him like, And he goes, &quot;It's great.&quot; Moscow is a great city indisputably. He said, &quot;You don't wanna get And I said, &quot;What?&quot; He said, &quot;Well, you could get hurt, you could wind up like But also, it's just too complicated. The Russian mind is not exactly the same. It's a Western, it's a European city, but it's not quite European. And the way they think is very, It's just, it's too complicated, And I would just say two things. One, I'm not sure, I but my strong sense is that probably didn't have a lot to do with the coming election in Russia. My sense from talking to Putin is they're not really focused on that. I mean, in fact, I asked when's the election? And she looked at me completely confused. She didn't know the date of She's like, March. Okay. And I asked a bunch of who's Putin running So it's not a real election, right? In the sense that we Second, I was really struck and really bothered by, deeply bothered by a lot of things that I saw there. But one thing I noticed was of personality propaganda, and have seen around the world. Jordan, for example, I dunno but go to Jordan in every building there are pictures of the And that's a sign of political insecurity. You don't create a cult of personality unless you're personally insecure. And also unless you're worried about losing your grip on power, none of that. It's interesting and I like statues of Putin. Yeah, there are no statues of anybody other than like Christian saints. So that was like, I'm not quite sure. I'm just reporting what I saw. So yes, in a political sense, It's not a democracy in the way that we would understand it or want. I don't wanna live there, okay? 'Cause I like to say what I think. In fact I make my living doing it. But it's not Stalinist And anyone who says it is - I mean this question about is underlying the very fact of the interview you're having with him. So you might not need to but did you feel like, are - I mean, how honest do you want me to be? I mean it, when I say I felt for the eight days that I was there. Maybe I just didn't. And I feel like I've got a pretty strong gut sense of things. I rely on it. I make all my decisions based And I didn't feel it at all. My lawyers before I left. And these are people who This is not Bob's law firm, this is one of the biggest law firms &quot;You're gonna get arrested if you do this by the US government on And I said, well, I don't recognize the legitimacy of that actually, 'cause I'm American and I've And that's so outrageous that because I so reject the premise, okay? I'm an American, I should be able to talk to anyone I want to.&quot; And I plan to exercise that freedom, which I think I was born with. And I gave them this long lecture. They're like, &quot;We're just lawyers.&quot; But that was, it was a, I dunno how much you've but it costs many thousands of dollars to get a conclusion like that. Like they sent a whole bunch or whatever they sent, on this question, checked a and they sent me a 10 page memo on it and their sincere conclusion And of course it made me mad. So I was lecturing on the phone and I had another call with &quot;Well look, a lot will that you ask Putin. If you're seen as too nice to him, you could get arrested And I was like, &quot;You're describing You're saying that the US if I don't ask the is that's what you're saying?&quot; &quot;Well, we just think that that's possible.&quot; And so I'm just telling you what happened. - So, you were okay and arrested back in- - I didn't think for a second. I mean maybe, look, I don't speak Russian, I'd never been there before. Everything about the Ignorance does protect you sort of, when you have no freaking you're not worried about it. Like this has happened to me many times. There's a principle there So it's completely possible and didn't know it, 'cause I'm like a bumbling English but I didn't feel it at all. - But the lawyers did. - Yeah, I mean it scared And look, and you have to pay in cash. They don't take credit And you have to go just procedural hoops to go to Russia. Which I was willing to do because I wanted to interview Putin because they told me I couldn't. But then there's another fact, which is that I was being intensely surveilled by the US government. And this came out, they admitted it, the NSA admitted it a couple of years ago that they were up in my Signal account, and then they leaked it They did that again before I left. And I know that because two one of whom I actually like a lot, said, &quot;Oh, you're going and called other people, Oh, he's going to interview Putin.&quot; I hadn't told anybody that, like anybody. My wife, two producers, that's it. So, they got that from the government. Then I'm over there and of who I admire. And so, we have a mutual friend, so I got his text and come on over and Snowden does not And so, but I really wanted So we had dinner in my hotel room at the Four Seasons in Moscow. And I tried to convince him, I'd love to do an interview, I'd love to take a picture together and put it on the internet because I just wanna show support. 'Cause I think he's been railroaded. He had no interest in living in Russia, no intention of being in Russia. The whole thing is a lie. But anyway, whatever, all this stuff. And he just said respectfully, I'd rather not anyone know that we met. Great. The only reason I'm telling and I didn't tell anybody and Okay, except him. Semafor, Semafor runs this piece saying reporting information they got from the US Intel agencies leaking against me using in a supposedly free country. They run this piece saying like it was a crime or something. So again, my interest and preserving freedoms here, And if you have a media establishment that acts as an auxiliary of, or acts as employees of the you don't have a free country. And that's where we are. And I'm not guessing, 'cause I spent my entire 33 years I worked in big news companies, and so I know how it works, I know the people involved in it. I could name them. Ben Smith of Semafor among many others. And I find that really objectionable, not just on principle either, I don't wanna live in And people are like, they externalize all of their anxiety about So, it's like Russia's not free. Yeah, I know. Neither's Burkina Faso. Like most countries aren't We're the United States, we're different. And that's my concern. Preserving that is my concern. And so they get so exercised in other parts of the world, places they've never It's almost a way of in their own country right around them. I find it so strange and sad and weird. - So the NSA was tracking Is people still tracking you? - Look, one of the things just because of the business I'm in, all of us are in and we all have theories about Like Signal is secure, Telegraph isn't, or WhatsApp is owned by Mark Zuckerberg. You can't trust, okay? So I thought, before I go over here, I was getting all this, we're having all these conversations, my producers and I about this, and I decide, I'm just like what's really going on. So, I talked to two people who would know, trust me, and it's all I can say. And I hate to be like, who would know by kentu there,&quot; but I mean it, they would know. And both of them said which is, are you joking? Nothing is secure. Everything is monitored all the time. If state actors are involved,. I mean you can keep the, you know, whatever, the Malaysian mafia from reading your texts the big intel services It's not possible. Any of them. Or listening to your calls. And that was the firm conclusion of people who've been involved Decades, in both cases. So I just thought, &quot;You know what? I don't care, I don't care. I'm not sending a ton of naked pictures of myself to anybody.&quot; - Not a ton, just a little. I'm 54, dude, probably not too many. - [Lex] All right. - But you, so I'm like, I'm just, so the guys I travel with, three people I work with who I love, who I've been around the and I know them really, really well. And they all got separate phones and I'm leaving my other phone And I just decided I don't care actually. And I resent having to no privacy because privacy is a but I can't change it, and so I have the same And I do switch them Because if you have too this is true. It wrecks the battery. No, I'm serious. It does. And we got, it was, I don't know, five or six years ago and my phone started acting crazy. And so I talked to someone on who called me about this, somehow knew that your by the South Korean government. I was like, why the, I like Why would they do that? Because they want more information. They thought I was talking So, but I could tell the thing would just So, that's the downside. - So you keep switching phones, getting new phones for the battery life. That's good. - Yeah. I mean, I try not to do it, I'm kind of flinty so I don't like to with a freaking Apple but yeah, I do. - I mean, you say it lightly, but it's really troublesome that you as a journalist would be tracked. - Well, they leaked it to Semafor, and they leaked it to The New York Times. Look, I would even put up, so I have to put up with everything, okay? But I would probably not be actively angry about being surveilled and I actually do pay my taxes. I'm not sleeping with the so I don't care that much. The fact that they are leaking against me, that the intel services are actively engaged in That's so unacceptable. That makes democracy impossible. There's no defense of that. And yet NBC News, Ken Dilanian And it's like, and not just on the supposedly They will defend it. And there's no defending if the intel services are and information, period. - So, you had no fear. Your lawyer said, be careful you said, I don't have- - Well, the lawyer said no, &quot;Depending on the questions you ask Putin, you could be arrested or not.&quot; And I said, &quot;Listen to what you're saying. You're saying the US over my questions and they'll arrest me if I ask the wrong question. Like, how are we better And by the way, that's but I can't overstate one in the United States, smart So, I was really shocked by it. - You said leaders kill, leaders lie. - Yeah, I don't believe like this whole like Zelensky's It's like, no, they're all Like grow up a little bit, you child. Have you ever met a leader? Like all of the, first of is damaged morally, in my opinion. You shouldn't be seeking power. You can't seek power or and remain a decent person. That's just true. So there aren't any like and there aren't any really You have grades of virtue. Some are better than others for sure. But I mean, in other words, Zelensky may be better than Putin. I'm open to that possibility. But to claim that one is evil it's like you're revealing You don't know anything about how the world actually - That's quite a realist perspective. But there is a spectrum. - There is a spectrum, absolutely. I'm not saying they're - And our task is to figure out where on the spectrum they lie, and the leader's task is to confuse us and convince us they're - Of course, of course. But I actually reject I don't think it's I mean, of course the A good leader has a healthy country and a bad leader has a decaying country, which is something to think about. But it's about the ideas and the policies and the practical effect of things. So we're very much caught of various leaders, not but our business leaders, Are they good people? Do they have the right thoughts? It's like, no, I ask a What are the fruits of their behavior? And I always make it personal because I think everything is personal. Does his wife respect him? Do his children respect him? How are they doing? Is the country he runs thriving If your life expectancy is going down, if your suicide rate is going up, if your standard of living is tanking, you're not a good leader. I don't care what you tell me. I don't care what you claim you represent. I don't care about the ideas or the systems that you say you embody. It's dogs barking to me. How's your life expectancy? How's your suicide rate? What's drug use like? Are people having children? Are people's children more or more prosperous and their grandparents did? Like those are the only The rest is a lie. But anyway, the point is with like the theater and we miss the bigger and we allow ourselves to be what doesn't matter at all matters. That moral victories are all that matters. No actually facts in the ground victories matter more than anything. I mean you certainly Black Lives Matter for example. How many black people did that help? It hurt a lot of black people, but in the end we should Like how many black people in the four years since George Floyd died? Well the number's gone way, way up. And that was a Black defund the police. So I think we can say as a factual matter, data-based matter, Black Lives Matter didn't help black people. And if it did tell me how. Well, these are important That's just another lie, So I try to see the rest but more than anything I through the lens of an And what does this mean for us? And it's not even the war, it's the sanctions that the United States, our standard of living, the way our government operates. That more than any single screwed the United States. Levying those sanctions in For me the main takeaway in Moscow was not Putin. He's a leader with, whatever. None of them are that different actually in my pretty extensive experience. No, it was Moscow that blew my mind. I was not prepared for that at all. And I thought I knew a lot about Moscow. My dad worked there on 'cause US government employee and he was always coming back, &quot;Moscow, it's a nightmare.&quot; And all this stuff, no electricity. I got there almost exactly two years after sanctions totally cut off from Western financial can't use US dollars, no And that city is just factually, I'm not endorsing the system. I'm not endorsing the whole country. I didn't go to Lake Baikal, I just went to Moscow, largest city in Europe, 13 million people. I drove all around it. And that city is way I don't live there, than And by nicer, let me be specific. No graffiti, no homeless, no people using drugs in no garbage on the ground and concrete soul destroying buildings. None of the postmodern architecture that oppresses us without None of that crap. It's a truly beautiful city. And that's not an endorsement of Putin. And by the way, it didn't It made me hate my own leaders because I grew up in a country that had cities kind of like that, that were nice cities that were safe. And we don't have that anymore. And how did that happen? Did Putin do that? I don't think Putin did that actually. I think the people in the governors, the and they should be held - So, I think cleanliness is not the entirety of the metrics that matter When you measure a city. - They're the main metrics that matter. They're the main metrics that matter. The main metrics that safety, and beauty in my opinion. And one of the big lies that is that no, something you can't measure that has no actual effect Bullshit, what matters Beauty, safety, cleanliness, lots of other things matter too. A whole bunch of things matter. But if I were to put them in order, it's not some like theoretical. Well actually I don't know if you know that the Duma has no power. It's okay, I get that. Freedom of speech They have less freedom of speech in Russia than we do in the United States. We are superior to them in that way. But you can't tell me where your 6-year-old daughter and ride on a clean bus or that's on time and not get No, that matters almost And we can have both. And like the normal regime Jon Stewart or whatever he is &quot;Whoa, that's the price of freedom.&quot; Like people shitting on the sidewalk is the price of freedom. It's like you can't fool me because I've lived here for 54 years. I know that it's not the price of freedom, 'cause I lived in a country that was both free and clean and orderly. So, that's not a trade off That is the beauty of because you're like, no, It wasn't what you're saying. We didn't have racial segregation in 1985. It was a really nice country I was here and I think with younger people you can tell 'em that and they're like, well 1985 you were selling It's like no, they weren't. You're going to Madison Square Garden and not stepping over a - It is true. There doesn't have to be a trade off between cleanliness and freedom of speech. But it is also true that in and architectural design and perfect and often is look how great our cities - Worse, of course, I This is not a defense of And if I felt that way, I but I would announce I was moving there. I'm not ashamed of my views. I never have been. And for all the people who are trying to impute secret motives to my words, I'm like the one person in America you don't need to do that with. If you think I'm a racist, - Are you a racist? - No, I'm a sexist though. (laughs) - All right, great. - Anyway, no, but if I was like a defender of Vladimir Putin, I would just say I'm defending I am attacking our leaders and I'm grieving over the low You don't need to put up with with foreign invaders stealing from you, occupying your kids' school. Your kids can't get an education because people from foreign and showed up here and That's not a feature of freedom actually, that's the opposite. That's what enslavement looks like. And so I'm just saying raise You can have a clean, Crime is totally optional. Crime is something our leaders It's not something that I wrote a book about crime 30 years ago. I thought a lot about this. You have as much crime as And it doesn't make you less In fact, it makes you unfree And so I just, but it makes &quot;Well, you know, I guess this is, I can't like live in New York City anymore 'cause of inflation and and people shooting each other,&quot; but I'm glad because this is It's like that's not - Your point is well taken. You can have both, but do you regret- - We had both. - That's the point. We had both, I saw it. - Do you regret to a degree and the grocery store as a mechanism by which to make that point? - No, I mean I thought, of the more unselfaware people So to ask me how will this be perceived? (laughs) I mean, I literally have no idea and kind of limited interest. But I was so shocked by it. I was so shocked by it. And there were two. And to the extent I regret anything and am to blame for And I've done this a lot, not fully explaining The grocery store, I was and yes, I'm familiar with exchange rates, but very familiar with exchange and I adjusted them for exchange rates. And this is two years into sanctions, total isolation from the West. So I would expect, in fact, I that the supply chains would be crushed. How do you get good stuff if you don't have access And I didn't fully get the answer 'cause I was occupied doing But somehow they have, And they haven't had the that I predicted. In other words, sanctions noticeably worse, okay? So again, this is commentary in the United States and our policymakers. Why are we doing this? It's forcing the rest of the world into a block against us called BRICS. They're getting off the US dollar. That will mean a lot of dollars and destroy our economy and So the consequences, the they're huge. And we're not even hurting Russia. It's like, what the hell are we doing? One, on the subway. That Subway was built by Joseph Stalin right before the Second World War. I'm not endorsing Stalin obviously. Stalinism is the thing that I hate and I don't want to come to my country. I'm making the obvious you've had these frescoes and chandeliers. Maybe they've been redone or whatever, but like somehow the society what its ancestors built. The things that are worth having. And they're a lot. And that, like why don't we have that? And even on a much more terrestrial plane, like, why can't I have a Why can't my children who live in New York City ride the subway? A lot of people I know are afraid to ride the subway. Young women especially. That's freedom? No, again, it's slavery. And how can, if Putin can Like what? In other words, I mean I'm a traitor. Okay, so if I'm calling to demand more from their government and higher standards and remember that just 30 years and much happier and cleaner where everyone wasn't from poisoned food. Like how is the, I'm not I'm a defender of my country. And by the way, the people they're all like, you know, whatever. They're not, I would who put America's To put it mildly. - There's many elements. Like you said, you don't like Stalinism. You're a student of history. Central planning is in a way that's really nice. The thing that accounts for there's a lot of really positive things about New York subways, not cleanliness, but the efficiency, like the accessibility of how wide it spreads. Now the New York network is incredible. But Moscow under different metrics, results of a capitalist system. And you actually said is quite a capitalist system, which is an interesting question itself. - That's true. We have more central planning - No, that's not true. - Of course it is. - You think that's true. - The climate agenda, of course. They're telling the US government has in league with a decided to change the way we There's no popular outcry for that. There's never been any mass movement of Americans who's like, I just, I hate my gasoline powered engine. No more diesel. That has been central planning. That is central planning. And you see it up and down our economy. There's no free market You get crossways with the If you're at scale. I mean maybe if you've got a barber shop or a liquor store or something, but even then you're And so no, I actually am for free markets. I hate monopolies. Our economy is dominated by monopolies. Completely dominated- - Like, what do you mean? - Google, what percentage of Google's a monopoly by any definition. And Google is just rich enough to continue doing whatever it So there's no monopoly in I'm not, again, defending I'm calling for return to our and moderate and put at least somewhere in the top 10, (laughs) somewhere in the top 10. I'm not saying that Standard Oil was like interested in the but I am saying that in our political system, in different presidential &quot;No, wait a second, what Is it good for people or not?&quot; There's not even a It's like, shut up and and so I'm just- (Tucker laughing) I'll write, we will get you. When it's stronger enough. I have no doubt. - You'll be the first one to go. - As a white man, I just - Right, so much to say on that one. - I bet when you google my it'll be a black chick. (Lex chuckling) - A hundred percent. - Well, I hope she's attractive. - I hope so too. It'd probably be an upgrade. (laughs) - So, well, the central planning point is really interesting, but I just don't, I don't know where you're coming from. There's a capitalist system. I mean the United States is one of the most successful capitalist system in the history of earth, so to say- - What's the most successful, I'm just saying that I in the last 15 years and our assumptions about what we're seeing. - [Lex] Sure. - And that's true up and down. That's true with everything. It's true with your neighbor's children who you haven't seen in three years and they come home from &quot;Oh, you've grown.&quot; That is true for the And most of our assumptions about our economy, about our tax system are completely outdated to the current reality. And so I'm just for updating my files and I have a big advantage over you because I am middle aged and so I don't- - You've called yourself old so many times throughout this time. - I don't trust my perceptions of things. So I'm constantly trying I should go there, I should see it. And I guess just in the end, Like I don't trust the internet actually. Wikipedia is a joke. Wikipedia could not be more dishonest. It's certainly in the political categories or things that I know a lot about. Occasionally I'll read an that I saw or know the well, that's a complete liar. You left out the most important fact. And it's like, it's not a reliable guide to reality or history. And that will accelerate with AI where history or perception of the past is completely controlled and distorted. So I think just getting and seeing that Moscow was not which was a smoldering ruin. Rats in a garbage dump. It was nicer than New York. What the hell? - Direct data is good, For example, if you talk to or in Russia and you ask They will usually say yes, there is. - Oh yeah, of course there is. Well, I agree. I mean, just to be clear, I'm not, I have no plans to move to Russia. I think I would probably be Ed Snowden, who is the most transparency, advocate in the world, I would say along with Assange He's had problems with He's attacked Putin. They don't like it. I mean, I get it, I get it. I'm just saying, what And the main lesson is like in a way that's I was mad about it all 'cause I feel like I'm better 'cause it's my job to be informed and I'm skeptical of everything. And yet I was completely hoodwinked by it. I would just recommend like you think like if if you're one of those but who's like waking up every day and you've got a Ukrainian flag you're Ukrainian lapel pen But if you like sincerely or whatever, why don't for 800 bucks and go see it, okay? That doesn't occur to anyone to do that. And I know it's time consuming sort of, not really, I mean I could bore you And I know you've had this experience where you think you know what something is or you think you know who someone is and then you have direct and you realize all your They were controlled by somebody else. Like you'd know, in fact, but off the air we're and you said, I couldn't was not at all like what I thought. Well, that's happened to me- - In the positive direction. - In the positive direction. By the way, for me it's almost Most people I meet and I've of meeting a lot of they're way better than you think or they're more complicated or whatever. But the point is a direct There's no substitute for that. - Well, on that point, So I visited Ukraine and witnessed a lot of the same things you So first of all, beautiful architecture. - [Tucker] Yes. - And this is a country so it's not- - Like for real where most of the men are either volunteering and there's actual tanks in the streets that are going into and still the supply chains are working. - [Tucker] Yes. - The handful of months everything is working. The restaurants are amazing. The most of the people are able like the life goes on. Cleanliness, like you mentioned. - I love that. Like it's incredible. Like there's the crime went to zero. They gave all guns to everybody. The Texas strategy. - Yeah, when you witness it, you realize, okay, there's something to these people. There's something to this country that they're not as You hear that Russia is You assume it's just all gonna go to shit. - Well, so that's been, and and I've certainly tried and they put me on some kill him immediately list. So I can't, I've tried He keeps denouncing me. I just want an interview with him. He won't unfortunately. - I would love to do it. - I hope you do. But one of the things I love to hear that what but I'm not really surprised. One of the things that I'm that I felt towards Slavic I'll just be totally through decades of and CNN where I worked about and they're horrible or whatever. And then you wind... And I kind of believed Like we can't even put the word Russia at Wimbledon 'cause it's so offensive. Well what does the tennis Did he invade Ukraine? I don't think he did. Stealing all these business guys yachts and denouncing with oligarchs. Like what do they have to do with it? You know, whatever. Here's my point. The idea that like a whole because of their blood. I just don't believe that. I think it's immoral to think that. And I can just tell you my own experience after eight days there. I think it's a really interesting which is shared by the way, by They're first cousins at the most distant and I found 'em really smart I didn't understand a lot and don't understand the 'cause I'm American but it's a thick culture, you know? And I admire that. And I wish I could go to Ukraine. I would go tomorrow. - So I think after you did you put a clip I think on, &quot;TCN&quot; where like your sort - Yeah, it wasn't much of an analysis. - No, but what stood out to me is you were kind of talking - Yeah. - Like you were criticizing him. - Why wouldn't I? - It spoke to the thing which is you weren't afraid. Now the question I want to ask is, it'd be pretty badass if and made the point you were making, but also criticize Putin, right? Criticize that there is a and freedom of the press. - In the supermarket? - Yes. - Oh, you mean if I also said that. Well, yeah, I mean I of So I guess part of it because I have such a low opinion of the commentariat in the United States and the news organizations which really do just work for the US government. I mean I really see them as I did Izvestia and Pravda in the 80s. Like they're just organs of the government and I think they're contemptible. And I think the people who And I say that as someone who knows them really well personally. I think they're disgusting. That I'm a little bit cut off kind of from what people are saying about me 'cause I'm not interested. So, I try not to be defensive. Like see I'm not a tool of Putin. But the idea that I'd be flaking for Putin when you know my relatives like I'm as American as you could be. It's like crazy to me. And Applebaum calls me a traitor. I'm like, &quot;Okay, right.&quot; It's just like so dumb. But no, of course they don't have... No country has freedom Canada doesn't have it. Great Britain definitely doesn't have it. France, Netherlands, these are countries I spend a lot of time in. And Russia certainly doesn't have it. So, that's why I don't live there. I'm just saying our sanctions don't work. That's all I was saying. And we don't have to live like animals. We can live with dignity. Even the Russians can do it. That's kind of what I was saying. Even the Russians under can live like this. And no, it's not a That's the most, I think discouraging and most dishonest line who really are trying to for accepting a lot less. He is really a tool of the It always has been. Like, how dare you expect that? What are you a Stalinist? It's like, no, I'm an American. I'm like a decent person. I just wanna be able to walk to the grocery store Is that too much to... Shut up then, you don't It's really dark if you think about it. - So there is a fundamental way which you wanted Americans to expect more. - You don't have to live like this. We don't have to live like this. You don't have to accept it, you don't. And everyone's afraid in this country, they're gonna be shut or have the FBI show up at And people are legit afraid And my feeling is so like Like what is it worth to to live in a free prosperous country? It should be worth more than your comfort. That's how I feel. - We should make clear you look at the world press US is not at the top, Same as Gambia in West Africa. - Really. So let me just ask- hold on a second, hold on a second, hold on a second. - [Tucker] (laughs) Now - Ukraine is 61 and Russia is 35. The lower it is the worst. Close to China at 23 and North - Didn't Ukraine put Gonzalo for criticizing the government. How can they have a high press? - Yes, that's why there - But I'm saying look, I don't they're using to arrive at that. But I know press freedom when I see it, I try to practice it, which is saying what you think is true, correcting yourself when as I have many times, being as honest as you can be all the And those are wholly absent People are afraid in the news business. I would know since I've and they're afraid to tell the truth. They're under an enormous and a lot of them have I've been there, so I have sympathy. But they go along with you are not allowed if you any cable channel in the United States and say, wait a second, how throw a US citizen into for criticizing the Ukrainian government? And we're paying for that. That's why it's offensive to me. We're paying for it. And that happens all the time But this is a US citizen and we're paying the pensions Like, we are the Ukrainian And like if you said that well, you'd lose your job for that. So like that's not, I don't care. Or Norway is at the top, really Norway. If I went to nor Norwegian television and said NATO blew up NATO blew up Nord Stream, with the help of other committed the largest act of industrial terrorism in history. And by the way, the largest the largest emission of CO2, methane. Could I keep my job? No. So how is that a free- - We don't know that. I mean the whole point of- - In Norway? - Well as a Scandinavian I can tell you they would not put up with - [Lex] It's been a while. - You deviating for the - Well, but in it's deviating - [Tucker] Frowned upon, yeah. - But do you have the freedom That's the question. - Can you keep your job? That's one measurement of it. - [Lex] You can keep your job, yeah. - Yeah, it's not the only measurement. Obviously being thrown into prison is much worse than losing your job. I've been fired a number of times for saying what I think, by the way. And it's fine. I've enjoyed it. I don't mind being fired. I've always become a better But it is one measurement of freedom. If you have the theoretical but no practical ability to do it, do you have the right to do it? And the answer is not really actually. - You mentioned Jon Stewart, the two of you have a bit of a history, I don't know if you've seen it, but he kind of grilled your have you got a chance to see it? - I haven't seen it, but which is why I pivoted against about how the price of freedom - Yeah, that was essentially it. So in 2004, that's 20 years ago, Jon Stewart appeared on, And that was kind of a memorable moment. Can you tell the saga of - I mean for me, you know, about how it takes a long time to digest and process and understand or at least it does for me. I didn't understand that as moment while it was happening. I just got off a plane from Hawaii. I mean I was out of it as usual and I was very literal as usual. And so from my perspective, to the extent I remember it, Well, he had two criticisms. One that, &quot;Crossfire,&quot; was stupid, which it certainly was. In fact, I'd already given my notice and I was moving on to &quot;Crossfire&quot; was stupid. Crossfire didn't help, as Republican versus Democrat, whatever. It was not helpful to I couldn't agree more, So that was part of his critique, fair. I'm not sure I would've 'cause I worked there to admit you're engaged in an enterprise that's like fundamentally But his other point was that I was somehow a partisan which is definitely not true. It is true of him. He is a mindless partisan. But I'm not, and I haven't been for, I really haven't been since at the beginning of the Iraq war and I realized that the Republican party, which I'd voted for my and had supported in general was like pushing this that was gonna hurt the United States which in time it really did. The Iraq War really And I realized that I had been I said so publicly, I said that to, The New York I mean it now. And so to call me partisan, you could call me stupid, I certainly have been wrong, but partisan, I just didn't think it was a meaningful, I mean it's like that's just not true. It's the opposite of true. So I didn't really take And I never thought much of him. So I was like, whatever, some buffoon jumping around on my show grandstanding. But I do think it was recorded. And by the way that that YouTube began, I think that was one of the first big YouTube video. It was one of the first So it had a virality it went everywhere in a way that didn't used to happen in cable news. I mean, by that point I As you point out, I've been So in the before 2004, we would and then it would kind Like people could claim they heard it. But you'd have to go to the, I think the University archives to get it. Suddenly everything we on the internet, which is good by the way. That's not bad. But it was a big change for me. And I just couldn't believe how widely that was discussed at the time, 'cause I thought he was I think he is obviously I just didn't take him But, so anyway, that was it. It was a smaller thing than other people imagined. - Okay, you said a lot of like you're a bit bitter So you said unhappy - Well, I think he's an unhappy guy. Well, he's definitely partisan for sure. - So, can you elaborate why - Well, so I think that, and I see this a lot, but people who believe that whatever political is the most important debate in the world. And so they bring an emotional and they're inevitably disappointed because no eternal question So they're kind of on And they're doomed to frustration, if they believe that, and many do. He certainly does. that So, &quot;Clarence Thomas should And the implication is, well, if someone else's Supreme Court justice we'll live in a fair and happy society. But that's just not, it's a false promise. So I think that people who to politics are by definition bitter, by definition disappointed, bitter in the way the And that the real questions are like, what happens when you die? And how do the people Those are not the only questions in life, but they're certainly And if we're spending a on who gets elected to some office, not that it's irrelevant, it is relevant, but it's not the eternal question. And so I feel like he's not silly person in Washington There are many, and a lot But I just thought it was ironic. I mean, everything's ironic to me, but like being called a Russia sympathizer by a guy who calls himself Boris, like, it just made me laugh. (chuckles) No one else has ever laughed at that. Boris Johnson's real name He calls himself Boris, And so like if you call yourself Boris, you don't really have as a Russia defender, right? That's my, I think that's funny. No one else, as I noted does. But Jon Stewart, like, you know, if there are a lot of things you could say about me, but he's much more partisan than I am, so to call me a partisan, it's like what? - He would probably say that he's a comedian who's and the absurdity of the system. That's a dumb- He's a very serious person And he shares this quality I know a lot of comedians. I know a cross sectioned people just having done this job for a long time. And a lot of 'em are very and they have a lot of emotional intensity and he certainly is in that category. He's not, that's like the silliest thing. Yeah, he's a comedian for sure. He can be very funny for sure. He has talent, no doubt about it. I've never denied that. But he's motivated by his moral views, this is right, that is wrong. And I just think that's, - Well, do you think - I don't think any I mean, if you're just a comedian, be. And look, I'm not trying that I haven't said a lot of dumb things. And one of the dumbest things I ever said was when he was on our set which I also just don't really care for as an aesthetic matter. But he was lecturing me about something and I said, &quot;I thought you which I shouldn't have said because he wasn't there to tell jokes. He was there to lecture me. And I should have just engaged it directly rather than trying to diminish him by like, you're just a little comedian. Well, he doesn't see himself that way. But I would just say this, Jon Stewart's a defender of power. Like Jon Stewart has never criticized. Like, what's Jon Stewart's view on the aid we've sent to Ukraine, the a hundred billion dollars or whatever. Like, what happened to that money? What happened to the He doesn't care. He has the exact same priorities as the people permanently So whatever, he doesn't, So does Mika Brzezinski and her husband and all the rest of the cast of dummies. But if you're gonna pretend to be the guy who's giving the finger you should do it once in a while. And he never has. There's not one time that would be deeply That's all I'm saying. And so don't call yourself a truth teller. You're a court comedian Okay, that's fine, but don't pretend to be something else. - I'll just be honest that that video- - From 20 years ago. I watched it initially and I remembered that Jon Stewart completely destroyed you And I watched it and you asked which was, and there was no And you asked a very good question of him, why, when you got a chance did you ask a bunch of softball questions? - [Tucker] Yeah. - I thought that was a And then his defense was, - So, I thought that was disingenuous. And I haven't watched it, I never have watched a and I don't like to watch I never have. And that's my fault. And I probably should force of course I never will. But I think the takeaway for me, which was really interesting was I agree with your assessment. I'm not just, I've lost a lot of debates. I've been humiliated on It certainly happened to But I didn't feel like it was Maybe a TKO, but it was And yet it was recorded that way. And I remember thinking, That's not what I remember.&quot; And then I realized, no, Jon Stewart was more popular than I was, therefore he was recorded as the winner. And that was hard for me to accept because that struck me as unfair. You should rate any contest on points. Like here are the rules, in the basis of those rules. And no, in the end it's just Every TV critic liked Jon Stewart, every one of 'em hated And I was like, wow, that, I guess I have to accept that reality. And you do like the you're not in charge of it, so that's just what it is. - Unfortunately, it's The reason he's seen as the winner and the reason at the time I saw as the quote, unquote, &quot;winner,&quot; is because he was like personal attacks And it was funny in a dark way and like making fun of the bow tie and all this kind of stuff. Bow ties are- - I understand. - And it was fair to call me a dick. I remember he called me a dick. And I remember even when &quot;Yeah, I'm definitely a dick.&quot; Yeah, and that's not my - I think but also to be kind of, I thought Jon Stewart came off and I'm a big fan of his and - That may be true. - We should also say that - Well, I certainly have or change anyway. You hope it's growth, you - It is cold outside. - Yeah, I mean look, I haven't followed Jon Stewart's career at all. I don't have a television. Like I'm pretty cut off so I wouldn't really know. But the measure to me is, that are unpopular with in the world, and how It's super simple. Not for its own sake, but to say to the consensus, I disagree. And if you don't, then That's my view. - Well, I think he probably but you're saying he doesn't do it. - On the big things. Look, the big things, this others may disagree. The big things are the - [Lex] Yeah. - The big things government does can be, I mean there are a lot of Government does everything at this point. But where we kill people and and how we organize the economic engine that keeps the country afloat. Those are the two big questions. And I hear almost no debate about either one of them in the media. And I have dissenting I mean, I'm mad about the tax I don't think we should be... The fact we've a carried and people are claiming that their income is investment income and as someone who just It discourages work, it which I think is gross personally I'm against it, sorry. And the fact that we're like is the saddest thing And nobody feels free to say - How do you hope the war on Ukraine ends? - With a settlement. With a reasonable settlement. And what a reasonable settlement where both sides feel like but can live with it. And I mean I was really with Putin by how he basically refused to criticize Joe Biden And it is, I will just it would be a little weird to with a foreign leader, any foreign leader, even though I don't think Joe Biden is a real person or really president. I mean the whole thing is ridiculous. But still, he is the American And I don't want to beat up with a foreigner. I just don't, maybe I'm old fashioned. So, that's how I feel. So I didn't push it, but I thought it was really interesting. And 'cause of course Putin He knew I applied to the CIA, so they've done some digging on me. but he didn't mention it And the reason is I know for a fact 'cause he wants a settlement. And he wants a settlement not because Russia's about to collapse despite the lying of our media. That's just not true. And no one is even saying it He wants it 'cause it's And it changes the world in ways you can't predict, people die. Everything about it is sad. And if you can avoid it, you should. So I would like to see a settlement where, look, the thing that Russia wants and I think probably has a right to, is not to have NATO Like, I don't know why we would do that. I dunno what we get out of it. I just don't even understand it. I don't understand the purpose of NATO. I don't think NATO is good I think it's an attack on our sovereignty. I would pull out of NATO immediately if I were the US president because I don't think it helps the US. I know a lot of people are getting their bread buttered by NATO, but anyway that's my view as an American. If I'm a Russian or a Ukrainian, let's just be sovereign countries now. We're not run by the US State Department, we're just our own countries. Like that's, I believe So, that's my view. And I also wanna say one I attacked him before by his cavalier talk because it would kill my family, so I'm really offended by that. Anyone who talks that But I do feel for Zelensky, I do. That he didn't run for I think Zelensky, he's by the State department, by Toria Nuland, by our secretary of state, by the policymakers in as a vessel for their ambitions, their geopolitical ambitions. But also the many American as a way to fleece the American taxpayer. And then by just independent are hoping to get rich Like the whole thing, Zelensky He's not driving history. NATO in the United States Putin is driving history. There's this guy Zelensky. So, I do feel for him and I - Do you think Zelensky is Because I do. To me, you can criticize a lot of things. You should call out things - Well, I just tried to a second ago. I don't know the extent He seems to be in the Like way too much. You can do a satellite interview. You don't have to speak to my Congress, you're not an American, please leave. - [Lex] Yeah. - You got many zingers, Tucker. - No, no, no, it's just heartfelt. It's just bubbling up from the wellspring that never turns off. But I would say this about Zelensky. Yeah, to the extent he's George W. Bush fled Washington on 9/11. I lived there with three to some Air force base in South Dakota. And I thought that was cowardly, and I said so at the time. And man was I attacked for saying that. And I wrote a column about where I then had a column. Hard to believe. But I felt that, I felt that. I think the prerequisites of The first is caring about That's number one. A deep, in the way a father or an officer cares for his troops, a president should care for his people. And that leads inexorably which is bravery, physical courage. And I believe in that. And I'm not like some tough guy, but I just think it's obvious. If you're in charge. I'm at my house and I feel I'm not gonna say to my wife, &quot;Hey, baby, go deal with the home invasion.&quot; I'm gonna deal with it So if you're the president of a country and your capital city is attacked as ours was at the And the Secret Service told me to. Bitch, are you in charge? (Lex chuckling) Like, who's daddy here? The Secret Service. Do you know what I mean? I found that totally contemptible. And I said so, and man, Not just from Republicans Oh you don't know, put I was like, &quot;Okay, I under that kind of stress.&quot; Enormous stress, I get it. I know one thing I 'cause you can't do that. And if you're not willing then you shouldn't be leading it. So yes, to the extent if Zelensky really is in Ukraine - Well, hold on a second, let's clarify. It's not about what is in - Well, I thought that of the- (laughs) at the beginning of when Kyiv, when a lot of people thought that the second biggest is pointing its guns in And a man, a leader who stays in that city and says, fuck it, when says everybody around will be taken or at least destroyed. Leveled, artillery, bombs, all of this. He chooses to stay. You know a lot of leaders, how many leaders would choose to stay? - Well, the leader of when the Taliban came, got in a US plane with US dollars and ran away. And of course is living So yeah, there's a lot Good for him. I mean, I guess I'm looking which is what's the option? You're the leader of the Like Stalin never left It was surrounded by the And he didn't leave. And when I was in Russia, It's like how he's the You can't, I mean like that's I would say, but you raised an interesting by implication question, which is what about Kyiv? Like you think the Russians Of course, obviously they They could, but they haven't. - Well, there's military answers to that, which is urban warfare - Do you think that - No, I do think he and somebody else to come into power. - Yeah, that may be totally, I don't know. I don't think, I have no when he did that about Zelensky. I didn't ask him. But it's a mistake to between Putin and Zelensky. This is Putin versus I mean Zelensky, and that's why I said I felt sorry for him. I mean, as I said, we're of Ukrainian bureaucrats. So there is no Ukrainian government independent of the US government. And maybe therefore that but you can't endorse that you use the term democracy, 'cause that's not a - Well, that's why it's interesting that he didn't really - He wants a settlement, and he doesn't wanna fight And he just wants to get this done. And he made a bunch of And we wouldn't even know this happened if the Israelis hadn't told us. And I'm so grateful that they did that Johnson was dispatched by the State Department to stop it. And it's like, I mean is a husk of a man. But imagine if you were Boris Johnson and you spend your whole I'm for Ukraine, and because of what you did. And the lines haven't really moved. It hasn't been a victory for Ukraine. It's not gonna be a victory for Ukraine. And it's like, how do if you did that? I mean I've done a lot of I feel bad about them, but I've never extended Like that's a pretty - Yes, that was a failure. But it doesn't mean you can't and over keep having - Well, the US government is And so, that for me is It's like in the end what Russia does I'm not implicated in that. What Ukraine does, I'm I'm not Russian or Ukraine. I'm an American who grew up I'm supporting my country And it's like I really care about what the US government does 'cause they're doing it in my name and I care a lot 'cause I'm American and we are the impediment to peace, which is another way of for all these innocent people getting dragooned outta and sent to go die. Like what? That is not good. I'm ashamed of it. - What do you think of Putin for continuing the war is denazification? - I thought it was one of the I didn't understand what - It literally means what it sounds like. - Yeah, I mean I have a I hate that whole conversation it's just ad hominem. It's a way of associating that doesn't exist anymore. But in point of fact, is inseparable from the German nation. It was a nationalist movement in Germany. There were no other Nazis, right? There's no book of Nazism. I'm like, I wanna be a Nazi. What does it mean to be a Nazi? There's no idea, there's no... I mean there's no, &quot;Mein Kampf,&quot; is not, &quot;Das Kapital,&quot; right? &quot;Mein Kampf,&quot; is like, to it's like he's about the Whatever, I'm very anti-Nazi. I'm merely saying there isn't It's a way of calling people evil. Okay, Putin doesn't like Putin hates nationalism in And of course he does. He's got 80 whatever republics and he's afraid of nationalist movements. He fought a war in Chechnya over this. So I understand it, I'm for national, I'm so like I disagree with Putin on that, but calling them Nazis, it's like, I thought it was childish. - Well, I do believe that he believes it. - I agree with that. 'Cause I was listening to this because in the United States everyone's always calling everyone else a Nazi. You're a Nazi. Okay. But I was listening to &quot;This is the dumbest sort you could take.&quot; And I sat there and listened to him talk about Nazis for like eight minutes. And I'm like, &quot;I think he believes this.&quot; - Yeah, and I actually having with people who are living in Now there's technicalities the World War II is deeply in the blood of a lot of Russians and Ukrainians. - [Tucker] I get it, I get it. - So you're using it as the way it's used in like racism and all this kind of stuff. So, you can really touch - [Tucker] I think that's totally right. - But it's also to me a really - [Tucker] I agree. - Because, and also to clarify, there is neo-Nazi movements in Ukraine, which is, they're very small. You're saying that between Nazi and neo-Nazi, sure. But it's a small percentage a tiny percentage that as far I have seen no data to show they have any influence on Zelensky and Zelensky government at all. So really, when Putin says denazification, I think he means nationalist movements. - I think you're right. And I agree with everything you said, and I do think that the war, the Second World War occupies Polish society, central Eastern Europe that it does not occupy And you can just look at the death totals. Tens of millions versus So it's like this eliminated a lot of the male population so of course it's still I get it. I just, I think I've watched, I don't think I know I've weaponization of words for so long that I just don't like, and though I do engage in I don't like just Oh, he's a Nazi, he's It's like, tell me what you mean, what don't you like about And a Nazi especially, it's like, I don't even know what the - What troubled me about that that's the primary And that because it's it makes it difficult because like what, what of the Nazis in Ukraine? So like he'll come to the table and say, &quot;Well, okay, I will agree to do ceasefire once the Nazis are gone.&quot; Okay, so can you list the Nazis? - I totally agree. Plus can you negotiate with a Nazi? - [Lex] Right, exactly, exactly. - No, I totally agree with you. - It was very strange. But maybe it was perhaps had to do with speaking to his own population and also probably trying to as the justification for the war. - Yeah, yes, that's all... Of course, I don't know, but I suspect you're right on both counts. But I would say it points to something that I've thought more and more which was like two weeks ago, I guess. I didn't think he was like, as a PR guy, not very good. Like he's not good at The story of the current war in Ukraine is the eastward expansion of NATO and scaring the outta the which is totally necessary. Doesn't help the United States. NATO itself doesn't And so I'm not pro-Russian for saying that I'm pro-American for saying that. And I think that's a 'cause it's true. He did not tell that story. He told some other story that Again, I'm not Russian. He's speaking to multiple I'm not sure what he hoped I will never know. But I did think that like this guy is not good at telling his story. And I also think honestly I mean I know this, very We keep hearing that he's He's got ALS. I mean I don't know, I'm not his doctor. There's a ton of lying about it. I know that. But one thing that's not a lie is that he was cloistered I know this. And only dealing with two or three people. And that makes you weird. It's so important to to have your views challenged. And you see this with leaders He's been in power 24 years, effectively. He's done a, you know, I think for Russia, the Russian economy, Russian life expectancy. But there are definitely downsides. And one of them is you get Like this is why we have term limits. Very few kings don't get crazy in old age. - Yeah, and you said some whilst in your post Kremlin discussion while you're in Moscow still, which was very impressive to me that you can just openly criticize. This is great. - Well, I don't care. - I understand this. I just wish you did some more of that also with the supermarket video and perhaps some more of that - Putin in front of me. - I'm such a good person. - I know you see it as virtue signaling. - Yeah, it is. - Have you seen some of the interview he did with some NBC news child? - Yes, I understand. So I think you're just so annoyed that you just didn't want to be them. - Yeah, that's probably - Some great conversations like you were confused - Well first of all, I and I accept it as true that in some way I'm probably pivoting And I have such contempt on the basis of so much knowledge that I probably was like, I That is a kind of defensiveness and dumb. So, you're right. As for the Nazi thing, I was like, I really felt like we were just speaking so far past each other that I was like, I don't even know what the hell you're talking about. And especially when I decided or concluded that he really that's just too freaking weird to me. It's almost like, yeah, I can We were interviewing someone else, say something that's like, I and he started talking and we're the real Jews. And I was like, and it wasn't on camera, but I was like, I don't, that was so, it was so far out to me that I was like, we'll never kind of understand - So you mentioned there's a about Putin's health. How was he in person? Like what did he feel like? Did he look healthy? - I'm not a health I can easily gain 30 So like, I'm probably not But no, he seemed fine. He seemed, he had his arm and I heard people say, And Parkinson's can be controlled, I know for periods with drugs. So, it's hard to assess. I'm just not... One of the tells of Parkinson's is gait. How a person walks, I think. And his walking seemed fine. I walked around with him and He's had some work done for sure. He's 71 or two. - [Lex] You mean like visual purposes? - Yeah, I'm 54. He's like almost 20 years older than me. He looked younger than me. - What was that like, the like you walking around with him. What was the content of the conversation? - I mean, I can't, you know, or anybody like talking about But I'll just say that when I said that he didn't wanna fight with NATO or with the US State because he wants a settlement, that's a very informed perspective. He doesn't. Say whatever you want about that, believe it or not, but that is true. - So, he's open for peace. Russia tried to join NATO in 2000. That's a fact. Okay, they tried to join NATO So just think about this, NATO exists to keep Russia contained. It exists as a bulwark against Russian territorial expansion. And whether or not Russia has any territorial ambitions Like why would it, it's in the world, whatever. But that's why it exists. So if Russia seeks to join NATO, it is by definition a sign we can declare victory and go home. The fact that they turned him down is like so shocking to me. But it's true. Then he approaches the next president, George W. Bush, that was with Bill Clinton at the end of his term in 2000. He approaches the next president and said, let's, in our next missile deal, let's align on this and as our common enemy. Iran which is now effectively thanks to our insane policies. And George W. Bush to his credit's like, well, that seems like kind And Condi Rice, who's like one to hold power in the United who's like monomaniacally 'cause she had an advisor at Stanford who was or something during the Cold War. No, we can't do that. And Bush is just weak, and so he agreed. It's like, what? That is crazy. If you're fighting with you know what, actually and you've spent 80% of on hating me and opposing me or whatever, but actually we can be on the same team. If you don't at least Like what, why would you... If your interest is in what would be the, what's I don't even understand it. And no one has even addressed any of this. The war of Russian aggression. Yeah, it was a war of But how did we get there? We got there because Joe Biden and Tony Blinken dispatched Kamala Harris, who does not freelance this stuff, okay? Fair to say. To the Munich Security Conference two years ago this month, February, 2022, and said, in a press poor Zelensky, we want you to join NATO. This was not in a back room. Things was in public at a because he said it like 4,000 times, we don't want nuclear weapons or NATO on our Western border. Duh. And days later he invaded. So like, what is that? And if you even, I raised that and I was denounced as you, of course a traitor or something. But okay, great, I'm a traitor. What's the answer? What's the answer? These are not into... Toria Nuland who I know, not dumb, hasn't helped the US in any way. An architect of the Iraq war, one of the people who okay, fine, but you're not stupid. So, like you're trying to What's the other explanation. By the way, NATO didn't want Ukraine 'cause it didn't meet the criteria. So, for admission. So, why would you say that? Because you want a war. That's why. And that war has enriched a lot of people to the tune of billions. So I don't care if I sound like some kind of left-wing conspiracy nut because I'm neither left-wing Tell me how I'm wrong. - Who do you think is behind it? If you are to analyze, like zoom out looking at the entirety of human history, the military industrial Is it individuals? Is it like this collective flock that people are just - It's the hive mind. And I spent my whole life in DC from '85 to 2020, so 35 years. And again, I grew up And I do think that conspiracies, of course there are conspiracies. But in general, the hive mind is responsible for the worst decisions. It's a bunch of people with Views that have not Putin said something Absolutely true. I don't know how he would 'cause I lived among them. So the Soviet Union on my honeymoon in Bermuda. I'll never forget it. And it was a big thing, I mean, the receptionist was getting a master's in He was gonna be a sovietologists. And he was among thousands on that same track. And so the Soviet Union collapses. Well, so does the rationale of the US government has been to opposing this thing So, there's a lot of forward momentum. There's a huge amount of money. The bulk of the money in the aimed in this direction. And it's very hard for people And you see this in life all the time. I love my wife. All of a sudden she ran Holy shit, I didn't Now, it's a reality. Like how do I deal with that? Well, I got stage four And it's all bad. But I'm just saying like, Things that you did not anticipate, never thought you'd have to And you have to adjust your And people have a hard time with that. Very hard time with that. So, that's a lot of it. People, if you're Condi Rice, sort of like highly ambitious mid wit who gets this degree from Stanford, and you read Tolstoy in the original. Sure, you did. And you spent your that Russia is the center It's kind of hard to be like, well actually there's a new threat and it's coming from farther east. It's primarily an economic threat. And maybe all the threats That's the other thing, is these people are so inelastic in their and flexibility that they can't sort of imagine like a new framework. And the new framework is not with China over Formosa, Taiwan. No, the framework is that all of a sudden all the infrastructure in Tijuana is gonna be built by China. And like that's a but they can't kind of get there because they're not that impressive. - So you actually have mentioned this, it's not just the Cold that populates most of their You mentioned Churchill, And they kind of seeing the World War II as the kind of the good the United States played in that war, they're kind of seeing that dynamic, that geopolitical dynamic and applying it everywhere else still. - Yeah, it's a template for everything. And I think it's of huge significance to the development of the West, to the civilization we live in now to world history was a world war. And so I think it's and being honest about and all the rest, but it's hardly the sum Yeah, it's a snapshot. And so you keep hearing people no one ever talks about the war. Like what, how much does Tony Blinken know about the battle of Stalingrad? Hmm, probably zero. He doesn't know anything. Largest battle in human history. But everybody, he knows nothing. But he knows a lot about the cliches surrounding the '38 to And everything is kind of and not everything is that formula. That's all I'm saying. And the Republicans have particularly the closeted ones, the weird ones who were like have no life other than like starting more wars. Everything to them, the among them, emotionally, the dumbest, they will always say the same thing. And it appeals to Republican that every problem is Everyone's Chamberlain. Like Germany never would've gone in to Poland, Czechoslovakia if That's the argument. Is that true? I don't know, actually. Maybe it might be totally true. It might not be true at all. I really don't know. But not everything is that, If I go up to you in a bar and I'm being pretty aggressive you might beat the outta me actually, or shoot me if I do that. Like an aggressive posture the outcome that you want. Sometimes it requires a more sophisticated I mean, it kind of depends. It's a time and place thing. And they don't acknowledge that. It's like everything And that's not the road to - Since we're on the time period, let me ask you kind of but it applies to you, which you've interviewed - [Tucker] Yep. - If you had the chance in '39, '40, '41. First of all, would you do it? And how would you do it? I assume you would do - Man, it would be a It may destroy my life to I can tell you as much as I want that I'm not a Putin defender, I only care about the United States. That's a hundred percent true. Anyone who knows me will I keep saying it. But history may record me to the extent it records me at all as a tool That seems absurd to me, So, what would I ask Hitler? I don't even know. I guess that I would probably which is what I ask everybody, Why did you do, I mean, if like, why are you doing that? what's your goal? And then the question is, I don't know. You can't make someone You can only sort of and then let people decide - Well, just like in the bar fight, there's different ways. You could- That's exactly right. That's exactly, man, is that true. That is absolutely right. - I mean, your energy was such that it felt I felt like he could tell you a lot. - I just wanted to get it on the record. - [Lex] Yes. - I think it was extremely like, we have to acknowledge how for the record and for opening Like opening the door to to like more conversations - Well, I would flip it around to shut that down by focusing of four minutes versus a two hour and 15 minute long interview Anyone who doesn't want more conversation, who wants fewer facts, fewer probably doesn't have good intent. I mean, I can honestly say for I've never tried to like, I just, it's not in me. I don't believe in that. - So Putin's folks have shown interest of quite a while to speaking with me. So, you've spoken with him. What advice would you give? - Oh, do it immediately. How's your Russian, by the way? - [Lex] Fluent. - Yeah, fluent. So it would most likely be in Russian. So like that's the other thing is I do have a question Oh, like, did you feel was annoying? - It's horrible. - It's horrible. I mean the, I don't as an interviewer other than That's my only skill. I don't have the best questions. I certainly don't have the best questions. All I do that I'm proud of and that I think works is I I never let a word go by that It exhausts me, actually. But you can't do that because there's a delay. Here I'm just whining, but it's real. - Well, it's not whining. Like can you actually describe the technical details of that? Are you hearing concurrently, - Yes, but there's a massive lag. So what's happening so we were of course extremely uptight about the logistical details, so we brought our own who I've been around the world with, who worked at Fox, came with me now. Amazing. And he did, I mean, it was our Like we had full control over that and we had control of the tape. The Russians also had their own cameras, and I don't know what they did with it. But we had full control of that, and we brought our own translator. We got our own translator because I don't trust anyone, right? So, I think we had a good translator. We had two of them actually, But the problem is, from my perspective, as someone who's like trying and listen to the answer, Putin will talk and in part of your ear and then over that is a guy with a Slavic accent speaking English. And then you can hear Putin stop talking and then this guy's answer goes on for another 15, 20 seconds. So, it's super disconcerting And the other thing is, it doesn't matter how good your translators are. I'm interested in language, I speak only English fluently, but I'm really interested in language. And I work in language. It doesn't matter how In literature and in if the language is moving for you. I mean, you see this in Bible study, you see it in Dostoevsk, If you don't speak you're not really getting. I mean, even in romance languages. I like Balzak, okay? Who's obviously wrote in French. You read, &quot;Pere Goriot,&quot; it's And it's like, you're And it's not that French and English are not that far apart. Russian, like what? - Plus conversation. So the chemistry of the play with words, all this stuff. - Exactly. And my understanding of Russian as a lover of Russian literature in English is that it's not a simple language at all. The grammar's complex. There's a lot that's expressed that will be lost in the translation. So yes, I mean the fact that I mean I would run that 'cause I think it would just be amazing. You would get so much - And we should say that you've both Zelensky and Putin are - [Tucker] Yes. - So like there's a depth to the person that can be explored just on that element, - For sure, and Putin I spoke to him in English, so I know that. But he's not comfortable with it at all. - [Lex] Right. - No, well he's better but he's still, the humor, all of that is not quite there in English. He says simple points. But the guy's a comedian. And he's a comedian primarily in Russian, the Russian language. So the Ukrainian language primarily as a kind of symbol. of independence. It's a political decision. No, I know. - And he is, you know, his really, his native language is Russian language. - [Tucker] Of course, as a - But you can also understand his position that he might not want to be That's something- - I don't think they're allowed to speak in Russia in some places That's one of the reasons is that they were attacking language. And that's a fair complaint. Like, what? And by the way, if you haven't you should see it and you that were invisible to me. And you should assess it for yourself. And my strong advice would be, even if you don't interview spend a week there and I mean, how restricted I mean, it would take a because I mean, whatever you decide, you'll be sucked into conversations that have nothing to do with you. Political conversations. - You're obviously not a You're an interviewer. But I think it would be so interesting. - But for interview you have about how to carry an interview? It is fundamentally in the native language. - Yes, I mean, I think I approached... And maybe I did it incorrectly, but this was the product I was coming into that interview aware that he hadn't given an interview at all with anybody since the war started, so I had a million different questions. And as noted, I didn't ask them because I just wanted to focus on the war. But I mean, there's so many, I'll send you my notes that I wrote. I was like a diligent - That would be amazing. But I think- All these questions, and some of them I thought were pretty funny. - In your case, I think the was the most important thing. - Yeah, that's probably right. The question that I really wanted to ask that I was almost gonna ask, 'cause it made me laugh out loud. I was sitting having with my producers and I was My first question's I've been here in the Kremlin and I haven't seen a in a position of power in the Kremlin.&quot; - [Lex] Sure. - (laughs) I thought that's too. - [Lex] Yeah. And he'd be like, &quot;This - Yeah, yeah, you don't with humor. I know. - That's probably, doesn't translate. - It doesn't. Oh yeah, and there'll be a small delay where you have to wait for the- - (laughs) Like what? - [Lex] To see if it lands or not. - This is not America. - At Fox, you were for a After Fox, you've garnered a huge amount of attention as well. Same, probably more. Do you worry that popularity gets to your head is a kind of drug that clouds your thinking? - You think? I live in a spiritual graveyard of people killed by the quest for fame. Yes, I have lived in it. I mean, I would say the one advantage, the two advantages I have. And one, I have a happy and a stable group of friends, which is just the greatest blessing and a strong love of nature So, I'm in nature every day. And I have a whole series of rituals designed to keep me from that I could easily become. But no, of course. And I don't want to beat who gave me a platform, but I definitely don't spend or on the internet for that exact reason. Well, first of all, I a much more controlled And I don't want lies in my head, but I also don't want to who's seeking the adulation of strangers. I think that's soul poison. And I said earlier that for power and money will kill you. And I believe that, But I also think the desire you don't know is every bit And so, yes, and it's not just because I've obviously spent most And in fact I don't and I'm completely private person. But professionally I've But it's not just that. It's like social media makes everybody into a cable news host. And we were talking off I'm obsessed with this, but but here's what I do know. South Korea, amazing I grew up around Koreans, if I can generalize about a group that I like more than Koreans, are just smart, funny, honest, brave. I really like Koreans, I always have. My whole life growing up in southern California with Koreans. South Korea is like dying. It's literally dying. It's way below replacement Its suicide rate is astronomical. Why is that? It's a rich country. But of course, I dunno the answer, but I suspect it has something to do with the penetration of technology into South Korean society is certainly one of the highest in the world. People live online there. And there was a belief in, for a bunch of reasons in South Korea that Western technology would be a liberating progressive force. And I think it's been the opposite. It's my sense, strong sense. And I think it's true in this country too. And I don't understand how in life expectancy or Like, it's not just about China shipping precursor chemicals to Mexico. It's like, why would you take that shit? - I hope those two things aren't coupled. Technological advancement and the erosion. - Well, let me ask you, and and I respect it. And there's a lot about and it benefited from. I had back surgery and it worked okay, so I'm not against all technology. But can you name a technology, a big technology in the last 20 years that we can say conclusively - Well, conclusive is a tough thing. - [Tucker] Pretty conclusively. That we can brag about. - Well you've criticized but I think making the world anywhere across the world - Well, I love that, I love that idea. Are people better informed? Are they more superstitious and misled than they were 20 years ago? (laughs) It's not close. - Well, no, I don't know. I think they are more informed. It is just revealing the ignorance. The internet has revealed the But I think the ignorance has And like, if you look even, you can criticize places and very many aspects of But when you, most of that don't have any bias in them because they're not political, so there's no battle over those topics. - [Tucker] Right. - And most of Wikipedia. - [Tucker] I think that's true. - Is like the fastest way - I couldn't agree more. You can very quickly And that may be the problem, I think. No, it's true. I just experienced it in Moscow. It's like, again, I feel for information, certainly And I had literally... And I'm always outta the country. I've been around the world many times. Like I feel like I know a lot or I thought I did. And how did I not know any of that? And maybe I'm just like or reading the wrong things. I don't know what it was. But all I know is the that I used to understand. Just something as simple as We're completely inadequate. And anyway, look, I just am worried that we're missing the obvious signs. And the obvious signs are reproduction, life expectancy, sobriety. If you have a society where with being sober, don't and are dying younger, you you have a suicidal society, okay? And I'm not even blaming anyone for, I'm just saying objectively that is true. And the measure of a is the number of children that you have and how well they do. It's super simple. That's the next generation. We all die. And what replaces us. And if you don't care, And maybe other things too. But that's all I'm saying. So, what happened to South Korea? Like, why can't anyone They're great people, they're rich, they have all these advantages. They're on the cutting For a foreign country, than maybe any other And like what happened? - And I mean, your fundamental war is the same kind of or will happen in the United States. - Well, lemme just ask you this. I think North Korea seems horrible place in the world, right? Obviously. It's a by word for dystopia, right? North Korean. I use it all the time, and I mean it. If in a hundred years there are more North Koreans still alive than there are South Koreans, - [Lex] Yeah, that's - But like, how did it happen? Like why? I'm interested in the why. This is a question I asked Putin. Sometimes we don't know why, - I've seen a lot of which is deserved in many places. It just worries me because of humanity come from science - Okay, then let me ask you and perhaps you have the answer. And I've always assumed that was true. And I should say that when I was a kid, I lived in La Jolla, California, next to the Salk Institute a resident of La Jolla, California, who created the polio vaccine And so my belief, which is that's a great thing. It's one of the great additions But if technology is so great, why is life expectancy going down and why are fewer people having kids, and why would anybody every use fentanyl? What is that, what is going on? And until we can answer that question, I think we have to assume the question of whether technology is a net good or net bad is unresolved, - At best, perhaps. But technology is the very to have that kind of to do science better. - I mean, I want that to be true. And when you said that to escape the darkness of ignorance. Man, that resonated with me, 'cause I felt that way in 1993, 4 when it was first starting And I thought, &quot;Man, this is amazing.&quot; You can talk for free to This is gonna be great. But lemme just ask you this. This is something I've never gotten over or gotten a straight answer to. Why is it that in any European city, the greatest buildings indisputably were built before electricity Why has no one ever built in the modern era ever? What is that? you're have a presumption we have a good definition There's a lot of people- - Right, let's be specific. Pick a European city or and tell me that there's than say Notre Dame - There's other sources - That it's purely in architecture. Of course, of course. Trees are prettier than any so I agree with you there. I mean I grew up in the pre-internet age. - [Tucker] Good, good. - But if you grew up in the internet age, I think your eyes would be more open to beauty that's digital, - I'm not discounting the possibility of digital beauty at all. And the Ted Kaczynski in me wants to. But that's too close-minded, I agree. I'm completely willing to believe there is such a thing as digital beauty. I mean I have digital of my dogs and kids, so But purely in the realm of architecture, 'cause it's like limited. And it is one of the pure We need places to live and and so we build buildings But the machine age, the industrial age seemed to have decreased the quality and the beauty in that one expression of human creativity architecture. And why is that? - Well, I could also argue that I'm a big sucker for bridges. And modern bridges can give older bridges that run for their money. - I like bridges too. So I agree with you sort of. But like the Brooklyn Bridge, I don't know that there's any modern bridges that was built in late 19th century. Very much in the industrial age. But I'm just saying like the - [Lex] Yeah. - Even the pyramids, whoever it seems like if you, I'm just like, I'm dealing Just like, well why is that? But that's a good way to start. If all of a sudden you have and you have access to, I mean, I have machines in my wood shop at home that are so much more advanced in anything than any cathedral builder And yet there's neither I nor anyone know could even begin to understand how a flying buttress was built, right? And so, what is that? - And the other question is also consider that whatever is creating this - And well there's that, yeah. - And the question is like, You have to look in a and say that if you And you want to do it in a safe way. I mean, this is the Manhattan project. - Was the Manhattan project a good idea to create nuclear weapons? That's an easy call, no. - For me it's an easy call in retrospect. In retrospect, yes. Because it seems like So the mutually assure destruction seems to have ended wars, - Well it's been what, 80 years? Not even 80 years. 79. And so we haven't had a But one nuclear exchange would of course kill more people than all wars - You're saying '79 makes it - I'm counting, 'cause it's like completely demonic and everyone pretends like it's great. Nuclear weapons are evil. - [Lex] Yeah, no, absolutely. - The use of them is evil and And in my opinion, I mean it's like, if you can't, that's just so obvious. And that's what what I'm saying is like, I'm not against all technology. I took a shower this morning. It was powered by an electric pump. - [Lex] Yep. Like I loved it. I sat in an electric sauna. Like I'm not against all but the mindless worship of technology. - Sure. Mindless worship of - But I'm just saying, so you said, let's approach this from Okay, if we think that or even a potential chance it could happen maybe on the margins, let's assign it a 15% gets away from us and we that may actually hate us. Who knows what they want. Why wouldn't we use force So you're walking down the it's midnight, you've had a few drinks, you're coming from dinner, you're walking back to your apartment. A guy, a very thuggish looking, guy young man approaches you. He's 50 feet away. He pulls out a handgun, You also are armed. Do you shoot him or do because all the data, He's not committed a crime other than carrying a But maybe he's got a Could be legal. But he's pointing a gun at you. Is it fair to kill him Even though you can't prove - If I knew my skills with a gun because he already has the gun off. - Right, but it turns out that you have some to stop the threat by force. - Are you justified in doing that? - I just like this picture. Am I wearing a cowboy hat? - No, no, but you are wearing cowboy boots and they're clicking on the cobblestone, actually you're wearing the meat packing, okay? I like this picture. - I think about this a lot actually, no. Yeah, I understand your point. But also, I think that if there's other nations at play here. So, if the same as with the nuclear bomb. If US doesn't build it, The Soviet Union build - We faced this, I mean, we faced this and the last president to try nuclear proliferation under And look what happened to him. - What's your suggestion? Wasn't it inevitable? Well, their position in 1962 was no, it's absolutely not inevitable. Or perhaps it's inevitable in the sense that our death is inevitable, But we fight against the because that's the right thing to do. No, we were willing to use force to prevent other countries because we thought that 'cause we acknowledged that to nuclear weapons, just like the downside was terrifying I mean, that's the thing It's like the applications in the hands of people who It's like so obviously terrifying. - It's not so obvious to me. What I'm terrified about that you're terrified about, to manipulate people's minds. That's much more reasonable A real threat that's possible - But what matters more than that? - Well, I think that could lead to like destruction of human civilization for example, starting nuclear wars. - Yeah, well, I mean this I wasn't afraid in the 'cause it's like it's all ending anyway. You know what I mean? - Might as well dance on Don't be a pussy, enjoy it. - I think we will forever fight against the dying of the light as - Someone the other day said that Biden ascribed that to Churchill. That was a Churchill quote. - That's kind of what I'm saying. It's like if you live in a society where people don't read anymore, like people are by definition but they don't know it. It's like, I do think and I think there are cool certainly it's ease of use is But people get the sense that like, oh, I know a lot about you know, this or that or the other thing. And it's like the key to wisdom. Again, the key to wise decision making is knowing what you don't know. And it's just so important to be reminded of what a dummy you are and how ignorant you are all the time. - [Lex] Yeah. - That's why I like having daughters. It's like it's never far And that's important. - Yeah, in the same way I - You should have a ton of kids. Are you gonna have a ton of pups? - Five, oh pup. You mean like kids? - Yes, five. But also I've been but unrelated. I would love to have Yeah, for sure. - Have you found a victim yet? - (chuckles) You make it - (laughs) Just joking, I love it. No, you should totally do that. - Yeah, 100%. But also in terms of being humble, I do jiu-jitsu, it's in martial art where you get your ass - [Tucker] Yeah, I love that. - It's nice to get your ass kicked. Physical humbling is unlike 'cause we're kind of monkeys at heart and just getting your ass - I agree, I've had it happen to me twice. - (chuckles) Twice is enough. - It got me to quit drinking. I was good at starting fights, But no, I completely agree with that. - Let me ask you, you've been pretty close with Donald Trump. Your private texts about were made public. In one of them you said that When that came out, you said that you actually So, how do you explain the difference? - My texts reflect a lot of things, including how I feel at the That specific text, I happened to know since I had to go through it forensically during my deposition in a I had nothing to do with whatsoever. It's crazy how civil to hurt people you But I was mad at a very specific, I mean really what that... I mean, you're asking me, I'll tell you exactly what that was. It was the second the election ended and they stopped voting, stopped the vote counting I was like, well this is, and it's all now mail-in ballots and electronic voting machines. I was like, that's a rigged election. I thought that then, I think it now. Now, it's obvious that it was. But at the time I was that was like crazy what just happened. I want, but I don't wanna go on TV and say that's a rigged election because I don't have any You can't do that. It's irresponsible and it's wrong. So I was like, I want... The Trump campaign was about this or that fraud, so I was trying my best to follow up on it. Everyone else was like, Go away. We're gonna indict you.&quot; But I felt like my job was to be like, &quot;No, the guy's, he's president, he's claiming the election just got stolen and he's making these claims. Let's see if we can.&quot; Well, the people around him It was just absolutely crazy. And so, I called a couple of times. I finally give up, but all right, you guys claim and this, you know, gimme evidence and I'll put it on TV. It's my job to bring stuff that is not gonna be aired I couldn't, it was like, it was insane how incompetent and unserious. - So, they weren't able to provide like- - Well, here's the point of So then they come out and they Well, that's just an easy call. Okay, if a dead person voted, 'cause like being dead we're good at like verifying, 'cause you start to smell, okay? And there's a record of it. It's called a death certificate. So it was like, gimme the who voted, and then we and we can show they voted. Five names. So I go on TV and I say this, Caroline Johnson, 79 of here's her death certificate, she died. And the campaign sends me this stuff. Now I in general don't take stuff directly from campaigns 'cause they all lie 'cause their job is to So, I'm very wary of campaigns having been around it for 30 years. So like, but I made an and I got a bunch of stuff from them. Well, like of the six names, What? I was so, well, I immediately CNN did a whole segment on how I was spreading disinformation, which I was by the way. In this one case they were right. I was so mad. I was like, &quot;I hate you. I'm not talking about you, I'm so mad.&quot; Anyway, that's the answer - Who were you texting to? - My producer. And I was like, venting. It's like a producer And I've known him for a long time. He's really smart. And he's like, he was someone And I was like, &quot;Rah.&quot; And by the way, it was so funny. I mean now I'm doing what was me, which I will keep to a minimum, but it's like stealing someone's text. And by the way, I was an idiot. I should have said, come and arrest me. I'm not giving you my okay? - But I got bullied into it by a lawyer. I didn't get bullied into it. I was weak enough to agree with a lawyer. It was my fault. Never should have done that. Fuck you, they're my texts. I'm not even named in this case. That's what I should I said I was mad on the air the next day, but not in language that colorful. But whatever, whatever. I try to be transparent. I mean, I also think, by the way, if you watch someone over time, you don't always know but you can tell if someone's lying. You can sort of feel it in people. And I have lied. I'm sure I'll lie again. I don't wanna lie. I don't think I'm a liar. I try not to be a liar. I don't wanna be a liar. I think it's like really - You said nice things about me earlier. I'm starting to question. I have questions. I have a lot of questions, Tucker. - I hate Lex Fridman. (laughs) - Yeah, I am gonna have to - My texts are so uninteresting now. It's like crazy how - [Lex] Emojis and gifs. - Yeah, lots of dog pictures. - Nice. You said some degree Was it stolen? - It was a hundred percent stolen. Are you joking? - [Lex] Like it was rigged - Yeah, they completely right before the election which had nothing to do with- - In that way it was rigged, meaning like manipulated. And you censor the information Anyone who complains about COVID, which is like, by the way, But I mean it's like whatever. I mean you could play You can't have censorship in Here's how it works. The people rule. They vote for representatives to the capital city and get it enacted. That's how they're in charge. And then every few years they get to reassess the performance of those people in an election. In order to do that, they need access, unfettered access to information. And no one, particularly not people who are already in power what information they can have. They have to have all Whether the people in charge or think it's true or think And the second you don't have that, you don't have a democracy. It's not a free election, period. And that's very clear in But it's not clear here. So, but I would say I mean it took me a while to come to this, but it's this election that's Biden is senile. He's literally senile. He can't talk, he can't walk. The whole world knows that. Leave our borders, people are, you know, everybody in the world knows it. A senile man is not gonna get elected in the most powerful country in the world unless there's fraud, period. Like who would vote for a senile man? He literally can't talk. And nobody I've ever met thinks he's running the US And so I think the world is looking on at this coming election and saying, and a lot of the world hates Trump. Okay, it's not an endorsement If Joe Biden gets reelected, It's just true. - I think half the country just thinks he's speaking- - Do you really think that? They don't think he's senile? - Yeah, I think he just It's like- - [Tucker] Why do they think - Like gradual degradation, So, cognitive ability is a degrading. - What's the difference between degraded cognitive ability and senility? - Well, senility has it's beyond a threshold to where he could be a functioning leader. - Okay, okay, that may be a term of art that I don't fully understand and maybe there's like an but I'm happy to go with - Sure, but that's an age thing. - But he's the leader of the United States with the world's second - And I'm with you. I'm a sucker for great speeches and for speaking abilities of leaders and Biden with two wars going the importance of a leader both privately in a and publicly is really important. - I agree with you that Convincing people if that telling them what we're national unity, all come from words. I agree with all of that. But at this stage, even someone who grunted at the microphone that a guy who clearly And I think everyone knows that. And like, I can't imagine in Washington which is by 90% obviously, 'cause on the federal government But is there any person out of 350 million Americans, like that's the most qualified to lead, or even in the top 80%, like what? That's so embarrassing that And with wars going on, it's scary. - But it's complicated to understand why those are the choices we have. - Well, I agree. Well, it's a failure of the system. Clearly it's not working. If you've got one guy over 80, the guy, other guy almost at 80, like people that he - So why you have on the democratic side, you have Dean Phillips, you have RFK Jr. until recently, I guess he's independent. And then you have Vivek - [Tucker] Yeah. - Why did they not connect - It's such an interesting, I mean I think it's a really interesting, there are a million different answers. And of course I don't fully understand it even though I feel like I've But I would say the bottom line is there's so much money vested in the parties, in the government. As I said a minute ago, our economies dominated by monopolies, but the greatest all monopolies which oversees and controls So it's like, it's really It's not ideological, And if someone controls I mean at this point organization in human history. Like, it's kind of hard to fight that. And in the case of Trump, They raided Mar-a-Lago, they indicted him on bullshit charges. Like, and I felt that in myself too. Even I was like, come on, come on. Like whatever you think of Trump. And I agreed with his immigration views and I really liked Trump personally. I think he's hilarious and But it's like, okay, there are a lot of people in this country. At very least like let's The second... Messed up your cameras there, sorry, I'm getting excited. But the second they rated as someone from DC I was like, I know a lot about classification and all that stuff and That's so absurd that I was it's about our system continuing. Like if you can take out on a fake charge, use the justice system to take the guy outta the race, then we don't have a And I think a lot of Republican If they hadn't indicted him, I'm not sure he would be the nominee. I really don't think he would be. - So, now a vote for Trump is a kind of fuck you to the system - Or an expression of your desire to keep the system that we had. Which is one where voters get to decide. Prosecutors don't get to decide. Look, they told us for four years that Trump was like a super I've actually been friends I'm a little less judgey than most. So I didn't discount the possibility that he had, I don't know. He is in the real estate business in New York in the 70s. Like, did he kill someone? I don't know. - No, I'm not joking and but like anything's possible. - It's good that you took a stand on that. (Tucker laughing) - Yeah, no, I'm not joking. - I was like, well who knows, you know, and I didn't know. - And what they came up Are you joking? And then the sitting president has the same documents It's like, it's crazy this is happening in front of all of us. And then it becomes like at that point, it's not about Joe Biden, It's about preserving a system which has worked not perfectly, but pretty freaking well for 250 years. I know you don't like Trump. I get it. Let's not destroy that system. Like we can handle in I think we can, so I'll calm down. What we can't handle is a is run by the Justice Department. Like that is just, you're freaking Ecuador at that point, no. - So speaking of the Justice department, CIA and intelligence which you've been traveling quite a bit, probably tracked by everybody, which is the most powerful CIA, Mossad, MI6, SVR. I can keep going. (chuckles) The Chinese. - It depends what you mean by powerful. Which one bats above its weight we know, which one is- - Mossad just to be clear, - Well, of course, tiny country, very sophisticated intel service. Which one has the greatest Which one is most able to read your text? I assume the NSA, but Chinese Israel's pretty good. The French actually are surprisingly good for kind of a declining country. Their intel services are No, I love France, but you So but the question, I mean I grew up around all that stuff. That's all totally fine. Like a strong country should have a strong and capable intel service, can make informed decisions. Like that's what they're for. As Vladimir Putin himself noted. And I don't talk about it I applied to the CIA when I was in college 'cause I was familiar with it because of where I lived and And I was like, seemed interesting. That's honestly the only reason. I was like live in foreign Like I'm for that. I applied to the operations directorate, they turned me down on the True. But anyhow, whatever, so I'm glad they turned me down. But the point is I didn't partly because I was bathing and I didn't really understand what it was and didn't want to know. But second, because my was it was outwardly focused. It was focused on our enemies. I don't have a problem with that as much. The fact that CIA is and actually has for a long time, was involved in the Kennedy assassination. That's not speculation, that's a fact. And I confirmed that from someone who had read their documents It's shocking. Like you can't have that. And the reason I'm so in the idea of representative government acknowledging its imperfections, but like I should have I'm a citizen, I pay So the fact that they would be tampering with American democracy And I don't know why, This parade of dummies, they have on, &quot;Morning Joe&quot; every day. They don't seem to, that How could that not bother you? Why is only Glenn Greenwald mad about it? I mean, it's confirmed it's it's real. They played in the last And I guess it shows how dumb I am because they've been I mean, the guy who took out One of the Roosevelt, CIA officer. So I mean, again, I grew but I never really thought, I never reached the obvious conclusion, which is that if the US government subverts democracy in other countries in the name of democracy, subvert democracy in my country. Why wouldn't it? The corruption is like core. It's at the root of it. The purpose of the CIA was envisioned, at least publicly envisioned as an intel gathering so the president could make What the hell is happening Let me call the agency The point wasn't to freaking guarantee the outcome of elections. - I'm doing a Israel-Palestine But I have to ask you just your thoughts, maybe even from a US perspective, what do you think about What would be the right and what's the right if you looking at the geopolitics of it. - I mean, it's not a topic because I'm a non-expert. And because I'm not, unlike I'm not emotionally just in general. I mean I admire them or not I love Jerusalem, probably my But I don't have an So maybe I've got more clarity. I don't know, maybe less. Here's my view. I believe in sovereignty as mentioned. And I think each country based on its own interest, but also with reference and its own long-term interest. And it's very unwise for, I'm Some are fine, too many bad, but I think US aid, military aid to Israel and the implied security but many implied security to Israel probably haven't helped Israel that much long term. It's a rich country with a Like every other country, it's probably best if based on what it can do by itself. So I would definitely be because I think fair or unfair, and really this is another social media. Public sentiment in that And I think it's gonna be hard for some of the governments in the to contain their own. They don't want conflict They were all pretty psyched actually for the trend in progress. The Saudi peace deal, but would've been great for everybody, 'cause like trade peace, normal relations, like that's good, okay, let's just say. I know John Bolton doesn't And it's kind of what we But now it's not possible. And if you had like a coalition I know Israel's nuclear weapons and has a capable military and all that and the backing of the United States, but like you don't, it's a small country, I think I'd be very worried. So, there's that. And I don't see any advantage I mean, I think it's to make its own decisions. - But it also is a place, like you said, where things are boiling over and it could spread into a major military conflict. - Yeah, well I think In fact, probably right after And yeah, I pray it doesn't. But again, I don't think you can overstate the lack of wisdom, of American foreign policy leadership. These are the architects of the Iraq war, of the totally pointless totally pointless destruction of Syria and the 20 year occupation of Afghanistan that resulted in a So like their, of the Vietnam of the Korean War, even is uninterrupted failures So I just don't have any when was the last time they Can you think of the, Well, you look at Europe &quot;I don't know if that worked.&quot; But even if it did work, so when was the last country American foreign policy makers improved? So if I were... Netanyahu's in a very difficult place, politically impossible I mean. I'm glad I'm not Netanyahu. And I'm not sure he's capable of making wise long-term decisions anyway. But if I was just like I don't know if I want like So yeah, I actually think it's worse than just having just and talking to a lot sort of pro-Israeli Arabs The merchant class always wants stability, so I'm on their side, I guess. And they're like, &quot;Man, this could get American leadership is completely absent. It's all posturing. It's like people like Nikki Haley. You just wonder like how promote someone like Nikki Haley It's like what? Shh, shh, like adults are Nikki Haley, please go away. Like that would be the But everyone's so intimidated to be like, oh, she's a strong woman. She's so transparently and doesn't know anything thinks that jumping up and down and making these absurd repeating bumper stickers so it's like a self-confident would never allow Nikki Haley to advance. I mean, she's really - I just feel like you hold back too much and don't tell us what you really think. - (laughs) Sorry. - I think you just speak - Well, by the way, these are not, I mean you can completely but in the case of Nikki Haley, it's not like an opinion formed just from watching television, It's an opinion formed - So, strong words from Tucker. - Well felt too. (chuckles) Well the world's in the balance. I mean it's not just- - [Lex] Yes, this is important stuff. - Yeah, it's not just what should the capital gains rate be? It's like, do we live or die? I don't know, let's consult So if you're asking should we live or die in consulting Nikki Haley, clearly you don't care about That's how I feel. - Not to try to get a preview or anything, but do you have interest And if you do, how will you approach that? - I have enormous interest And a couple other people, - Yeah, I should also say you interviewing world leaders. I think when I've started it made me realize how - Well, yeah, it's just - From even a historical but it's also important from - Well, it's really changed my perspective and I've been going on And I think that's a great thing. I love America. But it's also we're so physically from the world. Even though I traveled more than most people. But even now I'm like, I'm so parochial. I see everything through and seeing the rest of the world to which we really are connected, like that's real is vitally important. So, yeah, I mean at this stage I don't kind of need to do it, but I really want to just and trying to expand my own and really see the fullest in order to render wise judgments. I mean that's like the - I was just hanging out with and I mentioned to him that that I would love for And he said he's up for it. Any reason you guys - I don't know, I would. I've only met Rogan once and I liked him. I met him at the UFC in New York. He was with somebody, a And Rogan changed media. I mean maybe more than anybody. And he did it. What I love about what without knowing him, beyond I mean, I'm still in media, it's like not a great surprise. I'm doing what I've always But Rogan, like he's got one I like the guy who was I was a short order cook, I mean, he was like, And this guy was a he hosted some, &quot;Fear Factor.&quot; Like how did he wind up at the vanguard of like the deepest Like how did that happen? So, I definitely respect And he, Rogan is one of those people who just kind of came out of nowhere. Like no one helped him, - And he was doing the and it somehow keeps accidentally being exceptionally successful. - Yeah, and he's curious. So, that's like the main thing. And there was a guy but there was a guy I who like kind of dominated and everyone would always beat up on Larry King for being dumb. Well, I got to know Larry King well, and I was his fill-in host for a while, and Larry King was just intensely curious. He'd be like, &quot;Why do you I'd be like, &quot;Because I like black tie.&quot; &quot;Why do you like a black tie?&quot; No one, everyone else wears a stripe type. You wear a black one, why? And he would like, he was - [Lex] Yeah, genuinely so, yeah. And I want to be like that. I don't want to think I know everything. That's so boorish and also false. You don't know everything. But I see that in Rogan. Rogan's like, &quot;Rah, how does that work?&quot; And people will, and it's so funny how that's threatening to people. It's like Rogan will just is free balling on some far out topic, which by the way might be true, probably true than the People are like, I don't He had someone say the pyramids weren't built 3,000 years ago, but 8,000 years ago, and that's wrong. It's like, first of all, how do you know when Second, why do you care if Like, what is that? This weird kind of like groupthink. It's almost like fourth grade, there's always like some who's like acting as the like whip around and be like, &quot;Sit down. Didn't you hear what Mrs. (laughs) That's like the How dare you ask that question. And Rogan just seems like Like he doesn't even hear it. He's like, &quot;Well, really when And I'm just like, &quot;Oh, I love that.&quot; - [Lex] Yeah, curiosity, open-mindedness. - Yes. - The thing I admire is that he's a good father. He's a good husband. He's a good family man for many years. And like, that's his place where he escapes from the world too. And it's just beautiful. - Without that, man, you're destroyed. - [Lex] Yeah. who was interested at all I think I would've gone crazy by now. When we get home, we don't. She's like, how was your day? It was great. Oh, I'm so proud of you. That's the end of our conversation about what I do for a living. And that is such a wonderful and essential respite from you said, how do I not become an asshole I kind of have, but how into a totally insufferable megalomaniac who like checking his Twitter replies every day or every minute. It's that, yeah, you gotta have, the core of your life has and not just ephemeral and silly. - So, the two of you have known each other for what, 40 years? - We've been together 40 years. - [Lex] Together 40 years. Yeah, 1984. He was the hottest 15-year-old - Wow. But I'm talking about myself. I was the hottest person. (laughs) - Yeah, you were just - [Tucker] Yeah. So, what's the secret to successful marriage? - I don't even know. I mean, no, I'm serious. - I got married in August '91, so that's, well, it's our 33rd year - At the collapse of the Soviet Union. - Yeah, yeah, yeah as noted, yeah. So, you hear these people, it's actually changed my Not that I have deep theology, but like, I grew up in a when I was little, that was like a totally self-created society. I mean, Southern California was, it was the root of It was like, that's where you And so, the operative assumption there is that you are the sum and that free will is everything. And we never consider questions like, well, why do children get cancer? Like, what do they do to deserve it? Well, of course, nothing, right? Because that would suggest that maybe you're not the sum total. Your choices matter. If I smoke a lot, I get lung cancer. If I use fentanyl, I may OD, got it. If I don't exercise, But like on a bigger scale, you're not only the sum Like things happen to you that you didn't deserve, good and bad. And marriage is, and I'll speak for myself in my case, just one of 'em. I mean, I could say, I with the person you're married to, talking, enjoying each other. I have a lot of rituals. We have a lot of rituals that ensure that. But in 40 years, like you change, you're like a different person. I like did drugs, I was drinking It's been a long time I'm very different and so is she. But we're different in ways that are complimentary and happy. Never been happier. So, like how do we pull that off? Just kind of good luck, honestly. And then I see other people. No, I'm not kidding. But that's true. I think it's so important if you've been successful at something. The thing I've been most but it's not really me. I mean, I haven't- - So I think what you it's like humility, I think. - It's not even humility. Humility is the result of - [Lex] Sure, okay, right, reality. - Once you see things clearly, then you know that you are not the author of all your successes or failures. And I hate the implication otherwise because it suggests powers It's one of the reasons I always hated the smoking debate or the COVID debate. Someone die of COVID, did They'd be like, &quot;See, You smoke cigarettes, you die.&quot; Well, shit I've, you know... Yeah, if you smoke cigarettes, you more likely to get lung cancer. If you don't, if you get, whatever. Cause and effect is real. I'm not denying its But it's not the whole story. There are larger forces That's just a fact. You don't need to be some And they act on AI too. And you should keep that in mind. The idea that all- - Convincing way you said that. - No, it's true. It's demonstrably true. We're the only society that hasn't acknowledged And the idea that the only things that are real are the things that we can see or measure in a lab. Like that's insane, that's just dumb. - In the religious context, that I really like that who believe they're God and which is a really interesting division that speaks to humility and of where we are in the world. - Oh. - Can atheists being - No, there are very few atheists I've never actually met one. There are people who pose this atheists, but no one's purely rational. And everyone, I mean, this Everyone under extreme higher than himself because everyone knows that there is a power higher than himself. So really it's just people who are gripped with the delusion that they're God. No one actually believes that. If you're God jump off and see what happens. You know what I mean? No one actually thinks that, but people behave as if it's true. And those people are dangerous. And I will say by contrast, are the people who know their limits. And I was thinking actually Of all the people I've interviewed or met, this is someone I've never interviewed, but I have talked to The greatest leader I've is literally a king. It's MBZ, Sheikh Mohamed of I'm definitely not Muslim. I'm Christian, Protestant Christian, and so I don't agree with his religion and I don't agree with monarchies. But he's the best leader in And by far it's like not even close. And why is that? Well there, I could bore you but the reason that is because he's guided by of his limitations and of and of his foresight. And when you start there, it's not even humility. Humility can be opposed. Like, oh, I'm so humble. Okay, humble brag is It's like way deeper than Do I have magical powers? Can I see the future? No, okay, that's just But I've never seen anybody more at ease with admitting that than MBZ, just a remarkable person. And for that reason, he is I don't think people understand who trapes through his house I'm not sure that there is parallel since, I don't wanna get too hyperbolic here, but honestly since like Solomon, where people come from to ask what he thinks. Now, why would they be doing that? Because Abu Dhabi's I mean, he's rich, okay? Massive oil and gas deposits. But like for a lot of, You know what I mean? And no one is coming to Ottawa to ask Justin Trudeau what he thinks. No, it's humility. That's where wisdom comes from. You start to think like, I at America's leadership class, or the people in official positions, it's the whole constellation of advisors and throne sniffers around them. And it's not that even I'm not impressed by them. I'm just not impressed. They're not that capable, right? So that's what I was I don't think Nikki Haley's the most evil person in the world. I think she's ridiculous, obviously. And everyone's like, &quot;Oh, Nikki - Great leaders are so you know it right away. - It blows your mind. And what blows my mind about is that everyone in the world knows it. And I've never seen a story on this. And I'm not guessing, I know this is true 'cause I've seen it. Everyone in the world knows it. And so if there's a conflict, he's the only person that people call. Like everybody calls the same guy. And it's like he runs this I mean, he's in Abu Dhabi. There are a bunch of Emirates, but he's the president of And it's got a ton of energy and all that wealth and all that. And Dubai's got great real but really it's a tiny little country that wasn't even a country 50 years ago. So, how did that happen? Purely on the basis of his humility and the wisdom that That's it. - What advice would you You got four, you somehow made What advice would you give - Have children immediately I think that, that's all that matters. Like in the end, again, these because no one says them. But when I was a kid, people you never wish you And I mean, everyone said that it was like one of these things. And now I don't think Google It's like, no, you're gonna wish you spent more time at But I can't overstate from Nothing else matters, but your family. And if you have the opportunity, and a lot of people are being denied the opportunity to have children. And this messing with the gender rules, and I'm not even talking I mean, feminism has so and the ability of young people and stay together and have fruitful lives. It's like nothing's been It's such a lie, it's so dumb. It's counter to human nature. And nothing counter to It can only cause suffering. And that's what it's done. But fight that, stop complaining about it. Find someone, by the way, or most people get together in a Western society where They get together on a Totally natural. Get off your birth Oh, I can't afford that. Well, yeah, you'll figure out a way to afford it once you have kids. It's like it's chicken in the When you have responsibility, This is true of men. I'm not sure of true of women, but it's definitely true of men. You will not achieve As I always think of men, men do nothing until they have to. But once they have to, That is true. Men will do nothing unless they have to. But once they have to, I really believe that from And I would never have done but I had to and I But by the way, even if you don't succeed, and even if you're poor. Having spent my life among rich people, I grew up among rich people. I am a rich person. Boy, are they unhappy. Well, that's clearly not You don't want to be a debt slave or starved to death or anything like that. But like making a billion Don't do that. Don't even try to do that. If you create something that's and you make a billion dollars, okay, then you have to deal which will be the worst But seeking money for its What you should seek for Talk about a creative act. Last thing I'll say is to create, okay? The act of creation, which in the arts and in its which is children. That's all that's worth is creating something beautiful. And creating children, by It's not hard. I can get more technical - [Lex] Yeah, please. - I have a lot of thoughts on it. - Do you have documents or something? - (chuckles) No, I can - [Lex] Oh, thank you. - But yeah, that's the greatest thing. And the fact that oh, freeze your eggs, have an abortion. What? You're evil. Are you kidding? Because you're taking that can possibly give them enduring joy. And they are successfully and I hate them for it. - You founded, TCN, - [Tucker] Yeah. - [Lex] What's your vision for it? - [Tucker] I have no vision and I never have, so I'm like - Just roll with it. - Yeah, I'm an instincts I have a vision for the world, but I don't have a vision So really my vision I just want to keep doing what I'm doing. I just want to keep doing what I'm doing. And there was a five hour period where I wondered if I would be able to, 'cause I feel pretty spry and like alert and I'm certainly deeply which is talking to people and learning, constantly learning, but I just wanted to keep doing that. And I also wanted to employ the people who I worked with at Fox. I've worked with the same people And so, I had all these people and I wanted to bring them with me. So, we had to build a structure for that. - But this feels like you're really working for yourself, like there's an extra - Totally, totally. And the good, I'm not, you Like I'm good at some things, but I'm really not good at others. And more of them would be like no idea. I'm not interested, not a commerce guy, so I don't buy anything. So it's like the whole But luckily I'm really who are involved in this, So I feel positive about it, but mostly I'm totally committed that I am good at and enjoy 'cause I don't wanna waste my time. And so I'm just getting and I'm really loving it. - What hope, positive hope of human civilization in say - People are great just by their nature. I mean, they're super I always have liked people. If I was sitting here with Nikki Haley, who I guess I've been pretty clear, I'm not like a mega fan of Nikki Haley's. I would enjoy it. I've never met anybody I couldn't enjoy on some level given enough time. So as long as nobody tampers the human nature itself, by being around other people. And that's true around the world. Like, I've never been to a country. And I've been to scores of countries where I didn't given And like the people. So yeah, bad leaders are in human history. Like, they're mostly bad. And we've got an unusually but we'll have better ones at some point. I just don't wanna, I don't... The one thing I don't like more than nuclear the one thing that is the idea of using technology to change the human brain permanently. Because you're tampering You're tampering with God's I mean, I literally with Klaus Schwab, I it was like a total moron. I'm like a hundred years old and like has no idea what's But he's like one of these everyone's so afraid of Klaus Schwab. I don't think Klaus Schwab is Again, he's just like a total But anyway, but he was talking and he's reading all these talking points, like all what the cool kids and whatever, and he In his way and his accent, he was saying, I think it's so important that always in an ethical way, I'm a very ethical man. That we follow using technology and implant the chips in the brain. And I'm like, okay, you have no idea what you're talking about. You're like as senile as Joe Biden. But what was so striking is that no one in the You're fucking with people's brains. (laughs) Like what are Who do you think you are? - It's like, I mean, you're The human mind is really special. Like, we should not mess with it. It's all be very careful and it seems like it's a good thing. Like human beings are fundamentally good and like these sources of creativity, a creative force in the universe - Oh, I mean, what else matters? I don't understand. I mean, I guess look, I don't wanna seem like the Unabomber and I'm not, - We are in a cabin in the woods. - No, well I'm sympathetic but not of course sending 'cause I like people, and I don't believe in violence at all. But I think the problem with technology, one of the problems with technology is the way that people approach it in a very kind of mindless, heedless way. And I think it's important, and we can't control it. And if we don't do it, someone else will. And there's some truth in that, but it's not the whole story. We do have free will and we are creating these And I think it's incumbent on us. It's a requirement of a that we ask like, is this To the extent we can foresee them, will the effects be, et cetera, et cetera. It's like, it's not super complicated. So I just, I prize long-term thinking. I don't always apply to I want to, but I prize it. And I think that people about future generations. And I don't see that They all seem like children to me. And like, don't give children handguns 'cause they can hurt people. - Yeah, fundamentally, to be pro humanity. - By the way, you don't want people who are 81 who are gonna die anyway. Why do they care? And by the way, if your track record with your own family is miserable, why would I give you my family to oversee? I just don't. Like, again, these are that someone should answer. - Well, thank you for asking and thank you for this conversation. Thank you for welcoming me - Thank you. - Thanks for listening with Tucker Carlson. To support this podcast, please check out our And now let me leave you with some words from Mahatma Gandhi, &quot;When I despair, I remember the way of truth and love has always won. There have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they can seem invincible, but in the end they always fall. Think of it, always.&quot; Thank you for listening, and I hope to see you next time.