- Hello, my name is Andrew. In this video, you're going a bunch of mushrooms. This is part of an ongoing a lot of recipes featuring one ingredient in an effort to better understand I'm usually making things often not getting it exactly right, but there's something about playing with the same that can show you a lot Mushrooms are very cool. First of all, they look awesome. They often grow in and they often possess can't get from anything else. So I've already cooked and now I'm gonna take you through how those experiences went. The first thing I made was duxelles, which is sort of a used as an ingredient in itself. I began by cleaning my button mushrooms or these and I thought that this of maximizing the flavor and extending the life of I ended up using about because making any amount is gonna be fairly time consuming doesn't change that overall time too much. So I chopped them down to sort of the finest mince that I could. So I began by sweating adding some garlic and I actually had so much mushroom that I began cooking a portion of it and then went back to chopping more and then as the moisture I would just add more to the pan and continuously stir it Once it dries out, it and almost caramelize a increase the flavor of and then I just checked it for seasoning, added a little bit of thyme, wine and that was essentially done. The first thing I made like a little snack with that was simply a thin piece of bread, a little bit of goat cheese on top, a mound of that duxelle and a and this was really good. For me, I associate this taste with like, Thanksgiving stuffing, which in mine, I add a lot of mushroom and so it's like that Most of the duxelle, I ended up putting into an ice cube tray so and kept long term to then So for example, I made I began by cutting up shitake mushroom, although any or none in this application. I cooked that mushroom in and then I took a cube and melted it with some to create the base of This is sort of based but ultimately really just made up by me, utilizing the basic out of the starchy cooking liquid and agitating that with to create a creamy sauce for the noodle and the taste is incredible. It's just multiplying that It's so good. The next thing I made was jamur goreng, Indonesian fried oyster mushroom and this is actually a dish on Instagram by a number of people. So if you're one of those I referenced a recipe from the chef Devina Hermawan on YouTube. So I started by separating I had this sort of that I separated by hand I guess you would say, I don't know what else to call it, and then I took these and some of their moisture and get some of that seasoning inside and squeezed out as much In the recipe, I was because I assumed that if to a mushroom, I would just crush it and disintegrate it into nothing. But this really exposed just an oyster mushroom has and I then assembled my dry and wet batters. The wet had some minced It was then simply a matter and then frying in a and all the normal deep You could double fry them Mine took about one flip to come out very golden and delicious looking. The oyster mushroom shape to getting a great fried thing out of it. It has that aspect ratio of being kind of wide but flat and all of the pieces of mushroom have that same basic shape so they all fry in the same way. It can get so crispy but the inside can and you end up with this perfect, so to speak. I ate them with the and they were pretty awesome. Like, very delicious. I honestly think that to be fried that I've ever fried. The next thing I made was porcini risotto and I referenced a recipe published by Masterclass. So this preparation of because it utilized exclusively and the recipe specifies fresh mushrooms if you they were not a substitute or because there's so much more from a dried mushroom So my porchini were pretty clean so I rehydrated them directly in the stock that I was going to use I then prepared my other In a pan with some melted butter, I began sweating that shallot, and then I added the rice. I'm using Carnaroli rice, which is one of the because of its starch content and the way it releases that starch can make for a very creamy final risotto. So that rice gets toasted in the pan for a number of minutes, reveal some natural and then when the outside of each grain is becoming translucent, I and some of the broth and you can see now how much once it was fortified with and at this point, it really just tasted like a mushroom stock. In one-ladle increments, I'm allowing it to cook and and then adding more broth step by step and I think this done so that it can release its starch in a particular way. At the point that it becomes al dente, it also has the final in with everything. When it was close to being finished, I took my dried porcini, added them to the risotto I added butter, cheese, tasted for salt and then allowed the risotto for five minutes for the to be done with the carryover heat. I'm sure there are many, many ways to make a mushroom risotto but this because it was so singularly a stock with dried mushrooms and rice and it was so good. I'm not sure my final but the flavor was incredible. Porcinis naturally have a little bit of nuttiness themselves, of that toasted rice, I thought it created this beautiful symmetry. Cheese is always good on everything, but this is one of those really just completes where suddenly it's like, The next thing I made and I referenced a recipe Alan Bergo and his website foragerchef. To start, I took some butter and slowly browned the skin of my chicken doing it at a relatively low temperature so it was not to burn the butter as this would be the basis In the meantime, I cleaned my morels. The morel mushroom is this mushroom that tends to which is why I'm doing this and I got my morels from at this vendor called LA fungi. Some of mine are larger, some cut them into approximately and you end up with what looked to me like little Lego tires of mushroom. When my chicken was adequately I removed it and then and began melting that in When the shallot had and then eventually de-glazed When all the wine had reduced, which thankfully I had some in my freezer from a previous video I allowed that to reduce and then I opted to return so that it could finish Foraged morels are so prized because like any wild mushroom, they're going to take on the flavor of the environment that they grow in. So the flavor is described They're mushroomy but It's like trying to describe how different parts of a single forest smell and while the sauce ended up being a pretty standard pan I think this is good with morels because it sticks with that It's super tasty, a The wine adds some sweetness and acidity and yeah, this is a sauce that'll have you licking the plate when The last thing I made When I started thinking wanted to do was attempt while filming Worth It at It was an unforgettable with Dominique Crenn about and I basically followed in that video in making this toast. So I began with my mushrooms. I had a few other varieties that I got from the same place that I got the morels and these were a golden oyster, something called a cauliflower mushroom and a little bit of porcini and I started by breaking these apart into roughly equal sizes and in a pan with plenty of butter, I began frying those mushrooms. So at Petit Crenn, the toast So I decided to also make my own mayo. In a blender with eggs, et I whizzed that together and along with a couple of other things until I thought it tasted nice. When I saw my mushrooms I began seasoning them and I This is just one of the cool things that happens at a farmer's market. I was picking out all these wild mushrooms and they said, &quot;Hey, we seems like something that would go with what you're cooking, here you go.&quot; So then it was time to assemble the toast and I was trying to replicate what I had at Petit Crenn. So first there was the mayonnaise, then a base layer of my mushrooms. Then I had some thin arranged over that, more At Petit Crenn they had I couldn't find elephant garlic but I decided to make With a little creative liberty, I took the flowers that were which I had previously plucked off and arranged those along the Finally, some flaky sea salt. I mean, the whole thing when you have something wild foraged mushrooms that just eat them on toast and I think this is really the lesson from mushrooms in general, which is that they are this miracle of nature. They spring up in the dark, They're super delicious because they're the product and really you shouldn't when they are properly Well, that's how I cooked For everyone who gave me thank you so much, but if you for what I should cook please, I'd love to But otherwise, thank you (gentle background music continues)