Welcome back. We're at the- this is the podcast. It's "The Problem." My name is Jon Stewart. We're back on Apple TV+ season two on October 7th. And so we're excited today. We are joined by the SNL film troupe, "Please Don't Destroy," -but in the future. This is them 15 years older from the set of a public What are we doing here? 15 years older? Eat shit. 20 years older. It's the founders of Crooked Media. The hosts of "Pod Save America." Jon Favreau. Jon Lovett. Tommy Vietor. Here's You're doing Pod Save America together, - That's right. Yeah. Lovett is our Beyonce. Still spend too much time together. Now, how did you come together? So Tommy and I met in the Obama - and then I hired Jon Lovett. To join the White House speechwriting staff because-- - he worked for Hillary Clinton And then after Obama won, I hired Lovett. And then that's how we all met. And you hired me despite the fact that a person who is still involved in politics at a high level Try to keep me from getting the job. - Name names. - Try to make some news. I'm not going to say. - She just said that Lovett was a lot. She said Lovett was a lot. - Which was correct. You're talking about Hillary? - Hillary? - Hillary Clinton tried to ding me. "Jon Lovett is a lot." I like the situation here it looks like Jon Favreau and Tommy Vietor - Yes. Listen, a kid with and you're sitting in between them That's how I'm viewing the set up. - Nailed it. them started out as something - God. - I'm a lot. I like to make them uncomfortable. You and all of us. As a matter of fact. Let me. Let me say this. Job well done sir. When you're coming from So you're coming The Obama campaign has defeated you. How quickly can you turn off How quickly does that dissipate The bad blood between Hillary was far less than the bad blood I hated the Clinton campaign and Sarah Palin in the general election. Mostly because we we won handily and So what was the cause of the antipathy? Was it purely, "We want this so badly because we believe so much in the agenda we're going to bring to the American public." How much of it is sort of Jets, you're on that team. And how much of it is - I mean, I think from the from the Obama side-- I think it was we very much believed and she represented politics as usual And so we got ourselves that the Clintons are we're sort of an era of politics that the Democratic Party And then the reverse of that is, if we're so bad, why is our policy agenda - Like we're basically making the same case. Well, that was obviously something At the time, but we were for the we were for the health care mandate. - Right. Yeah, that's true. - Do you think people remember that? Do you guys want to announce the break Oh, you can't. You can't tear this apart. The things we fight about in private, you have no access to. - You're nowhere near it. You can't get close to it. Let me tell you some, though. That brings up an unbelievably And obviously you did it accidentally. But I want to bring this up, the conversations behind the scenes are so profoundly different from the conversations the messaging And I want to ask you guys, in crafting those messages who are present in those rooms the shit they talk about How do we close that gap Why are politicians so loathe into the real conversation And wouldn't that connect I mean, one of the reasons we started and to sort of kind of that people have on campaigns in private. And just because we don't care what people think of us as much anymore now that we're out of politics. But I do think-- you asked the reason why people aren't sort of more honest or just talk out like they do in private. I think the media environment if you get taken out of context, you say something that gets blown up on cable or on Twitter, and then suddenly Right? A campaign, a political operation is designed trying to relay to the American people why you should get elected. And if you lose control of that message that got taken out of context or, then, you know, then you're down. - And that's just tough. candidates get in trouble when they talk about the electorate and the American people sort of as sociologists you know, talk about politics Like when Barack Obama said sometimes, communities that have been hollowed out by NAFTA and trade deals, etc., Dot, dot, dot. Right? And he was sort of just like stepping back why these communities to try to empathize with them and sort of be in their shoes and understand where certain conservatives were coming from. You know that's something that followed us around It seems like, though, it'd be very hard for candidates to create an environment where you couldn't I mean, the environment of modern media to take things out of context, But wouldn't it be better to try not to outsmart something Yeah, I think that's true. And I think a lot of candidates, comfortable with the message what their instincts tell them to say So they feel like Their first thought is not, But but what should I say? How should I sound that they become boring, but at the same time, a lot of what a candidate does over and over and over again. And I think a lot of times, especially those of us that pay attention like a contradictory demand, we want them to be honest, while repeating themselves So we're kind of demanding we're - from these candidates, even as we also understand their job is to say a lot of the same I do think you're right, though, who are most appealing, who end up being most appealing and inspiring just sort of say what's on their mind. It's always a spectrum, right? - No one-- - Look, I was going to say Donald Trump. Donald Trump. Bernie Sanders. Right? - Like there's there's-- - in 2018 on the campaign. But then of course, it didn't work for him But like, yeah. So I think it's a spectrum I mean, in this race in the midterms right Is a candidate who And the reason they find him appealing in Pittsburgh about this, "He's weird sometimes, but I trust him. "I just trust him "And I like that." And I was like, "Yeah, more Politically probably a mistake to have a stroke. Jon's a lot. - Jon Lovett is a lot. Pluck that one for social. Yes. I'll give you guys an example. This is a story. At the end of every "Daily Show" season. Right? We would invite all the press people, sort of the those who ran the press offices or senators, to come and sit and have And the conversation "How can my boss," Congressman, congresswoman, senator, "have a successful "Daily Show" appearance?" Because they all look to media appearances of setting a message And I would say, "They could come on the show "And then what I'll do is I'll say what I think about what they said." "and then we'll kind of go from there." And the press people "So the strategy is authenticity." And I'd go, "No, it's not a strategy." "It's leadership." "And what you believe, And so often we'd have people on the show like "Liberals Skull Fuck Nuns." And then they would come on. - I read that. "and here you say, Liberals skull fuck nuns." "We're not that far apart as a nation." And you were part of that sort of consultant media industrial complex. Has that so overtaken the way that people get elected It certainly has overtaken everything else I think when governing, at least-- - But does the campaign ever end? I guess is my point and-- - So within that-- - That's my- that's kind of my-- with Obama, at least, he was a president who tried to make sure doing the right things, That's not to say that political Of course they did. He ran for re-election. You know, politics is always there. But I think when he was like, You know, when he was like we faced a conundrum of like, should I just sit here and govern? Like when The Affordable Care Act almost failed and his advisers were like, "You should pull the bill, And he's like, &quot;I don't care if I get re-elected." "I came here to do hard things." "I'm going to pass the Affordable Care Act." "If I'm unpopular because of it, so be it.&quot; Right? So I think, like, that was. But look, the press also covers politics only through the political lens - and not through the governing lens- - at all, at this point which is tough. Yeah. I mean, look there are going to be some politicians who are authentically boring. And the process of governing, can be authentically boring at times. Right. So it's hard to make it exciting and get it covered. But I do think it is a problem that we live in a political dynamic and it's not just the United States. It's everywhere. Where, you know, the price of entry is potentially getting destroyed, having your entire background looked into - and just, you know, having your family turned upside down. I mean, look, there's the Prime Minister of Finland, Sanna Marin. - This young woman. She's like 35. She was dancing with her friends and having a couple of drinks, doing nothing wrong. Not doing drugs, not doing anything and the press destroyed her. Now, no, let me push back on that. An expression of joy from a Scandinavian country. No, no, no, my friend. - Question that. No, there will be no Scandinavian joy. - Yeah. I mean, but you hear about people who run for office, who "Can you please take down that photo of me on Facebook," and shit like that? Because it's sort of seen as the only way to survive the process. Yeah, and if that's the system, then those are the boring The people who are like so careful throughout their whole lives- - Or Trump So Tommy though, brings up a good point because he said, "Or Trump." Now that guy hasn't scrubbed his social media like he'd have to do it every 11 minutes. You know, he's a guy who goes out there and says, I mean, he's an antibiotic resistant candidate and maybe that's what you need. I mean, he had sex with an adult movie star Paid her $130,000 as hush money and still married. And his lawyer's the one who ends up going to jail, you know, is there, Chappelle used to have a very funny bit "It's like Republicans can do whatever they want." "Democrats can't even sniff hair,&quot; like is there, Are Democrats in some respects policing their own, in a manner that's presumptive like look at what happened to Al Franken. You know, you have a situation where in the midst of this movement, Al Franken has to be removed from the Senate for something that there's people in the Senate right now that have done far worse, that's known about and there are no repercussions from voters or anyone else. I think you can sort of step back from, And it's we talk about it so much. It's hard to always go back to it as the answer. But we have two different media environments. We see all the time, You know, one of the questions we get all the time from And why aren't Democrats so good at messaging? Why did Democrats come after their own and Republicans don't? How did Democrats get tagged with defund the police How can Trump do all these different things? And these Democrats can't get away with anything.&quot; And you step back and it's like, it's not because Republicans are brilliant. It's not because they have better - They're so sophisticated about messaging compared to us. They have a giant propaganda apparatus that A. covers Democrats in a way that pulls up the things that are the most divisive, that are the worst for Democrats politically, and B. inoculates Republicans against some of their worst excesses. Look, you have Lindsey Graham going out there proposing a Even Mitch McConnell trying to get out of talking about Doesn't get the hype on Fox News that you would expect for Why? They recognize that it's not advantageous for them. So not only do they tar Democrats over and over again political punditry, they also kind of provide a little - a big from the stories that would hurt their own side But I would go one step further here, is shamelessness, like he doesn't feel shame. And I think that's now is that, like, And also they don't So like, like Democrats have all these principles And so then when they fall short of those principles, then people will call them out for hypocrisy Right? Republicans don't have those in the first place. They just did away with them. So therefore, like, you can't if you if you call them out for "I'm not going to be shamed. I do have this propaganda apparatus that's going to protect me." "But also you can say whatever you want about me and it's fine." "It's not going to bug me. I'm not going to step down. Once the political consequences fell away in part because - the next bit, the next guardrail was supposed to be shame. And they realized that they could blow right through that one too. But shame has always been an artifice in politics. They're really you know, everybody always points to the moment you know, the undersecretary of defense said, "At last, Sir, have you no decency," you know, "No shame?" And everybody's like, "Watershed moment," as though, like, McCarthy just disappeared into a cloud at that moment You know, we've always been a country that overestimates the power of the conscience and mythologized it. And it's not real. And don't the Republicans win because they understand what currency their base operates under? They all operate on the same monetary standard, whereas Democrats are a, by necessity, stitched together coalition of a variety of interests. And that's always going to be harder to clearly message and wrangle. It's not like the Democrats don't have any press. It's not like they don't. I mean, how many times can you hear the words, "the Big Lie" It's not like they're helpless. A, the Republicans, their media works towards a goal. Here's a great example. Sean Hannity was talking about Jen Psaki, her ascendance to and I don't even know what network she's working on MSNBC. "This is evidence of the incredible incestuous relationship between Democrats and the media machine." - Sean Hannity was with Donald Trump talking strategy. He's in all the texts like they have created a set of rules that everyone else feels that they know that their own audience won't hold them to. And why does the, I remember I visited Obama's White House twice in eight years. He called me down to yell at me twice. - What you do? - Okay. Good. The right wing media went crazy, attacking it as secret meetings, showing the incestuous relationship But what the right has done is they've built parallel institutions. What they've said is the college system doesn't work for our politics. The think tank system doesn't work for our politics. And the media system doesn't work for our politics. So we're going to build identical parallel institutes that purely feed a very specific goal. The left has just a hodgepodge of all of those things, but they are not all pulling in the same direction No, you're right. Because just to use the Jen example, when Jen, when word leaked that Jen was leaving the White House for NBC, the freak out among journalists and liberals online too, "Is this bad and should she do this?" "This isn't right," That shit never happens because, right, And you're right, we don't we don't have that on the left. Yeah, the right has behaved for 40 years like, like a government in exile, that they're exiled from these institutions. So they built their own. They're exiled from the media, so they built their own, so they built their own. That made them hungry, that made them unified. And now all of a sudden, they're not really in exile, are they? They have a huge influence over what we talk about in the media. They control the courts. They won the White House, this sort of right wing, you know, semi fascistic movement has sort of has all this power. And they're kind of like the dog that caught the car Because they still want to behave like that. Their whole movement is built on grievance, about losing, about not having power. About the way they're being manipulated, And they've kind of kept that up even as they're kind of gained, more and more of a foothold in all these different areas of life. So when people talk about the left, to what the right has, like when the right will say "NPR, the left wing." And if you listen to NPR, it's steeped in maybe a liberal ethos, but it doesn't seem particularly activist. If you turn on AM radio, it is disciplined, relentless and brutal in a very different way. I think that's exactly right. I mean, look, Where, I'm sure at an earlier point in time, the liberal was pretty overwhelmingly liberal. It was a bunch of men from Harvard and Yale covering the And they probably had a beef at one point. I think that beef went out the window a long time ago. But they have trained many generations of journalists, to be scared of one thing above all else, which is to be called liberal. And so it's very easy to get in their heads, even the best ones, by accusing the mainstream media of liberal bias. But I totally agree with you. The New York Times editorial page is incredibly liberal. The New York Times reporters who I've worked with are all And I just find it fundamentally a wrong, inaccurate comparison. That said, like, Rush Limbaugh, Fox News, Breitbart, all these other sort of modern media entities that have been created, by billionaires who fund them to be political weapons That. That's right. And it's a far different position. And it also and you see it now as certain things then get defined as liberal, certain Ukraine is liberal. Russia is conservative. And you're like, I don't understand how any of this gets defined in that manner. Look, if you're trying to have balance you can have one person all the way on Just one... One Rush Limbaugh, may he rest in peace, all the way over to one side. And then you have four people sitting about That will balance out. But there's no one representing the progressive point of view. There's no one actually advocating from the left. Yeah, that's that's exactly right. And we're such a - if you look at generally the we're a - we govern in an incredibly right wing manner. We don't have the types of health care or educational systems that you would consider, you know, they would tar as socialism, but you would just view as a democracy with a robust social safety net. It's not the state owning industry. It's just making sure that people have health care, But, if you were to propose that in this country, you're The Squad, you're to the left of Bernie Sanders. You're a mad man. Look what happened when they tried to forgive I mean, people were were just like, "OK Hugo Chavez," You know, it's such an utter like - when you look at conservatives in other countries in this country, they'd be considered like gay Nader supporters And the media's fecklessness in being able to fight back Yeah, well, they're also just part of an that is having some, you know, business model challenges. And they're trying to get an audience and- - They-- And they they think that They think that to get a broad audience, you need to present yourself as fair and balanced and all, you know. - And it's just. Why doesn't anybody do news about governance? Why is all the news based in this idea that there's a right and a left Why are they using the polarities that are defined politically and not the polarities that are defined in efficacy? I mean, I think, look, when I worked in the White House I mean, there were really brilliant journalists we were doing that day in great depth and I think did amazing coverage that was substantive and thoughtful. Right. I think what happens, that we're all addicted to because we're political junkies, is more the campaign trail, horse racey, the Politico-ization of the media. Whereas, you know, the education reporter that's been on the beat for 30 years, that's digging into, you know, whatever initiative the department of education is doing Yeah, it is an audience issue in that our brains have been broken by the internet as well. I mean, first they were broken by cable and then they were broken by the internet. And so they - But why are, why are journalistic professionals just allowing the audience to dictate like polling is a part of that that is something that drives me fucking crazy. - Yeah. It was the Afghanistan pullout, you know, "Chaos with Afghanistan pullout and how it will And you're like, there's guys jumping on a C-130 as it's flying out of Kabul and you're wondering about what it's going to do Like, are you that insane? And that removed from humanity? And have we lost our minds? Yeah, I think it's even it's like it's actually if you further from starting from sort of left versus right, it's more who are we and who are we speaking to, right? Who are we? We're observers of this system, but And I think in part because I think whatever the medium for political journalism are junkies, And in part because I think it's just over decades, of speaking a language of political coverage, who aren't necessarily voters or participants, And so rather than telling people what's going on in the world to inform a person watching or reading or listening, as if what they're trying to do is inform a potential voter It is presumed that the person they're speaking to already has perfect information and actually just needs to know what the dummies are going to think. Like like I'm sitting at home, I know everything, I have my binoculars. I'm watching the American And I just need to know what the animals out there And I think when it treats people like that, like kind of that feeds on itself. Because then the viewers view themselves as observers and not participants. They start to be as cynical as what they're watching And it becomes a kind of feedback loop. And I think we're kind of dealing with that because I think one reason these networks, this is what rates, this is what people want. They want polling. They want somebody at They don't want the hard stuff, the policy stuff. Right. Like there's an audience demand issue. Isn't though the question at the heart they view it "One is dessert and one is spinach and nobody wants spinach," you you're like it's not that it's fucking spinach. It's that one matters and one doesn't. Here's what struck me, and I'll use this as an example, We just had a fight for what was called the PACT Act, which was a burn pit So I was fortunate enough to have been so steeped in the knowledge of how that bill got made, how it got changed, how it got pushed That when I had to go on a media blitz, when I got to experience firsthand the disconnect between the media machine and its mechanics and the reality of what something was on the ground. And it was stunningly disassociated. Not very interested. It didn't view where the information that it was getting was coming from. It didn't view what people's points of view were. It didn't push back. It was passive, boilerplate, and and surprisingly, it was like an information Yahoo News UK would print something that was wrong and then everyone else that wrote an article about it would just use that piece of information uncited. So falsehood became canon in the span of, - Mm hmm. Yeah, I think part of it is we're talking about "the media" as if it's like one institution and not this incredibly splintered... There's, like, a million different sources now. Now there's people tweeting about shit. But like, look, we we covered that that and to get to your level of knowledge, who covered that all they wanted to do is just say, okay, well, here's Pat Toomey's explanation and here's Jon Stewart's explanation. And it didn't matter that Pat Toomey was fucking lying. - Yeah. but they still felt the need to present. Okay, here's an issue. And the most important thing that I need to do with I might even fact check one argument, but I at least have to present the wrong argument, even if I know that it's incorrect. Because that's the other side of the debate. And I'm here to present the political debate But this one was you couldn't have something You had the two bills that you could hold up But I have to say, nobody did it. And I would say on there, "Don't take my "Look on the two websites." "Check it for yourselves." And none of them did it. And I thought that was stunning. And also another this is an instructive example, I think, because there was a very clear cut We sent these guys to war. We put them in a situation where they inhaled We should pay for their fucking health care and benefits like any human being can see that moral element We've created a journalistic construct where you're kind of not allowed to opine on that and weigh in on that. You end up having to do what Jon said earlier, because that's the freshest piece of sound on the topic. And I think stepping back like every journalist they are good people who wake up in the morning and they're like, trying to do their job as best they can that day. But they all get, sometimes, trapped in a Well, it's because of what you said earlier. It's if you're involved and the Democrats are involved now. And so if you're a journalist and you're reporting on the story and just completely making it up, then, you know, you're in bed with Jon Stewart and the Democrats. So you're, maybe you're not as - maybe you're not a fair reporter, maybe you're too liberal. Think about the 2012 campaign when Mitt Romney was debating Barack Obama and Mitt Romney said "You did not call Benghazi an act of terror on that day". And Candy Crowley, the moderator of the debate, said, "actually, Governor, you're wrong. He did". That was seen - That was the end That she was treated like she had broken But that's a failure of - So isn't the lesson that if you are, you know, as you guys said, you're a good person with a good moral compass, if you're trapped in a system that is corrupting that instinct. Isn't the lesson not to allow yourself to be subservient to that but to fix it? Yeah. But to take it - I mean, Roger Ailes basically said I'm going to create something so that whatever happened to Richard And he built that. Yeah. And aren't we suffering because there's a lack of courage- Not from journalists, to create something that can, you know misinformation must be battled relentlessly. And you know, it's like I keep saying with the Big Lie, But what I haven't seen is a real dissection, a relentless one of what the lie even is. What is he lying about? Like, they'll just Okay. But what is he talking about? And if you listen to that phone call Raffensperger does a better job debunking the lies of this election than I've seen from almost any media outlet. I think one of the challenge, there's a couple of challenges in there. Yeah. One of them is even if you have a mainstream that is doing a better job of debunking Not just not just out of the right. Of course. I wanna to make that clear. Yeah. Or wherever they may come from. That's right. Even if you have that, which is you have this right that's kind of shaping the political debate And you don't have the equivalent on the left. I would say when - I'm, it's to me, less about what do we do as viewers or watchers or listeners or readers Because I think the working the refs, They're going into the Twitter mines every day and tweeting Keep doing it. I don't hate it. You know, you get put on your hard hat. Punch in, tweet at Maggie Haberman, whatever you fucking want, I don't care. Great. Have a good time. We need to stop waiting for them to be the solution. They are never going to be the answer there needs to be. We used to be those people. We were online. We're still those people - This morning. I'll tweet at the AP about them calling them election skeptics. But I've just given up now because I'm like they are not going to do the job we want them to do. And you're right, yes, it should come from the top. And we are suffering because of it. And it's not coming from the top. But the people at the top of these organizations and trying to maintain a profitable business. And they're not seeing this as a public good, even though But isn't I guess the point is, isn't Yeah, I think so. First of all news should - I do think But second of all, don't The one thing that I saw in that sort of 5 to 6 day period between when our bill got shot down and when it got back up again, was that there is a battle plan that you can employ against misinformation that is relentless, effective and surprising to those that are purveying that misinformation. You can defeat it, but it is - it's a tall task. I do think there's something to be learned there, too, you know, there are ways in which things are misreported. Yes, there are ways in which misleading answers are elevated But the story of what happened with the burn pits bill, is the story of despite all those headwinds, despite all those issues, Republicans felt the pressure. - They knew they had fucked up and they still felt - like there are ways But there are moments where you see wait, hold on a second. Ordinary politics still works, right? That was as that was just politics, right? They realized they were on the losing side. They couldn't talk their way out of it. They had to reverse course That happened despite all of the concerns you have with I also think that fortunately like you showed plenty of outrage during that period. But you're funny. You also employed mockery. You like made fun of the Republicans like that and I don't think our side does that nearly, nearly enough. We said we weren't going to suck up to him. Well, I'm saying, like, I'll go back to us. We try to not take ourselves too if you want to get an audience, right The news now is entertaining them in a very bad, destructive But I think you can be less self-serious, funny, And I do think that's a strategy that we don't employ Right. But I think I think Tommy brought something up What he said was, you know, But there are so many moral goods. You know, one of the reasons that I get involved with some of these things is it feels like the lowest rung on the ladder that health care should be for - No one should go bankrupt when they get cancer. Everybody's working too fucking hard in this country derail not just their dreams, but their family's dreams It's all a moral good. But what we don't see enough from the media, in my mind, that Upton Sinclair muckraked the fuck out of this, to break the system including ours, our media industrial complex to create a better system that more serves... I don't know about you guys but you must be pulling your hair out at the nonsense that's just pervasive in the coverage of these polls and these candidates and what it means. And let's bring on our cadre of pundits to spout the boilerplate thing, and let's just rinse and repeat this entire cycle. And if we don't break out of that, I was watching somebody said the public polling says this, like the idea even that a campaign has information like we poll it and it's internal, but we don't share that. And the public poll, you're like, how the fuck does - It's just a methodology. How do you have an internal one How what does that even mean? I mean, the internal one is just kind of like something you're spending a lot of money on to help guide strategy decisions. And that can be, you know, big picture, like, But it can also be like, "are we doing well in the downstate "No. Okay, let's increase our ad buy there." I mean, look, to your broader point, the three of us, you, we're fucking space aliens in this country, right? We are four people who are obsessed with politics. We read the news constantly. We're on Twitter, right? Like we are not representative of the vast Those voters don't have an opinion on Jake Tapper criticizing MSNBC lawyers or whatever stupid issue was like getting fought about that day. They're like, maybe see something on Facebook And I think to the - But I do think that all these business models on their own because people are getting information on their phones. It's all getting to you a different way. And I think that's the thing. We're actually a little bit excited about is the opportunity to fundamentally rethink, like, okay, that feels like the mainstream media is letting them down That could be because Trump demagogued them for years And because of high profile mistakes, That I think everyone is recovering for. But, you know, how do we reach people where they are with information they actually want in a way that's digestible that gets in the things they kind of That isn't just horse race bullshit. Do we nail that every day? Absolutely not. But that's the goal. Mm hmm. Right. the people who are obsessed with And maybe the only question I would ask you is or what you think would appeal to certain demographics? Because that always puts me in the head of they were like "2020 is doin' 2020 downtown" and 2020 downtown was going to relate to the young people Rather than being in the studio, like stood outside in a leather jacket as though - it was like that one debate on CNN I saw with all the Democratic candidates when they all wore turtlenecks, where everybody was like "the young MTV people want to see the turtlenecks." 2020 for me is Barbara Walters and Hugh Downs on Friday nights when I was in high school because I had exactly zero friends Yeah. - God, now I just feel terrible. Don't feel terrible. But I think the question is, is how do you reach different Where are they getting their news But then the content that you deliver just has to be - you can't try to shape it based on what you think they want. You just have to figure out where they are which is, you know, a lot of many different places now. I get a note from my in-laws once a month being like, Yeah, our friends listen to that. We find that embarrassing." And they're right. It is embarrassing. I'm a 42 year old man - - I shouldn't say fuck so much. How do they pass you that note? Is that like when they see you, do It's a letter in the mail. - No, I'm half joking. - They've done it like three times. Please stop saying the F word. Her, my wife's grandmother listened, but, Look, we were talking about the early aughts today and how, like,the only things we had to look forward to were The Daily Show and Dave Chappelle, And I think what made that show work was And so we tried to create a show where it is not stilted talking points, news caster language and accents, right? It's like people talking as they would talk. We try to, to the greatest extent possible, completely shrink the space between how we talk about politics when we're just and how we do it in front of a microphone. And like that, I think is what we think is - It's overt bias. Because that's the whole point of any time - Absolutely! But how do you maintain? You know, there were a lot of times on The Daily Show where I felt like,okay, it's Wednesday and I don't really care that deeply about anything today, but I still have to fill this time, and I probably should do it in a similarly energetic manner as to convince people that I care about this show as much as I cared about yesterday's show and that discrepancy wore on me to some extent, because you felt at some point, I don't want to manufacture outrage because then I'm selling them a falsehood. And you want to have people feel the reality of your emotions. And have you guys been able to maintain that? Or is there difficulty sometimes that you feel like, boy, we're just I understand, today we're going to do a politics like material that we're putting out that doesn't have the same fire. How do you in some ways temper that? I think that like I'm a liberal, And I'm outraged just as much as anyone else. But I don't think, look, I know 2016 didn't end it, 2020 to 2018, 2020 didn't end it. And I think that you can't and righteous anger alone, like there has to be some joy and some fun and some entertainment. You have to not take it seriously. So sometimes when there are big, important issues or, you know, devastating news or like we'll talk about why it's what's right but then we'll joke around a bunch because you just can't You can't take everything to an 11 all the time. Look what it did to me. Look what it did to me. You're, we're the same age. Look at me! This is terrible. I think you look great. And I got to tell you something. - All right. I'm friends with Barbara Walters and Hugh Downs, Wow! and they do nothing but speak highly of you. That's cool. That's nice. That's nice. I've we've kind of we've kind of lost touch I'm still in touch. They send me a note every month, and they tell me the same thing. "Stop saying fuck," the same thing that they're saying to Tommy there. How did democracy end up being a liberal ideal and You know, we live in a country were, as you remember, either fighting communism or spreading democracy. And now they take great pains in trying to explain, A, we're actually not a democracy, and B, that the election we just had wasn't real. So how did we find ourselves in that moment? I do think, you know, we talked about everything the press does in some way biased. You come to a story how you think about it. - What you think is important is a bias. I do think this idea of refs has been a really important as to how people think about what they're talking about with politics, that they're refereeing a game between Republicans and Democrats. But then something happened,which is, Always people that break the rules, you know, Maybe part of the game is being as honest, but some people are dishonest, whatever the rules are, Right. But more and more, the Republicans on the field and they discovered that they could get away with it, and there there actually weren't because of the way they were Like when Belichick was cheating. Right? - Shut the fuck up. I know one sports thing. - I know one sports thing. I throw - unnecessary roughness! -But the point I'm making, the point I'm making is The point I'm making is at some point at some point, a referee, reffing a game between one team Am I just am I just calling a game Do I have to become even though I'm not a partisan do I have to become a partisan for the rules, do I have to become a partisan for democracy, And I think for a lot of people who cover politics, The most terrifying thing is realizing that actually I'm no longer refereeing a contest between two sides. I'm on the inside of a democracy But I think but I think, like, if you if you're wondering why there is a constituency and an audience for politicians who do not believe in democracy and want to break the rules I think it's because, like faith in institutions has declined to a point where so many people in this country so deeply believe that politics, and the political system since they can't seem to elect anyone they are willing to take a chance on Demagogs - I just want to.. Like, I just think I'm going to challenge the premise of the question, which is that they were for democracy because I think if you look at the anti-communist it was about preserving American hegemony by installing right wing death squads in Latin American countries, right. Overthrowing democratically elected leaders in Iran. In the 2000s, the freedom agenda was invading Iraq. The Democrats had their hand, though, Absolutely. But then if you look at the Republican like the Claremont Institute and those others, they're the people who who like to reply to you on Twitter They are more about a rule by the elites to keep the, you know, the unwashed masses like ourselves from taking control or majoritarian rule. And I think that is the kind of strain in this With like you know this, Leo Straussian, that is unnerving and is kind of authoritarian and. Appealing to a lot of people, unfortunetly. And they view Donald Trump as a vessel, an imperfect vessel for this. By the way, how many times how many times have you heard like everybody seems to be okay with an authoritarian But maybe to Middle Jon's point that maybe, though, in terms of turning it back the flawed assumption from the beginning is that they were referees in any game and that by participating in it as though it were that that's what set them on the wrong path, They should have been an immune system that was focused more on not refereeing Democrats and Republicans, but representing the people's needs in terms of better governance. And if if that were the focus, maybe we would find ourselves in a different moment. Middle Jon? - Yeah. I mean, I look, You're Side Jon. Yeah. Look. Oh, you've always been our side-Jon. - He's my side-Jon. I've gotten lost in my own analogy because it was sports related. So I don't know if you want the press in the stands. - You can, you can.. We can get out of the sports analogy. Yes. I mean, I think they should be I think they like, I think that thinking of them, that us thinking of reporters as refs sort of implies, that there are these two sides you know there are people in power and there are I think that's all true. I do, you know, I think Donald Trump And, you know, there's all these like historians and they look into this and it actually turns out, that there's a lot of power that, you know, political leaders have in signaling to the people who follow them or vote for them And there was a process that was happening where democracy itself was just not being held up as an important value. Right. That was happening more and more and more. Donald Trump obviously put that, you know, to 88 miles an hour. And now it has taken hold. And so it was this sort of vicious circle. Right. Like, why does the Republican base no longer value democracy? Well, that's what they're hearing from the people they're voting for. Why are the people they're voting for saying that? Well, And it is this vicious circle. I would say, though, that that it's not that they don't value democracy, it's that Donald Trump has redefined democracy as. So the definition of democracy is now any vote that Donald Trump wins and authoritarianism - look at the way that he's twisted it now that the FBI is a secret police working on behalf of a fascist government, it's not that they are not promoting democratic values it's that they've redefined the entire premise to be, an unjust persecution is one that occurs against Donald Trump. A Democratic vote is one that goes for Donald Trump. They're just redefining it. I think that like, you know, it's always this sort of fine line between are the people that are kind of embracing this, And I think the answer is both, right? When they hear Donald Trump say this stuff, there's on some level an understanding that I know what he's saying is "Only we can win elections." Right. I know that. I understand that that's what your saying. - I'm on the team. I think there's a sincere belief "We the people," they are steeping themselves in the spirit of 1776. They believe they are the true defenders of American democracy. And I don't think they're cynical at all. I think they, I think they just deserve better I agree with that. I think they have so bought into his critique of the political system, Everything is corrupt. And then every new development So the FBI is just as corrupt And Donald Trump is the only man who can stand to thwart and actually fight for them. I think you can't tell the difference. I think at this point it is no longer possible and there are plenty of people who do, and people who understand I think there's plenty of both. I mean, the problem is Trump and a lot of Republicans are selling all of us where if they don't win, Democrats They're going to make your kid be transgender. They're going to teach them And you get to a very scary place where the means justify the ends of basically every action, Certainly, though, not the only party I mean, the Democrats are basically saying And I'm worried about that because I am about the future of our democracy But I also don't want to get the sort of two poles where we end up with some sort of violent clash again, -It's something that scared the shit out of me. Here's the problem when one party does head in this sort of fascistic direction, -hyperbolic when you describe it. Because, you know, there was this moment right is semi fascistic or semi fascist, Oh, how could you say that? How can you see that? When's the right time to call something fascist? When it's gained so much power, you can't stop it? -Well Biden. The next day. The next day, after Biden said that Trump, Trump Truths: "I should be reinstalled as president immediately." -Like, what the fuck do you think that is? My my favorite moment of all of that was everybody got so flustered, he said semi fascistic. And he was standing in front of two Marines. And, you know, Twitter is undefeated. Not 20 minutes later, a clip comes out of Donald Trump standing in front of two Marines going, And you're just like nothing matters But that but that also helps Trump They don't want he doesn't He just needs you to think that everyone is bullshit, Because then if you're cynical about politics in general and not just about Trump, but the other side as well, He can hold power, right? And so, like the whole like, lol nothing matters. Everything's bullshit. Everyone's lying to you. I'm lying to you. That just, like, feeds into the authoritarian impulse because Donald Trump knows that Now, as guys that have been in Washington for so long, folks who worked within that orbit talking about like the Dan Scavinos or guys like that, public polling and internal polling yeah, here's the shit that's going down and it's here's the real cut, here's here's it is cynical or it is actually evil or there is a plan afoot the fuel of this, you know, is what do you hear from those who are employed in that orbit? I'll say I used to have a really good in, but but Lindsey Graham and I lost touch after we broke up. -I mean, Jesus Christ. Jon, Jon's a lot. - Jon's a lot. - Middle Jon is a lot. You Incepted him with this "a lot" thing. - You said it - I didn't say it, he said it. How long are we going to go? I don't I don't know anyone. I don't know if you guys know I had some friends who worked for John McCain on that campaign. Literally someone who like had my job on that side. He was trying to destroy me every day Like I could talk to him, you know, No, yeah,me neither. Ah, a friend of ours who is a former Republican about all the different categories of Trump because he said there's different motivations So some are true believers, some are complete cynics, Some would like to make money. Yeah, he's But so there's I think there's different motivations - Unfortunately. - Yes, yeah, yeah. Kathleen Sebelius. It was right in the beginning of the Obamacare. And we had Kathleen Sebelius, who was the secretary and the Obamacare website had just been put out - Flawless And so I did at the very top of the show is with her I had my computer with me and I said, I'm going to download every movie that's ever been made in the history of mankind And you're going to try and log us into the Obamacare website and let's see who gets there first. Oh, that's a tough that's tough It was actually and it was shocking. The horrible blunder. Just to give you, I'm sure you heard a earful of this, that website rollout pissed him off we're running up against decades of Reaganism You got to shrink it to the size where you can fit it in a bathtub and drown it We're trying to sell people on government being competent to help people in their lives and then we fuck up a website. But you know what like was in hindsight was the coverage. It was a massive fuck up. It should have been covered. We should gotten destroyed for it is it good to see something good about our media people remember about the ACA was the website Given now that like 20 million people have health care? No. I mean, you know, the it's that's the problem Look, I'm not saying we shouldn't have fucked with it. You guys shouldn't have destroyed us for it. But, you know, when you try to do - Don't, don't please. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's that's. Boy, that's, you know. Oh, look, is it Was the website not good? It was a disaster. It was a disaster. - I'm not defending it. I'm not. Defending it. But beyond that was the idea that not only was it maybe a disaster, let's just do a fire hose of customers Like there was a lot that was there to be talked But the point you just made about competence, It's a huge point. I know it was a rollout that eventually was fixed. I don't want to suggest that and it's there to help a lot of people that the government can be more involved That isn't actually a &quot;Hey, come on, guys, cut it out.&quot; No, no, no. I'm saying the opposite. I'm saying the opposite. "We invaded Iraq, and then we got on a boat and said 'Mission Accomplished,' and it wasn't." And then you can say, "Well, you know, was it not really, Like that's seminal to what that was. And he ripped the shit out of me in his office a few weeks later for like 5 minutes. And then we got to have this conversation where we ate the most delicious salad And then the Libyans caught Moammar Gadhafi and, like, Oh, that was awful. Yeah. Before we get to dessert and I just remember and we kept talking and I remember thinking, you know, if you have to go. Did you get dessert? Do you have dessert during lunch? I'm not d- What dessert during lunch is tough. - You got to nap after. When you're sitting in that room. And he's telling you about the Navy chefs. You want that lemon pound cake. Okay. Especially after he yelled at you about healthcare.gov. What he said was he didn't want me to make people cynical. And I said cynicism is the last thing And then we got to, I think, a pretty robust discussion about the very things here today. - It actually He he did do do you miss those days in the White House? Oh, it's - I mean, the good ones. - Yeah. I don't miss the like there's still there's a foxhole mentality just shoveling shit every single day your fucking hardest And you're fucking up, you're making mistakes. You're not, healthcare.gov happens. And so you do become more defensive. You become tired, you're exhausted, you're angry. You know, it's wears is on you. After a while it really does. You know, BP poked a hole in the bottom of the ocean. I remember. Yeah. As if And it's like, I know he's the president, goddamn it. There's a hole in the ocean. That's the thing that I think you learn. It's incredibly humbling. Is the most powerful man in the world is in charge of a lot less than you thought Boy, is that that right there, I think, is a really profound and important statement that I do think we mythologize the Office. Yeah. And in some ways our own country or whatever we thought we were doing in other areas. But I do think we've mythologized our ability to control all these different contingencies around us. And it is humbling and I appreciate it. But you know, what's so interesting to me is like - Like, it still hurts. You still you still feel that that feeling of, like, and under attack by the forces of unfairness. And I feel like you guys still really feel that. Well, I was going to ask you, because like how did that change sort of your view of politics and activism and government now that you like? It's probably like the furthest involved So what it taught me was this country is held together by a thin line of hundreds of legislative aides who are brilliant, incredibly tenacious and hard working. And they are part of a system They oftentimes work for politicians who don't have the faintest understanding of the intricacies of what they do. But they are, by and large, non-ideological. And they are they are first and they leave last, And they hold this country together with a competence that cannot be overstated. The second thing that I learned is shame doesn't work unless they feel that it will be unrelenting and they can't escape its glare. Generally, the place is designed to deflect. If you want to get something done, it's got to be hurricane and you have to seal up every window It's you're fighting zombies. And if there's any way that they get in the house, And so it really is it's a it's a wildly unrelenting game. And that if to do the moral thing requires that every cause have a celebrity spokesperson, -Yeah big time. You don't come out of there feeling like this to the needs of the people that it purports to serve, - Yeah. - Yeah. That's sucks. I mean, you got it. Yeah. You're right. Alright. Coming up next! But they also have they was have Taco Tuesday at the Capitol. If you go the Capitol, down in the Capitol So that's a boon. That's a nice part. The Taco Tuesday of it all. We'll end on this, what was your favorite place - I think I think I haven't been. I literally think I've been gone from D.C. so long, my favorite gay bar has been canceled. - I actually believe that that's true. Yeah. - So I can't even say that place. I do want to thank you guys. Boy, what a what an interesting conversation. I thank you guys so much for taking the time. Jon, Jon, Tommy. Crooked Media. Pod Save America. Their solo projects. They're going to be touring with Dave Matthews. Apparently. We got to tell people people have to sign up If you've heard this and you want to know what you can do - dot com and sign up to be a volunteer . - Well done, guys. Thanks so much. That is the show. Check out The Problem With Jon Stewart is going to be That is our premiere date for season two So all those things, much content Thanks guys very much for joining us. And we will see you all next week. Beauty. [ drumming ]