There are so many YouTube videos about good at leet code, leet code solutions, about how absolutely sh** leet code is? Side note, if you do like leet code, However, if you have been spending hours of it, well, grab a chair because this on how much leet code sucks. if you don't know what leet have lived a good life. I sound so bitter. I should maybe edit that out. LeetCode is a site that posts at different levels of difficulties. And all it does is that It also does have various tests it you to actually pass the question. are practicing leet code aren't at software engineering or coding. They are practicing A job specifically at Fang. And now there is this culture of grinding of problems just so that you can get And it really is a culture. There are videos of people solving 500 This guy solved a thousand, this person spent three Now people are spending a lot of time companies want leet code in their But does leet code even make No. and will practicing leet code like No. Here's why. Here are some leet code problems. And as you can see, it does and data structure problems. What is happening is that coders similar problems over and over And that is how they will And what happens in a leet code interview? Well, the coder gets a problem a collection of words, return the and usually the coder who has probably will just start coding immediately. Because they know exactly what to do. So they will probably jump straight answer and then explain the steps. This does not happen in real life. I mean, I do wish I could know an answer but most of the time that doesn't happen. If I am a software engineer at work and I jump straight into it and start coding. I usually spend a few minutes figuring out So if my question is given a collection used word, I would ask questions like. how will my input to be given? Will it be a list? Will it be a file? What should I return if there were What should I return if And that is a common process that unfortunately, that process of asking solution briefly, before you just jump away with the leet code interviews. Now this is probably the coder's fault but I do also think it is where you just need to code as fast And look, practicing leet code is fine. It's great. But the issue is, I think when you problems, your brain almost loses through what the solution can be, It wants to just jump to the solution an interview isn't the best answer. This person posted on Reddit, and here, but this is what they said. Beep leet code beep. Anyone who asks leet code questions at unless they've done the problem before. beep the people who've gamed hundreds of hours of leet code. Beep the people who've let this out of control because they're too questions for the specific role. I do love angry people on Reddit. this person responded. But they just want to see Just kidding. We just learn to pretend it's And I think that's a whole I don't know why companies are because it is quite unnatural. I mean, I can't even think of a situation d, you solve this two line problem. No, you don't need to think about the stakeholder wants to know. You do not need to think about that. You only have a few minutes. You just solve this problem I'll even draw you a picture. Like, what is that? I mean, have you ever seen It's actually pretty sad. I think interview candidates, are pretty It's treated pretty Companies should be called out on it. I do think it is Big Tech's fault I think they've always been a version you would practice a few examples just And it's an okay way to learn to down the line, there's this culture and solve 500 leet code problems. Then you'll have a chance to be employed. That is so bad. I do wish that tech companies opening about the interview process. take a look at this post from Reddit. It was titled Microsoft interviewer I had my final interview for the and something really struck out to me. We were wrapping my last interview And he literally told me, you I asked him what he meant. And he said every candidate he had leet code and he could tell. He said that apparently everyone comes the solution, regardless of how difficult But as an interviewer, he doesn't actually They could literally be copying that they have memorized. and yes, I do wish big tech companies upfront, Which would sort of stop this three months prepping for leet code. if they were more forthcoming, we would do they want someone who can and just pump out solutions? Or do they want someone who. Can talk through the solution, talk And yes, maybe somewhere down the line, percent correct, but that is okay process of the software engineer. and then if they told candidates this give candidates proper learning few hours of self study, then they So where the rhetoric is, learn as much better, in fact, leet code until you, and it's just useless, what does actually prepare you in terms of least if the candidate was building learn something that's beneficial. So that is my rant on why leet code ever come across a problem in your numbers backwards, and someone even the concept, please let me know. thank you so much for watching. If you like my content, please I'll see you in the next one. Bye.