[music] When Europe produced hot hatches in the 80s Ford Fiesta XR2 - great cars that took the better brakes. Over in Japan Honda took a low drag shape for the existing Civic. They also of powerful yet efficient engines they and fuel economy that had more in common with the heralded it as the future of compact sports cars. hatchbacks or did it have its flaws, and what This is the Honda CR-X Story. [music] The 1972 Honda Civic was a big success. Launched just before the fuel and space for four made it a 1970s version of the with a hatchback it was a lot more practical It was just what the doctor ordered. to sell even more cars. The first generation hatchback with a wider rear opening. There and larger engines. Honda also sold a "sedan", opening like the Mini. The second generation Honda had tried sporty version of the Civic as exclusive. RS is a common sporting term now, but Honda said it stood for "Road Sailing". Maybe they get decent acceleration, which it certainly did! again as a hatchback, saloon and estate. So, in 1983 Honda also introduced the CR-X. One just how small it was. It was shorter than the It also had a very aerodynamic shape that bore it's maybe no surprise that the designer of The car was at the start a Japan exclusive, Honda had actually wanted to use the CRX name of letters were already registered as a with recessed door handles gave the car a great to a new 1.3L EV1 engine it gave the car good surprising was the 56mpg (5l/100km) fuel economy. There was the option of a larger fuel injected it also returned excellent fuel economy. Part of some versions were just 760kg (1,675lb). And with ultra-slick, and satisfying gear changes, the "Hondamatic" 3-speed auto. But it was clear Honda would like to make a point about the 67 highway. It's the number 1 gas mileage car The longest distance between two points. The Ballade Sports CR-X came to with the dash removed between the R and the X. all angular just as European manufacturers were like the Ford Sierra, so there were some that styled bodywork" as Honda's marketing team and finish - there were flaws with the paint and the The mix of power and economy went down well in handling were mixed. Motorweek compared it to a they were being thrown around the car. Slowing was a tendency to swerve under hard braking. riot to drive. This was minimalist fun for a named it 1984's "Import Car of the Year". but like the 2007 Fiat 500, a large amount of That meant even large people had enough room, adjustable some found it hard to get comfortable. who opted for the sunroof didn't have to suffer. electric outer slide sunroof. The panel rose surprising in 1983 but commonplace today. In the and some versions didn't even have that - back seats were folded down it turned into There was even extra space for additional storage. laid out" but American TV show Motorweek begged they said "you'll be able to see them easily, But the main controls were clear and easy to use, option on such a small and inexpensive car. Honda Indicator Light" to tell you how to get the best A year later Honda launched the CRX Si, Si a system we were told was similar to that on their the more level-headed 1.6i-16. But whatever 8 seconds. Honda added a sporty rear spoiler as standard to justify the higher price. to feedback. The new car was tested by instability under braking had been fixed - There were a few minor changes in 1985 such but soon the second generation CR-X and it might look smaller, but it was actually Honda were proud of the pillars that shrank to pane of glass in the boot lid to try to aid rear just in your eyeline makes it almost impossible fair I've never driven a CR-X so let me know how front and rear for better handling, and with to be even more fun than the original car. put on 60kg (132lb). But Honda had an answer. 0.29 on the HF "High Fuel Efficiency" model, little impact on fuel economy. That meant the new "power bulge" could now get to 60 in around 7 engines to the ones they'd made for Formula 1, they powered the top three constructors that year. The outside might look similar, but the dashboard updates to the Civic. There was a more logical to reach! If you had to go for an automatic Braking was better as well, with ABS as an get a car with an almost completely glass roof, Reviewers loved the new car. Motor Trend Road &amp; Track declared the Si one of Rather amusingly they also called out the Civic In 1989 Honda launched their first car with a engine - the Integra XSi. The very next car most out of the engine. The camshaft had two or fuel when you were light on the throttle, and The upshot was that the 1.6L 158hp (118 kW) but still delivered great fuel economy. Like the only this time you could have even more cake! 1991 without a mention of a new CRX and fans got worried. Well, yes and no. They'd been busy behind the Japanese competition. Toyota launched the MR2 second generation car, and Mazda cornered the Honda's new CR-X was aimed at beating both the CRX Del Sol was launched in 1992 with a look In Europe it was known only as the CRX, but in North would simply be known as the "Civic Del Sol". focus of the new car with the new electronic and the MX5 had a bulky hard top you had party piece was removing the roof panel seat. As this Japanese video shows, it was very A consequence of this design meant that the boot of course until the battery died, so there was a mechanism. If your finances couldn't stretch But even though it was light, only 11kg which wasn't that great if you were driving on and even with that roof stored you still had electric side and back windows were lowered this Inside it was all-new, again using Civic parts such as central locking, as if you needed it on electric mirrors, the all-important cup That was all great, but there had been compromises a carry over from the previous car, and so either performance or fuel economy were going be prepared for low speed cruising as the sound The handling also took a step back. On the slalom with front end plough. The brakes so ABS was definitely something to choose. And as on the old car. Comparisons Honda was making a tad more tenuous. The Del Sol seemed to be To previous CR-X customers the choice was should pick the better handling MX-5. If they then the Civic Si was the way to go. But car back in 1995 and came away feeling that extra $2,000 (PS1,600 , EUR1,800, $3,100 AUD) But in any case, the 1992 Del There were a few tweaks to the car over removal of the auxiliary headlights, but the Del Sol must have disappointed as production The MX-5 had claimed another victim. Honda produced but it didn't provide the cheap thrills There was a comeback of sorts in 2010 with the CR-Z. as the original car, you'd be disappointed. There 60 in under 9 seconds and fuel economy wasn't a hybrid. Honda even made the same mistake as window into two panels, and reviewers complained If you're looking for something similar today, enough performance - 325hp (242 kW) and a healthy and the shape doesn't exactly scream "excitement". but is supposed to be an open top Many have tried, none so far have succeeded. and hark back to the 80s when the CRX was at but Honda was by then a very different company. out of their adolescence, producing a car that generations were a great combination of power practicality to make this your everyday car, and Car companies don't make cars like this added all the modern safety protections great trade-off between size, weight and and we should all celebrate Honda's genius. of the MX-5 on the right, and there's also a the NSX. Thanks for watching and