I have always been drawn to community -- being in community, I've been a lifelong learner, Brownies, drama club, summer camp. I was raised by fantastic hippie parents who taught me the importance Also, bring snacks. Be ready for sing-alongs. I'm incredibly organized, I've been told I have (Laughter) No clipboard today. I was also in a cult for 12 years. And I'm here today to protect you all from the same shit show (Laughs) (Applause) Yeah. You want this. (Cheers and applause) My talk is rooted in awareness. I want to help you to navigate so that you can seek safely. So, in 2005, I was an aspiring actress slash waitress, when I was invited to Nxivm. A personal and professional with a seemingly altruistic mission one person at a time. Big red flag. And I truly found an incredible community and a place where I could help people and bust through their limiting beliefs. It was wonderful. But it was also a facade something that would take over with a slow build of coercion, It wasn't just a highly toxic workplace. This was a high-control group, AKA a cult. But I couldn't see it. There were so many great things clouding my judgment. I rose up the ranks, became one of the company's It was incredible. I thought that I had found My people, the chosen family. But more importantly, a place where I had Those were things I was looking for I had actually wandered onto the path without any tools for navigating But I was in deep. (Laughs) My actual friends and family as I'd spent more money and my worldview got more narrow. My language became coded, I was on the top of this grifty and it truly haunts me to this day, how many people I brought in, who in turn brought in their friends Till I had grown an organization so big, which was something Some of those people are still loyal It all came to a head when I was invited A badass boot camp for women only, sold to me as empowerment, when it was actually enslavement. Just a way for Keith Raniere, to brand women. As if he owned them. Yeah. He also blackmailed many of them into sex. I managed to dodge that bullet. Thankfully, it was the branding I mean, one minute, and the next, you're sweaty being branded in a secret sorority. And it wasn't the moment No, not when I was sliced open But later, when I found out that the symbol on my body was not but actually Keith Raniere's initials Yeah, I had his initials on my body. He literally thought he could own me. He was wrong, and I was out. But -- yes, thank you. (Cheers and applause) Wait, what happened to me And when we found out what else crimes ranging from child pornography, sex trafficking ... I was mortified. So I went to the authorities with a band and we blew the proverbial whistle. But they didn't do anything. Fell on deaf ears, because they didn't know So we went to the press. Look, Mom and Dad, I'm on the front page It's not exactly what I was when I started out as an actress, but here we are. After that, the rest is cult history. A dramatic arrest in Mexico. A six-week trial, and ultimately, a 120-year prison sentence (Applause) Yes, thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Big win. And just for the record, Keith Raniere is now known as one of the most dangerous on par with Jim Jones, whose rise to power culminated 300 of which were children, for drinking poisoned Flavor-Aid, which is where &quot;drink the Kool-Aid&quot; And FYI, if they hadn't have drank it, It wasn't a choice, It's called a bounded choice. Needless to say, Keith Raniere ethical genius I thought Quite the opposite, actually. Nobody signs up for trauma In fact, a wise man once said, They join something good. I was on my path, Literally. Blackmailed, branded, humiliated. And I got out. But I couldn't just leave. I had to be as loud about why I was And I've been out for six years Happy uncult-aversary to me. (Applause) And you could say In raw, gritty, personal detail. Thank you, HBO. I have been to hell and back And I could definitely glean some nuggets turning lemons into lemonade. But today, I'm here I want to share with you cult literacy. New thing for all of us. I want to share some lessons learned I want to show you and leave no one immune. Good plan? OK. So first you have to know Cults are everywhere, and they don't We're not talking about shaved heads in some Stanley Kubrick Masks and robes? No. Cults thrive by disguising themselves that appeals to your total, your desire for connection, All of those things are really beautiful. It might look like a hot yoga class &quot;Thank you so much for coming. (Laughter) A course on leadership and communication. A retreat on wellness and spirituality. An incredible business opportunity from the comfort of your own home. Hashtag financialfreedom. (Laughter) You know who I'm talking about. (Laughter) Or a Sunday coffee hour where the congregation or Montessori moms, are all so quick to welcome you &quot;Oh well, bless your heart. Oh my God, I love your hair. Welcome to the family.&quot; (Laughter) I'm not condemning I just want you to see the precursors. I want you to be able to tell between a healthy human thing and something with a malignant endgame. Which brings me to the second Cults prey on your humanity Do people keep telling you Yeah, well, the &quot;special&quot; part But if that's combined with a lot (Laughter) That might not be love, but love-bombing: a manipulation strategy something that's been used from sex traffickers to David Koresh, the infamous and ultimately doomed leader that led to the Waco tragedy, to Keith Raniere, to your next-door neighbor the back of her trunk. All that love is designed to make you feel The best yoga, the best fraternity, the best TEDx. Am I right? Best TEDx? This is the best TEDx, just be honest. (Laughter and applause) Thank you, yes, Dave. (Applause) But ... All of that love is designed like you are part of something. That's it. Are you part of a course or a group that's telling you to life's questions? Or even better yet, the answers and the solutions Careful. That's dogma or doctrine. And those courses you're buying You feel righteous about a group That's basic &quot;us-versus-them&quot; that's a very convenient way for culty bad and the outside world. All of these tactics, and community and love it's just what binds you Just like the frog in the pot of water. Throw the frog in a pot it knows what's going on. But if you put it in cold water it stays in, it doesn't notice. Just like you don't notice, and be part of something. Or maybe you're just trying Or, like me, prove your friends &quot;I'm not in a cult.&quot; And if and when that you notice ... that it's not what you signed up for it's too late, you're just a frog. You're bought in and you've been boiled. So how do you know the difference The helpful tools versus And something altruistic versus smoke and mirrors How do you do that human when cults are insidious and any group can become culty? That's right. Any group. OK, first, you can write this down. You're not immune And I know some of you are thinking, If you think you're not susceptible, you're more susceptible than you know. You might see some red flags Nxivm fooled some really brilliant people. Captains of industry, business leaders. It's because this stuff isn't so obvious. It's just dynamics. It's called an abuse of power. Ever had a boss ask you asking you to prove and you felt like you couldn't say no? Or a significant other text you make you feel special, only for them to ghost you Or been a part And you knew that if you missed you might be on the outs for a while. It could be anything from a group And remember, it doesn't matter you're all susceptible. Fair enough, you might not have been I get it. But with the right place and the right trusted person inviting you, you may say yes to something else. Everybody's got Remember, it doesn't look like what you It could be as fun and friendly as ... &quot;Want to check out a spin class?&quot; A makeup party with wine and cheese. &quot;Hey, let's go phone-bank &quot;Have you ever tried cold plunging?&quot; I see you, Portland. (Laughter) That's why it's so important to know especially in this day and age. We've all had to become hip in regards to internet safety, How about we learn some cult literacy? So I'm going to teach you Not all of them, but a couple, And remember, not any one of these things it's the whole package. So please know ... The first thing is: there's an assumption of your neediness. You're a broken bird, you're unwhole, and they have all the tools That's very convenient. Secondly, it's expensive. And please know that it might It could cost you in time Also, loaded language. If they're using pretentious terms Run. (Laughs) Be aware if there's rumors or if there's lawsuits or bad press. Where there's smoke, there's usually fire. And finally, if they're claiming to have the definitive answers big red flag. Oh, my green flags are up already. It's important to also see green flags like questions are welcomed, you can ask things without being gaslit. Also, you can leave shunned or trash-talked. Finally, there's a healthy Not an all-consuming change Hello, CrossFit! (Laughter) Now, one more thing. It doesn't pop up in Google, if you type in &quot;is blank a cult.&quot; (Laughter) You'd be surprised I personally never Googled Nxivm. I mean, it was 2005, but I never did. And look where that got me, so do your research, people. But here I am now. I had it removed. (Cheers and applause) Yes. (Applause) Free of all that. Yay, plastic surgery. (Laughs) I'm healing. And part of that healing is ... I'm just trying to clean up as the golden goose for Nxivm. And I'm also trying to, just as loudly as I vouched I'm loudly trying to educate about seeking safely. So, ultimately, to avoid a culty nightmare, is just remember and communities and tools and answers and all this stuff, it's just a tool, not an answer. Nobody has all the answers. And I'm not here to point fingers and say, &quot;you're in a cult&quot; and &quot;that's a cult,&quot; or throw that word around loosely. You don't even have I just want you all if whatever you're part of is healthy for you. That's it. Because of course, to put into your tool belt of life. That's likely why you're here today. Just don't make the tools your life. Maybe you don't need a guru. Maybe you don't need a fancy retreat to be a better you. You're on a path but you're already whole, right now. So this is my idea for you -- and I hope you remember it Because to seek is so human, and to seek wisely is a very smart idea. I want only the best for all of you, so safe travels. Thank you. (Cheers and applause)