Hi, I'm Ramgopal from Presentation-Process.com by all these tools and buttons in the software? in the next one hour, but you don't know how a sophisticated program with tons of tools. But you don't need to know all of those tools You just need to know 5% of PowerPoint to Sensation in this video I'll teach you that without any trouble. So let us jump right convenience we have added chapters to this along the timeline of this YouTube video to Alright, now the first question, how do you to the bottom left corner of your screen and And then start typing PowerPoint even before will get this option for PowerPoint app. You up. By the way, I'm using Microsoft 365 for will apply even if you have PowerPoint 2007 Now, as soon as you open PowerPoint, you will Or you will get a screen like this for a new you use. You will have three options here. Second is the option to choose your design to choose your templates. First, let me talk The templates let us say you want to make option here and say business. Speech and then hit enter and see what PowerPoint As you can see, PowerPoint gives you a few like say this one, you click on it and that read the description and if you like it, you you. You just need to replace this sample gets ready. Even if the content is not an exact match to create your present. I firmly believe that using templates is always presentation is not one of the standard types you have two options. One is to click on the click on one of these design themes. That allows you to start with an interesting going to start with a simple blank presentation. do two things immediately. The first thing I'll do is to pin this program The next time you want to start the program, and then open the app. All you need to do right click on the PowerPoint icon. And you have this option called Pin to taskbar. taskbar. So the next time you want to open open. Now with that out of the way, the next thing seen so many cases where the presenter has and leaves it unsaved. An accidentally closes you to suffer from that, so develop the habit Saving your presentation right off the gate. You take your cursor to the top left corner called Save as and then choose the location In this case I want to save it on the desktop, this a memorable name. I'm going to call this. PowerPoint basics. And you can see that the file type is dot You just hit save. Now when I go to the taskbar, I can see my presentation here called PowerPoint access the file. Yeah. I just need to double click on the icon and Excellent, the second task is done now. The it is important for you to know a few terminologies from either the help or from Google and you'll So let us learn the basic terminology of PowerPoint. The large panel that you see here on your Area, then the panel that you see on the left most important area on your screen is this is made of a collection of tabs that look of tools. Called as group. So to summarize, PowerPoint a specific task or club together as a group. And a collection of groups is called a tab The strip that you see at the bottom, which bar. Excellent, that is as much terminology going to do is to start creating the slide Extremely easy for a beginner to start creating Right, so we just need to do what PowerPoint I'm going to click on it and I'm going to case it will be called PowerPoint Basics. Now I can see that I have made some mistake click on the right option just as it works you're familiar with. I can click on this here. This is the name of the presenter. Now Ready, but then the slide looks so plain that So let us see how we can quickly improve the that is go to this tab here called as Design. Themes allow you to add. Professional design to your slides quickly. over these design theme options. Let me place my cursor here. You can instantly my cursor to the next option, you can see not restricted only to these options. You opens up even more options for you to add If you like any particular option, like say, your slide looks far more professional. Once options called us variants. These are the example, instead of this orange color, if You can choose this green color. You can choose Let me choose this blue color and I'm well deck. Next, I want to add a new slide to write the thumbnail view, click on that and hit If you want a more traditional way. You can go to the Home tab and here you have me to the next option. I want you to notice the icon available and you have the drop down When you click on that option, when you see available. You can choose any of these layouts a tool, see if that tool has the small downward you can click on that option and you will Available by the way, you can expand certain let me click on this and you can see in this click on that option you can see that we have us even more options. Now let us not get confused with all those is whenever you choose a tool, always try can choose the exact tool that you want. Excellent. Here I want to write the topics that I'm going So I'm going to click on the title, let us here. The first option is I'm going to talk Hit enter and then I'm going to talk about talk about Animation's, hit enter and I'm are the topics that I'm going to discuss in you've created one of the classic slide types You've created a bullet point slide. A typical But then the problem is, these bullet point a way you can make your slides look lot more Yes, you can let me show you how we have a art diagrams. Let me show you how easy it Yeah. For you to convert this boring looking slide bullet points by clicking and dragging your the option called convert to smart. But and here you can see that we have a whole the first one. Now my slide already looks your slides is to insert pictures. Let me by going to the thumbnail view. Let us write The title Now the next thing I want to get rid of is layout. I can right click on any blank area and I can choose a different layout. Now we have this option called title. Only layout and now I have the space available option we have is apples, so I need to insert You go to the tab here called Insert and here Yes, you click on the drop down menu. As I pictures from any of these three options. downloaded the picture of apples then you 365 subscription you have this option called of PowerPoint you will have this option called. Online pictures you click on online pictures can search for what you want. In this case, For apples, let me write that and hit enter can use on your slides. I like this option, insert. Now I will have the picture of apples hold the shift button down. Yeah. As a click and drag one of these handles in I can place it over here. Now I need to label will find this option here Called's text box On that and then you click on the slide and typing your label. In this case it is apples. here called font and if you want to change menu here and you can choose. Any of these options? I'm quite OK with the the size of this label you can use this option Let me click on that a couple of. Times Now as I click on this, you can see here on the slide. Let me now place this over picture. Let me do that again very quickly. happens to be the next option. So let me go Go to pictures, go to online pictures and Hit enter and I have various pictures of oranges select the picture, hold the shift button can resize it nicely and then place it right to save some time, I can copy this text box. By selecting the text box, right clicking right click on the slide and choose this option over here right under the next picture and And now I have my second picture labeled. to the earlier one and that is the reason and visuals to make your slides come to life. so far, we learned how to open a PowerPoint. We learned how to save it. We learned about Analogy, we learned how to create a slide how to insert a new slide. We learned how diagram. We also learned how to visualize the corresponding labels. The next thing you How to present your slides to present your slide show. For that you need to take your see these icons available here. Let us quickly one that you see here, which is clicked by The. Give you the option next to it is called as can see all the slides in one glance, the as the reading view. I don't usually use it escape the option that we would use to present Slide show you select your first slide and show and you would be able to present your This is our first slide to advance to the like you can hit your enter button on the can use up and down arrow keys on your keyboard keyboard. Whatever is convenient to you. You can use. Let me use the simplest option next slide to go back to the previous slide. Slide back, so let me hit enter. Here is the 2nd slide, the next slide and a basic bullet point slide. You know how to You also know how to visualize your slide you know more about PowerPoint than most people. Now to come out of the slideshow, you hit double click on the slide and that takes you Now let us take our skill to the next level. slides so that we can hold the audiences attention is 2 pictures and two texts. So let us add time to add animation. All you need to do is to click on the object step. Then you use a simple animation called you to use any of these other options that basic simple fade in. So we've got our first animation in place to show the label, so let me click on the Then I click on the next object and hit fade. then when I go to slide show by going to this You can see that I can present these objects of apples and then on the next click I show click I show the picture of oranges, then Tables can you see here you can present your the audience's attention with simple animation. of the slideshow mode, you hit the SK button add Polish to our slide deck, we're going One slide to the next happens a bit more dramatically, the Transitions tab, then choose from any A simple transition that works well in any click on that option. You can see that this you select the transition, you go to this the transition to all the slides in your deck. move. Now, with the first slide selected, let us slide shown. Now with a click. See how the by just adding a simple transition. You can slide deck looks and feels. That's it. Now You can create your basic slide deck an impress Always remember to go to file and keep hitting work. If at any point you feel you need to in the program, then I highly recommend that course. This is a 13 1/2 hours course. Our goals with step by step video tutorials PowerPoint Foundation. The course is priced affordably, and you get payment. The link to this course is available click on the link and check out more details skills to the next level. Finally, if you mini training. You can click on the link here to watch our Process channel you can click on the link video a like. Share it with your friends and videos. Thanks a lot for watching this video. I'll