(whimsical music) - [Narrator] Shake Shack it isn't fast food. Everything is made to order, and that customization means But as Shake Shack expands, it seems to be taking a lot It's building drive-thrus, and installing ordering kiosks. As Shake Shack tries to compete in spaces traditionally dominated by fast food, it's got to speed up operations because many customers expect But this is a major built on a guarantee of fresh This is The Economics of Shake Shack. Long lines have been from the beginning. - When they first started this popup, roadside hotdog and restaurant there was lines, so it really had this kind in New York. - [Narrator] But as Shake it has to speed up. - We want it to be a We wanna be a little more and our execution. - [Narrator] A big part of That's been a major since the pandemic in some of its main markets. Shake Shack has opened more in the past few years, and it's planning to build - Have a good one, all right? Take care. - [Narrator] Drive-thrus more profitable than dine-in service because customers cycle and they do big business. McDonald's, for instance, does about 70% of its multi-billion dollar - They can be very efficient. You can do a lot of sales quickly. There's not the expense of in the same way, so you particularly if you can who are able to go through - [Narrator] This has to get into the drive-thru business, and they compete fiercely over wait times. Taco Bell, for instance, outside Minneapolis with for mobile orders and delivery drivers. Chick-fil-A has used so-called where staff come out with tablets That avoids a bottleneck of customers waiting to reach the menu board, all to save precious seconds. According to Mystery Shopper Data, Taco Bell and McDonald's drive-thrus had total wait times of which includes the time ordering, paying, and Shake Shack doesn't disclose but it said on past earning typically takes it around Decreasing wait time has for the company. - We do a couple of things in our drive-thrus than It's not compromising the cook fresh, but it is really on the technology side. - [Narrator] They start cooking orders as soon as customers place them, rather than waiting until they pay. - Hello, how are we doing today? - [Narrator] Similar to Chick-fil-A, they sometimes send staff to bus orders. Maintaining a premium feel is important to justifying its prices. Shake Shack is middle of the road for a fast casual restaurant, but much more expensive than fast food. - It is a tension that we battle every day between speed and cook to order food. We can't compete on speed because we wanna cook our but we can certainly and certainly delivering on the - [Narrator] We've also to maximize efficiency in their kitchens. - We've been working on of how we're flowing food to really optimize and that our team members have to take. For example, we used to wash and cut all of our lettuce in house. We've then transitioned so now our team members making sandwiches and in the back of the house and cutting up and washing lettuce all day long. - [Narrator] Shake Shack operates most of its own restaurants, but it's increasingly as it expands internationally, and to rest stops, stadiums, and airports. That means it selects outside and those companies pay That's been a major driver in Shake Shack opened its first Its sales pitch to customers antibiotic-free beef, and it was founded by fine known for its restaurants which gave it cachet. It's now a $4 billion company with over 500 locations around the world. The company says its have also helped it develop new products, particularly limited time offerings. - We learn a lot from Even our Chicken Shack out of the international licensed business for Shacks that did not serve beef. We also had locations that had kind of more of a regional flavor profile, like the Korean fried chicken sandwich that we brought over here. - [Narrator] But operating at this scale with fresh ingredients in a premium experience has challenges. - It's important for and have that vibe. I mean, people are paying than they would at Burger King, and so you have to believe and the brand's better. - [Narrator] Shake Shack in data operations so it doesn't order too - The ability to get a sales really sets the tone for at that location and It means that your waste is within control and that you're not selling out of items and you're able to meet guest demand. We're not having to make decisions on a particular menu item, which might have a negative impact, we're literally just getting - [Narrator] Shake Shack has led by its new CEO who brings experience growing major chains in the quick service restaurant industry. Over Rob Lynch's time at Arby's, first as CMO and then as president, sales grew over 20%. At Papa Johns, he helped the company recover and opened hundreds of new restaurants, Though the chain has - It's challenging to take a or any brand that's, you know, grew up in a certain geography I mean, the company is really working now to try to be more efficient, to try to make restaurants run better and they are having some success. But I think the real is can they keep running and continue to grow? (gentle music)