Look up into a clear night sky with your naked Technically you would be able to see all of from Neptune. It is the smallest of the gas giants, and And it is a perplexing place. You would think a planet so far from the Sun exhibits ginormous storms and super-fast winds. So why is this planet as interesting as it I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching everything you could want to know about Neptune. Let's start right at the beginning. Neptune is the only planet found through mathematical You see, when Uranus was discovered and astronomers Uranus wasn't following their models. From the perturbed orbit of Uranus, Urbain should be, and remarkably Johann Galle was predicted point. Triton, Neptune's biggest moon was discovered Since then, Neptune was little understood apparent size meant it couldn't be studied It wasn't until 1989 when Voyager 2 arrived planet became available. Suddenly we could see what the planet looked a lot of previously unknown moons. But let's get to today. What do we know about this planet now? Since Pluto's demotion to 'not a planet' from the Sun. It orbits at about 30AU from the Sun on average, Earth's orbit from the Sun. 30AU in other words is 4.5 billion km, and space probe - using current technology - 13 4.5 billion km is a considerable distance. Because of this long orbit, it takes a huge we've only seen one Neptunian year since This distance from the Sun means the average cold, -201c. Its axial tilt is 28deg, meaning it's similar respectively. This means it has seasons similar to Earth 4 seasons last 40 Earth years each. At this moment in time, the southern hemisphere And during this summer, the southern hemisphere result of interactions with the Sun. Which is strange, as you would have thought than on Earth, from that distance it wouldn't But even if it is only a small impact, it of the Southern hemisphere is thought to be by about 10c compared to the rest of the planet. This comparably higher temperature has released whereas elsewhere on the planet it remains Just a quick recap of the spheres of a planet, layer, followed by the stratosphere. Above those layers are the Mesosphere, the That's a very interesting topic in itself If you look at the weather on Neptune, it planet, with wind speeds blowing westward nearly a supersonic flow. And interestingly, most wind travels retrograde to the rotation Bands are also formed on the planet, as well When Voyager 2 passed the planet by in 1989, the size of Earth passing through its atmosphere. It also saw the smaller storm called Small As Voyager 2 approached Neptune, this storm When Hubble was launched, astronomers were see if they were a permanent feature like But when Hubble was pointed at Neptune in have come and gone ever since. Giant, bright, high altitude clouds also come But why then doesn't Uranus, which is very also have such a blustery atmosphere? Don't get me wrong, wind speed is fast on Neptune at 900kph. Can all this only be due to interactions with Something else must be at play here to explain I mentioned that Neptune is the furthest planet is also the coldest. But actually, Uranus is the coldest planet Neptune radiates heat from within, whereas all. This could be because a large Earth sized ago which depleted all of its primordial heat. Now, the more active weather on Neptune might What is Neptune actually made of then? Its internal structure and atmosphere is thought Its atmosphere is composed mainly of 80% hydrogen methane. It's this methane that gives Neptune its of blue compared to Uranus' cyan. Again, like Uranus, there is a liquid mantle the core. Where the core and the mantle meet, the pressure and diamonds are formed under the pressure. Likely not diamonds as you or I know it, but solid diamond bergs floating in it and diamonds This is just a theory though as technology such pressures, around the core of Neptune 7,000,000 times the pressure of earth's Even the two ice giant's magnetospheres Neptune's magnetic field is offset 47deg When Voyager 2 discovered this about Uranus, to do with its unusual axial tilt, but then which has a more normal axial tilt. So, the current theory is the magnetic field by an electrically conducting liquid mantle, which gives it this weird offset in relation Every planet in the solar system hasn't field; even Earth's magnetic north is different But it's only Uranus and Neptune that have Aurorae do exist on Neptune too, but they are extremely faint due to particles not getting direction of the magnetosphere they are mainly Earth does get these too, but they are not to know they are there. They could be stretching across the whole The difference with SAR arcs as well is they the mid latitudes. Zooming out from Neptune now, we come to its Like all the other gas giants, Neptune does it is not very dense and extremely dark in Have these rings against the black backdrop Sun, and they are very hard to see. There are five known rings in all, and they're and research of Neptune. The innermost is the Galle Ring, very faint Next is the first bright ring, Le Verrier. Although it is bright, it is only 113km wide. Next and connected is the Lassell Ring, a On the edge of this ring is the Arago Ring. It is slightly brighter than the Lassell Ring Lastly is the outermost and most researched It is only 35km wide but one of the brightest It is particularly interesting as it is slightly These arcs have been quite stable since they rings are uniform throughout. The arcs must be material clumping and clustering is currently unknown! Lastly, I want to talk about the moons. Neptune has 14 known moons, which are named The most famous and the biggest by far is of the mass of all the moons put together. I personally think it is one of the prettiest patterns and this burnt orange colour. What is most interesting about Triton is the an inclination to Neptune's rotation, which not something that was formed alongside Neptune. Triton might be the cause of the rings of possibly causing them to collide and Triton is bigger than Pluto, and also has Voyager 2 even saw faint clouds on its flyby. The next biggest moon is Proteus, which is moon of Saturn, Mimas. Why it is not a sphere is explained by past these massive craters. The inner, regular moons orbit around the The outer irregular moons are all likely captured Some of them orbit prograde and others retrograde. The outermost moons of Neptune are Psamathe of any planet to date. They take a massive 25 years to orbit Neptune This is because Neptune has a very large Hill which its gravity overcomes the gravity of It has such a large Hill sphere because it's has less of an influence around Neptune than Well thank you for watching. There's only one more planet to go now in Earth. I'll be sad when the series is over as I've presenting to you guys my findings. Don't worry though, there's more series Solar System's Dwarf Planets perhaps? Let me know what you'll want in the comments. If you enjoy this video, don't forget to Your support keeps me going, really, so please See you next time.