Welcome to another Mathologer video. Have What secrets does it hold? Hmm.... Well, let's combine into the same square. Very cute. But like this, right? Just cutting up a square do the trick. Okay, but there is more. Have combine into the same square. Now that IS you guess what? Yep, the diagonals also combine What we are dealing with here is some sort anyone who chooses to hang out at Mathologer Right? This age-old 3x3 magic square features the rows columns and diagonals add up to the by magic squares for thousands of years and that magic squares actually hold real magical many many people obsessing about magic squares, top mathematicians. For example, these three a lot of time researching magic squares. There, Ramanujan in the middle and Pierre de Fermat squares discovered by Ramanujan. This square magic constant is 260. Impressive ... and, sort of number magic, and the super-impressive Today's video was inspired by watching TV. of my all time favourite way of conjuring historical drama series, Tree with deep roots. of the Joseon king Sejong the Great who lived creating the Korean alphabet. Today's video I'll show you the king's beautiful method part I'll give you an intro to the magic set, Enjoy :) Okay over there that's the the story he is still very young and really evil puppet master is his father the former all sorts of bloodshed and slaughtering of to retreat to his study and do some maths That's the study and what he is working is a gigantic 33x33 magic square. Just like really at a loss as to how to solve this monster and diagonals add up to the same number. Well, inspection of the room we find a working 5x5 And on the other side of the room, out of LoShu 3x3 magic square. Now, at that time Really impressive how much attention to detail For example, have a look at the shape of the remotely from the sides of the room with these just a little bit about Chinese writing, you quite right. Can you spot the mini-bloopers? the tiles, the king also made sure that there court ladies in charge of checking the row, gigantic abacus there on the right :) I want of blood and mayhem, the king finally can't on a minor matter. This really infuriates sent to his son. There, that's the lunchbox. son opens it . And ... It's empty! What knows what it means. By sending the empty to commit suicide. Amazing parenting, right? was done in the drama, and putting aside the shape of the lunchbox also triggers a beautiful Shu 3x3 magic square will fit nicely into up in this way, the overall shape of the lunchbox see that? This observation somehow makes our in the suicide thing, try something that he's Can you see something amazing? There, 1, 2, order inside the larger square. What is going what he sees in his mind using the tiles of got this idea that maybe something like this checks this for a 5x5. There, a checkerboard in the dark squares with the numbers from 3 4 5. 6 7 8 9 10 And so on. Now, he takes them inside the board. Like this. A perfect corners. And yes, this really creates a magic up to the same magic number, which turns out there. After this we see him experimenting king stops... :) Of course not :) Now the it's a real treat to see the 33x33 magic Now over to the tech support ladies. Okay, note-taking, the tech support supervisor, diagonal sums are equal, and therefore they challenge for you. What's the magic constant among you: Can you write an app that animates up to 33 :) Anyway, this is a real mathematical REAL breakthrough. His mathematical success and his life starts picking up from that moment tyrannically "simplifying" the construction done. I'll include the relevant time codes got some time definitely check out the whole creating a magic square really works for all On the other hand, it does not work for even give it a try for the 4x4 and you'll immediately for even order squares. Still, it works for simple method of making magic squares you'll the real question is: Why on Earth DOES this this question that reveals the real magic out the WHY is really what's missing in very big big step up from our king's achievement, once and for all that this method always works. ladies can retire :) Okay, let me show you hard, promise, and definitely worth the trip this grid a bit. Okay, first diagonal, 1 2 as is for the moment. Now, second diagonal. the 7 That's 2 + 5 and so on So what we're as the first diagonal offset by 5. Oooookay. the offset is 10. 12=2 + 10 and so on. Next offset 20. And just to give everything a nice as having offset 0. There. Okay, fantastic. magic square. Ok, let's now pick one of the column. There, Now every entry of the magic all possible left sides 1,2,3,4,5 are present for all the possible right sides. Each of in this column exactly once. This means that of the possible left sides plus the sum of to be 65. Cool. Now on closer inspection you For example, here is column 3. There, the as are the offsets 0, 5, 10, 15, and 20 on in the previous column. And the same is true quick look at some rows. There, all there. Well, let's have a look. As you can see the right sides of these entries are all equal of the offsets, 10 is also the average of the sum of the offsets. And so, overall, we Similarly, for the other diagonal. Here all 5 times the average 3 of 1 2 3 4 5. And so nice don't you think? And so what we want structure is also present in all the other method produces. Once we've done that we tables are actually working magic squares. to you as concisely as possible what is going 5x5 square. But everything I'll say will pick one of the entries of the square, say entry. What we'll show is that in this row left side 3 or right side 5. As I said, our in essence, apply to all entries of this row table of numbers created like this. This means sides of ALL the entries in a row are different. sides have to be present in this row. Similarly, sides are different and so all possible right much complete the proof, at least for the All okay so far? Great. Just in case you get get the gist of what is going on. And remember, as I said, it all boils down to seeing clearly entry are different from the left and right row. Okay, let's uncollapse our square. the final table. Now look at the four visible are clearly all different. It's also clear on the outside will end up in our no duplication will arise from the entries and right. Cool. Now the row we are interested line. This means that, after collapsing, the the top can never end up in our row. So, no sticking out at the bottom. Can they lead 5 on the right after collapsing? Well let's when things collapse, entries that move will ends up in our selected row must have come the entries with the same first part 3 as And the entries with the same second part here. These diagonals also both comprise 5 15, 20. And our 3+5 entry being part of both can possibly reach more than 4 rows below the extra entries that concern us are all never reach that far down. Consequently, when be sure that none of them will create any for our 3+5 entry, no other entry in the same the same second part. The same argument takes middle row. For entries in the middle row square the argument has to be modified a bit, you liked my sketch of this beautiful proof. not really the king's method. It's due Bachet de Meziriac. If I ever decide to grow likely does it? Remember, 5x5, 7x7 and 9x9 magic squares on display of the 5x5 and the 7x7 and I also had a close whether they actually used magic squares constructed to a bit of a blooper. Well, it turns out different ways. For example, here is the 5x5 method, so no immediate blooper there. However, is a bit of a blooper after all. It turns another general method that also gives magic method the numbers from 1 to 25 are placed this. There is the 1, 2 3 4 and so on. If figure out how exactly this second method thoughts in the comments. What about the 7x7 method? Actually, ... no. In fact, I did not this 7x7 magic square. Maybe one of you knows? Let's move on to part two of this video Ready for our second story? Great! Let's go nice book about geometric magic squares. It inventor of these amazing constructs. Most I've learned from his book. Highly recommended. for decades, until I was prompted by that new. Pretty much the only thing that I had were these geometric magic squares or, wait since this will probably be my only ever Mathologer I also want to share with you some of the a couple of interesting observations about the areas of the pieces in a geomagic square all horizontals, verticals and diagonals sum And, if you are lucky, you may be able to to be integers. For example, let's put a let's say every one of the little squares out to have integer area. And, as it happens, means that underlying the geometry is a bona different. Previously, all our magic squares in a square went 1, 2, 3, 4, up to the appropriate Committee of Magical Mathematics (I made that for a magic square. Fair enough? Anyway, if To repeat, for a magic square we just need and that all rows, columns and diagonals add It turns out to be really easy to convert example, start with the standard 3x3 magic rectangle consisting of that same number of combine into the same long rectangle. And the columns. Impressed? No? That's ok, we'll can be thought of as a geomagic square, we of geomagic squares some extra magic might case. Here are two more examples of geomagic particularly remarkable. For my first example, into different shapes by moving around the Magic :) Now, recall that the square is 15. And 15 little squares is just bite taken out. And that's what we'll do. constant shape, like this Very, very cute. you! But let me make absolutely sure that is something extra special about this set that add to 15, for example, these four here. 2+4+1+8 is 15. Then the corresponding pieces Wow, now that is extra special. Here's another on to our second example. Probably the second 3 by 3 is the one in this drawing by Albrecht drawing. You can see the magic square up there, features the numbers from 1 to 16 and has with TWO bites taken out. And here's a geometric just that. Really magical. you think? Okay, so how do you come up with Lee Sallows was inspired by a famous formula no 32 https://www.geomagicsquares.com/gallery.php?page=32 gives a square table of integers all of whose c, the number in the middle of the table. 3x3 magic square. In fact, you can get all choices of integers for a, b and c will give Committee of Magical Mathematics has declared different. Remember? And, for example, choosing all entries equal to 1. Not terribly magical, to replace a, b and c by shapes and then reinterpret as carving one shape out of another. And after up with a working non-trivial example. So, and c is a larger square. Then, for c - b, b rectangle out of the larger c square like and the b rectangle to the c square like this. along all rows, columns and diagonals into me just show you like this, you have actually found infinitely of the a b c pieces doesn't matter too much. by a little triangle resulting in different same way. There, all triangles now instead it is possible to come up with pieces whose how they were constructed. Here is an example. you'd never guess where they come from. for a b and c. And just to demonstrate, here large t-shape, just as before. Okay, magic, example that uses the magic square equation, it. Would be nice to turn this into a physical from little wooden cubes, arrange them into how exactly the pieces in all those rows, 3x3x3 cube. Let me just show you how the pieces other ways are there to come up with these think? Computers, of course :) These days to do some computer searches. For example, of the standard 3x3 over there, start with together from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 kinds of pieces made up of 1 to 5 little squares. the number of little squares gets bigger. consisting of 9 little squares. Anyway, for there is only one choice for the 1. It's choice. With 3 there are these two blue choices. red choices for 5 and so on. Then multiplying number of sets of pieces to consider. That's pick a nice shape consisting of 15 little to check whether any of those possible sets this 3x5 as magic constant shape. Well, turns quite surprising, 1411 of our sets of pieces as their magic constant shape. Wow, 1411 different lot, actually that's nothing compared to magic constant shapes. Have a look. So there that combine into that last 4x4 square with In fact, these large numbers of solutions another question: Is there perhaps a BI-magic different magic constant shapes. What do you of pieces that I showed you before. It has However, it actually has a second magic constant and diagonals combine into two different magic crazy and unexpected, this set has a total I show you the other magic constant shapes what you thought of todays topics in the comments a lot more information about everything I