I would like to make an added point that comes home to me very clearly. Having been involved in some 44 aircraft development programs and 20 in the skunk works, I've seen time and time again where the United States industry, the aircraft industry, or any other you want to choose, has demonstrated that when it knows what it's going to produce, it can't be beat. The Lockheed Martin Corporation of today can trace its history back to 1912, when the brothers Alan H. and Malcolm Lougheed established the Alco Hydro Airplane Company in San Francisco, California. In 1916, Alan and Malcolm moved their enterprise to Santa Barbara, California, and renamed it the Lougheed Aircraft Manufacturing Company. The firm went on to produce a few aircraft, namely the Model F-1 flying boat and the Model S-1 sport plane. The latter was of the advanced monocoque design that, due to its prohibitive price tag, couldn't compete. Thus, without any airplane orders, Lougheed Aircraft was forced out of business in 1921. In 1926, Alan Lougheed, John Kirsten Jack Northrup, and Kenneth Kanjay teamed up and formed the Lougheed Aircraft Company in Hollywood, California. The spelling of Loheed was changed to Lockheed to prevent mispronunciation. Northrop had joined Loheed Aircraft in 1920 as a draftsman, and it was he who had designed the S-1 sports plane. This new company used the monocoque design features of the S-1 to create the Lockheed Vega. The company relocated to Burbank, California, in March 1928, and by year's end, it reported sales exceeding $1 million. From 1926 to 1928, the company produced more than 80 aircraft and employed more than 300 workers who, by April 1929, were building five aircraft per week. In July 1929, majority shareholder Fred E. Keller sold 87% of Lockheed Aircraft Company to the Detroit Aircraft Corporation. In 1929, Alan Loheed resigned. The Great Depression ruined the aircraft market, and Detroit Aircraft went bankrupt. A group of investors headed by Walter Varney and the other brothers Robert Ellsworth Bob Gross and Cortland Sherrington Gross brought the company out of receivership in 1932. The syndicate bought the company for $40,000. Ironically, Alan Loheed had planned a bid for his own company, but had raised only $50,000, which he felt was too small a sum for a serious bid. He should have bid, for if he would, he would have won his company back. In 1934, Bob Gross was named chairman of the new company, the Lockheed Corporation, which was headquartered in the municipal airport in Burbank. Cort Gross was named co-founder and executive. The first successful aircraft that was built in any number was the Lockheed Vega of 1927, which is best known for its several first and record-setting flights by, among others, Amelia Earhart, Wiley Post, and George Hubert Wilkins. I became a real estate agent after he had sold the company and I actually bought a house from him. But the team that came in, headed by Robert Gross, contained Hall Hibbert, who was his finance and administration man. And that team, and many others, of course, I shouldn't say many, there were maybe all of 10 or 15, and they involved one man that came with the company, Carl Squire, who was the marketing manager, if you will. We didn't call him that in those days, but he was the salesman. And the team put together quite a lot of different ideas to carry the company from its wooden airplane, legend if you will, and the production for that matter, into the all-metal world which they could see coming. I think this was a pretty courageous move. It was a twin-engine airplane, Lockheed never built a twin-engine airplane. It was all metal. Lockheed never built a metal airplane. They had a retractable landing gear. They had done that once, but this was a little different. And it had two tails on it, which of course was the beginning signature, if you will, of one of the designers on the place, Kelly Johnson. And that's when I really first got to know something about Lockheed. Kelly Johnson was Hall Herbert's chief of advanced design, and he had come from the University of Michigan. And in those days, we had no wind tunnels in the industry, or at least none that I know of. And Kelly used the University of Michigan as a wind tunnel. We had a small tunnel in the basement of the engineering building in Michigan. And I was a student assistant at the time. And so I worked on the Election Wind Tunnel as a student in Michigan. And that's where the two tails were born. It was a good idea. And still is a good idea for a multi-engineer or a biomotor anyway. In any case, I was interested in it. I met Kelly when he came back from the wind tunnel and so I came to work for Lockheed after I graduated. But that twin engine Electra was quite a risk for the company. The company had been bought for $40,000 and the development time for this airplane was certainly well over a year or so, which is pretty short. And it was a very successful airplane that filled a niche in the market and continued to fill a niche in the market and it was actually the foundation of the company. The Model 10 would give birth to the Model 12 Electra Junior and the highly successful Model 14 Super Electra. Consequently, Johnson would be partially responsible for the financial latitude implied in the prototyping of the Model 22, which later would become world-renowned as the P-38 Lightning. The cutting-edge Lightning was a twin-engine, twin-boom, twin-tail interceptor pursuit aircraft that eventually became a pivotal combat aircraft in World War II. The design and engineering that went into the P-38 were the handiwork of aeronautical engineers Hibbert and Johnson, and the first example, the one-off XP-38 made its first flight on January 27, 1939. Secretly, a number of advanced features were being incorporated into the new fighter, including a significant structural revolution in which the aluminum skin of the aircraft was joggled, fitted, and flush riveted--a design innovation not called in for the Army's specification, but one that would yield less aerodynamic drag and give greater strength and lower mass. As a result, the XP-38 was the first 400-mph fighter in the world. It was flown by a USAAC AMC engineering test pilot, 1st Lt. Benjamin Scoville Kelsey, who was a fighter project officer in the engineering division of the AMC and one of the P-38's biggest supporters. In fact, he helped convince the USAAC to procure the type. In addition to the P-38 Lightning program, Lockheed Aircraft and its Vega Aircraft Corporation subsidiary, formerly the AI Rover Company, were busy building in advanced trainers under the license for North American aviation, the Vega, Electra, and Super Electra airliners, and the Hudson, Ventura, and Harpoon bombers and patrol bombers. In 1939, Howard Hughes Jr., billionaire and major stockholder in Transworld Airlines, put forth an industry-wide request for a 40-passenger transcontinental airliner with a range of 3,500 miles. The earlier Lockheed L-044 Excalibur design didn't fit the requirements, but lent itself to modification into what became the Lockheed L-049 Constellation. But like so many other aircraft manufacturers of that era, it was constantly looking for a new business to survive and to keep its relatively small workforce intact. On order for fiscal year 1940 were 65 P-38 Lightnings and a single Lightning derivative designated XP-49. These aircraft, ordered by the then USAAC, were a mere handful to produce, and additional orders were highly sought after. The year 1941 proved much more lucrative due to the expanding wars in Europe and the Pacific. In 1941, military orders increased dramatically for Lockheed. After December 8, 1941, the date America declared war on Germany and Japan, the floodgates opened and combatant military transport aircraft soon began to stream off the Lockheed and Vega production lines. Between July 1, 1940 and August 31, 1945, the company produced no less than 19,077 aircraft for the war effort. This figure represented 6.6% of all U.S. production during that period and some 9% of airframe weight total. By the end of World War II, Lockheed was the fifth largest manufacturer of aircraft in the U.S. The war catapulted Lockheed into the upper echelons of financially successful aircraft production companies. Accordingly, it was able to indulge research and development initiatives that otherwise would have been all but impossible during the most austere times. Most notably, as early as 1939, Hal Hibbard and Kelly Johnson had become somewhat infatuated with jet propulsion theory. This power plant concept, already being exploited with considerable efficacy on the other side of the Atlantic, had been placed on the back burner in the US primarily because of the exigencies of the war. By 1944 however, this was no longer the case. Money was made available for studies in hardware development. Working with Hibbard and Johnson were Phil Coleman, Willis Hawkins, and Gene Frost on airframe development and the farsighted Nathan Price on propulsion. World War II ended at Europe on May 8, 1945, though, the war in the Pacific raged on for another four plus months. In the interim, the fledgling Skunk Works was busy trying to improve upon its P-80 series of aircraft while it delved into new designs. It was a time of discord, because the U.S. War Department planned to cut back on its numerous high-volume aircraft orders. Wartime aircraft production was about to come to a screeching halt. In any event, inside Kelly's lair, the design, development, and engineering on various aircraft projects were constant, and since he was chief research engineer, Johnson was responsible for all of its wants and needs. With the military market dwindling, it came time for Lockheed to reinvestigate the civilian aircraft market. Its large and elegant Constellation would soon ply the skies throughout the world, but there was a need for smaller, feeder-type airliners to shuttle passengers between major cities. During this particular time period, the still rather fledgling Skunk Works entered into unprecedented territory with the creation of several interesting aircraft projects. Its aerodynamic, aeronautical, electrical, fuel, hydraulic, propulsive and thermal engineering staff was rampant with genius minds and they came up with many successful offerings. This team, a precursor to the soon-to-be-born Skunk Works, over a period of six months generated a variety of design studies that eventually resulted in the definitive L-133 jet-propelled canard-configured fighter. Of all steel construction, and with an estimated maximum speed of 600 miles an hour, it was to be powered by two Lockheed design and built L-1000 XJ37 axial-flow turbojets of 5,500 pounds of thrust each. As it was, the L-133 and L-1000 Experience, though seemingly non-productive at the time, eventually would bear Lockheed's significant fruit. Both concepts were extremely advanced for the early 1940s, even in light of parallel German and English efforts, and the axial flow engine in particular would prove prescient from a technology standpoint. More importantly, the small but significant experience base resulting from the Maverick airframe and engine would hold the company in good stead when the Air Force finally realized a legitimate need for a jet-propelled fighter. Jet engine technology in the form of propulsion for aircraft had gone through a relatively long and laborious gestation by the time it was successfully applied to German's Heinkel He 178, the world's first successful jet-powered aircraft. Ernst Heinkel's company had initiated jet propulsion studies as early as 1936. you Following its first flight in the capable hands of Heinkel test pilot Eric Worsitz, at the company airfield at Mariehenne, on August 27, 1939, the HE-178 was used not only to study the jet engine as an aircraft propulsion unit, but also to convince Nazi and Luftwaffe leaders of the jet engine's viability. Its success in the propaganda department later was manifested in the extraordinary rapid development of such superb operational combat aircraft as the Messerschmitt Me 262 and the Arado Ar 234 and in turn in the attempted development of a plethora of jet-powered combat types that included the highly advanced Messerschmitt P 1101 the Henschel Hs 132 the Junkers Ju 287 and the Heigl He 162 Only the cessation of hostilities prevented German development of a stable of combat jets that could have drastically changed the outcome of the war. On the other side of the Atlantic, U.S. work on jet-powered aircraft has been slow to develop. The reasons were manifold, but in essence they all boiled down to unstoppable momentum in the form of an industrial complex committed to more conventional aircraft forms. On July 25, 1944, First Lieutenant A. E. Wall and Pilot Officer A. S. Lobbin were flying an unarmed reconnaissance variant of the agile de Havilland Mosquito over Munich, Germany. They noticed an approaching enemy aircraft approximately 400 yards astern and closing fast. Five times Wall turned into the attacking Me 262, but was unable to gain an advantage. It was only by diving into cloud cover that the Royal Air Force aircraft and its crew were able to escape the frustrating battle. When Wall and Lobben returned to their home base at Firmo near Ancona, Italy, they spent little time equivocating over the capabilities of the long-rumored German jet. They were convinced its performance capability was something the Allies could not easily or safely ignore. So little was known about these advanced machines and their performance envelopes. Intelligence personnel were hard-pressed to provide Allied combat crews even minimal information. In turn, available information pertaining to jet engine technology was reviewed with renewed interest, including indigenous U.S. research that had been undertaken during the preceding two decades. By 1939, enough progress had been realized to convince the British Air Ministry that research funding was appropriate. Accordingly, a contract was let for a prototype engine, the 855-lb Thrust W1, to power a proposed jet-powered research aircraft to be built by the Gloucester under contract SB-3229, dated February 3, 1940, and designated E-28-39. During March of 1941, following receipt of a perceptive letter dated February 25 from General H. Hap Arnold, then Deputy Chief of Staff for Air, Vannevar Bush, Ph.D., formed a special committee on jet propulsion under the chairmanship of Will Durand, ex-chairman of the NACA and a noted proponent of turbo-supercharging. During April of 1941, while meeting the British military commanders in England, General Arnold was given the opportunity to see the Gloucester E-28-39 testbed aircraft while it was undertaking high-speed taxi tests and short hops into the air at the Hucklecote Airfield and review in detail the Whittle jet engine. The display impressed General Arnold. He immediately requested that information pertaining to the aircraft and its unique propulsion system be provided his technical staff in London for detailed review. Concurrently, he advised the U.S. State Department of British Jet Engine Developments and requested it assist in the establishment of diplomatic intercourse that would permit the acquisition and dissemination of jet engine information and technology in the U.S. By early September of 1941, the receipt of British jet engine technology, insights, drawings and hardware via the technical team assembled under command of General Arnold had resulted in a decision to build a copy of the Whittle jet engine. Almost by default, General Electric was the unanimous choice to build the engine, and Bell Aircraft Corporation, also by default, was picked to build the airframe. The British government agreed to provide rights to the US government and also provide a single complete engine and one of the two E-28s-39s. Bell, after submitting and getting approval for its aircraft design, received a contract on September 30, 1941, for three Model 27 aircraft with the military designation XP-59A. Beginning on February 5 and ending on February 18, 1944, three of the YP-59As were used to evaluate the type as an air combat platform, being flown against a Republic P-47D Thunderbolt and a Lockheed P-38J Lightning. Unfortunately for the three first-generation jets, their performance against their considerably older, reciprocating engine-powered stablemates was abysmally poor. In mock air combat, the P-47 and P-38 proved faster in level flight, capable of higher maximum altitudes, faster in a dive, and with a higher rate of climb. In only one part of the envelope did the P-59s prove only marginally superior, and that was in turn radius. Some three weeks after the Morock evaluations, General Arnold made it official the P-59A would not become the Air Force's first full-production jet fighter. Its poor performance when pitted against contemporary US aircraft did not justify operational deployment. More importantly, intelligence data describing the rapidly evolving German jet aircraft initiative was giving every indication a fleet of fighters with performance capabilities far in excess of those being realized by the Bell P-59 was hurriedly being created. What General Arnold also knew, but few others had been privileged to know, was that Lockheed, some eight months earlier, had been given the go-ahead on a new jet fighter unquestionably capable of meeting the Luftwaffe's threat head-on. While the world of B-59's demise began to spread, the new Lockheed fighter's flight test program was secretly gathering momentum at Morocco. On May 17, 1943, Hibbert and Price were briefed on the status of jet propulsion development and were invited to submit a fighter proposal around Major Frank Halford's de Havilland H-1B Goblin. Two months later, Hibbert and Price were queried during the May 17 meetings as to whether Lockheed might consider designing and building a jet fighter around the British power plant. Due in part to the interest shown in jet propulsion by Hibbert, Johnson and Price with their L-133 and L-1000 studies during the preceding three years, and their associated attempts to sell both to the Air Force, it was a foregone conclusion that Lockheed's response would be favorable, and it was. At Lockheed, the new L-140 project, started in the middle of an incredibly intense production program that was geared to meet the massive generic needs of a burgeoning world war, received only minimal corporate attention. Robert Gross, then company president, and Hall Hibbard, chief engineer, assigned the project to Johnson because of his strong interest in jet propulsion, his established organizational skills, and because he was the most competent of the many young engineers in the company's expansive staff. Johnson, in his autobiography, noted the skunk works beginning as follows. For some time I had been pestering Ross and Hibbert to let me set up an experimental department where the designers and shop artisans could work together closely in the development of airplanes, without the delays and complications of intermediate departments to handle administration, purchasing, and all other support functions. I wanted a direct relationship between design engineer and mechanic and manufacturing. I decided to handle this project just that way.&quot; Putting extraordinary pressure on Johnson and his L-140 XP-80 team at Lockheed was the Air Force's requirement the aircraft be completed in a hundred and eighty days or less. On the 16th it was noted that Mr. Hibbard came in later to make sure the progress pictures were not faked. And the next day, the entire XP-80 team was told that they couldn't all attend the first flight of the aircraft if they could get it done in 140 days. While the team waited for the new engine, miscellaneous checks were run on the airframe, and work continued on minor sub-assemblies and pre-design for the second and third aircraft, which now were beginning to take shape around a new General Electric engine called the I-40. These improved aircraft, officially referred to by Lockheed as the L-141s and by the Air Force as the XP-80As, as their design evolved, began to differ markedly from their predecessor. The first prototype, 44-83020, was nicknamed Lulu Belle, also known as the Green Hornet because of its paint scheme. Powered by the replacement Halford H-1 taken from the prototype to Haviland Vampire jet fighter, it first flew on the 8th of January 1944, with Lockheed test pilot Milo Burcham at the controls. Following this flight, Johnson said, it was a magnificent demonstration, our plane was a success, such a complete success that it had overcome the temporary advantage the Germans had gained from years of preliminary development on jet planes. The donated British jet engine and program data had no doubt proved invaluable. In test flights, the XP-80 eventually reached a top speed of 502 miles an hour at 20,480 feet, making it the first turbojet-powered USAAF aircraft to exceed 500 miles an hour in level flight, following the August 1944 flight record of 504 miles an hour by a special high-speed variant of the Republic P-47 Thunderbolt. Contemporary pilots, while transitioning to pioneering jets like the Shooting Star, were unused to flying at high speeds without a load-reciprocating engine and had to learn to rely on the airspeed indicator. By January 15, Bircham had conducted five flights on the XP-80 for a total of 1.67 hours of flight time. The primary objective of these flights was to obtain preliminary impressions of the XP-80's flying characteristics, as well as information regarding its climb and level flight performance capabilities. A significant amount of flight time was also devoted to evaluating the aircraft's stall characteristics and high-speed performance. The second prototype, designated XP-80A, was designed for the larger General Electric L40 engine. Two aircraft were built. 83021 was nicknamed the Grey Ghost after its pearl grey paint scheme, while 83022, left unpainted for comparison of flight characteristics, became known as the Silver Ghost. Initial opinions of the XP-80A were not positive, with Lockheed chief engineering test pilot Milo Burcham commenting that the aircraft he very much enjoyed had now become a dog. The P-80 testing program proved very dangerous.&quot; Bircham was killed on the 20th of October 1944 while flying a third YP-80A-44-83025. The Gray Ghost was lost on a test flight on the 20th of March 1945, although pilot Tony LeVier escaped. Newly promoted to chief engineering test pilot to replace Bircham, LeVier bailed out when one of the engine's turbine blades broke, causing structural failure in the aircraft's tail. LeVier landed hard and broke his back, but returned to the test program after six months of recovery. Sadly, on August 6, 1945, Major Richard Bong, a Medal of Honor winner and the highest-scoring U.S. ace of World War II, was killed in a P-80A while attempting to take off to the south of the Van Nuys California Airport, also apparently as a result of fuel pump failure. After Bong's death, the USAAF and Lockheed wanted to prove the reliability of the airplane. Robert E. Thacker topped Chuck Yeager, plus two other pilots, and they put 500 hours on each airplane without further incident. After the war, the USAAF compared the P-80 and the ME-262, concluding, despite a difference in gross weight of nearly 2,000 pounds or 900 kilograms, the ME-262 was superior to the P-80 in acceleration, speed, and approximately the same in climb performance. The Me 262 apparently has a higher critical Mach number, from a drag standpoint, than any current Army Air Force fighter. At least one other important P-80 project became the Skunk Works' responsibility before the rapidly diminishing team moved on to other things. On November 11, 1945, a Gloucester Meteor Mark 4 of the Royal Air Force set a new speed record of 606 miles an hour. This, one of the first records of its type to be set by a jet-propelled aircraft, gave a rise to the Air Force interest in breaking the record by using a slightly modified P-80A. Following a study of the P-80 aircraft by Johnson and various Lockheed Wright field engineers, it was concluded a stock P-80A with minimal modification could attain a speed of 615 miles an hour at the required 100 meter maximum sea level altitude. During the course of Chilstrom's numerous passes through the Moroc speed trap, it became apparent that breaking the British record would not be easy. Complicating things was yet another British speed record set by Captain Group E.M. Donaldson in a Gloucester Meteor F-4. And the P-80A was not the only U.S. aircraft in the running. Republic's new XP-84, a similarly straight-wing first-generation jet fighter, was proving its mettle at Morock by running the speed trap at speeds in excess of 600 miles an hour and thus becoming officially the fastest U.S. aircraft. This left Lockheed's skunkworks-modified P-80, now referred to as the XP-80R, as the only U.S. record ho. Some nine months after the failed October record attempt, the XP-80R was back at Muroc with Colonel Boyd in the cockpit. On June 19, 1947, everything, including the weather, was at last in place for the ultimate attempt. Guided by reddish smoke flares set off at each end of the course, Boyd passed through the traps four different times per the FAI requirement. Speeds of 617.1, 614.7, 632.5, and 630.8 miles an hour were officially long, giving an average speed of 623.8 miles an hour, and giving the U.S. its first official world speed record in almost a quarter century. The P-80, formerly named the Shooting Star by company executives Robert Gross and Hall Hibbard, would go on to have a long and successful career not only in the U.S. military, but in the air forces of Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Uruguay, and Peru as well. It would lay claim to the first jet-versus-jet air combat victory in history and amass an extraordinary record as a fighter, fighter-bomber, and reconnaissance platform during the course of the Korean War. Afterwards, though outdated, it performed yeoman's duty with various air guard and air reserve units, being finally phased out of the U.S. service during 1958. In total, including prototypes and production aircraft, some 1,732 P-80s were built. As just one of the several significant legacies, the XP-80 and two XP-80As left behind the consummated reality of one Kelly Johnson's long-held dreams--an experimental department where the designers and shop artisans could work together closely in development of airplanes without the delays and complications of intermediate departments to handle administration, purchasing and all other support functions. He aspired strongly to have a direct relationship between the design engineer, the mechanic and manufacturing and he wanted a chance to prove that it would work. The P-80 project provided that opportunity and served as the seed for what would grow into the world's most famous and mysterious aircraft manufacturing institution. In any retrospective describing the history of Skunk Works, it is necessary to confront the period from 1945 to 1954 with some trepidation. By late 1945, the Skunk Works as it then existed had served its purpose, and effectively had ceased to exist as a separate entity within the corporate umbrella of the Lockheed Aircraft Company. Regardless, Kelly Johnson had not let the success of the XB-80 program be absorbed by the ever-threatening corporate bureaucracy. Having seen the attributes of the unencumbered design and manufacturing system he and his Skunk Works teammates created, he was determined to retain its operating philosophy for future endeavors. By the time the P-80 was handed off to Lockheed's Department 28-10 for expansion into the production program, several other aircraft had been brought on board under the Skunk Works operating philosophy for future execution. These projects, the prototypes of the Model 75 Saturn, the XR-60-1 Constitution, the T-33 and T-2V-1 C-Star, the F-94 Starfire, the XF-V1, the YC-130 Hercules, would not all be brought to life at once under the Skunk Works umbrella, but would rather arrive with surprising regularity over a period of some nine years. This steady workflow kept the Skunk Works alive philosophically, but did little to retain any coherent core group that could accurately refer to itself as the Skunk Works. Significantly, during this period, none of these aircraft would be created in true Skunk Works atmosphere, but rather would utilize various aspects of the Skunk Works approach to prototyping. In every instance, some aspect of design, engineering, or construction was handled by what is now looked back upon simply as the vestiges of the old XP-80 approach. In many cases, the engineering talent was the same as that utilized for the XP-80, only now it was operating under the aegis of Lockheed California Company, rather than independently under the aegis of the Skunk Works. Keeping it all alive was Kelly Johnson, who was, at times, the only physical manifestation of what remained of the original Skunk Works. Often working on several projects at once, he rarely distinguished between Lockheed aircraft being done in the Skunk Works and aircraft that were not. It was truly a unique period, and one that will forever remain a gray area in the advanced development projects history. Ben Rich, retired LADC president, today refers to it as the time of the skunk works fast action shop. Its singular purpose was to create or assist in the development of prototypes quickly and quietly with minimal outside helper interference. Then we had our Saturn, a small transport airplane on which we made the most complete market survey we've made on anything up until recently. And it was to be a low cost per airplane mile airplane. It was good, but it was a complete failure because it faced 10,000 C-47s that were available at half the cost and were better in terms of several other regards, larger, mainly and available quickly. Tony LeVier piloted the first flight on June 17, 1946. By late 1947, the handwriting was on the wall. The Saturn was not going to be a successful venture and there was no reason for Lockheed to throw away any more money into its development. In spite of its relatively low operating costs and its better maintenance characteristics, it couldn't compete against the $25,000 Douglas C-47s and similarly cheap C-54s. Flyaway costs of the Saturn were now expected to be between $100,000 and $130,000, taking advantage of tax write-off options. The two prototypes were released to reclamation crews to be chopped up as scrap. The Constitution was a Navy project. It actually started out as a program for Pan American Airlines at 184,000 pounds gross weight. In this project we used the Skunk Works engineering methods, but we used conventional shop practices. The aircraft was good, but we never got the 5,500 horsepower turboprop engines it was designed for. It ended up one of the world's most underpowered airplanes. The Lockheed R-6V Constitution was large, a propeller-driven double-decker transport aircraft developed in the 1940s by Lockheed as a long-range, high-capacity transport and an airliner for the U.S. Navy and Pan American Airways. Only two of the aircraft were ever built, both prototypes. Although these two planes went into service with the Navy, the Constitution design ultimately proved underpowered and was too large for practical airline use at the time. Other studies using various Wright, Allison and Pratt &amp; Whitney engines were also offered, but to no avail. Finally, a turboprop version powered by British build Armstrong Siddeley Pythons was studied, but eventually rejected, as Lockheed vice president Cyril Chappellet would later lament. Even if we could have hung bigger engines on it, the Model 89 faced a dim future in the commercial market. Pan American, though seriously interested at first, reappraised its operations at the end of the war and decided the airplane was too big for immediate traffic needs. Although the Martin J.R.M. Mars flying boat had a slightly longer wingspan, the Constitution remains the largest fixed-wing aircraft type ever operated by the U.S. Navy for its time. From that day came the T-33, and then a series of derivatives for interceptors. The T-2V was a Navy program, a carrier-based airplane, and we made as many of those as the Navy had engines for. It was a success. The Lockheed II V-C-Star, later called the T-1C-Star, is a carrier-capable jet trainer for the United States Navy that entered service in May 1957. Developed from Lockheed T-33, itself derived from the Lockheed P-80 Shooting Star, it was powered by one Allison J-33 engine. Starting in 1949, the U.S. Navy used the Lockheed T-33 for land-based jet aircraft training. The T-33 was a derivative of the Lockheed P-80 or F-80 fighter, and it was named T-02, then T-V2 in Navy service. However, the T-V2 was not suitable for operation from aircraft carriers. The persisting need for a carrier-compatible trainer led to a further, more advanced design development of the P-80-slash-T-33 family, which came into being with the Lockheed designation L-245 and USN designation T-2V. Lockheed's demonstrator L-245 first flew on the 16th of December 1953, and production deliveries to the US Navy began in 1956. Some 5,691 T-33s of all kinds eventually were manufactured by Lockheed. An additional 656 aircraft were manufactured by Canada Air in Canada and 210 aircraft were manufactured by Kawasaki in Japan. Additionally, well over a thousand Lockheed manufactured T-33s eventually found their way into the air forces of over 20 countries around the world, many under the aegis of the Mutual Defense Aid Program. In all, the Navy bought 150 T-2V1s, pre-designated T-1A on September 18, 1962, before the Lockheed production program ended during 1959. At this time, right after World War II, there was a whole stable of prototype airplanes, starting with the F-87, F-88, F-90, F-91, and a bunch of bombers. We had lots of prototypes then. The Lockheed F-94 Starfire was a first-generation jet-powered all-weather day and night interceptor of the United States Air Force. A twin-seat craft, it was developed from the Lockheed T-33 shooting Star Trainer in the late 1940s. It reached operational service in May 1950 with Air Defense Command, replacing the piston-engined North American F-82 twin Mustang in the all-weather interceptor role. The F-94 was the first operational USAF fighter equipped with an afterburner, and first jet-powered all-weather fighter to enter combat during the Korean War in January 1953. Although requiring much time and delaying the F-94C's entry into service by nearly two years, the various airframe, system and powerplant modifications and improvements resulted in the Air Force obtaining a potent interceptor. True, the F-94C was not as fast at high altitudes as other all-weather fighters than being procured by the Air Force, but at low altitudes it was the best of the lot. Furthermore, once modifications eliminated engine flame-out when all 24 rockets were salvoed, the closed-breach installation of its armament rendered the Starfire substantially more accurate than the F-86D and F-89D, which had open-ended rocket installations. In the end, its limited range was the aircraft's major shortcoming. This, however, was not due to a design oversight. Being the ultimate development of a relatively small 1943 design, the F-94C did not have the internal volume required for greater fuel capacity. The first nine production F-94Cs were accepted by the Air Force during fiscal year 1952. The last 225 Starfires were accepted during fiscal year 1954. Eventually, the F-94C went on to have a lengthy and modestly successful Air Force service life. The XF-90 was the only airplane to defeat the atom bomb, its military requirement concept was poor, and it was 10 years before the engine for which it was designed was available, it didn't come out good. The Lockheed XF-90 was built in response to a United States Air Force requirement to a long-range penetration fighter and bomber escort, the same requirement produced the McDonald XF-88 Voodoo. Lockheed received a contract for two prototype XP-90s, redesignated XF-90 in 1948. Two prototypes were built, serial number 46-687 and 688. Developmental and political difficulties delayed the first flight until June 3, 1949, with Chief Test Pilot Tony LeVier at the controls. On August 28, Johnson noted, took a trip to Wright Airfield in Washington again. The picture is extremely confused. I am sure we could build our prototype 90 ground-attack airplane if we wished, but information which we have collected on the Russian airplanes, plus the long delay that would now result before getting into production, makes the 90 obsolete. I cannot recommend building it to face airplanes four and five years from now that will have 15 degrees more sweep, half the weight, and one third the range. Couldn't stand that. Have recommended we drop the airplane in a memo to Hall and Bob on 9-5.&quot; A final note on September 6 stated, Dissolved 90 Project Permanently. On September 11, 1950, the McDonnell XF-88 was declared the competition winner. In truth, the XF-90 had been marked for failure from birth. With an ill-defined Air Force specification, a weight problem stemmed from an attempt to meet poorly understood mission requirements and power plants that could not possibly have compensated for the excessive structural overkill, the XF-90's operational prospects were virtually non-existent. On the positive side, Lockheed and the various Skunk Works engineers who conceived and built the XF-90, pioneered the use of 75ST aluminum--some 25% stronger than the commonly used 24ST aluminum--verified the viability of the unusual horizontal-tail-slash-vertical-tail structure control system mix, and indirectly participated in the improvement of the jet engine afterburner. Late in the program, when refitted with the afterburning Westinghouse XJ34 WE15 engines, both prototypes showed improved performance, but not enough to overcome that of their primary competitor, the McDonnell XF-88. Though none of the penetration fighter contenders would enter production on their own merits, the developed XF-88, in the form of the F-101 Voodoo, would eventually have a long and eventful Air Force career. As to how, according to Johnson, the XF-90 defeated the atom bomb, suffice it to say, the second aircraft still exists. Used as a test specimen during the 1952 atomic bomb tests at Frenchman's Flat, Nevada, it survived three massive blasts with remarkably little damage. Recent interest in recovering it for museum display has been discouraged, primarily because it remains highly radioactive. The first XF-90 was sent to the NACA's laboratory in Cleveland, Ohio, and there used as an exemplary structural test specimen. Its final disposition is unknown. XF-90 research, development, test, and evaluation costs total at 5.1 million US dollars. The estimated unit price for the first 170 production F-90s was estimated to be 670,000. Kelly Johnson lamented that the price was as much as the early Constellations. X-7 was just a ramjet test vehicle, made a good many of those things. It was designed to fly at speeds up to Mach 4.0 at over 93,000 feet altitude. They tested the engine for Bomark. It was an engine test research vehicle. Postwar analysis of the available technology and the attempted assimilation of the massive quantity of data accessed as a result of Nazi Germany's capitulation found the US aerospace industry in an envious but extraordinarily complicated position. The sheer mass of data suddenly laid at the feet of the US academics and technocrats during 1946, coupled with the opportunity for research into virtually every facet of the aerospace sciences, at times proved overwhelming. There seemed to be no limits. Though funding was always an issue of significant contention, the post-World War II perspective on military spending for research seemed to be one of blind benevolence, and, as a result, many obscure programs were given what amounted to blank checks. Though not necessarily falling into the later category, propulsion system projects created to explore virtually every form of jet, rocket, turboprop reciprocating and ramjet power surfaced in overwhelming numbers. Strong military support for these myriad undertakings brought many of them to fruition, including a significant number optimized to explore the attributes of power plants for supersonic aircraft. This was particularly significant in light of the fact that the first supersonic flight on October 14, 1947, had yet to take place. The X-7 was called into production by the United States Air Force requirement for the development of an unmanned ramjet test plane with a top speed of at least Mach 3. The X-7 project was developed under the AMC designator MX-883 and was given in the Lockheed in-house designation L-171. The L-171 was initially designated the PTV-A1 by the USAF but was later designated the X-7 in 1951. Despite its first launch being a failure, after redevelopment of the original ramjet, following test flights were successful. During the 130 X-7 flights eventually logged, many test items and projects were parasited onto the basic vehicle. A few of these included the modification of one X-7's wing to accommodate no less than 3,000 thermocouples to record temperature data, and the experimental use of H2O2 fuel additives in boron-based high-energy fuel. The latter was tested on three different occasions. Though the results were favorable, the logistics of handling the extremely toxic propellant proved formidable. Besides being dangerous to inhale, even in minute quantities, it was also hypergolic. The X7A1 and X7A3 series were followed by five X7Bs, intended to test guidance and control systems in the same way the X7A tested power plants. The X-7B program was terminated just as a flight test program was getting underway. Twelve X-7B flights were completed prior to their cancellation. A relatively unmodified version of the X-7A3 known as the XQ-5 and given the name Kingfisher was developed for use as a dedicated high-speed target drone. Somewhat surprisingly, the XQ-5's performance proved significantly higher than any of the surface-to-air weapons it was designed to test, and it was doubtful that any were destroyed by enemy action. This situation eventually affected the XQ-5's operational career as a Bombard and Nike anti-aircraft missile system target, as it literally performed its way out of a job. Approximately eighty of the one-thirty-plus X-7 XQ-5 flights attempted were successful either partially or completely. Problems of bewildering variety surfaced during the course of the flight test program, including range safety concerns, ineffective radar control, malfunctioning autopilots, simple human error, and poor design. But the missile's inviolable performance envelope eventually became an item of considerable pride for Lockheed's fledgling missiles and space company. Our first Navy program was next, the XF-B1, a tail-sitting airplane for direct takeoff and landing from a small area on any Navy ship. It was supposed to back down onto the deck. We did excellent in terms of cost and weight, but this aircraft was a failure. It was a failure because we had a bad power plant and we couldn't look back over our shoulder when flying the thing in judge height. We could practice on clouds all day, but this is the only airplane we ever built which we were afraid to fly ourselves in the final tests. During 1947, the Air Force and Navy initiated... The Navy in particular, found VTOL appealing primarily because of the inherent deck space limitations and the associated shortcomings of steam catapult and arresting gear systems utilized on most then existent aircraft carriers. During early 1953, the first XFV-1 was completed at Lockheed's Burbank facility with an interim 5,850 equivalent shaft horsepower XT-40A-6 engine in place of the more powerful YT-40A-14 scheduled for actual flight tests. Lockheed test pilot Herman Fish Salmon was assigned to the aircraft as chief test pilot. On December 23, 1953, during the course of a high-speed taxi test at Edwards Air Force Base, the aircraft inadvertently became airborne for the first time. Sam N landed moments after leaving the ground. A review of the program's progress now indicated a continuous inability to sustain flight operations sufficiently to retain pilot experience as a result of repeated delays for major component breakdowns. Therefore, since the installation of the engine and propeller did not show the high degree of reliability required, the XFV-1 program was terminated. And there was the Navy version, R-7V-2, we had poor performance in the skunkworks there, because we tangled with the 17-7 stainless steel, which required a million parts and every thin gauges that were very difficult to assemble. We had to do them over twice. This was a failure. It was a failure even in the experimental phase because of the high cost. The airplane flew good and all that, but never went into production. On August 18, 1950, the United States Navy signed a contract for eleven military transport versions of the Lockheed L-1049. The aircraft were to have been convertible troop cargo transports, based on the model L-1049B. The R-701 would have also featured round portholes in place of the rectangular ones on the Air Force C-121C Constellations. The aircraft entered evaluation service in the Navy's oldest test squadron, VX-1, based in Patuxent River, Maryland. In November 1951, an idea came about to build a turbine-powered version of the R-701. This new aircraft was designated L-1249A by Lockheed. In 1954, two R-701s, then designated R-7V1, were pulled off the assembly line for conversion into prototypes for the new L-1249A. The landing gear was strengthened along with the fuselage and wings of the aircraft. Extra fuel tanks were also added on the wingtips of the two aircraft, increasing the fuel capacity to 7,360 gallons. The wings were also shortened from 123 feet to 117 feet and 7 inches. The new aircraft was designated R-7V-2 and first flew on the 1st of September 1954. The R-7V-2 reached 412 miles an hour making it the fastest transport aircraft in the world at that time. The two R-7V-2 aircraft were delivered to the Navy on the 10th of September the same year. In 1953, the United States Air Force became interested in the L-1249A project. Two R-7V-1 aircraft were again taken off production lines in 1955 and converted to L-1249A standards. These aircraft, designated YC-121F, were identical to the R-7V-2s, in service with the Navy. The first YC-121F flew on April 5, 1955, and was delivered to the Air Force in July of 1955, the aircraft were put into service with the test squadron of the 1,700th Air Force Transport Group of the Military Air Transport Service, based at Kelly Air Force Base, Texas. After undergoing brief testing, the YC-121F was used on regular basis transportation flights. On one occasion, Lockheed test pilot Roy Wimmer managed to reach a top speed of 479 miles an hour in the YC-121F during a 20-degree dive. On 25 January 1957, a new transcontinental record for propeller aircraft was set by a YC-121F which flew from Long Beach to Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland in 4 hours and 43 minutes. Lockheed proposed an airliner version of the L-1249A, designated L-1249B. This would have had the fuselage of the L-1049E and be equipped with extra fuel tanks on the wingtips as well as four 5,500 horsepower Pratt &amp; Whitney PT2F1 turboprops. In the end, airlines were still in favor of the piston-engined airliners, so no L-1249B was ever constructed. In a final attempt to give new life to the military turboprop Constellation program, Lockheed, during mid-1957, won a Navy contract for a new version of the airborne early warning radar-equipped WV-2. Though modestly successful, the turboprop constellation program proved too little too late. The jet age by the mid-1950s had filtered down to the airline industry, and with the advent of the de Havilland Comet, the Tupolev Tu-104, and the Boeing 707, it was apparent that the future lay in pure jet airliners. Turboprops continued as viable engine options for smaller, short-legged commuter aircraft, but their use on transcontinental and intercontinental airliners proved economically unjustifiable. One of the least known of the Skunk Works many efforts, the RB-69 program was initiated under the aegis of a CIA contract calling for an aircraft to monitor and document electromagnetic emissions and transmissions in denied territories. The project was begun during 1954 with Kelly Johnson overseeing program manager Luther McDonald, who effectively ran it until 1957, when Fred Cavanaugh took over after being pulled from the P-2V program. McDonald, in order to meet the CIA's mission profile, had proposed the use of Lockheed's venerable P-2V Neptune, the longest-range twin-engine aircraft in the world at that time. Under the auspices of a skunkworks-type engineering and manufacturing environment, five new P-2V-7s and two older Navy P-2V-7s became RB-69s and were secretly rolled out at Burbank with Air Force markings during 1955. Delivery flights were made to Edwards Air Force Base's North Base, where flight testing was accomplished in conservable secrecy. Referred to by the CIA as Project Cherry, or later Wild Cherry, the objective was to build an aircraft that could safely penetrate denied airspace, gathering intelligence data and return, all without being easily detected by defensive systems. U.S. pilots hired by the CIA to fly the RB-69, like their U-2 counterpart to follow, went through a sheep-tipping exercise that effectively erased their real identities and replaced them with backgrounds that were totally fictitious, right down to their contrived names. Each aircraft carried a crew of 12, including a pilot, a co-pilot, a flight engineer, a radio operator, and an electronic intelligence personnel to operate the various sensor systems. A mix of penetration and border surveillance flights were flown. One of the first objectives was the collection of power grid data. This was acquired by flying over Western Russia's power lines. When the European operation was comprised by a US officer, he reportedly was entrapped by a female KGB agent, the Weizenbaden missions were terminated. Chinese operations then became highest priority. The Chinese operation began during early 1957 and continued for the following seven years. The Chinese, frustrated by the RB-69's unfettered night penetrations of Chinese airspace, eventually perfected a night illumination system that successfully exposed the aircraft long enough for fighters to make visual identification and attack. This required that large numbers of Ilyushin IL-28s and Xinyang J-5s be sent aloft to drop flares. These lit the entire night sky and in so doing, exposed the RB-69s and permitted their interception and destruction. The successes thus realized proved instrumental to the 1964 CIA and Taiwanese decision to remove the type from operational service. Then comes the YC-130, the first two prototypes were built using partial skunk works methods. It was then taken and moved down to Georgia, who took it on and went into production that is now heading for a total of 1,500 airplanes. I think the concept was good. It demonstrated our ability to hand it off to another production organization who took it and made it work. On February 2nd, 1951, the Air Force Tactical Air Command issued requests for proposals to the Boeing, Douglas, Fairchild, and Lockheed aircraft companies calling for a medium-weight turboprop-powered transport, capable of meeting the specifications and performance criteria outlined in any of the three general operational requirements it included. The Air Force demanded a quick response to the RFP, and within days of its release, Art Flock had been assigned as Chief Project Engineer with Willis Hawkins as General Supervisor. Hawkins at the time was also in charge of Lockheed's preliminary design department. Skunk Works operating procedures would be utilized as appropriate to expedite design and prototype development. Working with Hawkins were Eugene Frost, Eldon Peterman, Dick Pulver, and Flock, all veterans of earlier Skunk Works projects under Johnson's guidance. Assigned the temporary design number L-206 and later becoming the Model 82, the new transport rapidly evolved under Flock's direction. As its configuration matured, so grew the preliminary design group's conviction it was creating a logical yet utilitarian aircraft capable not only of achieving, but superseding the basic GR objectives which specified payload-slash-range requirements eight times that of any then-existent design. During the course of design development and mock-up construction, inputs from external sources were invited and reviewed. The Air Force and transport personnel were brought in from virtually every segment of industry. Each was asked to critique the new aircraft and recommended changes or improvements. The resulting information was carefully assessed by Flock and his team, and where appropriate, incorporated into the actual aircraft. Additionally, Lockheed representatives associated with the Model 82's development visited facilities that could provide insight into operational requirements and usage. Interestingly, by this stage of the Model 82's development, Johnson had begun to have doubts about his ability to succeed. Unhappy with its rather proletarian aesthetic qualities, he had reached a point where he refused to sign off the paper proposals being submitted to the Air Force, forcing his boss, Company Vice President Hall Hibbard to overrule him. Because of Korean war pressures, the Boeing, Douglas, Fairchild and Lockheed proposals were quickly evaluated by the Air Force. On July 2, five months after first receiving the RFP, Lockheed was informed its proposal had been picked for prototyping over those of the competition. On July 11, Contract AF33 was awarded to Lockheed calling for the construction and flight testing of two Lockheed Model 82s, formerly designated C-130 by the Air Force. In short order the company officially named the new transport Hercules, in concert with its tradition of naming aircraft after stars and constellations. Accordingly, on August 23, 1954, with Stanley Belt as pilot, Roy Wimmer as co-pilot, Jack Reill as the flight test engineer, and Dick Stanton as the flight engineer, it departed the Burbank Airport at 2.45 p.m. on its first flight. Due in part to the fact the basic mission weight of 108,000 pounds had been 5,000 pounds lighter than guaranteed, cruising speed was some 20% higher, take-off distances were some 25% lower, ceiling and initial climb rates were some 35% higher, landing distances were some 40% shorter, and single engine out climb rates were a stunning 55% higher than predicted. Some 37 years after the first flight of the production aircraft, on May 15, 1992, Lockheed delivered the 2000th production Hercules, a C-130H to the Air Force. This transport, representing one of the most successful aircraft production programs ever is only the most recent heir to a legacy that now lays claim to a seemingly endless list of accomplishments. They came up with a requirement for a tactical transport that has some very unique demands, such as a drive-on drive-off capability on the airplane, which required the whole at the end of an airplane to open up, and numerous other unique requirements. And many people who saw the design, including the renowned Kelly Johnson, commented that it was the ugliest airplane he had ever seen. Next, the F-104. We consider that the cost and performance of the model was excellent, and I guess after some 2,500 of them having been built around the world, we consider the F-104 series a success. The story of the F-104 began during the Korean War. Kelly Johnson visited front-line squadrons in 1952 to determine what characteristics the next generation of U.S. Air Force fighter planes should possess. At that time, the Republic F-84 Thunderjet and North American F-86 Sabre were being outperformed by the Soviet-built Mikoyan MiG-15, particularly at high altitudes. Predictably, the reaction of the pilots was a demand for greater speed, altitude, and rate of climb, even at the expense of maneuverability, armament, range, ease of maintenance, and creature comforts. Johnson returned to Lockheed with the notion of a lightweight, fast-climbing, high-speed, high-altitude, daylight interceptor. The idea was not exactly a new one, but in pursuing it, Johnson was leading Lockheed onto financially risky ground. The concept of the Specialized Interceptor had been explored from time to time since World War One, and it had usually been discredited. The problem lay in the Interceptor's lack of operational flexibility. No one wanted a combat plane that performed one mission well to the exclusion of all other missions. Johnson was convinced, however, that he and his staff could produce such a quantum leap in aircraft performance that the Air Force would have to take notice. If one word could describe the airplane that Kelly Johnson and his team designed in 1952, it would be extreme. The Model 83, as the F-104 was originally known, was created for the sole purpose of flying faster and higher than any other fighter in the world. It was, in essence, the smallest fuselage and wings that could be constructed around the most powerful available engine, one pilot, and the minimum necessary fuel and armament. The F-104's maximum airspeed of Mach 2.2 was dictated primarily by the shockwave propagation in the air intakes, by the thermal limitations of the aluminum alloy from which the airframe was constructed, and the amount of stress that the canopy attachment points could take. Air pressure could pull it from the cockpit at speeds above Mach 2.2. To handle temperatures generated at high speeds, the airframe would have to have been built of titanium, rendering it far too expensive for mass production. The F-104 was the first aircraft to be powered by the then-new 14,800-pound thrust General Electric J-79, an engine that was to set a new standard for power-to-weight ratio. The jet engine air intakes on the F-104 were fitted with movable semicircular shock cones designed to adjust the airflow at various speeds. Such devices came commonplace on jets in later years, but were unheard of prior to the F-104. The shock cones were considered so secret that the air engine intakes were completely hidden under aluminum fairings when the Starfighter was first exhibited to the public on April 17, 1956. The engine was not the only revolutionary component in the F-104. The plane's principal armament of a single 20-mm cannon may have seemed puny, but it was a very special gun. The Starfighter was the first aircraft designed to use the General Electric M61 Vulcan cannon, a six-barreled electrically operated Gatling-type gun that could fire an unprecedented 6,000 rounds per minute, a rate of fire that could use up the F-104's complement of 725 rounds in just over seven seconds. The Air Force was understandably dubious about the effectiveness of a gun fired from an airplane that was flying as fast as a bullet. Its operational requirement therefore stipulated that the F-104's armament should be augmented with yet another new weapon system, the heat-seeking AIM-7 Sidewinder air-to-air missile. A single Sidewinder was mounted on a rail on each wing tip. The Starfighter's T-shaped tail was also unprecedented. The configuration was arrived at after evaluating no less than 285 different designs. By far the most astonishing feature of the Starfighter was its wings. In an era of swept wings and broad delta wings, Lockheed broke with convention by giving the F-104 tapered wings of a low aspect ratio that were remarkably small. Unlike most aircraft designs, the F-104's wing format was chosen solely for efficiency at supersonic speed, without any consideration for lift, maneuverability, or ease of handling at lower speeds. To compensate, the entire leading edges of the wings were designed to pivot downward to increase lift for take-off and landing. Lift was also augmented by ingenious trailing edge flaps that had high-pressure air vented from the engines below across their upper surfaces. With a thickness at the wing root of 4.2 inches, a great deal of design ingenuity was necessary to develop aileron and flap actuators small enough to fit inside them. The edges were so sharp that special covers had to be installed over them to prevent ground crewmen from injuring themselves. Another unusual feature of the F-104's wings that was not obvious from the outside was that they were not connected to each other by a continuous main spar, but by a frame encircling the fuselage. There were penalties to be paid for the starfighter's speed. The tiny, thin wings that endowed the F-104 with its high performance also gave it a blistering stall speed of 198 miles an hour. To help stop the starfighter, Lockheed gave it a powerful drag chute. It also had a tailhook, similar to those found on carrier-based fighters, but an unusual feature on a land-based fighter. Since the wings could accommodate neither fuel tanks nor landing gear, both had to share the limited space available inside the narrow fuselage. As a result, the F-104 was never to be noted for its endurance, even with extra fuel tanks fitted to the wingtips. The F-104's design also gave it a high wing loading, which rendered its maneuverability less than ideal, particularly at subsonic speeds. In the 1950s however, it was generally believed that high-G subsonic dogfighting would no longer be a decisive factor in the future air battles, which would be fought at high altitudes by supersonic fighter planes armed with guided missiles, aircraft such as the Starfighter, that supposition would be rudely contradicted in the coming decades over Vietnam, the Middle East, and in the Indian subcontinent. Lockheed test pilot Tony LeVier flew the prototype XF-104 for the first time on March 4, 1954. The airframe was ready before the J-79, the XF-104 attained a speed of Mach 1.79 on March 25, 1955, becoming the first fighter to exceed 1,000 miles an hour. The XF-104 was eventually succeeded by 17 service-test YF-104As, with J-79 engines. Kelly Johnson's faith in the starfighter concept was vindicated when the YF-104A became the first aircraft type to set both speed and altitude records. Major Howard Johnson climbed to an altitude of 91,249 feet on May 7, 1958, and four days later Captain Walter Irwin attained a speed of 1,404.19 miles an hour. The aircraft also demonstrated an incredible climb rate of more than 60,000 feet per minute. The Starfighter's altitude performance was so impressive that Lockheed later built three NF-104As, equipped with auxiliary rocket engines and reaction jet controls, like those on a spacecraft, for operation at altitudes so high that conventional controls were no longer effective. Apart from everything else, the F-104 was one of the most exciting looking aircraft in the world in the mid-1950s. The Starfighter combined unparalleled performance with an appearance that was so extraordinary beautiful and wholly original. The US Air Force ordered 155 production F-104As in 1955, a number that was raised to 722 in 1958. So many problems remain to be ironed out however, that the first 35 fighters were diverted to the flight test program. In seven years, 49 of the 153 that were eventually built were lost to accidents, a staggering 32%. 18 pilots were killed during the same period. In addition, operational experience with the F-104A was raising questions about its limited armament, range, maneuverability, and versatility. Lockheed responded to criticism of the F-104A with a more versatile fighter-bomber version. Designated F-104C, the improved starfighter's once pristine lines were cluttered up with external hard points for up to 4,000 pounds of bombs missiles and fuel tanks. F-104C's were used in Vietnam by the 435th, 436th and 476 squadrons of the 479th tactical fighter wing from 1965 to 1968. But Vietnam was not really a suitable venue for them. Since there was nothing for them to intercept, there was no opportunity for the Starfighter to be used to its best advantage. The F-104C also demonstrated that it was still as dangerous to its own pilots as the enemy was. The 435th Tactical Fighter Squadron lost five starfighters to enemy action in Vietnam, but lost another six in accidents. In 1958 West Germany, whose Luftwaffe had been resurrected two years earlier, was in the market for a supersonic multirole fighter. They wanted an aircraft able to perform air defense, reconnaissance, interdiction, close support, maritime strike, and even nuclear bombing missions. Despite the fact that the Starfighter had been originally designed as a specialized interceptor, Lockheed managed to adapt it to meet all the Germans' requirements as the F-104G. It incorporated a redesigned airframe, a more powerful version of the J-79 engine, a larger tail, an internal navigation system, improved radar, and five hard points for external stores. Over the course of the next two decades, it became one of the most widely used fighter types in the world. In NATO alone, starfighters served as the air forces of Canada, Norway, Denmark, West Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Turkey, and Greece. West Germany, the largest user, acquired more than 600 of them. The F-104G became, for all intents and purposes, the first Eurofighter. In addition, a further 238 F-104Gs were manufactured in Canada by Canada Air as CF-104s. A total of 1,585 F-104Gs and CF-104s were built, including two-seat conversion trainers. That was more than five times the number of Starfighters built for the U.S. Air Force. The last production version of the Starfighter was the F-104S, an all-weather interceptor developed by Italy in 1968. Air Italia produced 205 F-104Ss for the Italian Air Force, plus an additional 40 for the Turkish Air Force. The last F-104S was completed in 1979, a quarter of a century after the flight of the first Starfighter. Lockheed offered one final development of the F-104 in the late 1960s. Called the CL-1200 Lancer, it differed from the Starfighter in having a longer fuselage carrying more fuel, a larger shoulder-mounted wing and a conventional low-set tailplane. The Lancer came along too late to gain acceptance and never got beyond the mock-up stage. The F-104 was the product of a period when air combat was expected to be waged at ever higher speeds and altitudes. Whatever faults the aircraft had are directly traceable to that of the early 1950s philosophy. By the time the starfighter became operational, that trend had begun to reverse itself. Today, air combat is often carried on just above the ground. Considering the fact that it had originally been intended as a specialized interceptor of high-flying bombers, Lockheed did a remarkably good job at adapting the F-104 into a multi-role Eurofighter. The F-104 deserves a place in the pantheon of American aviation achievements as the first combat aircraft to fly at double the speed of sound. It also deserves recognition for the part it played in NATO's air defense during the Cold War and for its role in resurrecting the European aerospace industry. Kelly Johnson, in summarizing the F-104 in a paper released on June 18, 1957, precisely noted, it is very difficult to see where added high speed is worthwhile and it appears that the development of armament, radar and fire control systems is the most fruitful field for our research efforts over the next five years. Above all, it deserves to be remembered as the breathtaking missile with a man in it. The U-2s. We underran our contract on that and gave back the government over 20% of the first contract. It was a success. It was the first time when the skunk works went into production. Because of security and other reasons, we, for the first time, made more than two of anything, and we made the complete line of the U-2s and the other versions that have come from it.&quot; High-altitude strategic reconnaissance philosophy was first articulated during late 1952, when an Air Force major by the name of John Seaberg placed on papers ideas he had for achieving sustained flight at ultra-high altitudes. Seaberg had noted the new generation of turbojet engines could be mated to an aircraft with extremely efficient high aspect ratio wing and achieve cruising altitudes far in excess of any aircraft in the service. On May 18, 1954, some two weeks after returning from Washington, D.C., a new proposal for a high-altitude cruise aircraft from Lockheed's Preliminary Design Organization arrived on Seaberg's desk for review. Johnson's own insights into the beginnings of the aircraft are only thinly recounted in his U-2 log. December 1953. We started an investigation of wing area modifications and stripping procedures to modify the F-104 airplane to get the maximum possible altitude for reconnaissance purposes. Seberg and his fellow right-field engineers spent three weeks evaluating the Johnson proposal. In the early 1950s, the United States had a real requirement to overfly Russia to find out the status of their development of long-range missiles. There was no airplane in the United States or in the world that could safely overfly Russia at that time. Lockheed made an unsolicited proposal to Trevor Gardner, the Undersecretary for Research and Development for the Air Force, on a very specialized airplane. We promised to build within eight months 20 airplanes for $22 million, including spares, that would do the job required. The program was turned over to the CIA, who then chose Mr. Richard Dissel, an economist, to run the program. Richard Dissel became a very good engineer, and he not only was our director on the U2 program, but he also followed through with the development of the Mark III Blackbird. When I first met Kelly, I had been working for nearly a year for Allen Dulles. I joined Allen's organization early in 1954. Toward the end of November, I was summoned one afternoon into Allen's office. And I was told, with absolutely no prior warning or knowledge, that one day previously President Eisenhower had approved a project involving the development of an extremely high altitude aircraft to be used for surveillance and intelligence areas in Europe, Russia and elsewhere. We had, on the basis of Kelly's proposal, an almost impossible schedule to meet. It was almost impossible for Lockheed, but I can assure you that it was also an extremely tight schedule working within the bureaucracy. Given the temporary design number CL-282, it consisted of a slightly modified XF-104 fuselage and associated vertical and horizontal tail surfaces. Most noticeable, however, was the deletion of the XF-104's distinctive trapezoidal-shaped wings and their replacement by a high aspect ratio wing of extraordinary span. Designed into the latter were four integral fuel tanks completed by a fifth tank in the fuselage. Together, these provided a total fuel capacity of 925 gallons. After a thorough but rushed review, Seaberg and his staff rejected the CL-282. Johnson, after receiving word of the negative report would note, June 7, 1954, received a letter which turned down a proposal on the basis that it was too unusual, that it was a single-engine aircraft, and that they were already committed to the Martin program. When the Air Force informed Johnson of its decision to eliminate the CL-282 from contention, Johnson decided to pursue funding through other channels. Johnson's timing could not have been better. Numerous sources had begun to input data into the U.S. intelligence community, indicating the Soviet Union was moving ahead quickly with an extensive family of liquid-fueled nuclear warhead-equipped intercontinental ballistic missiles. On November 19, 1954, Johnson would make the following log entry. I met with the government advisory board. They wanted to be reassured that our proposal was technically feasible. They believed my story that we could make such an airplane in the time mentioned and also asked why Lockheed seemed to be the only one who could do this job. General Putt answered graciously that we had proven it three times. As it turned out, this was a momentous decision. In one master stroke, Johnson, with Gross's blessing, had transformed the virtually non-existent Skunk Works into not only a full-scale advanced design and engineering team, but a production facility as well. Secrecy had mandated the change. Eisenhower had agreed that funding and direction of the project, to be code-named Aquatone, would be through the offices of the CIA rather than the Air Force, with Richard Bissell to direct it. Earlier on November 9, 1954, Trevor Gardner had visited with Lockheed president Robert Gross and Johnson at Lockheed's Burbank facility. Following a review of the full-scale U-2 mock-up, Gardner gave an official confirmation of project approval and a directive to go ahead with the prototype construction. Johnson promised that the first aquatone aircraft be in the air no less than eight months after the first metal was cut. On December 10th, the design team was frozen, and on December 20th, Johnson noted in his log, working like mad on airplane, initial tunnels have successful. Among the unique weight related accomplishments of the design program were the following, wing weight was kept to an almost unbelievable 4 pounds per square foot. The landing gear was a bicycle arrangement with the heaviest component consisting of a single main strut. The tail assembly was attached at the center fuselage by only three bolts. The side opening canopy was manually operated. The control system was unboosted, hydraulically actuated systems were kept to a minimum, there was no cockpit pressurization, and there was no ejection seat. On the morning of August 4, 1955, Johnson, Ernie Joiner, Glenn Fulkerson, Bob Murphy and several other Skunk Works personnel watched as LeVier climbed into Article 341 in preparation for its first real flight. Given the call sign Angel 1, the aircraft was to be chased by a company-operated C-47, with Johnson and test pilot Bob Mathieu as observers. Customers also had been brought in from Washington, D.C., as they arrived at the test location by transport just prior to LeVier's takeoff. LeVier recalls the first takeoff and climb, taking place at 3.55 p.m. It went perfectly and he encountered no problems or difficulties during the ascent. Leveling at 8,000 feet, he spent 45 minutes cycling the landing gear, deploying and retracting the flaps, exploring stability and control characteristics, checking engine temperatures and exhaust pressure ratios, and practicing power-off stalls. There were no malfunctions of any kind. LeVier completed a total of 20 flights in the Angel before being transferred back to the F-104 and other Lockheed flight test programs on September 1. Additionally, LeVier became the first pilot to take the aircraft to 50,000 feet. The latter required the use of a partial pressure suit. This had forced Leviere to go through the Air Force high altitude training program. When he completed the curriculum at the age of 42, he was at the time the oldest pilot to do so. During his initial flight test period, the Air Force, at Johnson's recommendation, assigned the innocuous U-2 designator to the aircraft as its formal military alias. The flight test program during the remaining months of 1955 progressed smoothly. December 1 marked the U-2's first year anniversary which Johnson duly noted. ''We have built four flying airplanes, have the ninth airplane in the jig, and have flown over our design altitude any number of times. We have trained the crews, and we are developing the Bakersfield factory... It's been quite a year.'' On June 19, 1956, CIA pilot Karl Overstreet departed Weisbaden on the first operational flight. After overflying Warsaw, Poland, and returning via Berlin and Potsdam, he landed without incident and delivered to the U.S. intelligence community the first ever surreptitiously taken U-2 photos. The results were spectacular. The quality of the imagery generated by the Type B folded optics camera was everything the CIA had hoped for. Resolution, contrast and quality were far beyond anything previously seen. Baker, of Harvard University and an astronomer by training, was one of the leading lens designers in the U.S. during the 1940s and 50s. By now, Soviet diplomatic circles were impacted. The U-2 flights had been tracked with little difficulty by Russian radar, and the Soviet government was embarrassed by the ease with which the aircraft were able to penetrate Russian airspace, the military repercussions were great, and then a communique dated July 10, 1956, the Soviet ambassador to the U.S. in Washington was asked to deliver a formal protest to the U.S. government and request that the overflights cease. In responding, U.S. diplomats denied that any military aircraft had been involved in such activity. This was, of course, true, as the CIA was a civilian and not military agency. During 1958, the Soviets began to gather momentum in their efforts to develop an effective U-2 countermeasure. The SA-2, an improved surface-to-air missile eventually codenamed Guideline by the West and equipped with a warhead that had a kill pattern with a diameter of about 400 feet, was pushed into service and for the first time, threatened the U-2's high-altitude dominance. Though the estimated 2% probability of a kill was low, for the first time the U-2 was forced into taking the new SA-2 launch sites into consideration. By the end of its third year of operation, the U-2's intelligence-gathering ability had become the single most important tool in the entire U.S. intelligence community arsenal. CIA U-2 operations were not confined to the Soviet Union during this period. During late September of 1956, Gary Powers flew across the eastern Mediterranean and gathered intelligence data on the positions of British and French warships as they prepared to aid the forthcoming Israeli invasion of Egypt. Further flights followed during the Suez Crisis and later during crises involving Syria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon and Yemen, all to gather intelligence data on military activities and the eternal warring between those two various Mideastern countries. Additionally, U-2 overflights of the Chekyang and Kangxi provinces in China began on December 6, 1958. On May 1, 1960, the U-2 was thrust into public spotlight when one flown by Francis Gary Powers was shot down by Sverdlovsk by a surface-to-air missile. Captured, Powers became the center of the resulting U-2 incident which embarrassed Eisenhower and effectively ended a summit meeting in Paris. The incident led to an acceleration of spy satellite technology. Remaining a key strategic asset, U-2 overflights in Cuba in 1962 provided the photographic evidence that precipitated the Cuban Missile Crisis. On October 22, 1962, President Kennedy made his now famous speech revealing publicity that Cuba had acquired an extensive offensive weapons capability including MRBMs and IRBMs. In an unquestionably threatening tone, Kennedy declared that any Cuban missile launch would be regarded as an attack by the Soviet Union on the US, and that a massive retaliatory action would result. It shall be the policy of this nation to regard any nuclear missile launched from Cuba against any nation in the Western Hemisphere as an attack by the Soviet Union on the United States, requiring a full retaliatory response upon the Soviet Union. During the crisis, a U-2 flown by Major Rudolph Anderson Jr. was shot down by Cuban air defenses. On October 26, communications with the Soviets indicated that they would begin dismantling the Cuban missile sites. On October 28, this was confirmed. The Cuban missile crisis, due in no small part to the photographic intelligence provided by the U-2 surveillance program, had come to an end. Frequent Cuban overflights continued. They were still in progress when President Kennedy remarking, I must say, gentlemen, that you take excellent pictures. As surface-to-air missile technology improved, efforts were made to improve the aircraft and reduce its radar cross-section. This proved unsuccessful, and work began on a new aircraft for conducting overflights of the Soviet Union. In the early 1960s, engineers also worked to develop aircraft carrier-capable variants, U-2G, to extend its range and flexibility. During the Vietnam War, U-2s were used for high-altitude reconnaissance missions. In 1967, the aircraft was dramatically improved with the introduction of the U-2R. Approximately 40% larger than the original, the U-2R featured underwing pods and an improved range. The phasing in of the U-2R over Vietnam led to the phasing out of the remaining Air Force U-2Cs. The last of the original U-2Rs was delivered from the Skunk Works Palmdale facility during December of 1968. As Johnson would note in the log, we are rapidly running out of work on this program. This was joined in 1981 by a tactical reconnaissance version designated TR-1A. The introduction of this model restarted production of the aircraft to meet the USAF's needs. The U-2R and TR-1 were critical contributors to the Desert Shield and Desert Storm operations. They flew with a variety of sensors for high-speed resolution photography, radar mapping, and low-light observations. Intelligence agencies, field commanders, the Pentagon, and even the President used this information to identify military targets, estimate enemy troop strengths, and make battle damage assessments. In the early 1990s, the U-2R fleet was upgraded to the U-2S standard which included improved engines. A production-configured re-engined U-2R completed its qualification phase of flight test at Palmdale during late 1993. Three U-2Rs incorporating the engine and other upgrades were officially delivered to the Air Force from Palmdale to Beale Air Force Base, California on October 28, 1994. The upgraded aircraft were officially designated U-2S in the single-seat configuration and U-2ST in the two-seat trainer configuration. A total of 37 U-2Rs will be brought up to the new standard by the time the retrofit program ends during 1998. NASA's ER-2s will also be upgraded starting in 1996. Despite its advanced age, the U-2 remains in service due to its ability to perform direct flights to reconnaissance targets in short notice. Though there were efforts to retire the aircraft in 2006, it avoided this fate due to lack of an aircraft with similar capabilities. The Jetstar made two of them. They were a success as far as the prototypes went. When it was handed over to our Georgia division, here is a case where it wasn't handed over good. It was almost completely redesigned, went to four engines instead of two. The cost almost killed us in the end. But as far as the prototype part of the program goes, it went well. During the latter part of 1955, it became apparent to the Air Force that its aging and somewhat electric utility transport and twin-engine training aircraft fleet was in need of a replacement with contemporary hardware. Many of the aircraft then in use for these missions could trace their origins back to the pre-World War II period. All were powered by reciprocating engines. Compounding the Air Force's problem was a post-Korean War funding shortfall that severely restricted new aircraft acquisitions. Nevertheless, the service elected to move ahead with long-term plans under the aegis of its UTX and UCX specifications. In order to do this, it required that the companies submitting their proposals also would be willing to fund their respective prototypes using their own money. Concurrent with its August 1st, 1956 request for proposals, the Air Force made it understood that, if funding constraints were lifted, it would order up to 300 of the winning design. Doubly enticing for manufacturers was the prospect of corporate and commercial sales beyond those to the military. Kelly Johnson later would note, With the military as a ready prospect for such a sizable order, we pulled out all stoppers, we assembled our technical teams, studied the requirements, drew up plans, designed and built. While the new Model CL-329 was conceived, engineered, and flown in less than eight months, Lockheed had in fact spent some $7 million during the preceding 13 years studying large jet-powered transport aircraft that involved technology advances directly applicable to its forthcoming utility and training aircraft. During 1956, the Air Force informed industry there was a military requirement for a small jet transport to meet its UCX and UTX specifications. Johnson and his Skunk Works team, with corporate approval, immediately initiated preliminary design studies based on a small-scale L-193 variant. Accordingly, Johnson decided that in order to get the CL-329 into the air at the earliest possible date, it would be necessary to power it with the British built 4,850-pound thrust Bristol Orpheus 1-5th turbojets. On the morning of Wednesday, September 4th, 1957, the first Jet Star taxied out onto the Edwards Air Force Base Dry Lake bed. At 8.58 a.m., the Jetstar became airborne for the first time. It had met Johnson's September 4th first flight deadline and had beaten by two minutes the predicted 9 a.m. departure time. Air Force Phase II testing was completed during February of 1958 using the first aircraft, and it was determined that the Jetstar had excellent flight and performance characteristics. On June 17, 1958, the first Jetstar embarked on a promotional trip to demonstrate its transcontinental range and high cruising speeds. Unfortunately, though the demonstration tour proved a success, the national recession dictated the Air Force delay its plans to acquire the aircraft for operational service. As a result of the Air Force's intransigence concerning four engines versus two during January of 1959, Pratt &amp; Whitney JT-12A turbojets were selected to power the Jetstar and its production configuration. On October 31st, 1958, the Jetstar was picked by the Air Force over North American's NA-246 submission to meet the requirements of the UTX specification, which Lockheed had not originally planned to accommodate. During October, the Air Force announced its plan to acquire the Lockheed aircraft under the designation T-40A. Shortly afterwards, however, it withdrew the initial decision and awarded the contract to North American for what became the T-39A Sabre Liner. Eventually, 211 trainer and light transport Sabre Liners would be acquired by the Air Force and Navy, while Lockheed's Jet Stars starved for orders. It was not until June of 1960 that an initial Air Force order for five Jet Stars finally arrived. The first of these, by now referred to as the C-140A by the Air Force, was delivered during April of 1961. By January of 1962, Lockheed, having spent $100 million on the Jetstar program, was facing an $80 million loss. This was attributable to the Air Force's initial indications it would buy some 300 aircraft, when in fact, by mid-January of 1962, it had bought only 16. When Jetstar production ended during 1980, with the delivery of the 204th and last aircraft to the Iraqi government, Lockheed had lost a considerable quantity of money, but had learned some very valuable business lessons. The aircraft, regardless of its financial status, proved to be a successful corporate transport. Several versions eventually were built by Lockheed, including the C-140A, the C-140B, and the VC-140B for the military, and the Jetstar 6, the Jetstar 8, and the Jetstar 2 for the corporate market. Then came a number of Mach 3 types. The first one which you'd be familiar with would be the YF-12A. Its gross weight is still secret, but the cost performance was excellent. It was a success. Didn't produce any because there wasn't any threat. Not until the backfire bomber showed up. Of the many aircraft whose origins can be traced back to the Lockheed's renowned skunk works, none is more significant than the A-12. More than any other aircraft, this titanium masterpiece represented the apex of aeronautical engineering in its day, not only at Lockheed, but at every significant aerospace engineering bureau around the world. Today, over three decades after its first flight, it remains the aircraft by which all others are judged. Project Suntan had given Kelly Johnson and the Lockheed Advanced Development Team engineers a significant opportunity to explore the attributes of hydrogen propulsion systems. Equally as important, however, Suntan also permitted the exploration of advanced airframes optimized for the first time to cruise at speeds well in excess of Mach 3. Soon after the U-2's first flight during 1955, Richard Bissell moved quickly to organize the research and development of follow-on systems, including what was to become the A-12. New studies, conducted under the codename GUSTO, were initiated exploring the design and possible development of a totally new subsonic reconnaissance platform that would be designed from the start to incorporate the lowest RCS obtainable. The resulting analysis concluded that supersonic speeds coupled with the use of radar attenuating materials and radar attenuating design, greatly reduced the chances of radar detection, though it did not reduce it to zero. Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and the Convair Division of General Dynamics during the fall of 1957 were to respond to a general operation requirement calling for a high-speed, high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft, but to do so without a formal contract or government funding. Johnson spent virtually every available minute working on the Advanced Aircraft Program, which he sometimes jokingly referred to as the U-3. Project Gusteau was now terminated, and a new codename, Oxcart, was assigned. Ben Rich would note that the A-12 was, comprised of 85% titanium and 15% composite materials. Learning to work with titanium proved to be a major undertaking. The myriad breakthroughs pioneered by Skunk Works' manufacturing team in conquering this metal remain one of the great and unheralded successes of the Most Incredible Program. Just a great deal of work with the many problems we're trying to get this airplane built. Everywhere you turn there is a tremendous problem requiring invention, new systems, and money,&quot; said Johnson. An official first flight, with appropriate government representatives on hand, now was made on April 30. Nearly a year behind schedule, the aircraft became airborne for the first time, with Lew Schalk at the controls. The aircraft lifted off at 170 knots. The landing gear was retracted and climb was made to 30,000 feet. A top speed of 340 knots was reached during the flight which lasted for 59 minutes. Following an uneventful landing, Schalke presented satisfaction with the aircraft's stability and the way it handled. On the second flight, on May 4, the A-12 went supersonic for the first time, reaching Mach 1.1. Problems were minimal, and Johnson began to feel confident that the flight test program would progress rapidly, possibly recovering some of the time that had been lost in the drawn-out manufacturing process. The Cuban Missile Crisis now reinvigorated the program. The loss of Major Rudolph Anderson's U-2 over Cuba on October 27th, underscored the increasing vulnerability of this subsonic platform when operating in denied airspace, and this was not lost on intelligence community offices involved with the overflight program. Successful execution of Oxcart now became a matter of highest national priority. At the end of 1962, two A-12s were in flight test, one powered by J-75s and the other powered by one J-75 and one J-58. A speed of Mach 2.16 and an altitude of 60,000 feet had been achieved. Flight test progress was still slow and the engine delays and thrust deficiencies remained a major concern. Meanwhile, by the end of 1963, the CIA's A-12 flight test program had resulted in 573 flights totaling 765 hours. Nine aircraft were on hand at the test location. As noted earlier, during July, Mach 3 had been reached for the first time, and during November, design speed Mach 3.2 had been reached at an altitude of 78,000 feet. It should be noted that at this point on July 24, 1964, President Johnson made the first official announcement concerning the forthcoming Lockheed SR-71, while the A-12 situation vacillated back and forth between an operational commitment and a continued wait-and-see, flight testing of the YF-12A had continued. During July of 1966, Johnson wrote in the log, we were directed to give up further flying of the YF-12As, although we had proposed shooting down a drone at Holloman to get the effect of ground clutter for low-altitude targets. The following August 5, he wrote, we have laid off half of our test crew of the YF-12A and are maintaining only people to store the airplane or send it to Burbank. We are very near the end of this program.&quot; As late as January 26, 1967, Johnson made the following comments in the A-12 log. We jointly agreed there would be just one round and not two. That seems to have been a very accurate evaluation, as it seems that 30 SR-71s give us enough overflight reconnaissance capability and we don't need the additional 10 A-12 aircraft.&quot; On January 5, 1968, an official wire, closing down the F-12B, was received from the Air Force. The Y-F-12A program would be formally ended on February 1. In a final disheartening move, the Air Force, on February 5, sent Johnson a letter instructing Lockheed to destroy the A-12 F-12 tooling. The final A-12 flight took place on June 21, 1968, when the last remaining aircraft, No. 131, was ferried from the test location to Palmdale by CIA pilot Frank Murray and placed in storage. It would remain there for the following two decades. On June 24th, Johnson wrote, &quot;...while the intelligence community in Washington wanted very much to keep the A-12 program going, the present financial situation cannot stand the strain. It's a bleak end for a program that has been overall as successful as this. In summary, the A-12 program lasted just over ten years from its inception during 1957 through its termination during 1968. The Skunk Works produced 15 A-12s and 3 YF-12As. Five A-12s and two YF-12As were lost in accidents, two pilots were killed, and at least six had narrow escapes. In addition, two F-101 chase aircraft were lost with their Air Force pilots during the A-12 test program. The main objective of the program, to create a reconnaissance aircraft of unprecedented speed, range and altitude, was triumphantly achieved. It may well be, however, that the most important aspects of the effort lay in its by-products, the notable advances in aerodynamics, engine performance, cameras, electronic countermeasures, pilot life support systems and the arcane art of milling, machining and shaping titanium. Altogether, it was a pioneering accomplishment almost certainly never to be repeated in the history of aviation. The YF-12A developed into the SR-71 and in that case, again, the cost performance was excellent as we gave back to the government well over 19 million dollars on the contract and we consider it to be a success. On December 6, 1962, Kelly Johnson noted in his log, working on R-12 universal airplane, using company work order, can get no decision on any military version of the aircraft, but there does seem to be considerable interest in it. Johnson's rationale for this design was based on the premise that if he produced a single platform capable of performing a reconnaissance, recon strike or intercept role depending on customer needs, it would greatly simplify production, and, it eliminates the necessity of the Air Force deciding which version they want to buy.&quot; Seven days later, the Skunk Works was visited by several SAC personnel, and Johnson logged that, they wanted to see what kind of a reconnaissance version would meet SAC's needs. We prepared our proposal for a 140,000-pound reconnaissance airplane capable of carrying 4,300 pounds of reconnaissance gear, and gave it to Colonel Templeton with a forwarding letter. By March 18, 1964, R-12 construction was moving along with considerable rapidity, but contract negotiations had yet to be concluded with the Air Force. Johnson noted in the log, spent several days on the first R-12s. It is extremely difficult to get a reasonable profit for what we do and no credit is given for the fact that we operate more cheaply than others. All activity relating to the R-12 and RS-12 configurations had, of course, been kept completely under wraps in the skunkworks and within two confines of the involved Air Force and CIA offices. On July 24, 1964 however, President Johnson made his memorable announcement revealing to the world the existence of Lockheed's Mach 3 capable reconnaissance aircraft. I would like to announce the successful development of a major new strategic manned aircraft system, which will be employed by the Strategic Air Command. This system employs the new SR-71 aircraft and provides a long-range advanced strategic reconnaissance plane for military use, capable of worldwide reconnaissance for military operations. The Joint Chiefs of Staff when reviewing the RS-70, emphasized the importance of the strategic reconnaissance mission. The SR-71 aircraft reconnaissance system is the most advanced in the world. The aircraft will fly at more than three times the speed of sound, it will operate at altitudes in excess of 80,000 feet. It will use the most advanced observation equipment of all kinds in the world. The aircraft will provide the strategic forces of the United States with an outstanding long-range reconnaissance capability.&quot; In August 1964, Kelly Johnson phoned Bob Murphy and asked him if he wanted to work on the new reconnaissance aircraft. At the time, Murphy was a superintendent in charge of D-21 drone production. He accepted the offer and was immediately briefed by Johnson, who said, I want you to go to Palmdale and get Site 2 away from Rockwell. Hire the people you need. The pieces for the aircraft will be up with you on November 1st, and I want her flying before Christmas. The SR-71 was 107 feet 5 inches long, and had a wingspan of 55 feet 7 inches and a wing area of 1,605 square feet. It stood 18 feet 6 inches high to the top of the rudders and its gross weight varied from 135,000 pounds to over 140,000. The effect of thermodynamic heating brought about by the aircraft's extreme operating envelope was a major factor affecting its construction. Fully 93% of the airframe was built from titanium while the remaining 7% consisted of laminates of phenylsilane, silicone asbestos, and fiberglass to help reduce the aircraft's RCS. The SR-71's forward fuselage has a circular cross section and is of semi-monocoque construction. It housed the pilot and a reconnaissance systems operator, RSO, seated in tandem, the front undercarriage, fuel cells, and the air refueling receptacle. The delta wing features two prominent engine nacelles, each mounted at mid-semi span and blended into the wings to further reduce RCS. Two rudders mounted on top of each nacelle and canted inboard 15 degrees from the vertical also reduced the aircraft's radial signature. A large aft moving spike extends forward from each engine nacelle, which helped to regulate mass airflow to the two Pratt &amp; Whitney J58 engines. The maximum fuel load weight for the SR-71 was 80,280 pounds, and it was carried in six fuel tanks. Built to cruise an afterburner at Mach 3.2 and at altitudes in excess of 80,000 feet, the aircraft encountered extremely high airframe temperatures generated by thermodynamic heating. This, coupled with the diverse operating envelope of its Pratt &amp; Whitney J58 engines, required the development of a special fuel which served not only as a source of propulsive energy, but also as a hydraulic fluid optimized in the engine hydraulic system to activate the main and afterburner fuel nozzles. On the ground, the aircraft is only half filled with fuel, and then pressurized using LN2 to 1.5 psi above ambient pressure. Shortly after takeoff the SR-71 would rendezvous with a tanker and get topped off. The air inlet control system was a major innovation used to exponentially increase the speed performance of all Kelly-Johnson's so-called Blackbirds. At Mach 1.4, the outlet doors located in the exterior of the engine nacelle began to modulate automatically in order to obtain a pre-range ratio between dynamic pressure outside the inlet throat and static duct pressure inside the inlet cowl. At 30,000 feet, the inlet spikes unlocked and, at Mach 1.6, began moving towards the rear, achieving their fully aft position at Mach 3.2 design cruise speed. Design Cruise Speed. Cruising covertly during operational missions at speeds in excess of a mile every two seconds, it was essential that the SR-71's navigation system was both highly accurate and non-reliant upon external navigation aids to ensure the aircraft were made on the black line. At the heart of successful missions accomplishment, therefore, was the Neutronics Astro-Internal Navigation System, or ANS, designated NAS-142V2. Originally designed for the Douglas Skybolt air-to-surface ballistic missile, which was cancelled in 1963, it proved to be a perfect solution for navigating the SR-71 after a few modifications and updates. The system combined data from the internal navigation platform with a timed datum accurate to within 5 milliseconds. Position updating was achieved automatically by astrotracking at any one time 6 of the 52 most prominently visible stars by day or night, in effect, using nature as a global positioning system long before GPS was developed. When the autopilot was coupled to the ANS via the AutoNav function, the SR-71 could be flown automatically, adhering precisely to a predetermined flight path that was loaded pre-flight into the ANS's computer memory. To facilitate maximum mission flexibility, the SR-71 featured three interchangeable nose sections housing either a high-resolution side-looking radar used for ground mapping and referred to as CAPRE standing for Capability Reconnaissance Radar, an advanced synthetic aperture radar system, or so-called glass nose housing a palletized optical bar camera. The SR-71 did not carry any form of defensive weaponry save that which was generated electronically. ECM was and remains a highly sensitive area, where fast-moving technological advances meant that the SR-71's defensive electronic systems required continual updating throughout its operational life. Within the SR-71's cockpit, pressurization was allowed to fall steadily as the aircraft climbed from sea level to 8,000 feet, whereupon it remained constant to 25,000 feet. This ensured that the fuselage wasn't subjected to unduly high pressure gradients, which in turn meant that the aircraft's structural weight would be reduced. However, if pressurization was lost or the crew needed to eject, survival was dependent upon each of them wearing a full pressure suit. This requirement was enforced by Air Force Regulation 60-16, which stipulated that full pressure suits must be worn when flying above 50,000 feet. In 1977, the company developed the next generation of pressure suits. Designated the S1030 series and featured a high level of commonality between the U2 and SR71 programs. Colored in old gold, the suit incorporated state-of-the-art textiles and was more durable and comfortable. Its four principal layers consisted of outer coverall of Nomex that was durable, tear and fire resistant. The helmet, designated GN-121394, was attached to the suit via a rollerball ring to enable the head to be turned. Oxygen was supplied to the crew members through holes situated around the helmet face seal. An airtight port located on the lower right side of the helmet enabled crew members to drink water via straw to ensure they remained hydrated, and a level of sustenance was also available in the form of liquidized food dispensed from a tube. Gloves completed the pressure seal and were attached via wrist hinges. Boots featured heel retraction strips that were connected by a cable to the ejection seat on entry to the cockpit. The complete pressure suit system cost about a hundred and thirty thousand dollars a copy. Crews were issued with two and they lasted ten to twelve years, undergoing a complete stripped-down overhaul every five years and a thorough inspection every ninety days or 150 hours. December 22nd, the first SR-71, with Skunk Works test pilot Bob Gillen at the controls, took to the air for the first time. Departing from Lockheed's Air Force Plant 42 Site Facility 2 at Palmdale, it remained airborne for just over an hour and reached a speed in excess of 1,000 miles an hour, which, Johnson noted, is some kind of a record for a first flight. Though the SR-71's first flight had been completed with few difficulties, ongoing flight testing of the aircraft had not been comparably problem-free. The SR-71 flight test program, conducted at Palmdale, like that of its A-12 predecessor, was not without its accidents. The first, involving the third SR-71A, occurred on January 25, 1966, when Skunk Works pilot Bill Weaver miraculously escaped without losing his ejection seat. His backsealer, Jim Zweier, was not so lucky and was killed. At the time of the accident, the aircraft was in a right turn, and then right inlet forward bypass doors were being controlled manually by Weaver. Though SR-71s finally were beginning to enter the Operational Air Force inventory, the miscellaneous subsystem problems remained difficult to overcome. Tank sealing and range deficiencies continued to plague the aircraft, including those considered operational at Beale Air Force Base, and corrective action was painfully slow in overcoming them. By late 1967, all 31 SR-71s on order from Lockheed had been completed and delivered. By late September of 1969, the SR-71 was well on its way to a long illustrious operational career. SAC already had flown well over 100 hot missions out of Kadena. NASA, for the first time, formally inquired into having an SR-71 for test purposes on December 29, 1970, when a query was received by the Skunk Works concerning possible use of the aircraft to launch test-scale models of the forthcoming space shuttle. On July 28, 1971, Johnson noted in a log. Nothing new on the SR-71 operation. SAC made a ten-hour flight a short time ago on which about half the time was over Mach 3 and 80,000 feet. They flew 10,000 miles. The Vietnam War had successfully justified the SR-71's existence from the time of its operational debut during 1968 through 1973. Some 600 missions had been logged during the course of Vietnam operations, and the aircraft had logged an enviable record of dependability and mission success. Temporary deployment to forward operating locations worldwide were undertaken with considerable alacrity and during the course of its service career, the aircraft overflew almost every major political and military significant hotspot in the world, gathering intelligence data of inestimable political and military value. The previously mentioned YF-12A speed and altitude records were eclipsed by the SR-71A during a series of Federation Aeronautic International monitored flights during 1976. As of writing this, all of these records still stand, including the world's absolute speed and sustained altitude records. During the late 1980s, as major international political and economic changes began to manifest themselves throughout the world, the U.S. intelligence community began to reassess priorities and in particular the way it was going to spend its limited financial resources. Virtually every program including the SR-71 was reviewed with the intent of determining its long-term viability and in particular its simple cost-effectiveness. As a result of this review and in light of advances in other sensor system programs, on October 1st, 1989, all SR-71 activities, with the exception of crew proficiency training and associated training flights were suspended while the Air Force awaited release of the 1990 fiscal year budget. When revealed several weeks later, funding for the SR-71 program had been eliminated. Accordingly, all Air Force SR-71 operations were terminated officially on November 22nd. Good evening. Recent budgetary cuts for the Air Force have ended funding for the SR-71 reconnaissance aircraft program, local civilian and military personnel had the opportunity to view the final functional check flight of the SR-71 as it prepared to return to the United States. Rolling down Kadena's runway for one of the last times, the SR-71, nicknamed the Habu, performed a functional check flight in preparation for its last trip to the United States and into the pages of history. The atmosphere was charged with excitement as the flight crew, Major Jim Greenwood and Captain Steve Zviniak were assisted into 45 pounds of pressure suit. The physiological support technicians then conducted pressure tests on each suit and again performed these tests in the aircraft during pre-flight. The extra tests help ensure the suits will work in the event the pilots need to eject. The suits allow ejection at altitudes above 80,000 feet at speeds of Mach 3. After all pre-flight checks were done, the engines were started and the Habu came to life and soared into the skies of Okinawa for one of the last times. From Kadena Air Base, I'm Airman Rob Ivey. To build Have Blue we needed 10 million dollars. One can't imagine what goes through the mind when you have to ask the board of directors directors to invest $10 million at a time when the corporation was considering declaring bankruptcy. That $10 million investment brought the company several billion dollars of sales and a reputation of technical superiority and stealth technology. The advantages of low observables or stealth technology have been a military matter of considerable interest for decades, applicable not only to aircraft but to all other forms of military equipment as well. Attempts to camouflage or reduce the visibility of hardware and personnel had been ongoing since the beginning of recorded military history. During World War II, the application of camouflage paint patterns was studied with considerable intensity. Scientifically conducted research helped generate patterns that genuinely reduced an aircraft's visibility both in the air and on the ground. Polished aluminum, for instance, was criticized for its notable ability to reflect sunlight and increase the detection distance of a target aircraft. Dull, non-glare matte type paints eliminated this problem, but not without increased expense of some cost and performance. The exigencies of war curtailed extensive research into the development of an airworthy, non-radar reflective structural material, but some attempts were nevertheless made. The Germans in particular placed emphasis on lowering the radar return of select aircraft, including the notable Horton HO-229. This extremely advanced all-wing jet fighter, built primarily of wood over a steel tube load-bearing structure, in some production models was to have utilized a wood sandwich ply with a core material of granulated charcoal. Presumed to have absorbed radar energy, the charcoal was calculated to reduce the aircraft's radar return by a not insignificant margin. The war ended before the technology could be fully exploited. Countermeasures were slow to develop initially, with a little focus on reducing radar visibility or countering radar energy during the 1950s and 1960s. It wasn't until the Vietnam War that effective electronic countermeasures were pursued. The threat of radar-guided missiles required a reassessment of technology leading to the development of ECM pods and shaft dispensers. Lockheed gained experience in anti-radar features through programs like the U-2, A-12 and SR-71. In 1974, DARPA requested studies for a low-observable fighter, excluding Lockheed, but they were eventually included through the Skunk Works efforts. Lockheed refined external shipping techniques using ECHO-1, a computer program predicting radar cross-section based on mathematical formulas. They employed faceting, creating a three-dimensional aircraft from flat panels to reduce RCS. Validation testing was conducted with a model called the Hopeless Diamond, demonstrating lower RCS than previous designs. In August of 1975, Lockheed, along with Boeing and Northrop, received invitations from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency to participate in a highly competitive project known as the Experimental Stealth Testbed. The objective of this project was to develop and test an innovative aircraft design with exceptional low observability characteristics. After a thorough evaluation process, Lockheed was selected in April 1976 to proceed with the detailed design, development and testing of the aircraft, which he named the Have Blue. A single-seat subsonic aircraft featured a distinctive design aimed at achieving both high maneuverability and low observability. A significant feature of the aircraft was the inclusion of a large two-piston flap known as the platypus, which automatically deflected downward when the angle of attack exceeded 12 degrees, enhancing the nose down pitch control. The initial engine runs were accomplished on the first HabBlue on November 4, 1977, at Lockheed's Burbank facility. In order to maintain security, the aircraft was parked between two semi-tractor trailers over which a camouflage net had been installed. On December 1, 1977, with Lockheed test pilot Bill Park at the controls, Have Blue lifted into the air. A new era in military aviation had just begun. Only twenty months had passed since the contract award. As previously noted, the primary objective of the test program was to demonstrate VLO technology. Towards this end, Have Blue 1001 would demonstrate load-slash-flutter performance handling qualities and stability control. Have Blue 1002 was designated as the PCS test vehicle. Have Blue 1001 accomplished 36 flights over the next five months and successfully expanded the flight envelope sufficiently to allow the RCS testing to be performed. Have Blue 1002 joined the program during July 1978 and flew for the first time on July 20th with Air Force pilot Norman Ken Dyson at the controls. This aircraft differed from the Hablue 1001 in that it possessed a real airspeed system and did not have a drag chute installed. It also incorporated nose wheel steering to improve ground handling and was adorned with all the coatings and materials required to perform its intended task. Following some airspeed calibration flights, the aircraft accomplished 52 flights during the next 12 months, and completed the low observable testing. The final phase of testing in a simulated integrated air defense environment was completed during July of 1979. The aircraft demonstrated its low observable capabilities against ground and airborne systems during these tests. Its low acoustic signature was also verified. The Have Blue program was a low-cost demonstration of a radically new concept in VLO aircraft design. Have Blue program accomplishments included from a technical standpoint, lowest RCS aircraft in the world by several orders of magnitude, VLO infrared signature, VLO visual signatures, VLO acoustic signature, and confirmation of complex aerodynamics. In conclusion, it was determined VLO tactical and strategic aircraft could be designed, produced, and operated. I always felt it would perform very well, but I never expected it to perform as well as it did. We had not involved the airplane operationally, and therefore the operators didn't know how to use the airplane. It's like having a new tool. I was worried we hadn't operated it enough. The advantages of very low observables or stealth technology, once successfully demonstrated by Lockheed's HAP Blue prototypes, quickly led to a full-scale engineering development contract award from the Air Force on November 16, 1978. The fixed price production contract was signed 13 months later. It called for five full-scale development and 15 production models of a single-seat subsonic attack aircraft to be officially designated F-117A. Under program manager Norm Nelson, engineering on the new aircraft proceeded at a rapid pace, utilizing the database that had been developed under Have Blue. The resulting unusual shape of the F-117 is the end product of low observables goals set for the aircraft at the program's beginning. Not surprisingly, it provided the aerodynamic and stability and control engineers with a significant challenge. The F-117A incorporates a variety of design features to significantly reduce aircraft signature. There are seven different types of observable signatures of concern. Radar, infrared, visual, contrails, engine smoke, acoustics, and electromagnetic emissions. Since the F-117A was a departure from normal aerodynamic design, a significant effort was made to reduce development risk by using several proven systems from existing aircraft. Some examples of this are the General Electric F-404 turbofan engine used in the McDonnell Douglas F-A-18 fighter, cockpit components from the General Dynamics F-16 and the McDonnell Douglas F-A-18 navigation and attack systems, computers and electronics, off-the-shelf weapons, and modified fly-by-wire F-16 flight control system. All aircraft designs are a compromise in one form or another, with the primary mission objective dominating these characteristics. The primary mission of the F-117A is to penetrate enemy airspace, destroy high-value targets, and survive. Since low observability or stealth was the primary goal, it established the external configuration and in particular the sweep angles of the wings and tail. One of the larger challenges was to provide as much sweep as possible and still have sufficient aspect ratio for the needed lift over drag to achieve the required range. Another major challenge was to provide adequate control to achieve the desired maneuverability within a reasonable angle of attack range for an unstable aircraft in both pitch and yaw. The resulting control configuration was not conductive to low take-off and landing speeds. The full-span 11s could not be dropped for landing without leading edge devices or another means of pitch control. The solution was to use drag chute for landing and accept a longer take-off roll. The brake system capacity was subsequently improved reducing reliance on the drag chute. Another low observability design consideration was to provide very sharp leading edges. This is good for a supersonic airfoil, but not optimum for a subsonic aircraft. The Air Force was anxious for a new aircraft, having temporarily lost its new Boeing B-1 bomber to government cutbacks. Naturally, speculation in the aviation press centered around a full-size advanced technology bomber. The new airplane might have escaped attention altogether, except that in 1980, the White House intentionally alluded to its existence. Whether this was an election year ploy remains open to question. The new aircraft, then popularly known as the stealth fighter rather than the stealth bomber was to become a hot aviation topic over the next decade. The new airplane was given a new code name, Senior Trend, as well as the deceptive designation of F-117. The first stealth fighters were flown by Lockheed's C-5 Galaxy cargo plane to Groom Dry Lake, where they took to the air for the first time in June 1981. Security was, to put it mildly, tight. Unauthorized ground personnel were required to remain indoors when a stealth jet emerged from its hangar. Test flights were made mostly at night. Their schedule arranged to avoid overflights by Soviet reconnaissance satellites. The Nellis Range is also home to the Air Force's Red Flag air combat exercises, which involved the aircraft and pilots of American and several foreign military aviation services. Those other aircraft were kept away from the groom area by an airborne screen of security aircraft. Despite the F-117's 33% increase in physical size over the prototype, the stealth fighter's RCS measured between.01 and.001 square meters, about that of a small bird. For instance, compared to a McDonnell Douglas F-4G Phantom typically used for wild weasel anti-radar missions, which has a head-on RCS of 6 meters, the F-117 was able to get 90% closer to the ground-based search radars and 98% closer to the airborne radars before getting detected. Testing was still underway when the Air Force ordered an entire wing of the production version of Senior Trend, the F-117A Nighthawk. Until delivery of their F-117As, the pilots trained in Vought A-7D Corsair IIs. The first military pilot to fly a Nighthawk was Lieutenant Colonel Alton C. Whitley, a Vietnam veteran with combat experience in the A7 and North American F-100, and former commander of the Air Force's Aggressor Squadron. When I first looked at the F-117, he recalls, it reminded me of some Star Wars type of aircraft. I thought, boy, this is the 21st century. Having outgrown the Groom Lake facilities, the stealth unit, now officially the 4450th Tactical Group, operated out of the remote Tonopah Test Range airfield in the northwest corner of the Nellis Range. Although overlooked by public land, the Tonopah facility was some 40 desert miles from the nearest town, sufficiently remote to discourage all but the most persistent observers. Pilots of the 4450th flew into Tonopah each Monday aboard a government-charted airliner for four nights of training before returned home on Friday afternoon. In June 1986 and again in October 1987, pilots flew their Nighthawks into the ground. Both incidents were attributed to pilot fatigue and disorientation. Despite US Air Force efforts to the contrary, word filtered to the outside world. Finally, in November 1988, the Pentagon publicly revealed a grainy, retouched photo, notable mostly for how little it revealed of the F-117. By then, the 4450th, now activated as the 37th Tactical Fighter Wing, was combat-ready. Twice, stealth fighters were within an hour of taking off to bomb targets in Libya, only to have their missions scrubbed to avoid revealing their existence. Not until December 1989 and the U.S. invasion of Panama, Operation Just Cause, did the F-117A see action. Refueling in mid-air, six Nighthawks made their way to Panama via Texas and the Caribbean Sea. Two of these were backup aircraft, which turned back unneeded. Two more were assigned to support Special Forces troops attempting to kidnap General Manuel Noriega, but their mission was scrubbed. Confusion over the last-minute change resulted in a mix-up over the remaining target, a barracks housing two battalions of elite enemy troops. The intent was not to kill, but to stun. The lead F-117A did just that with a single 2,000-pound Mark 84 bomb. Colloquially known as the Hammer, the bomb with a lethal radius of 400 feet and capable of blowing out eardrums half a mile away, exploded in a field next to the barracks, throwing the Panamanians into confusion. The second stealth jet also hit its first aim point, which, however, turned out to be an error. Still, the Air Force declared the mission a success. After all, the stealth jets had gone unnoticed on Panamanian radar. On August 17, 1990, the 37th Tactical Fighter Wing received a new commander, Colonel Al Whitley. Four hours later, the colonel recalls, the word came in to deploy our first squadron. The United States and its allies planned to oust Saddam Hussein's Iraqis from Kuwait, by force if necessary, and the Night Stalkers were among the first Allied units to deploy to Saudi Arabia. Located 6,500 feet up in the mountains near the Red Sea, King Khalid Air Base, nicknamed Tonopah East, had been built in the late 1970s in return for delivery of McDonnell Douglas' F-15 Eagle fighters and AWACS airborne sentries to Saudi Arabia. Because the base was well beyond the reach of Iraqi Scud-B ballistic missiles, the stealth jets would require three mid-air refuelings, each in order to reach their main target, downtown Baghdad. I generally put the F-117s against the Baghdad targets,&quot; stated the Air Force's chief mission planner, Brig. Gen. Buster C. Glosson, where we would have lost airplanes. Mission personnel included only three combat veterans, Whitley, his deputy commander, and one just cause pilot. But five months later, after the F-117s were deployed to Saudi Arabia, the incessant training above the barren Nevada desert paid off. The night stalkers and ghost riders lugged two tons of bombs apiece across more than 1,000 miles of nighttime desert. Shortly before 3 a.m. local time, January 17, 1991, eight black jets arrived, lights out and radio silent, above Baghdad. It was Captain Marcel Kerdavid who was assigned to bomb the Al-Khark tower. Even though I felt very well prepared with my training, I was somewhat apprehensive about the aircraft,&quot; he admitted later. Its stealthiness had not been tested in combat, and everyone wondered whether or not this stealth stuff really worked. Anticipating a pilot-rattling sleet of anti-aircraft fire, mission planners had assigned a second stealth jet to mark Kurdavid's target and lighten his workload. As the laser beam touched the Al'kark's dome-shaped roof, a forward-looking infrared radar scope in the nose of Kurdavid's plane picked up the signal and displayed it in the cockpit's eight-inch video display. Using a fingertip control on his throttle stick, Kurdavid locked his aim point onto the laser glint, and his weapons system projected an imaginary basket above it, into which it would have to drop the bomb for a successful strike. Ten seconds before release, Kerdavid hit the pickle button that enabled his weapon system. The Nighthawk's bomb bay snapped open and lowered its lethal load into the slipstream. A one-ton GBU-27A-B guided bomb, designed especially for the use by the F-117A. Freed of the necessity of dodging anti-aircraft fire, Kurdavid was able to drop his bomb from relatively high above and near the Al-Khark. He immediately veered away north toward his secondary target, a command bunker in the Taji suburbs. The second F-117 loitered on station a little longer, using its belly-mounted, downward-looking infrared radar laser designator to mark the target for Kurdavid's bomb as it fell. In their room in the Al-Rashid Hotel, the CNN reporter's microphones picked up the rising moan of an air raid warning. Now the sirens are sounding for the first time, noted Peter Arnott. The Iraqis have informed us. At that instant, as if out of nowhere, Kurdavid's GBU-27 slammed into the Al-Khark, drilling halfway down in the tower before exploding. The entire building snapped in half. A spectacle lost to CNN viewers and personnel at King Khalid, because the network promptly went black. A surviving audio-only land link allowed Arnett to verbally describe the blinding spray of aimless return fire rising above the Baghdad skyline. The Iraqis' gunner's radars told them no aircraft were above them. Seconds later, another F-117A's GBU-27 hit directly across the Tigris from the Al-Khark. It fell through the roof of the twelve-story Baghdad International Telephone Exchange, known to the Air Force missions planners as the AT&amp;T Building, and the only target in the city slated for a double hit. One of those planners was the 415th Tactical Fighter Squadron's Major Jerry Leatherman, who sixty seconds after the first strike circled in from the northeast to drop a pair of high-blast Mark 84 homers from three miles up through the hole in a building's roof. The first went a little low, but the second was dead on, and together they demolished the top four floors. In quick succession, three waves of stealth jets singled out their objectives with the precision at once merciful and merciless. The Iraqi Air Force and Baath Party headquarters, air defense control centers, Rashid Airfield, and other high-value targets including two of Saddam Hussein's presidential palaces. A half hour after the initial attacks, the city blacked out, probably not because of Iraqi precautions but because the power grid was destroyed. But Baghdad remained well lit by the Triple A fire. Back at King Khalid, the ground crews anxiously counted the returning aircraft, the last of which did not touch down until after dawn. Miraculously, not only did every Nighthawk come back, but none of them bore so much as a scratch. In the first 24 hours of the war, the 42 stealth fighters at King Khalid, just 2.5% of the total allied aircraft deployed in the Gulf, accounted for 31% of the targets attacked. Damage estimates were lower than expected, partly due to a lower layer of mist that obscured Baghdad toward dawn. Not only did cloud cover, three times the seasonal average during the course of the war, interfere with subsequent operations, it compromised the black jet's invisibility. If you're just above a cloud deck, with the moon reflecting off it, you can really stick out,&quot; explained Leatherman. At one point, an F-117A was shadowed by what appeared to be an Iraqi Dessault Mirage F-1 fighter, shining a landing light or a spotlight in order to visually acquire the stealth jet. A gentle turn, however, broke whatever lock the Iraqi had. That was the closest any Nighthawk came to a dogfight over Iraq. The Blackjets were consistently assigned to the most dangerous, high-priority targets throughout the Gulf War. These included radar sites, SAM and SCUD launchers, enemy command-control communication facilities, bridges, hardened aircraft shelters, and bunkers. Their data recorders provided some spectacular video footage of Air Force publicists. These included a hardened scud storage facility destroyed by a laser-guided bomb dropping through an air duct, one bomb blowing in the door of an ammunition bunker, and a second bomb flying through to explode inside, a GVU-27 flying down an elevator shaft to detonate deep within the Iraqi Air Force headquarters, blowing out all four walls. Ultimately, the greatest purpose served by Nighthawk's surgical strikes, as opposed to indiscriminate bombing, was the saving of lives on both sides. Statistically, during the course of Desert Storm, the 37th TFW compiled a record that is unparalleled in the chronicles of air warfare. The Nighthawks achieved an 80% hit rate on pinpoint targets, while destroying nearly 40% of all strategic targets attacked by the coalition forces. The 37th TFW's performance also drew high praise from military and political leaders. In particular, Senator Sam Nunn, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman, stated the F-117A to be the heart of our offensive power and targeting capability. Brigadier General Buster Glosson, 14th Air Division Commander, called the 37th TFW the backbone of the strategic air campaign. General Colin Powell, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, commented, You are showing the nation what it's all about, the combination of very highest technology with the very best kind of people we can put together in the field as a team. Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney stated, you have gone far beyond anything anybody envisioned. It has been phenomenal. The 37th Tactical Fighter Wing, re-designated the 49th Tactical Fighter Wing, relocated from Tonopah to Haliforce Air Force Base. Air Force analysts have so far found no way stealth technology can be compromised in the foreseeable future. In any case, the F-117A Nighthawk, the Skunk Works and Ben Rich are assured their places in aviation history. We guaranteed to deliver an aircraft which would have stealth characteristics, be virtually undetectable by today's known radar technologies, and be able to deliver a weapon system with unprecedented accuracy, said Rich. We've done that. Our accomplishments speak for themselves. In many ways, the F-22 Advanced Tactical Fighter is the true daughter of the F-117. Stealth would be a major factor in the USA remaining a superpower in the 21st century. We worked very hard with the F-22 to integrate stealth into a supersonic super-maneuverable fighter, and we succeeded. After our last day of the YF-22A flight demonstrations from Edwards late on December 28, 1990, I said to my wife, Judia, we won. And we did. Our team delivered results. It was a privilege to lead this team. The F-22 Raptor is the most advanced of its breed. Built around the first look, first shot, first kill ethos. It is scheduled to become the primary U.S. Air Force air superiority fighter of the 21st century. The Raptor is a killing machine, just like the name implies. It's even more deadly when it gets out there and does the job. Deadly and undetectable at long range, this breathtaking fifth generation fighter blends unmatched dogfighting with precision strike ground-attack capabilities. Confidence lies in the fact these goals are achievable as a result of synergistic combination of characteristics and capabilities, including low observables, also known as stealth, the ability to cruise at supersonic speeds or super cruise over long range and without the use of afterburners, and an integrated and highly sophisticated avionics unit. Additionally, the F-A-22A has been designed to be more maneuverable, better armed, more reliable, more easily maintained, more readily supportable, and more capable in the air-to-ground mission than any other comparable aircraft in history. Throughout the 1960s and 70s, the Soviets developed different missiles to attack in different altitude bands. You couldn't fly under the missile threat, you couldn't fly over the missile threat, you had to deal with the missile threat. One way to do that is to make suppression of enemy air defense, that is, destroying the missile sites in the radars, the most important mission for the Air Force. By the 1970s, air superiority had re-emerged as a top priority and the U.S. Air Force committed to building its first pure air superiority fighter, an aircraft that would eventually become the F-15 Eagle. But just as the F-15s became operational in 1978, alarming new evidence suggested that the new fighter superiority might only be temporary. Currently, and perhaps most importantly, reconnaissance satellites had photographed several new fighter prototypes, the Mikoyan MiG-29 and Sukhoi T-10 at the Ramenskoye Flight Test Center outside of a small city of Zhukovsky, about 40 miles southeast of Moscow. This new generation of Russian fighters represented a significant improvement in capability over anything previously observed by U.S. intelligence services. It was obvious to all concerned that a new air-to-air combat platform would be required to counter the new threat these new Russian aircrafts represented. The Sukhoi T-10 came as a huge shock to Western analysts. It was bigger than the F-15 and far bigger than any previous Soviet-built fighter. If the MiG-29 had concerned the American military establishment, the existence of the Sukhoi T-10 set alarm bells ringing. These are very good aircraft. Aircraft that can play in the same league as some of the top NATO fighters like Phantom and ultimately like F-15. Just weeks into his first term, America's 40th president increased US defense spending by $32.5 billion and began the rearmament of the United States on a colossal scale. The goal is world peace. In 1981, the Cold War was getting very warm. It is absolutely essential that we increase our spending for national defense if we're to preserve the peace. As Reagan and Brezhnev squared up, the US Air Force concluded that it would urgently need a new replacement for its F-15, an advanced tactical fighter or ATF that would have no equal. As American planners start to develop the concept of air-land battle to fight World War III, the US Air Force starts to think about the kind of equipment it wants to have when it comes to fighting the war. Two sub-projects were established under this banner. The Advanced Tactical Fighter which included concept and technology development, seven airframe companies being Boeing, General Dynamics, Grumman, Lockheed, McDonnell Douglas, Northrop and Rockwell. Each received concept development investigation contracts for $1 million. And the Joint Fighter Engine which was an engine technology demonstration program to be managed jointly with the U.S. Navy, Pratt &amp; Whitney and General Electric, each received contracts valued at $202 million during September of 1983. The seven competing companies submitted some 19 conceptual designs. From these, it was concluded that the ideal air-to-air platform would offer low observables in combination with supercruise and superior maneuverability. Analysis of air-to-air combat in Vietnam, called the Red Baron Study, had kick-started the race for stealth. The principle of stealth technology is to literally make an aeroplane invisible to the enemy. An aircraft's shape must reflect incoming radio waves away from the enemy radar, rather than towards it. To further increase low observable characteristics, an airplane is then covered in materials that absorb radar signals, further reducing its visibility on radar screens. Leading the way in stealth technology was Lockheed's Skunk Works division. In 1977, amid unprecedented security, Lockheed had flown a prototype of the world's first stealth fighter, and by the 1980s, during Operation Just Cause, its F-117 had helped to destroy General Noriega's regime in Panama. The U.S. Air Force decided that any new fighter must incorporate stealth technology and identified two other areas in which a future air superiority fighter should excel. The challenge had been issued. Now it was up to the finest aviation manufacturers in the world to respond. The advanced tactical fighter program was about to begin and the Raptor, America's fifth-generation fighter, was about to be hatched. By 1983, US-Soviet relations had reached a new low. Following Leonid Brezhnev's death, the Politburo, now controlled by ex-KGV boss Yuri Andropov, had been labeled by Reagan as the focus of evil in the modern world. Continuing his policy of rearmament, Reagan announced plans for the Strategic Defense Initiative, better known as Star Wars, and Moscow reacted furiously. That August, when Korean airline flight 007 on its way to Seoul from New York, strayed several hundred miles off course into Soviet airspace, Russia acted. A fighter was sent up, and the civilian airliner with 269 people on board, was shot down. A shooting down of KAL 007 sent shockwaves around the world, straining international relations almost at a breaking point. Reagan's reaction to the crisis strengthened U.S. conviction that stealth would now be the prime requirement for America's new fighter. Following some four initial drafts, the basic framework for the ATF requirement, calling for a radius of action of approximately 800 miles, supersonic cruise capability of 1.4 to 1.5 Mach, a 2,000 feet runway requirement, a gross takeoff weight of 50,000 pounds and a unit cost of no more than 40 million in 1985 dollars was released to industry. Importantly, implied in the proposal was a requirement that the ATF life cycle cost be at least as good as, if not better than, the McDonnell Douglas F-15. It was concluded the Lockheed and Northrop submissions were superior to those of Boeing, General Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas. Lockheed had conducted consortium discussions with Boeing and General Dynamics as early as June of 1986, but did not formalize an agreement with its partners until the following October 13th. Consequently, Lockheed assigned Sherman Mullen as general manager for the ATF team program office. Mullen would direct Lockheed in the prime contractor role and consequently take advantage of the unique technical strengths represented by Boeing and General Dynamics. Northrop, some two weeks later, followed suit by serving as lead on team with McDonnell Douglas. Thus, by default, the two consoria were selected on October 31, 1986, to build two prototypes each to complete in revised demonstration and validation phase Lockheed under a 691 million dollar contract would build two of what later would become its model 1 1 3 2 aircraft under the official Air Force designation YF-22 Northrop under a similar contract would build two of its N-14 prototypes under the official Air Force designation YF-23. And in 1990, just months after the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the shapes of the two rival designs were finally unveiled. Northrop's version, called the YF-23, closely resembled its original design. In contrast, Lockheed's design, called the YF-22, seemed surprisingly conventional, with four tail surfaces, vectored thrust, a broad solid body, and a conventional wing. But unlike Lockheed's other stealth aircraft, the F-117, radar absorbent materials, were not applied over the whole of the F-A-22, but used selectively on its edges, cavities, and crucial surface areas. The F-22 carries its weapons internally. Four weapon bays are hidden in the central mid-body section. Six missiles can be carried in the ventral bays, which are covered by bifold doors. The side bays will each hold one Sidewinder missile, carried on a trapeze launcher. The mid-body section also houses the fighter's landing gear and complex inlet ducts. Attached to the mid-body is the fore-body, which accommodates the cockpit and advanced avionics. Both the YF-23 and the YF-22 are impressive looking machines, but their performance still needs to be tested. The most crucial stage of the competition is still to come, the flight testing. Northrop was first in the air. In August 1990, flown by Paul Metz, the YF-23 got airborne. The test was a huge success. But Lockheed's chief test pilot Dave Ferguson prepared the Raptor for its maiden flight. Over the next three months, the Raptor underwent a whole series of tests. The Air Force required both teams to give them performance projections, and they were actually going to compare that with what the planes actually did in flight subsonic and supersonic at different altitudes and so forth. The winner of this stage would earn a contract for 650 aircraft. The decision would hinge not just on what the contractors promised, but on the Air Force's confidence in their ability to deliver. During flight testing, the Raptor had beaten Northrop's YF-23 in a number of crucial performance areas. The YF-22 had clearly shown that in every category it was far superior to any existing fighter. The Air Force was very, very impressed by what Lockheed had done, but their flight test program was very aggressive. They flew hard and fast. They flew many more hours and sorties than Northrop did, and all of that gave the Air Force confidence that they knew what they were doing and they could build a superior plane. But it would be events in 1991 that would carve out the Raptors' future. 22 minutes after midnight on January the 17th 1991, Lockheed's stealth F-117 spearheaded US strikes against Saddam Hussein's regime. The performance of Lockheed's stealth bombers during Operation Desert Storm would give the company and its aircraft some priceless publicity. The F-15, the aircraft destined to be replaced by the ATF, had emphatically confirmed its status as the foremost air superiority fighter in the world. Now it appeared that the need for an advanced stealth fighter, the F-22, might be totally unfounded. But not everyone agrees. By April 1991, bogged down by the F-15 debate, the U.S. Air Force prepares to announce the winner of the Advanced Tactical Fighter contract, but would the Raptor be able to emerge from the controversy unscathed? After the Demm-Valflight test of the prototypes, Secretary of the USAF Donald Rice announced the Lockheed team and Pratt &amp; Whitney as the winners of the ATF and engine competitions. The YF-23 design was considered stealthier and faster, while the YF-22, with its thrust-vectoring nozzles, was more maneuverable as well as less expensive and risky. Having won the contract, Lockheed announced that it intended to locate the F-22's headquarters in Georgia, where the Raptor's forward fuselage would be built. General Dynamics were to build the F-22's mid-body section in Fort Worth, Texas, and Boeing would manufacture the wings and tail in Seattle, Washington. Follow-on work using this aircraft took place at the Edwards Air Force Base. It was to consist of an additional 100 hours of flying time, or approximately 25 flights, to expand the YF-22A's flight envelope and explore select envelope segments in greater detail. But, on April 25, 1992, the program hit its first major snag. During preliminary testing, the unthinkable happened. A YF-22 flown by Tom Morganfield crashed just after takeoff. The aircraft hit the runway with the landing gear up and slid approximately 8,000 feet and caught fire. year. Despite the loss of the stealth aircraft, the program had achieved its major goals. Ten million man-hours of analysis, four thousand hours of radar testing and hundreds of hours of flight testing had gone into the development of the aircraft, even before construction was given the go. In fact, the F-22 has accomplished more flight testing than any other fighter prior to full-scale production. On April 9th, the first F-22A, officially named Raptor, an earlier attempt to make the name of the aircraft superstar failed in 1991, was rolled out in a public ceremony at Lockheed Martin's Marietta, Georgia facility for the first time. Now, Air Force pilots would get the opportunity to check up on the new aircraft for themselves. First flown by the Air Force in 1997, pilots at Edwards Air Force Base have surpassed 2,000 flight test hours and more than 900 missions. One of the key advances in the Raptors design is its advanced cockpit and integrated avionics system. Key mission systems include Sanders slash General Electric electronic warfare system, Martin Marietta infrared and ultraviolet missile launch detector, Westinghouse slash Texas Instruments active electronically scanned array radar, TRW communication slash navigation slash identification suite, and long-range advanced IRST currently being tested. The radio frequency receivers of the electronic support measures system give the aircraft the ability to perform intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance tasks. The F-22 has a glass cockpit with all digital flight instruments. The monochrome head-up display offers a wide field of view and serves as a primary flight instrument. Information is also displayed upon six color liquid crystal display or LCD panels. This airplane displays information to you, it gives you knowledge of the battle space, it's all about seeing what's out there in front of you and being able to make the right decisions about what to engage and when to engage it. The ejection seat is a version of the ACES-2, commonly used in USAF aircraft, with a center-mounted ejection control. The Raptor carries a formidable array of ordnance. The F-22 has three internal weapon bays, a large main bay on the bottom of the fuselage, and two smaller bays on the sides of the fuselage aft of the engine inlets. The main bay is split along the center line and can accommodate six launchers for beyond visual range missiles and each side bay has a launcher for short range missiles. The primary air-to-air missiles are the AIM-120 AMRAAM and the AIM-9 Sidewinder with planned integration of the AIM-260 JATM. Missile launches require the bay doors to be open for less than a second, during which pneumatic or hydraulic arms push missiles clear of the aircraft. This is to reduce vulnerability to detection and to deploy missiles during high-speed flight. While the F-22 typically carries weapons internally, the wings include four hardpoints, each rated to handle 5,000 pounds or 2,300 kilos. Each hardpoint can accommodate a pylon that can carry a detachable 600 gallon or 2,270 liter external fuel tank for a launcher holding two air-to-air missiles and to complement the Raptor's armament of eight missiles, the fighter also has a gun. An internally mounted M61A2 Vulcan 20mm rotary cannon is embedded in the airplane's right-wing root, with the muzzle covered by a retractable door. The radar projection of the cannon's fire path is displayed on the pilot's head-up display. Before the F-A-22 Raptor enters operational service with the U.S. Air Force in the autumn of 2005, it will have completed thousands of hours of vigorous combat testing. But since Desert Storm, critics of the F-22 program claim that the F-15 Eagle, destined to be replaced by the Raptor, already had the attributes necessary to remain the world's preeminent air superiority fighter well into the new millennium. It is a view dismissed by the Air Force. In March 2003, supporters of the F-15 got the opportunity to see whether or not the Eagle was still the best fighter in the sky. Five F-15s would go head to head with a single Raptor. Although no missiles would be used during the exercise, the sorties would closely resemble actual combat. No quarter would be given by either side. This was a kill or be killed exercise. All five F-15s are flown by experienced F-22 pilots. One by one the Raptor brings them down. In combat testing with F-15s, the F-22 Raptor has emphatically proven its doubters wrong. In December 2005, the U.S. Air Force announced that the F-22 had achieved initial operational capability. During exercise Northern Edge in Alaska in June 2006, in simulated combat exercises, 12 F-22. The F-22 cannot be exported under US federal law to protect its stealth technology and classified features. Customers for US fighters are acquiring earlier designs such as the F-15 Eagle and F-16 Fighting Falcon, or the newer F-35 Lightning II, which contains technology from the F-22 but was designed to be cheaper, more flexible, and available for export. The USAF had originally planned to buy a total of 750 ATFs. In 2009, the program was cut to 187 operational aircraft due to high costs, a lack of air-to-air missions due to the focus on counterinsurgency operations at the time of production, a ban on exports and development of the more affordable and versatile F-35, with the last F-22 delivered in 2012. America's F-22 Raptor was created out of the Cold War fear that the Russian-made fighters would sweep aside the F-15s. The United States Air Force is the only operator of the F-22. As of August 2022, it has 183 aircraft in its inventory. In today's changing world there are few certainties, but the rule of the Raptor, America's air dominance fighter of the skies, is one of them. The F-35 was the product of the Joint Strike Fighter program, which was the merger of various combat aircraft programs from the 1980s and 1990s. The Lockheed F-35 Lightning II, unofficially nicknamed the Panther, is a fifth-generation strike fighter development of the United States that incorporates new and learned stealth technology and practices with advanced computer processing and systems through a modular approach. The primary objective of the project was to create a versatile aircraft capable of meeting the needs of multiple branches within the US Department of Defense, including the United States Air Force, the United States Navy, and the United States Marine Corps. To achieve this goal, the F-35 program developed three interconnected but distinct airframes, all based on a single-engine, single-seat design. Although there are variations between the production models, all versions of the aircraft retain their supersonic capabilities and possess unparalleled strike capabilities, making them unmatched by any other modern battlefield platform. The F-35 program evolved to become an international effort beyond the commitments of the United States and the United Kingdom and have included Australia, Canada, Denmark, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, and Turkey to varying degrees. Each nation is expecting to operate the F-35 platform and number at some point, and each player is rated by partner levels in the development. The JSF program was started on November 16, 1996, as a U.S. attempt to develop a next-generation combat airframe capable of replacing a variety of dedicated fighter and fighter-bomber types than in the U.S. war-making inventory. The new design would have to succeed such proven performers as the Lockheed F-16 Fighting Falcon, the Fairchild Republic A-10 Warthog, the carrier-based Boeing F-A-18 Hornet, and the McDonnell Douglas AV-8B Harrier II, no small task considering the respective successes found by each aircraft throughout the world for time in aviation history. The F-35 originated from the USJSF program and went through a five-year competition phase known as the X-35 against Boeing's X-32. Although both aircraft met the requirements, Lockheed's submission was chosen over Boeing's because it consistently outperformed the latter and was considered lesser financial risk in the long term. Boeing's X-32 utilized a more conventional vectored thrust approach, similar to the Harrier, for vertical takeoff maneuvers. In contrast, a third proposal from a Northrop Grumman McDonnell Douglas team presented an interesting lift-plus-lift cruise methodology, akin to the Soviet Yak-38 Forger. Lockheed's approach involved a dedicated lift-fan system positioned at the aircraft's center mass, just after the cockpit, combined with a rotating rear engine exhaust nozzle to achieve a balanced result. Both propulsion units derived lift power from the single engine, and Lockheed's patented lift-fan was considered a more feasible long-term solution. The lift-fan concept had distinct advantages over the X-32's thrust vectoring system, as it offered cooling for the downward thrust air reducing the risk of hot exhaust gases re-entering the engine. Additionally, the space saved by the lift fan drive system allowed for increased internal fuel storage in the proposed X-35A and X-35C conventional fighter versions, thus enhancing their operational ranges. This feature was particularly appealing to the USMC, which prioritized a short-range, quick-react aircraft for the STOVL version, the X-35B. Winning the X-35 contract was a significant achievement for Lockheed. With potential revenues up to $200 billion through the X-35 program and subsequent F-35 production phases, Pratt &amp; Whitney, the engine manufacturer, secured a $4 billion contract for their primary engine supply and development. Additionally, the British government invested $2 billion into the project with the hope of acquiring their first fifth-generation and first stealth fighter aircraft. The production version of the F-35 aircraft originated from three X prototypes, with the first one being the X-35A, manufactured at the Skunk Works facility in Palmdale. The X-35A successfully completed its maiden flight on October 24, 2000, and then underwent extensive trials, including in-flight refueling and supersonic flights at Edwards Air Force Base. After concluding 27 flight tests on November 22, 2000, it was converted into the X-35B STOVL variant prototype. Meanwhile, the X-35C, serving as a backup for the more complex X-35B development, was prepared to accept the Litvan assembly if needed. The first production F-35 Lightning II took its inaugural flight on December 15, 2006, and the first F-35A completed its first flight testing at Edwards Air Force Base on October 23, 2008. Soon after, on November 13, 2008, supersonic flight was achieved. The X-35B achieved its first flight on June 24, 2001, demonstrating a complete and sustained hover cycle, conducting 18 vertical takeoff operations and 27 hover landings. The production STOVL F-35B began its flight testing phase in 2008, with the first F-35B taking its first flight on June 11, 2008, and the second F-35B completing its maiden flight on February 25, 2009. The first aerial refueling exercise for the F-35B was successfully accomplished on August 13, 2009, the carrier-capable X-35C made its maiden flight on December 16, 2000, and subsequently underwent a series of rigorous mock carrier landings to assess the modified airframe's performance. The X-35C demonstrated excellent low-level, low-speed approaches that the U.S. Navy sought in their new combat aircraft. After completing a total of 73 flight tests on March 11, 2001, the production F-35C was revealed on July 28, 2009, with its expected first flight scheduled before the end of 2009. The F-35 test program reached a milestone with its 100th flight on June 23, 2009. Initially, the F-35B for the USMC was anticipated to be delivered around 2012, making it the earliest of the three variants, while the USAF expected deliveries of its F-35A model in 2013. The U.S. Navy's F-35Cs were expected to be delivered in 2015. The projected lifespan of the F-35 airframe extended beyond 2030 and was estimated to continue into the 2040s. The F-35 is equipped with an advanced electro-optical distributed aperture system that provides the pilot with a comprehensive view of the battlefield from all angles of the aircraft. The DAS enables the F-35 to detect and coordinate enemy aircraft, air-to-air and surface-to-air missile launchers and ground explosions. Both the short take-off and vertical landing and conventional landing variants featured high levels of automation to streamline operations. The aircraft also offers enhanced pilot vision for day and night sorties. The DAS system was developed by Lockheed Martin Missiles and Fire Control in collaboration with Northrop Grumman Electronic Systems. Additionally, the F-35 is equipped with an all-new electro-optical targeting system developed by Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman. This targeting system provides the pilot with enhanced target detection and tracking capabilities at extended ranges, making the F-35 one of the most lethal combat aircraft in the skies. The EOTS is located on the underside of the nose assembly. Stealth technology advancements learned from the Lockheed F-117 Nighthawk stealth fighter have been extensively incorporated into the F-35 Lightning II design. The engine nozzle is designed to be stealth-friendly and axis-symmetric, reducing the aircraft's radar signature while maintaining a minimal profile. The F-35 avionics suite, produced by Northrop Grumman Space Technology, features data-sharing capabilities, allowing the pilot to share real-time information with allied air and ground forces through a satellite data link system. The communication suite, developed in collaboration with internal partners, ensures robust and adaptable communication capabilities. For situational awareness, the F-35 is equipped with AN APG-81 series active electronically scanned array radar developed by Northrop Grumman Electronic Systems. This radar system enables the pilot to detect, track, and engage targets on land, water, or in the air over significant distances. The radar can also operate as a passive receiver. To enhance pilot situational awareness further, the distributed infrared system consists of six internal sensors strategically placed around the aircraft. These sensors provide a real-time infrared image of the aircraft's surroundings, projected directly into the advanced helmet worn by the pilot, offering a complete 360-degree view. The F-35's engine inlets are designed with diverterless fixtures, reducing weight and complexity by minimizing moving parts. The aircraft features a helmet-mounted display system developed by Vision Systems International LLC, which delivers critical mission and system data directly to the pilot's helmet visor. This advanced system eliminates the need for a conventional heads-up display, and allows the pilot to track and engage targets without facing them directly. The cockpit is equipped with a large panoramic multifunction display system providing real-time information and high-resolution imagery. The F-35's cockpit supports direct voice input through a speech recognition system and incorporates a Martin Baker US-16E ejection seat. Flight control is achieved through a conventional hands-on throttle and stick setup. The F-35's onboard systems are highly configurable, allowing adaptability to various mission requirements whether it's air superiority or ground strike operations. With its cutting-edge technology and unparalleled capability, the F-35 Lightning II was a force to be reckoned with in modern aerial warfare. The primary propulsion for the F-35 is provided by a single Pratt &amp; Whitney F-135 afterburning turbofan engine. Initially, a second engine option, the upgraded F-136, was in development under a joint effort by General Electric and Rolls-Royce. However, development of the F-136 was terminated in December 2011. The F-135 engine is an afterburning turbofan, delivering 28,000 pounds of thrust on dry power and up to 43,000 pounds with full afterburner engaged. Positioned in the middle rear position of the fuselage, the engine allows the F-35 to reach a maximum speed of Mach 1.61. The rate of climb and G limits vary based on the variant, with the A model having a 9 G limit rating. For the F-35B production model, vertical flight capability is achieved using the Lockheed Martin patented shaft-driven lift fan. This lift fan system, built by Rolls-Royce Corporation of Indiana, consists of the fan itself, a clutch, two roll posts, and the drive shaft connecting the lift fan to the power plant. Working together with the three-bearing swivel module, the thrust vectoring nozzle at the aircraft's tail, the lift fan enables balanced lift during vertical flight. Powered by a two-stage turbine on the engine, the lift fan can generate up to 20,000 pounds of lift, nearly half the total vertical flight thrust. Additionally, the lift fan provides cooling for the downdrafting air, which is an improvement over previous short take-off and vertical landing systems. The airflow through the fan is regulated by variable inlet guide vanes. Standard armament for the F-35A production model is the GAL-22, a four-barrel 25mm cannon with 180 rounds afforded. The F-35B and F-35C also feature this weapon, though through an external mounting and given 220 rounds, the pod itself sports stealth designing to keep the signature of the F-35 airframe in check. To comply with its stealth requirements, the F-35 typically houses its primary ordnance and internal bomb bays, while six optional external underwing pylons provide the bulk of the weapon's payload-carrying capability. Because of the F-35's international appeal, the aircraft is capable of fielding some foreign-born weapon systems available in the UK, Israel and the NATO arsenal. Some analysts have criticized the F-35, claiming it to be an overly complex, deficient and prone to breakdowns. Additionally, they argue that it may not be well suited for the missions it was originally designed for. Over 20 years of R&amp;D, that lightweight replacement fighter got heavier and more expensive as the Air Force and lead contractor Lockheed Martin packed it with more and new technology. Yes, we're talking about the F-35. The 25-ton stealth warplane has become the very problem it was supposed to solve, and now, America needs a new fighter to solve that F-35 problems,&quot; officials said. With a sticker price of around $100 million per plane, including the engine, the F-35 is expensive. While stealthy and brimming with high-tech sensors, it's also maintenance-intensive, buggy, and unreliable. The F-35 is not a low-cost lightweight fighter,&quot; said Dan Ward, a former Air Force program manager and the author of a popular business books including The Simplicity Cycle. Brown's comments are a tacit admission that the F-35 has failed. As conceived in the 1990s, the program was supposed to produce thousands of fighters to displace almost all of the existing tactical warplanes in the inventories of the Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps. The Air Force alone wanted nearly 1,800 F-35s to replace aging F-16s and A-10s and constitute the low end of a low-high fighter mix, with 180 twin-engine F-22s making up the high end, but the Air Force and Lockheed baked failure into the F-35's very concept. They tried to make the F-35 do too much,&quot; said Dan Grazer, an analyst with a project on government oversight in Washington, D.C. The complexity added cost. Rising costs imposed delays. Delays gave developers more time to add yet more complexity to the design. Those additions added more cost. Those costs resulted in more delays, so on and so forth. The F-35 has not had a trouble-free path in its fielding, nor has any new combat aircraft. The reality is that each generation of combat aircraft push technology to the edge, and this involves distinct challenges and a learning curve. The real question is whether the trends of military capability, availability, unit and operational costs are headed in the right direction. In the case of the F-35, this is certainly the case. For the members of Congress slated to attend this week's oversight hearing, it might be worth reading the advice of Sir Frederick Hanley Page, a British aviation pioneer. Nobody has ever won a war by trying to run it on the cheap. Nothing is so expensive as losing a war by saving money. If you want the cheapest possible Air Force today, it is very easy to standardize on a whole lot of aircraft that will be of no use when the war comes. For 80 years, Skunk Works has pushed the innovation envelope, failing fast to prove out novel technologies and deliver disruptive solutions for our customers. Strap in as we take a quick trip through the years to reflect on the critical work Skunk Works has accomplished, all of which informs the work we're doing today and in the future. As we look at the technologies Skunk Works continues to develop now and for the future, it's just as exciting and as classified as Skunk Works' illustrious history. Work continues in critical areas like UAS, hypersonics, artificial intelligence, low observables and other revolutionary technologies. A prime example that is not being developed under the cloak of secrecy is a team partnering with NASA to develop and build X-59, the prototype that will quiet the supersonic boom. The way we engineer and build these capabilities is evolving too. As we lean more and more into a digital approach that reduces cost and accelerates development, the unique and proven Skunkworks philosophy has enabled the impossible to become reality for 80 years. This dedicated and growing team continues to embrace Kelly Johnson's motto, be quick, be quiet, and be on time. We innovate with urgency to push the boundaries, ensuring our customers have the capabilities needed to stay ahead of ensuring our customers have the capabilities needed to stay ahead of ready. He decided he wanted to design aircraft when he was 12 years old after reading Tom Swift and his airplane. He designed his first plane before he'd ever seen one in person. When he first applied for a job at Lockheed, the company turned him down flat. He got his master's degree in aeronautical engineering and returned and was rewarded for his persistence with an $83 a month job as a tool designer. By the time his career at Lockheed ended 47 years later, he had built the most important aircraft research and design facility in the world. There in Lockheed's legendary skunk works, he and the team he led revolutionized aviation. For 30 years, it was impossible to see a significant display of American aircraft without seeing something Kelly Johnson had designed. Whether it was a fighter, bomber, transport, passenger liner, or even a spy plane, the odds were that he had designed at least part of it. Without question, he is the greatest aircraft designer in history. He is Clarence Kelly Johnson. Clarence Kelly Johnson was born in the town of Ishpeming in Michigan's Upper Peninsula on February 27, 1910. The son of Swedish immigrants, he got his Irish nickname from schoolmates after he stood up to the school bully. He had been dealing with some of the kids at the school calling him Clara since his first name was Clarence. And he finally had his fill of it and decided to take reprisals on one of the bullies. And after he was finished, the kids in the schoolyard decided that he could no longer be a Clara, and instead they were going to find some more appropriate name. And since Irishmen were known at that time for their pugilistic skill, they decided to dub him Kelly. He designed his first airplane, which he called the Merlin Battleplane, as a 12-year-old, and it won him a prize at school. He knew then that was what he wanted to do with his life. He paid five dollars for his first flight, a three minute trip in a biplane that ended badly when the plane's engine conked out at 700 feet. When he got older, he worked in construction and in the Buick factory and saved his money. He took his savings to a flight school and asked to be taught to fly. The flight instructor, a cash-strapped barnstormer, refused Johnson's money and told the young man to spend it on college. Johnson enrolled at the University of Michigan just before the stock market crash in 1929, and supported himself washing dishes in fraternity houses. As an assistant in the aeronautical engineering department, he worked with the school's wind tunnel. The school allowed him to rent the tunnel out when it wasn't in use. Johnson charged $35 an hour and helped design a new, streamlined Studebaker model. He graduated in 1932 and tried to enlist in the Army Air Corps, but was refused. He returned to Michigan for his master's degree, and among other things, used the Michigan wind tunnel to help design aerodynamic racing cars for the Indianapolis 500. In 1933, he went to work for Lockheed in California as an $83 a month tool designer. Lockheed at the time was a deeply troubled company. It had just emerged from bankruptcy and had bet its future on the Electra, a two-engine transport. When Johnson arrived in Burbank, his boss asked him what he thought of the plane. Johnson looked and said it would be unstable and that he did not trust Lockheed's wind tunnel tests. Chief Engineer Hall Hibbert sent Johnson back to Michigan with a model of the Electra and a mandate to do his own study in his own wind tunnel. See if you can do better, Hibbard told him. He did. After 72 tunnel tests, Johnson came up with a newly designed flap system and traded the Electra's single stabilizer for a twin tail. Those changes stabilized the Electra and helped make it one of the most successful airplanes of its time. Johnson returned to Lockheed a full engineer. Assigned as the Model 10 Electra's flight test engineer, he at last started flying on a regular basis. He befriended Amelia Earhart and advised her on several of her missions. She flew an Electra, and Johnson advised her on techniques of fuel mixing to help her get the best performance out of her plane. He continued to work on updates to the Electra through Electra Model 14, and was soon attracting attention outside of Lockheed. In 1937, he won the Sperry Award for Outstanding Achievements in Aeronautics by a Young Man. That same year, Congress passed the Neutrality Act. That law was designed to keep the United States out of World War II. At the same time, those in the military had become convinced that American involvement in the war was inevitable. They threw as many of their precious dollars as they could into the design of new equipment. Lockheed won the competition to build a new fighter with a plane designed by Johnson, the XP-38. With two engines and a double fuselage, it was an unconventional aircraft that had its share of problems. In particular, its high speed and tight maneuvering sometimes created forces so great that they shattered the plane in midair. Once again, Johnson went back to his wind tunnel. And after making a few changes to the plane's design, it passed Army Air Corps Muster and was ordered into limited production. Johnson, the designer, was 27 years old. In the late 1930s, Lockheed came back from bankruptcy, largely on the strength of its commercial aircraft. The Electra in particular had built a profitable customer base. But if Lockheed was going to grow, it was going to have to build a successful military aircraft business. The P-38 was a start, though when the Army Air Force first awarded the contract, no one knew how many thousands of planes would eventually be built. In 1938, with Europe on the brink of war, the British sent a purchasing commission to the United States in search of military aircraft, particularly a long-distance coastal patrol bomber that could be used to hunt submarines. The commission, scheduled to visit several aircraft manufacturers, did not originally intend to visit Lockheed. Their schedule changed at the last minute, and Lockheed was invited to make a presentation, with only five days to prepare. During the five days of preparation for the Brits, Johnson showed what he was destined to become famous for, the ability to make something entirely new out of existing components, and to manage a project to completion with a ruthless eye to the deadline. He himself lived by the credo, be quick, be quiet, be on time. He was somebody who believed very much in getting good people and giving them the ability to do what they do best. He also believed in minimizing the number of people working on any one project. In only five days, Johnson and his crew not only redesigned the Electra to fit the needs of the Royal Air Force, they also built from scratch a full-scale wooden model of the plane, a civilian transport converted into a medium bomber. The Brits were amazed. They were so impressed by Johnson and his crew, they invited Lockheed executives to England to confer with the Air Ministry. Johnson went along. At the meetings, the British changed the design specifications, necessitating a complete redesign of the aircraft. Johnson locked himself in a London hotel room and in only 72 hours completed the engineering drawings. The British were once again amazed, and Lockheed got the contract. British expressed their hesitancy about working with an engineer as young and inexperienced as the 28-year-old Johnson. Lockheed reassured the Air Minister who ordered 200 of what became known as the Hudson bomber. It was the largest single order of aircraft ever received by an American manufacturer and upon the party's return to the United States, Lockheed promoted Johnson to chief to Chief Engineer. In 1939, the Congress significantly increased the defense budget, and P-38s started rolling off the line in record numbers. During this period, Johnson truly mastered the art of manufacturing, streamlining production processes, and developing an entirely new job, the program manager. Now a staple of manufacturing, the program manager is a person far down the chain of command who has working control of a project. If that all seems a bit heavy on the business administration and a discussion of aircraft, consider this. Johnson believed that outstanding aircraft designed and manufactured quickly were inevitably the product of a single visionary. That visionary was usually, of course, Johnson. He was not someone who believed in development via committee. He was also somebody who hated lengthy reports and normally limited any report that was sent to him to 20 pages. He believed in brevity, he believed in clarity, and he believed in giving people the tools necessary to get the job done. In 1943, Lockheed put Johnson in charge of advanced products research, setting him up on a plot of land on the outskirts of Burbank, California. Johnson called his new kingdom the Skunk Works, after the still in a cartoon strip Little Abner that was responsible for the making of a mysterious and powerful brew called Skunk Works. In the Little Abner cartoon there was a potent mystery elixir known as Kickapoo Joy Juice and Kickapoo Joy Juice was made at the Skunk Works or Skunk Works as it was called in the comic strip through a variety of things that were thrown into a giant mixture among them skunks old shoes and things like that and the nickname was applied to the Lockheed operation because indeed it was a mystery elixir. Nobody was quite sure what was going on in there but they knew that a lot of things were being thrown into it and that Kelly Johnson was pulling a lot of people from various locations in order to create something interesting. The job of the Skunk Works was to quickly, cheaply, and secretly develop advanced aircraft that could help win the war. Its first assignment was the P-80 Shooting Star, the first American jet. Intelligence had determined the Germans were far along in their development of jets, and the not-so-secret fear of the Army Air Force was that the Nazis would deploy their jets in large numbers before the war in Europe had ended. The effect on the Allied bombing campaign would have been horrendous the allies propeller driven fighters would have been almost useless against the jet powered fighters kelly johnson uh... in his efforts to oversee those operations would uh... pull people from other projects and would uh... go about trying to get a minimum number of the very best people and put them on the project, give them minimal supervision, but let them trust them to be able to do the jobs that they're chosen to do. After setting up the skunk works and recruiting his team, Johnson went to work on the P-80. Lockheed's contract with the Army Air Force gave him an incredibly short schedule, 180 days. Johnson went on a binge of designing and sent his team to work on various critical paths and had the prototype ready for testing 37 days ahead of schedule. In five months, Lockheed had designed and built the first American jet. They hauled it from Burbank to Muroc Air Base in the California desert for testing. Fearful that there might be spies in the surrounding hills, they disguised the jet during transport with a plywood propeller. Johnson said years later that when he rolled out a new plane for testing, there was only one thing he thought about. What have I forgotten? In the case of the P-80, despite the short design and construction cycle, he hadn't forgotten much. It was a beautiful aircraft, faster and more agile than anything in the American arsenal. The war ended before it saw combat, but it evolved into the T-33, one of the best and longest lived jet trainers in history. When the war ended, however, there were those who questioned whether the skunk works had a role to fill. After World War I, the business of aviation had shrunk almost to non-existent. After World War II, many people expected that it would again. But there were two basic differences between the ends of the wars. First, the United States was engaged in the world after World War II in a way it wasn't after World War I. No one could reasonably expect the world's only nuclear power to go back into hibernation. And second, before the war ended, it became clear that the post-war world would require a strong and ready military. Because on the day the Japanese surrendered, the world separated into two groups of allies. Those in the communist East, under the control of Joseph Stalin, and those in the democratic West. World War II was over, but the Cold War was just beginning. Kelly Johnson and the Skunk Works were just about to become the most important aircraft developers in the world. Over the course of his career, Kelly Johnson designed more than 40 aircraft. His most prolific period by far was in the 1950s. That was a decade of tremendous technological advance, achieved in an atmosphere of never-ending crisis, and there was no better place for aeronautical engineers to work than the skunk works. Johnson designed and built the Constellation, the most elegant aircraft of its time, and a plane that served effectively in both civilian and military roles. He experimented unsuccessfully with vertical take-off and landing aircraft, with the idea that they could operate from relatively small ships. He designed the F-104 Starfighter, at 1,300 miles an hour, the fastest aircraft ever flown at the time. It was a sometimes fussy plane to fly, and at more than Mach 2, there wasn't a lot of room for error. It was adapted around the world to a number of difficult tasks, including carrying nuclear weapons. Johnson didn't approve of all the modifications others were making to his plane, but could do little about them. As the Cold War heated up, it became clear that the United States needed a way to peer deep into Russian territory. East of the Ural Mountains, where the Russians did their atomic research and where they developed their aircraft and missiles, the United States didn't even have an accurate topographical map, let alone a way of getting information on military capabilities. The Air Force put out a quiet request for a fast, high-altitude plane that could overfly Russia and bring back pictures of the Communist secret bases. Johnson at first toyed with modifying the F-104, but it lacked the range and would be too difficult to fly on long missions. In 1954, he sent the Air Force a proposal to build a plane that could fly at a range of 4,000 miles above 70,000 feet. It would be slower than the Air Force had hoped, but at that altitude would be high above Russian air defenses. The Air Force didn't believe Johnson could do it. They doubted any jet engine would work at that altitude and instead ordered a competition between manufacturers for the best pipeline design. President Eisenhower approved a $35 million contract with the competition winner. Johnson and his Skunk Works team went into overdrive. In mid-November 1954, he met with the government advisory board on what was then called the CL-282 project. Ten days later, he formed the team to design the craft. On December 2nd, the first 12 engineers went to work designing the aircraft systems and the first design drawings were completed and released to the shop for manufacture the next day. A week later the drawings were complete and by the end of the year he'd won the contract and frozen the design. Wind tunnel testing completed in March, the first flight took place on August 4th, 1955. In less than a year, from pipe dream to first flight, Kelly Johnson and the Skunk Works had designed and built a completely new kind of airplane. The U-2 had something of a patched-together quality to be sure. The first ones cut weight by leaving out the ejection seat, and the balancing wheels on the wings dropped off at takeoff to lose a few more pounds. The engineers were still making modifications on the craft in the summer of 1956, when a young pilot named Francis Gary Powers saw his first U-2 parked on a taxiway at a secret base in Nevada. It had not been built to last, he said years later. Powers was among the pilots who flew spy missions over the Russian heartland in the U-2, and for years it was safely out of range of the Soviets. The planes routinely returned with photographs showing Russian fighters four miles below them, coming up for a fight but unable to fly high enough to get a shot off. Eventually however, the Russians improved their air defenses, and by the time Powers was shot down in 1960, Johnson was already at work on his next generation spy plane. Johnson, with the U-2s flying with seeming impunity, had gone back to the government to propose a plane that could fly 10,000 feet higher and four times as fast as the subsonic U-2. Building a plane that would cruise at Mach 3.2, Johnson said years later, was the hardest thing the Skunk Works ever did. Everything about the plane, Johnson said, had to be invented. In 1960, the Air Force gave the go-ahead for Johnson to develop the A-12, a plane that didn't succeed as an interceptor, but paved the way for its slightly larger sister, the SR-71 Blackbird. Built out of titanium, which is light and could tolerate the 500 degree temperatures that built up as the plane sliced through the atmosphere at more than three times the speed of sound, the Blackbirds were like something out of a science fiction movie. The rollout was Johnson's proudest day. It was, he said, the smoothest test flight he'd ever been through. Johnson, who had never been much of a talker, insisted that he was not bothered by the fact that he couldn't talk about his perfect airplane. If I can talk about it, he'd like to say, it's obsolete. But years later, when word of the SR-71 had leaked out and the Air Force had stopped denying its existence, he took joy in its racing from New York to London, a distance of almost 3,500 miles in less than two hours. And before the Blackbirds were retired in March 1990, an SR-71 flew across the United States coast to coast in 68 minutes. Kelly Johnson retired from Lockheed in 1975. Even then, he was a presence at the skunk works. His 14 rules of effective program management are gospel there, and are taught in some of the leading business schools in the world. Johnson even consulted with Lockheed during the development of the F-117 stealth fighter. As an old man, he said that there would come a time when aircraft were no longer relevant. People wouldn't travel for business, he said, because they could sit at their desks and talk to people in Europe by video phone. And on the battlefield, manned aircraft were no longer cost-effective in an age of missiles. Though it hasn't happened yet, don't bet against it. I think his greatest contribution was in the vision that he had for the Skunk Works, for Lockheed, for American Aviation, and in his ability to translate that vision into something that other people embraced and believed in and wanted to work toward. To a great extent, his greatest contribution was his ability to get other people to commit to his dream. Kelly Johnson died just before Christmas in 1990. Aviation, the art of aeronautics, began with the dreamers, inventors and daredevils who dared to defy gravity. The journey of aviation was nurtured by pioneers like the Wright brothers, whose first flight marked a historic milestone. The role of aircrafts in world wars was groundbreaking, dramatically changing warfare strategies. This initiated a technological evolution in aviation, transforming the simplistic wings of a biplane into the thunderous roar of jet engines. Let's journey through the ages of aviation. Behind every great aircraft, there were great minds. These visionaries, like Sir Frank Whittle, the innovator of the turbojet engine, redefined air travel. Then there's Skunk Works' Kelly Johnson, the genius behind the SR-71 Blackbird. His designs combined speed, stealth and power, crafting machines that dominated the heavens. The contributions of these pioneers have left an indelible mark on the canvas of aviation, shaping the course of history and inspiring generations of engineers and aviators. Each epoch in aviation history gave birth to extraordinary aircrafts, each with their own unique features and roles. The Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird was a marvel of speed and stealth. The F-105 Thunderchief, a supersonic fighter bomber, was vital in the Vietnam War. The P-51 Mustang, a long-range fighter, was critical in World War II. The P-47 Thunderbolt, a heavyweight fighter, was used extensively in the same war. The A-10 Thunderbolt II, the Warthog, is a close air support icon. The Messerschmitt ME-262 marked a leap forward in aviation technology. Each of these game changers were instrumental in their eras, and their legacies still resonate today. Beyond the game changers, there are those that have transcended their practical roles to become icons. The Concorde was not just an aircraft, it was a supersonic symbol of luxury and speed. The B-52 Stratofortress, a strategic bomber, is an icon of power and resilience. These magnificent machines and others like them have become much more than just aircrafts. They are enduring icons that encapsulate the audacious spirit, the relentless innovation and the boundless ambition that define the world of aviation. For more amazing aerial footage, and to join us in this incredible journey, check out the Dronescapes YouTube channel. If you enjoyed this video, please remember to like and subscribe. And as always, thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Oh. Oh. you