When things break, we have an opportunity. We can pick up the pieces or we can look for better ways to build. Covid broke everything. It put a spotlight in employment, education, and it showed how inequality Here in the US and around the world, They sent money to people directly They provided free Covid testing and expanded health care They gave money to businesses while much of the economy They offered debt relief who borrowed money to go to college. They did all of this and more or having a prolonged battle over the usual question To me, this was exciting, and I'm an economist, (Laughter) But as someone who's been trying about deficits and government spending, I saw this as an opportunity to show why government budgets Why all of their red ink And why our nation can afford even after spending trillions For a while, it looked like were starting to break the mold about deficits and taxes. But now here we are, just a handful of months and we're sliding back Can we build affordable housing Can we expand Medicare Can we tackle our climate crisis? As Congress debates these questions, how will you pay for it? It's the wrong question. In fact, the right questions Instead of worrying about we should be asking, and do we have the real resources, the raw materials Well, they make society better off. And do we have the political will to act? I'm one of a handful of economists who contributed to the body known as MMT or Modern Monetary Theory. MMT provides an accurate description of how a fiat currency like the US dollar It reminds us that we're so finding the money is never an issue If we're going to fix we have to fix the way we think Let me give you an example of the kind of broken that still permeates our discourse. Back in 1983, the prime minister said these words: &quot;If the state wishes to spend more, it can do so only by borrowing and it is no good thinking That someone else is you. There is no such thing as public money. There is only taxpayers' money.&quot; Maybe you've heard the contemporary &quot;There is no magic money tree.&quot; It's just another way of saying and that the taxpayer for whatever the government spends. It sounds worrying. As individuals, we know to go to college, we're personally saddled with that debt. We have to find the money to pay it back. Taking on too much personal debt Even small businesses have to walk a fine line But the federal government Unlike the rest of us, Congress never has to check to figure out whether As the issuer of the currency, the federal government It can afford to buy whatever is available Now that might mean a military arsenal Finding the votes to pass but finding the money is never a problem. They just create it. So here's how it works. Whenever Congress and the president the government's bank, works with the rest to get that money into our accounts. Everything's done electronically, so there's no physical printing If you got a 1,400-dollar check earlier this year, or if your company received money then you received some that were created to support our economy. No taxpayers were involved It was all done using nothing more So why are we hearing so much to pay for infrastructure In a word, deficits. We've all been conditioned so lawmakers are looking without adding to the deficit. That's what this whole Unfortunately, deficits They're almost always seen And I would like to change that. When we hear the word &quot;deficit,&quot; we probably think A deficit always sounds ominous. So when we hear just ran a three-trillion-dollar it can sound worrying. And it can even anger people. But there's another way Just as a six becomes a nine a government deficit when we look at it A deficit hawk might look at this picture and see nothing That's not how I look at it. Here's what I see. I see what's happening on the other side When the government spends it makes a financial contribution Their red ink is our black ink. When you look at it this way, it becomes clear that every deficit The question is for whom and what are those deficits It matters how the money is spent and who ends up Tax cuts that deliver huge windfalls without sparking for the rest of the population don't make good use of deficits. On the other hand, spending trillions to support put the deficit to good use. We just had the shortest To me, that was fiscally responsible. Being responsible shouldn't mean like a household. Instead of trying Congress should be focused That's the real limit on spending and it's the thing to watch out for if you're thinking on things like infrastructure, Instead of asking, Congress should be asking, To answer that question, think of people, factories, equipment If we're going to build high-speed rail, fix crumbling infrastructure then we'll need concrete, We'll need construction workers, We'll need companies that can fill EV charging stations If our economy has the productive capacity then we can easily resource it. Or take health care or free college. Paying the bills to expand Medicare, to include dental, The challenge is making sure we have enough dentists, to treat everyone who needs care. And if you want to resource free college, then you need the faculty, the classrooms and the dormitories In a full-employment economy, all of the resources you need are, well, fully employed. There's no spare capacity So if the government suddenly tried it would quickly discover or the building materials to do the work. To get the resources it needs, it would have to compete bidding up wages and prices. That would be inflationary We are a long way from full employment. We have the resources we need But we have to believe it's possible. We can't let words like debt With a better understanding where it comes from and how it works we can take aim at the many real deficits In every crisis lies an opportunity. We can pick up the pieces and try to reassemble the fragile systems or we can build anew, shaping our bountiful resources one that cares for our people I truly hope we choose to be bold. Thank you.