Hello, I would like to ask if there is an ancient temple nearby. I think it's an ancient temple. Thank you, uncle . What 's the matter ? Do you know if you've ever been to an ancient temple? Yes, but it's now in ruins. I'm just looking for the ruins. Why? Let's go. Go out of the east gate and walk ten miles. Thank you. You're welcome. Follow me. What are you going to do? What are you going to do in the ancient temple? It's none of your business where I go. Girl, do you have a piece of jade on your body? How do you know? So what if you have it? Now I give you a choice , life or jade, jade, life. If you have the ability, come and get me. Girl, I don't want to kill them all. Let's go quickly. Girl's martial arts is good, and her tone of voice is stronger. Hum, I, girl, use a knife to speak. Your knife is right now. You won't be able to speak. You know the weight of this knife, right? It's just brute force. This girl is much more visible. I'll let you die under my brute force today. What do you think? Man Niu has learned this girl's water-splitting knife technique. That's awesome. Very good . Then stop blocking this girl's road. Dead people can't walk . Wait, why are you so ruthless? You thought you were cutting down a tree? It made my girl's arms hurt. Don't you want jade? I just gave it to you. Do I need to be so cruel? If girl had given me the jade earlier, would I have to be so cruel to you? Then I wanted to chop off your head just now. Can you still get the jade? But now I want to chop it off. Get off your head, what I said just now is what I said just now, there is no just now, what is now, just now, give me the jade, give you the jade, you can go, give me the jade, I can go, it's a deal , it's a deal , you stinky girl. I dare to make an account. I didn't expect you to be so sharp. Damn girl, take out the jade. How can I have jade ? You said I have jade, right? I said I have jade. I have sharp teeth and a sharp mouth. I don't have the time to talk nonsense with you. Hurry up. Take out the jade , otherwise don't blame my ruthless bitch. Who are you? That's who you are. This girl doesn't need your help. I'm here to help you. You don't want to kill him sincerely . Why am I meddling in this business? You know what? He can't kill him at all. I have three chances to kill you. You are talking nonsense. I am talking nonsense . Ask him. You are talking nonsense. You are looking for death. I will bear it. I have watched you for a long time. Don't be embarrassed to admit it. Since you know I am in danger, why didn't you come out to save me earlier? He doesn't want to kill you. Why did I come out to save you? Then why are you coming out now? He has had enough fun with you. Now if you don't give him some warning, he will really take action. Is n't it a long time? I'll kill you first today. This guy really shows mercy to me, Mr. Baiyun, you're here too, come on, why haven't you killed him yet ? Don't you think that little girl is pretty and you can't bear to kill her ? Yoshino-kun also knows how to show mercy to her, pay attention to who they are, Japanese , and you are What kind of person do you think you are? Good person, of course you are a better person than you. Why are you laughing? I am laughing at a good person and a better person being chased by the Japanese. Can't you kill that bull? Then you still run away from me. I took you to run for a reason. Do you know why? The team leader could n't run even if he wanted to. They are a group and you couldn't kill two idiots. The team leader was reported to be Yoshino Jun. He was merciful to that stinky girl and delayed the results. You are talking nonsense. He can't kill me at all. Is this the case because this girl showed mercy to him? Yoshino Jun. Stop it . That little girl is too cunning. Look, I'm not talking nonsense. Brother, run away. What should you do? I can't run until you run away. Then you can't run away, do you still need me to do something? Hey, bastard , are you okay? You're finally here. Who are you? Liao Qianshan. I've been waiting for you two here for several days. I know you two know each other . Did you two also go to the ancient temple? Oh , by the way, how far is the ancient temple from here? It's less than 5 miles. It's so close. Well, then you can take us there. Come on, Mr. Fang. They are Fang Jie. What's going on? Who are they? They are friends. Who is he? He is the same as us. This time the rain is his, shouldn't he take it all out?