Stringing, bubbles and oozing nozzles are I've been testing quite a lot of different often had the problem that materials already some trouble, so today we'll go into details print quality and improve the strength of Guten Tag everybody, I'm Stefan and welcome During my filament test series and also in the problem that the print quality wasn't the tests. After taking a closer look at the samples up moisture from the air causing these problems. In this video I'll go into more details, intake and how you are able to notice it, can dry out your precious filaments properly. Sanjay from E3D contacted me a couple of weeks of moist filament of their spoolWorks EDGE so I took an old roll of this material and conditions: in the condition it was after left outside after drying for a couple of where I stored a sample in a very humid atmosphere I analyzed not only printing quality but also as the influence on impact resistance. Before we perform the real-life test let's by moisture. Basically, all polymers can take up water. Some more than others and with different effects Most prominently there are probably Nylon, know that it's not a good idea to store But also your ABS, ASA and co-polyesters like investigate in more details, take up water and material properties. Even though I also store most of my PLA filaments of PLA it can be negatively affected as well. The main phenomenons that are happening with and hydrolysis. If a material it wet, the stored moisture inconsistent extrusion result and voids in Polymers, as the name already suggests consist that give them their properties. If moist material becomes molten in your hotend, polymer chains get cracked up by the water and for example causes the prints to become I deal with this problem in a way that I store where I added bigger quantities of descant gasket. Critical materials like nylons are even directly they can get bad even in a couple of hours If you want to build a filament box on your Even though you've just been taken your you stored it properly there is still a chance So how can you judge if your filament is wet Well first, take a look at the nozzle when If the molten plastic is not a nice strand surface it's probably bad. Additionally, as soon as the extruder gear also stop. If material keeps oozing out of it and it moist. Also listen closely, because you can sometimes This is all caused by the water basically bubbles. While you print take a look at the outer perimeter bubbles you know that something is wrong and of moist filament. Okay, so you noticed that you precious material What can you do? Even though storing the rolls with lots of a bit, you won't be getting it totally dry. The proper way is putting it in an oven, use for that job. They all work with the same principal by heating humidity. When being hot, the material also releases I've got a good electric stove in my kitchen and I know that the set temperature is around If you don't have a similar one or don't with your filaments then a food dehydrator I had to slightly modify mine to make the is around 10degC lower than the set one with The temperature you set should be a little with a reasonable margin of safety. For PLA I usually use 45degC, PETG dries at 80degC. As an indicator if your drier is too spool. If it gets soft and deforms I know that the Also make sure that your spool is also able I, for example, have some ABS on a recycled at around 45degC. The lower your temperature A good 6 to 12 hours is usually sufficient. In one run a weight the rolls in regular intervals You can see that depending on the amount of fast and then tends towards the really dry a difference measurable. Unfortunately, my kitchen scale doesn't don't show the very small changes towards Out of curiosity I also measured the energy method. The food dehydrator that I set to 65degC but runtime, so an average of 100W. My kitchen stove was a bit harder to measure 120W at real 65degC. So both methods seem to run of 12h here in Germany costs me around Finally we come to the really interesting that I purchased almost 2 years ago and tested storage box, then after drying, then I left to really loading it with moisture by storing towel. EDGE is a co-polyester and from its properties filaments. I prepared a build job which featured a 3D there were two test hooks on the plate which and finally I printed 3 impact test samples brittle in any state. I used exactly the same GCODE file for all The first thing which was directly obvious was horrible and showed lots of stringing. My untreated filament and the one I just left showed a little bit of stringiness. The dried filament at last had an outstanding or problems. The strength of the lying hooks where the pretty much the same and doesn't seem to Also, in this static test there wasn't any quite a bit before failure. The standing hook showed a significant difference was almost 40% weaker than the rest, so layer only if your really store the material poorly. Taking a look at the impact strength was also each we really have a bit of statistics and noticeably worse than the rest. All other ones were in the same range. So what can we learn from that? I guess the print quality difference is quite reason for keeping the filament dry but even even if not thaaat much, if you store the As I said, these results are for a PETG-like its moisture problem and trust me, with materials Depending on where you are living it might storage in a humid summer. Let me know if you'd like to see a similar Wow, this again became quite a bit longer able to show you why it is a good idea to and if they got wet, how you can basically If you enjoyed the video then please don't for more. If you want to support the making of these check out the affiliate links below. Also don't forget to take a look at my other Thanks for watching, auf wiedersehen and I