We're going to be talking about dealing with When it comes to Deliverance, Christians aren't demons. Egyptians, Persians, Canaanites and the and remove demons. In fact, even in Dead Sea We see that David wrote songs about casting out about that. Exorcism, Deliverance was practiced become a lost art in the church. But if you Mark and Luke, if you look at synoptic gospels, contain instances and references to demonic gospels refer to deliverance and the demons. and something that we have to kind a Deliverance Minister. Jesus was casting out and in the first century, sometimes I hear people Epistles, in the book of Acts and then emphasis Actually in the first century, there was a little expected and it was the apostolic Ministry. apostles was still felt and so there was no need the church moved further from the influence of the importance of Deliverance. I'm going to read one in the second century, Justin Martyr and For the numberless demoniacs so demonized people many of our Christian men exorcising them in Pontius Pilate have been healed and do heal, devils out of the men though they could not be used incarnations and drugs. So pretty much that church is driving out demons in the name the ministry of Deliverance and people are being these deliverances are happening to people who people trying to do Deliverance on them like, concerning Muslims doing Deliverance on people Deliverance. People in New Age are attempting to Jesus's name is the only thing that's powerful. another church father Origen church father in the name of Jesus has already been seen in of evil spirits from souls and bodies. So guys that it has become today. It's not supposed to be wants to restore that it's not about only casting that you may say so why are you emphasizing that? being emphasized as much and because some people us to do it in a way that's balanced. In the way glorifies the name of Jesus and helps people that Deliverance, as you start going into the ministry you will come across this problem. There are some them stubborn demons. But they seem to be there. confront stubborn demons and so that's what we're take our experience. I want to actually look at in to see how Jesus dealt with one case of two men legion and the reason why I'm going to bring this because Jesus commanded demons to go and they did for yourself. Don't take my word for it. Read This doesn't mean that Jesus didn't have any Jesus commands the demons to come out and they to look at today. Now, before we address the groundwork. The first thing that I want to the New King James Version is the word that is first of all is because in Mark chapter 5 verse In Matthew chapter 8 verse 28 it says, two 30 is 27 it says, who had demons meaning I want you to see the difference, the reference is right, two people actually that are possessed but a man who had demons. So demon-possessed men interchangeably with a man with an unclean spirit that important to highlight? Because the original and especially in the gospels the word for I think that's the correct word. I'm not Greek New Testament exclusively in the gospels seven once in Luke and in John. This word means many not the best translation of that for us because out. So we're like yes of course Christians cannot it says in one reference, possessed man. In spirit and the other references says, one mean original word means to be under the Even the word 'possessed' does not carry because Christians many times have fought possessed? Well, no. Christians cannot be owned a demon. So I want to lay this foundation first inside of a person, they can control a person. influence a person. For example, when you have it comes inside of a person but it influences you demons are. When you get Demons inside, It's like can control you. Same thing with the thief, when inside of the house but it doesn't own the house. it doesn't mean that the demon owns a Christian. Christian and that demon needs to be driven out of to be delivered from that demon and the Bible uses really means demonized meaning being under People can have demons on the inside of them and demons on the inside of you is control. Demons on they control. Now some of you may be asking, darkness cannot coexist together. Well, the Bible says that light and darkness doesn't doesn't have communion and that is used in the be unequally yoked with unbelievers. Now do you an unbeliever? I do. So it's not something it's something that Christians are encouraged not something that you shouldn't and then Paul uses a don't have communion. Righteousness and Paul is not saying righteousness and lawlessness coexist but it says that they cannot have a don't coexist then how can we evangelize. We covenant with them. Light and darkness can coexist lawlessness can coexist but they don't have cannot drive out light but light can drive righteousness but righteousness can overcome but Christ in a Christian can drive out demons. wanted to highlight is this is that you can have okay to what degree they control you, the kind of legal right, generational curses, soul There could be extreme levels of control that the the New Testament. Now I understand I'm going to distinction in the New Testament between oppressed common language demonized, meaning controlled by a have studied Greek, one of them is Derek Prince that word has nothing to do with ownership. It a non-Christian has a demon, it's about control devil because they don't belong to Jesus Christ demon gets inside whether through an open door these demons can be cast out and the person can into. We had a girl that lived with us with me and few other things and she left the window open and a service in the park, we come back and I hear the room that she stayed in, the window is wide open. turned over but nothing was taken except the car. thief stole the car okay, now when the thief got but he was still on the inside. So a Christian can in sin, if they open doors to demons, demons will going to Pentecostal church and your dad being a don't live holy, if you don't live righteous you way as if you don't live holy and righteous you and you can open the door to demons and so but it's just simply means that they will torment there's freedom and there's Deliverance Amen. drop number one in the chat and drop a fire someone you're just tuning in make sure that re-watching let us know in the comments below. mentioned is that what we call demon possession is if we are very honest in the Scripture, it does in this very bad category and then there's the a lighter category. It's just people can have a demon has over them and so that's what we see I want to highlight and this is the most common know I have a demon. So when I look at the story story of this two men who had a legion of demons, In the other gospels, synoptic gospels, they were and someone who had an unclean spirit, how would ways to know. The first one is through the gift has a demon? Through the gift of discernment. God gifts is Discerning of spirits. Now this gift God's Spirit or angels and human spirit but it if somebody has a demon or if you have a demon Jesus comes on the scene, He arrives on the who was living among the tombs, who somebody can look at him and diagnose him with schizophrenia but the moment that's another way to know that somebody has a offered. There are many people that have demons ever taught them that and offered them solution, on medication or they're going all their life to control these compulsive thoughts and then the presence of powerful ministers and men and and these people start to manifest and oh I've been going through all this stuff they are demonic. But they didn't know that prayer, I call them confrontational prayers was I've seen it happen in our conferences where presence of the Holy Spirit during a sermon and they want to run, they want to yell and they and they just scream out. Some people from whichever background and they say, I don't know dignified you know, very calm reserved people and when you turn up the heat, when the fire is become tormented and they are exposed. Now some in the service but I think it's very important actually do not want to manifest, they don't want they are hidden, they can continue to do their When demons manifest the person battling with to know that some of these problems they've but actually there's somebody else causing these the fire of God that causes them to manifest now I have a demon because I am manifesting all demon because it's not manifesting but when it's you got to be set free. It's very clear, plain and demon, it's not only the demons manifesting so guys with demons manifest. So it's very clear you you're just looking they're manifesting that's demons manifesting but we call that the Holy barking like a dog on the floor you or saliva coming out or coughing non-stop you can be pretty much certain, overflowing, it's an evil spirit that's my younger days where people would come even and and they would come and they would who don't understand Deliverance, they not more we need less of that. We need Deliverance hysterically laughing at you like just like, it's I believe that sometimes people even left but this is different, it's mocking laughter So how do we know somebody has a demon? Well Jesus shows up, they manifest. We said but the last one is through the activities of they were naked, lived among tombs, they were chains and they broke them. They needed somebody themselves and they were driven by demons into the that's pretty much a portfolio right there, that's know this is pretty much enough symptoms or signs when you have intrusive thoughts, when you are when you have these things happening around Paranormal Activity, when you have all of these have a demon even if you don't manifest. You first thing that we highlighted right now, the and having a demon does not mean you're owned in them doesn't mean that alcohol owns them. A thief now is on the title deed of your house. So thing is we mentioned is that demons manifest when don't manifest you can still know if they are or through the gift of discernment. In the case presence caused them to manifest and the signs in And the third part is the one about Jesus highlight that on the way to the Deliverance with they were actually almost like dying. Jesus rebukes the storm. It's interesting because So I believe that demons were responsible for the there was already an attack. Demons, is going to happen to us and so they wanted to got up and rebuked that storm and that's what doing deliverance, stubborn demon deliverance you might encounter a storm and I've seen almost every person that is doing Deliverance or I call them stubborn demons, on the way to their guys ever experienced that when you were on the you run out of gas, you know somebody calls be admitted to emergency. I've seen it all the enemy wants to frustrate you, so that you don't you persevere through that when you are about to a storm, so you have to take authority even on the there. Don't let the enemy stop you and this is my from getting to your deliverance. I'm not saying where you can be delivered. These stubborn demons these two men from getting to Jesus. They and they didn't stop men from getting to Jesus. got to the men but when He arrived there, the and they got on their knees, worshiped Him okay if you know anything about the enemy you know one okay, so if you think that demons made these they draw us away from Jesus not to Jesus. Demons draw us away from Jesus. Oh Isaiah, thank to Isaiah. Go subscribe to Isaiah's channel, so I love you bro. So demons they can't stop these these men came and worshiped Jesus. The only admit that they are in bondage. A lot of times deceive us that we don't need to be delivered demons to hold us back from our deliverance at you know you either get a phone call or you have opposite maybe you finally get this breakthrough appointment to go for deliverance you're like, oh problem fixed the devil just gave you a Band-Aid so these two men, they were running to Jesus maybe they probably didn't get tormented that day experienced relief. We don't need to be delivered. don't want to be embarrassed. What if it gets all of these lies the enemy will feed you to get to dealing with difficult demons and these the difficult demons to get to Jesus. That's dealing right now with getting delivered. We're which is very important. Something that it kind of changed something for me, he said this, control are more powerful than the parts that they now. The parts of your life that demons do not do. In fact what Reverend Dr Bob Larson told me controls 99 of your life, we're not talking about control if he controls 99 of your life, the than the 99 that he does control. The human will and therefore you can use the and push yourself, drive yourself, get yourself, have somebody take you to the Deliverance Place, Deliverance whoever get there if a legion is 6826 running to Jesus and worshiping Jesus, I am They shouldn't keep you. Don't believe the lie even if they are in control in some areas, deliverance. Now they will try but they shouldn't any Deliverance at all from their stubborn demons block for them to get to Deliverance. You will paralyze that resistance with persistence and get to Jesus and her daughter was demonized, Jesus was ignoring her, this would be a No, that woman, she didn't give up. She persevered to set her daughter free and that's what God has Jesus name. Come on somebody! Is this helping one in the chat, drop that fire Emoji, go ahead as well if you are re-watching, make sure you let you guys in the in the chat on YouTube already really appreciate your support. Now we're getting Number four, most demons will leave quickly but you're this is not a shock okay or a surprise, people are afraid of stubborn demons so they don't demons. But majority of the time your demons that not going to be stubborn but every once in I want to highlight that this case of Jesus was a stubborn case not because there were so the Bible says the demons spoke out. Now I never and I shared this with my wife and interesting insight Luke chapter 8 verse 28, but in the next verse 29, it says this, for He of the man. So demons speak out and the next spirits to come out. So demons are speaking Now did you catch this? They didn't come out. they spoke out and Jesus starts an interrogation who already caught that, please be patient and Luke chapter 8 verse 29 it says that, they speak out. Why is that important? Because more difficult cases. Now did Jesus ever fail but this becomes a good example that Jesus commands them out. They don't come out has an interrogation with them, which we will talk that don't take it personally when you're doing Don't believe into this lie or don't let the enemy wrong. Even though sometimes there are a few the part of why demons don't leave okay. The first maybe dealing with the demon at all. Now this may and we've encountered that where you are attacking you're dealing with the mental illness or their personality or somebody else's personality when the only tools in your toolbox is casting and it's not correct. Just because it it's important to not to jump and the opposite it's better to be skeptical if person coughed or they shook that it's a everything is a demon. Not really. I remember one and they brought me in, Vlad come over help her out. Begin to deliver her and I said, I that's all I asked and the husband said, oh she anytime she gets exposed to particular lights and and so I asked the team, I said pull back. both mental illness and a demon 100 but it's and you take a little bit of time and find they brought a boy to Jesus who had a mental He asked the father, how long this has this What has happened to him? What's the That's why it's important that we talk to people then we actually ask them, Hey have you been to have you been put on medication, okay when I remember praying for one case actually, I praying for this girl who honestly haven't taken audacity to tell her to not take that medication and no question that she had a demon. She probably were not dealing with the demon. It didn't respond whatsoever to the authority of the name of Jesus. of times and it didn't look, it wouldn't look four that I would call them three, four things disrespects the name of Jesus because demons they violent, demons are violent but the moment it typically not the demons, it's the mental illness as well and wants to hit your split personality you would look for and there's many more that it's and actually talk to the person and see what's help them to get in the healthy state so that disorder or a personality split okay and this is spend eight hours straight or sometimes when we know, we bound a person physically it was, we and during the night you know, he came and he did particular drugs that made him just hallucinate the only thing you do is Deliverance. You start reason why is because he would punch the walls. he would curse and lie and just like just really almost all night and then in the morning, we got brought him to a institution or whatever the thing came out and then he eventually received his because he was actually high in drugs and so, did doing the deliverance and it wasn't because we we were encountering a drug addict, somebody on just because somebody manifests and you're not is this person on drugs right now. Now, can Does this person have mental illness? When was person have a split personality as well and so be weary of just this is not us saying oh this is blame it on somebody else. This is us doing second thing of maybe that demons are not leaving, are actually too strong. Now something that I when a demon leaves a person not as cast out but wicked, demons more wicked and that speaks or seven other more wicked that tells us that some Some have higher ranking, have more power in them The fact that seven more, seven other more is the name of Jesus more powerful than any demon? with, Can His name, we're just dealing with the are dealing probably with something that is just and that could just take a little bit longer homework or a little bit more of working with cases you're really dealing with more demons and demon-possessed man, I mean they had a legion okay 6,000 weak demons and you have a pretty much a no problem for Jesus. But it's still a problem for more work with this person but sometimes you can actually the more wicked demons that it could this person to experience freedom and maybe you and more wicked demons that it will just take would be longer for you to receive your complete wouldn't leave is because number one is that demon. Number two is that you're dealing with The third reason is lack of faith on your chapter 17 verse 20, when disciples had a failed that you couldn't drive this demon out. no faith in Jesus's ability to use you to deliver to not doubt God's Authority in you, when the things that stubborn demons will test is and you begin to entertain these thoughts and your thoughts without you giving them permission your face, facial expressions and the tone of your voice. The moment you yield into that, that happen. Man, I should have prayed more and all of pretty much yielding to lack of faith and lack of and so don't doubt God's Authority inside of very powerful inside of you okay, the enemy will service, I think it was last weekend yeah and praying for deliverance you know nothing was as I started praying more, Holy Spirit just more with this person and you know the person and then the demon just threw this mocking you're nobody and all of this stuff and so and twice and I've heard all kinds of bad stuff doesn't affect me anymore and I actually started Deliverance is a serious matter and I am very I don't do this stuff but this time I just had out okay, so I wasn't like hysterically laughing you're a demon, you have no idea this has nothing Vlad. I have faith in the Holy Spirit. I have laughter come out just a little bit and within, on the floor and the person, I believe the person in you. If you do, some demons won't leave, in you, they'll see it right through you that that you are doubting, that you are not convinced, come out and so be sure be confident, stand your you're not powerful enough. I will never leave to throw you off balance, stand your ground supposed to be in this place and this person The fourth thing that happens of why demons the Lord is weak. Matthew 17 verse 21 after Jesus He says but this kind leaves by prayer and mainly relates to prayer to unbelief that unbelief really believe in that. The reason being is and fasting but it's dealt with trusting in God's the difference between Jesus and disciples that 24 hours in on the mountain fasting most likely He spent time with God in prayer and disciples dealing with deliverance and they were not very into ourselves and feeling guilty but if you keep maybe it's time to kind of we look at your life. your life? Is there prayer? Are you living a life to God? Sometimes, demons are too strong and other in Christ in us and sometimes when you have a your faith you know because you lack confidence. Lord. You don't live your life in a way that walk in great faith. I believe as a Christian and so now you can try to you know kind of fill I have great faith you know Christ is in me and of people practicing lawlessness and casting out okay you can't do this for a long time, you might time. It will backfire if you live a conscious which gives me an opportunity take a little pause tuning in, I want to remind you that we are having you're seeing that on the screen right now, we are of you who feel like your spiritual batteries be a good moment to start preparing for that long. Not everybody can fast at all. But majority begin to prayerfully consider that to do that, let yourself in prayer and fasting. All you have Sign up for Challenge and it's completely a part of this group that will do this fast. the person receiving Deliverance has not met Sometimes it's as simple as they have not The soul tie wasn't broken. Generational curses in their house. Sometimes you're doing a object in their pocket. Sometimes you're doing a actually habitually and consciously lives need to renounce and they need to forgive. it's difficult. It seems like, I can't get I ask the person, Hey is there anything that you Lord bringing anything to your mind? Have you Are you currently living in things that are not things, then I lead them through the prayer and person hasn't met the conditions for deliverance out you know sometimes you just save your voice and see what's happening there and then see if with, something else uprooted, renounced and now let's bring it to the last point and the last with Deliverance process of stubborn demons. So controlled by a demon but they're not owned and thieves. We've mentioned already that no get to your deliverance. They will try to create let them do that. We have also mentioned that how manifest during prayer or if there are activities probably have an unclean spirit. We mentioned that for people who do Deliverance. It happened even a little interview with the person. Don't just bit of skepticism which is healthy, it's not bad that you don't believe the person saying that investigation and a little bit more of asking Bible does say that some demons there are more just dealing with one, maybe you're dealing with will smell if you lack confidence in the authority confident in Jesus's Authority. Don't neglect your person you're dealing, the Deliverance with has sometimes Deliverance where the person doesn't them to be delivered and we would do deliverance home that night and actually do exactly the very next day we would deal with demons more powerful powerful demons is because the person went back with way more fiercer and I remember, I dealt almost every day or every other day, deliverance I just stopped afterwards and we kind of told we'll be here but you're not ready to walk away so we can help you. I'm sorry man but keep if you want to keep that open door and so because hours every single day for you to only exactly the same thing that got those demons you're walking in prayer and fasting. You're not with demons that are more stronger, more wicked. your best understanding. What do you do then? and command the demon to reveal. Why it's there Jesus actually did that. Now He didn't in this but we know that He asked the questions and that you can practice and do and that command it to tell why it's not going that the demon says of why it's not leaving no this person hasn't forgiven then you deal with you must understand that we're not talking to have a calm voice. I'm talking to you. I hear your not screaming at you, I'm not interrogating okay. Now when you're interrogating a demon, Now there are Ministries who would say you know let demons speak out like, bind the manifestations demons to be silent but Jesus said for demons the next verse you would see Jesus telling people reason He did not want His fame and His notoriety not necessarily to be well accepted and liked whom He healed, don't tell anybody but after everybody about Him but in the land of Gentiles, because it's a different territory. In fact, He tell everybody that you got delivered. So almost don't let the demon speak was specifically for the Jesus did not want His divinity or that He is you and I are supposed to be spreading the to be better at evangelism than some of us okay, in Jesus's humanity and Divinity and people still Oh Jesus was the son of God, Jesus you know was not human and then Jesus was God but Jesus was two things. Demons didn't have a problem with to be the foundation of people's belief and He you can in interrogate demons because Jesus did. demons during a difficult case because they can Now you may say Vlad but demons lie. It's true unclean spirits but in every case in synoptic truth. They didn't lie when the fire of God is the truth. Now do we take everything the demons compare it with God's word and you force them to Vlad I don't want to hear what demons say, I'm the area of Deliverance, if you only act on the will be also misguided as much as if you only rely people to not rely on the prophetic and not to you rely a little bit on both on the Holy force them to tell the truth. Now I understand you don't want us to rely on the Jesus could have easily relied on the prophetic there. I know it's a legion. No, He asked now that He knew yeah I'm pretty sure that He did people during Deliverance do some really shady is equal okay, there's some genuine prophets and and I remember one lady and this happened in anymore and this girl is manifesting and it was a we couldn't just, we just had a difficult case and in her stomach and she says I know why she's not spirit of abortion like she says God said, it's talked to the girl and you know she's like I've best understanding never had an abortion and who do you blame, of course not the prophet. be lying but the prophet can't be lying because The Bible says to judge prophetic words and so 100 on the Holy Spirit but also if you're dealing and tell the demon to tell you of why it's there, is the illegal ride. Sometimes in some cases, I I actually when the demon reveals why it's there demon is not leaving and then I come back to the right and then the demon will say, No they said actually Bob Larson does that is I would actually bind myself with my kind and we go together or we to the pit and I make the demon pronounce Bob Larson's Ministry and then once the demon says Sometimes we can ask God to release His angels you gotta go because you just pronounce that of how the Demonic interrogation could help in a the time probably not. But it does help in that The last thing that I would highlight is to the pretty much at the end is that you tell the demons not want to go into the abyss. They begged him out into the abyss. Abyss is the term for the as the realm of the dead. In the New Testament, for scorpions and for spirits. Now we don't really There's different versions and I've read quite but I don't really know why. I do know that we and so for them to be tormented. We do know from control, enter into animals and they are really always are looking for a body something that I delivered not everyone is going to be happy about bring such a great joy to everybody. In fact a lot to leave and this man who was delivered, Genuine delivered when they want to follow Jesus after to pretty much leave his neighborhood, his country really know that you are delivered okay, when If you're delivered and all you want to do is delivered okay, maybe you are delivered but you need to die to yourself but genuine Deliverance passionately and this story of this is that Jesus does not let this demonized He doesn't go back home. So imagine this, training. He has not been discipled, imagine where he was tormented. Can you imagine our culture talks about triggers today, you know seeing the same place, the same people who didn't Imagine looking at the person who lost all and Jesus sends him back home to tell doesn't know much about Jesus He doesn't know what to preach except that I that tells me that sometimes genuine The fear of, oh what if I go back, don't live like No, it's about you following Jesus in Even if you're in a place where there is no local real Deliverance is. I heard one Pastor said this man eventually started the church there and because of this man's testimony whether that's thing is certain is Jesus pretty much sent without proper discipleship back into the region back to that region because the demons though They entered the pigs but they killed pigs. and they'll settle for an animal body but they can't do their work without being in the body. and I think Jesus sent that man back to the are in that region and I think a lot of or would be harassing a lot of people and contrast with whatever demonic influence that was and bring people hope because as the devil sent Yes Jesus permitted that we don't know why. and the people in that region did not want Jesus people and maybe you are the witness in your maybe you are the witness in your family, will deliverance and nobody understands you. You Nobody wants that message. Nobody wants what you and I'm leaving and I'm going to HungryGen. but make sure you follow the Holy Spirit. Does you to stay in that region, to stay in that church you can be the Difference Maker. Maybe you say but I'm not equipped. Well, can I ask you a question? from a legion and his friend, two men the Bible They simply encountered God and sometimes you You get to podcasts like these, live with equipment with training and you can go and deliverance on other people because you've for somebody. They needed to hear that so now Has this been a blessing to anybody? Have you anybody of what you were hearing today. If you in the comments below if this was a blessing to let me know that and we are going to We're just going to start praying in just a a blessing, drop number one, drop that fire Emoji. have not shared this broadcast yet make sure you I do believe the presence of Jesus is in this and even throughout this day, that today is going and I'm trusting that the Holy Spirit is going share, let's go ahead and like, let's go ahead subscribe and then let's go into prayer in just a that prayer. Come on somebody! And before we you guys so much for your giving. I want to say The funds will will go to help us release all around the world. We translate our books, we and as well as into Romanian language right now, and language in India and so really excited honestly guys, because of people like you, even into Russian and Spanish. It's already released I'm able to have this team because of your giving. who's been doing that during this holiday season, heart or if you feel led to do that, you're the cash app, venmo, PayPal, crypto website Lord I Thank You for Your Grace. Come on let's upon your yourself or your head, Lord in Jesus for Your grace, thank you for Your kindness that Lord I Thank you that You gave Yourself for our I pray right now for every single person that is broadcast, that is listening to this broadcast on Spirit of the Living God come into the room right come into those earphones in the gym on that run I bind every unclean spirit that is tormenting I take authority over every stubborn demon, abusing you. Every spirit that is attacking sexuality, your thoughts, your mind, every Spirit right now come out in Jesus name. Loose your grip. Be uprooted. Be In the mighty name of the Lord, I break your grip spouses to come out right now in Jesus name, purity, harassing somebody's sleep, causing that Lilith, that night spirit in Jesus mighty lose your grip right now, come out in Jesus mighty I command every spirit of fear to come out in and anxiety to come out in Jesus mighty name. in Jesus mighty name. I command every Spirit of out in Jesus mighty name. You, unclean spirit that's causing problems in the joints in Jesus mighty name of Jesus, come out right now. Come out Loose your grip off of this person You spirit of pharaoh, let God's people go come up and out right now. You spirit of mighty name. I take authority of whatever every spirit of perversion, every spirit of come up and out in Jesus mighty name. Come up and Holy Spirit fire! Holy Spirit fire in Jesus name. every spirit of scorpion, every spirit every spiritual viper come out right now in Jesus in the name of Jesus. Come on. Place Come out in Jesus mighty name. Come out of Holy Ghost fire in Jesus name. Some it's fine. If there's somebody near you, for you but just be free right now, cuff it out, way just get it out of you right now in the Be free in the name of Jesus. A spirit of perversion come Intrusive thoughts, hearing somebody like be free right now, that unclean Spirit That unclean Spirit of heaviness Deaf and dumb spirit come out in Jesus name. Every spirit that is causing set back, destiny thief, destiny stealer in Jesus Be free in Jesus mighty name. Be Holy Spirit fire in Jesus mighty Come on drop that in the chat, I receive. I know in the comments of what's happening to you. I a Deliverance that is taking place, just