[thundering footsteps] [trumpets] [narrator] Mammoths are staging [mammoths call] They're turning up everywhere. We've known about them forever. [trumpets] They were the obsession And now we're getting closer than ever When you smell this... Can we get close enough to uncover the truth [they gasp] Oh, it's heavy! Or even resurrect one in the lab? Would the boy in me like to see a mammoth? They conquered the earth. Why did they disappear? The National Museum of Natural History during the French revolution. This particular area It's a popular destination for tourists But for one man, it's a cathedral. Dick Mol was born in the Netherlands He was all of 14 when he dug up [Mol translation] After high school there wasn't enough so Mol went to work While there he trained to be a specialist in the international That meant spending a lot of time But Mol never lost his boyhood fascination Today he's known worldwide as Mr The most professional amateur Scientists from all over the globe to discuss mammoth issues Throughout his career, Mol has cataloged dredged from the bottom of the North Sea. And that's where he is today. He's jumped on board a trawler en route to the North Sea. [seabirds cry] His target area the shipping lanes Mol is an opportunist. He knows the harbor seabed must be routinely to a depth of over 80 feet to keep the giant cargo vessels afloat. And along with the sea creatures and silt, the dredging often dislodges The trawler's nets comb the ocean floor snagging a variety Then Mol and crew Mol has relied on this technique And with good reason... it works. Today his ice age bycatch It's a good day for Mol, but still, it's another small piece Woolly mammoths roamed the planet The last holdouts vanished from Siberia [wind whistles] What caused the die off? The story begins at the last ice age, It began about 1.8 million years ago and lasted until about 11,700 years ago. The continents had already moved Sheets of ice covered large parts The climate was much colder and drier Average global temperatures were about below today's norms. Most of the water on Earth's surface Rainfall was about half Sea levels sank almost 400 feet. Whole bodies of water dried up or froze. The British Isles became part One ice age feature was an area known Steppes are areas too dry but not dry enough to become desert. And they're ideal environments The tundra steppe developed into It stretched across northern Asia, Europe [birds cry] But some smaller regions seem like They just keep producing bones. And one of them is the Rotterdam harbor. Mol keeps getting results. Along with the mammoth jaw, Mol uncovers a couple of teeth And a series of bones, including a leg [speaking Dutch] Then Mol hits paydirt. The tusk of a mammoth bull. Tusks are like mammoth diaries. They contain a record Mol will keep a careful eye until he can have it analyzed. For him, it's another bit of evidence With so many specimens scientists have been able on these prehistoric pachyderms. [footsteps thud] They know that the woolly mammoth was the last in a line Here's what happened. The first mammoths rumbled out of Africa Experts believe that years of drought No rain meant no food So the mammoths moved north They were called southern mammoths because the first fossils of one [trumpets] With a shoulder height of roughly 13 feet, the southern mammoths In the early Pleistocene, a group of southern mammoths and crossed into North America By the middle of the Pleistocene, the imperial mammoth. Then, in the late Pleistocene, Its range covered and as far south Meanwhile, back in Eurasia, the steppe mammoth evolved, a stage-post on the way It was here, later in the Pleistocene, By mammoth standards it was pint-sized, but tough enough to cross and travel as far south Along the way it developed a multi-layered This huge animal was covered with fur. And in lifetime it looks like this: fur of a woolly mammoth. Fine wool immediately on the skin and over it, like a raincoat, giving the animal And those coats came in many colors. Some were blonde, many reddish-brown, and others almost black. They also carried a signature scent. [sniffs] When you smell this, You know exactly [mammoths snort] At their peak, woolly mammoths three quarters of the globe. [trumpets] Along the way there had been But the fundamental building blocks When its DNA was mapped in 2008, it showed that the woolly mammoth are 99% identical. Pregnant elephant females So two years in the womb meant mammoths, like elephants, could produce a new calf And since the woolly mammoth as its modern elephant cousins, it's easy to envision African elephants either feeding or moving toward They can consume up to 660 pounds of food and 40 gallons of water a day. And after all of that intake they unload up to 400 pounds Mammoths were herbivores, surviving on a purely plant-based diet Other animals benefited They not only grazed the steppe, they fertilized it and provided easy meals But they left more than dung behind. Over the years, tens of thousands Most are wisdom teeth. And it turns out there's wisdom By following the teeth trails, scientists have been able of different mammoth species. In fact, the only reliable way to identify is by the number of enamel ridges Early mammoths had few ridges. As new species evolved, to grind up a wider variety of vegetation. Woolly mammoths got six molars on These molars had high crowns and lots of these thin enamel to grind down the tough grasses When the last tooth was worn away, The animal starved. Like their elephant cousins, They travelled the steppe in herds, Alongside the alpha female, younger females, calves and young bulls Adult mammoth bulls patrolled They could weigh and reach a shoulder height They looked similar except for their tusks, which were much Mammoths used their tusks to dig for food. But more often, used to intimidate [roaring] The tusks featured dramatic curves [trumpets] [excited chatter] And they're still turning up. Sometimes people find themselves face to face And when they do, Northern Canada. The Yukon River Valley. Mammoth hunter Dick Mol the famed center Dawson lies at the confluence The gold rush began in 1896 But during those years, men chasing They harvested huge mammoth bones The area was likely an ice age But for a lot of mammoths, Today the city operates and caters mostly to tourists. Mol is here to work the Yukon state paleontologist. Zazula knows the area and the people. He'll be Mol's guide as well as The search for gold hasn't disappeared. As long as the price stays high a few die-hards will keep toughing it out, First stop is local mine owner, He's a fossil hunter as well and Look at this. ...and his gold, to the experts. -Is this real gold? -That's from your mine? Well, now... [they laugh] Here, feel the weight of it. Wow. [Zazula] That's huge. [Mol] And heavy, I can tell you. But you have more than this I guess. Oh wow. This is what I like -[laughter] Oh, this is a good one. -Yes. -[Zazula] Where's the rest of the bone? The next stop is a bit less pleasant. Mining has become a highly mechanized, This form is called hydraulic mining. The miners use high pressure jets of water Then they hose the muck One distraction is the foul smell All the plants and animals are now starting to thaw. Zazula initially set out to study the first humans to cross But along the way, he became those first people encountered. So he switched gears And this is where the action is. Look, it's a horse skull [Mol] It looks entirely complete. An ice age horse skull... And an Arctic ground squirrel This nest is exciting too it also has seeds that were cached So as part of their spring ritual, when they wake up from hibernation So they cache seeds in the fall [Zazula] This is the tibia. -[Mol] Oh wow. Oh, there's more of them bones, too. [blows] [Zazula] Here we go. it's almost a complete hand There must be soft tissue preservation. [Mol] Wow. Such a beautiful animal. So well preserved. [Zazula] Look at that beautiful skull. This nest has an incredible amount We have grasses, we have seeds, but we also have a victim of the ice age. This is an Arctic ground squirrel to survive those harsh, cold conditions and obviously that skeleton indicates and it died within its nest. Meanwhile, Zazula's colleague, has stumbled on a remarkable find. In the middle of a shallow stream, -Oh my god! Oh, it's heavy. Get it up. Yeah, it's... Wow, that's amazing that you spotted this. Because I haven't seen So this is quite an impressive find. Look here. OK, put it on my shoulder -Are you sure? Even if it's 50 kilos of ivory. -You got it? Hold on, hold on. We'll meet you there. OK, see you. -Are you alright? This is Dick Mol's second tusk find. It's time to have the North Sea tusk What kind of mammoths were they? How old were they when they died? How did they die? These questions and many others Dr. Daniel Fisher. He's an evolutionary biologist at Thirty years and hundreds of tusks later, he's now considered The first step is to cover the tusk Next the tusk goes Fisher applies an expanding foam Then he guides it through the saw's blade. [saw whirring] Tusks are modified incisors throughout the animal's life. Fisher has discovered that these layers like the rings of a tree. They can also record trauma such as a young male around its twelfth year. At that time, the mammoth is driven away Tusk marks can show signs that adult males waged [snorting] [roars] [trumpets] Fisher found marks that revealed how the animal had died. Whether it was illness, injury, There's good years in there. I mean, I'm tempted to go further away A tusk like this grows essentially by formation of conical layers of dentin that form one inside the other from the tip of the tusk towards the base. So each of these large v-like is a body of material, of dentin, of ivory that formed during approximately The dark layers here that represent winter and the lighter layers We do have a sequence in this part of the tusk, from maybe the mid-teens of this animal, up into, let's say, the early mid-thirties Fisher was able to establish likely belonged to a healthy mammoth. But he couldn't decipher its age the oldest and youngest parts, ...and then we're into the early-twenties The North Sea tusk was intact so Fisher could determine its owner was And there was more. We noticed something interesting which looks at first just like a fracture. This is not a post-mortem, This is a fracture that formed This fracture could have become possibly even a reason and eventually for it to die. Under the microscope, Fisher discovers During the course of several summers, So you'd think that would be but consistently at that part of the year And that is something that we have when they go into this season which is the mating season. During that time And so the tusk growth-rate goes down And then at the end the animal reverts to normal condition, tusk growth-rate goes back up again One problem with interpreting is that they almost never So there's no proof that That was, until 2007. On a May morning on the Yamal peninsula a reindeer herder discovered Other than the missing hair and toenails and the damage she sustained her only flaw was a dent in her face, just above her trunk. Not bad for 37,000 years on ice. She was named Lyuba, after the reindeer herder's wife. Here was Fisher's chance Milk tusks grow from gestation almost two years. By examining her teeth, internal organs Fisher could compare what her tusks said with the corresponding forensic evidence. Lyuba's premolars and tusk revealed and was only a month old when she died. A CT scan of Lyuba showed throat and bronchial passages. This suggested that she died The CT evidence suggested a life of good days That scenario matched the one It was the proof he was looking for. And another step forward in the quest The Etosha pan is a large dry lakebed within Etosha National Park, one of Namibia's largest wildlife parks. The pan is mostly dry but during the rainy season And sometimes the flooding waters sweep Very little is known about so any time there's a find here, it's particularly exciting news. A team has been waiting patiently for the water to recede enough Now that it's shallow enough to dig, Mol is on his way. Mol will work with Dr. Martin Pickford, [Mol] Oh, look, there is a rib over there And there is a big bone here, look. This one! [laughs] Look here. Look, it's cracked. Femur, pelvis, vertebral column. Heading that way, huh? The rib lies completely exposed It's easy to piece together. So, we will face a couple of busy days but it's exciting. In terms of composition, [Pickford] Can you imagine, if you dug It's a promising start for the scientists. Tonight, they'll devise a plan The next day the team lays out a grid to record the exact position Only then can the dig begin. The bone is carefully cast in plaster... then wrapped for transport. Not far away there's another find. Do you want to come close to a mammoth? It's the tip of a tusk. This is really nice. [Pickford] Beautiful. [Mol] Feel the tip, Martin. I can feel it, it's smooth. -It's so smooth. As they reconstruct the ancient skeleton, a portrait of the ancestral mammoth It seems to have a longer body It has straighter tusks and larger ears. Mammoth extremities like ears and tails to withstand the brutal cold. But along with the mammoth fossils, suggest a habitat far different We've got 23 species of vertebrates including tortoises, flamingos. We've got a nice flamingo bone here. It's one of the leg bones. And we also get a lot of catfish. This is the skull of a catfish and here we're talking about a fish This area now is steppe. But four million years ago and big trees and that would be So that mammoth much more humid than it is today here. And so the great migration began. And with it, the kinds of adaptations [mammoths trumpet] At the same time, the growing They had a healthy respect, almost a reverence But they weren't alone on the icy steppe. Other big herbivores, like the woolly The giant rhino weighed and featured an intimidating The steppe bison was just about the size with horns reaching up to five feet. All the giant herbivores, were kept busy fending off The American species had canines The cave lion was also widespread. It was nearly four feet taller than its current relatives, The University of Tubingen, in Germany, is home to one of of ice age artifacts in Europe. Found in the Swabian Alps in 1931, it's the small figure of a mammoth carved into mammoth ivory It's one of the oldest figurine artworks The artist's details are still visible. Ice age artists even portrayed There's evidence that humans and made good use of the leftovers. Their bones made sturdy tent poles. And with little wood available mammoth scraps could be burned as fuel. These images of woolly mammoths are fifteen and a half thousand years old. They seem like rough sketches, yet they include the signature features its shaggy coat But cave art also suggests that ice age In this scene, and have enough meat But a bull blocks their way back to camp. Knowing that mammoths the humans think better and decide to wait it out. For many thousands of years, [thundering footsteps] Then, about 13,000 years ago, more than three quarters including woolly mammoths, died out. For years, scientists have debated with both of the major causes, human overhunting and climate change, insufficient to account Recent research suggests possibly a comet about three miles wide, may have exploded over southern Canada, nearly wiping out all Stone Age culture One thing is certain. The onset of the warm period Dark skies and rain signaled the end In Europe, the mammoth's home Higher precipitation patterns caused forests to grow and spread. Other animals adapted But without abundant grass, As they were driven further north, a damp tundra began to replace Gradually the animals died out, For thousands of years, The last surviving population off the coast of north-east Siberia. They finally disappeared when the Great Pyramids But they didn't disappear without a trace. Far from it. In 1901, the Beresowka mammoth, was uncovered in the Siberian permafrost. Its leg was broken, The highlight of the find was that Sometimes we find mammoth flesh. Not fossilized, but mummified, because, you know, it was cold There are stories that people But I don't believe in these stories. You know, it doesn't look too good at all. It's not appetizing and you know... [sniffs] Oh, it stinks! It may stink, but it's like gold Over a hundred years later, in 2002, another Siberian mammoth surfaced It took Dick Mol's team to gather and put The Yukagir mammoth's permafrost tomb and part of its stomach It was covered with skin It even had a complete ear. Mol and his team were able was an old male that once and weighed four to five tons. Researchers were now able to confirm and had large fleshy pads behind the toes. The soles of their feet were cracked But in the end, the team was still unable His molars were heavily worn indicating that he may have starved Unable to keep going, he hunkered down Then, in 2013, Russian scientists This time they hit the jackpot. A frozen woolly mammoth it still contained tissue... ...and blood. Physiologists at the University of Aarhus used the Jarkov mammoth's hemoglobin to conduct temperature experiments. They discovered that while most mammals for hemoglobin to function, the woolly mammoth was different. Even at near freezing temperatures, the mammoth's hemoglobin flowing to its extremities. [Campbell] And this radically reduces During the winter, especially, the plants that they eat and of very low nutritional quality. So this was a key component The news of mammoth blood made And the conversation quickly turned Were we now ready [Campbell] We can get the DNA sequences and have bacteria make the exact protein that would have been found So in a sense where we can go back in time So far, scientists have been successful in involving closely related species. But DNA is fragile and must be stored at low temperatures A mammoth carcass may look well-preserved But it has to have enough DNA in order to clone it. Another method suggests genetically That means turning an elephant Biotechnicians take the genome and add mammoth genes The first genes to be altered would be Mammoth DNA can be inserted into to make the elephant hairier, Then, insert the new genome and a mammoth-like creature would be born. So far, all efforts to clone The ancient DNA is too fragmented. But there's still enough usable DNA for the scientists at McMaster University They use slices of mammoth bone A bone fragment contains enough raw And this tiny, transparent drop contains A high performance DNA sequencer reads the individual DNA pieces And there have been We've focused on now which is, of course, which was, of course, and has always been considered as two distinct species. And what the DNA seems to show so far is that there is actually In fact it looks like were mating with female woolly mammoths, probably outcompeting As fond as they are of mammoths, the experts at McMaster [Poinar] I have a hard time understanding the real point of bringing back Would the boy in me I mean, we'd all like but the problem is there's no real You can't bring a single individual back, you need to bring back hundreds Just like today's elephants, They needed contact [grumbling] And what of its lost world? Its real home, the mammoth steppe, Cloned mammoths would likely languish I do think there is some benefit to it. If de-extinction brings the attention and what is looming because as humans then I think it's been successful Success to me doesn't mean and there is a little woolly mammoth, That's not... That's a park, right? It's an exhibit at a zoo, which I don't think many people Mammoths were the giants of the ice age. They conquered the world and continued to adapt to it. Countless finds demonstrate Perhaps one day their bones of their mysterious disappearance. Until then, Dick Mol and his colleagues will keep looking and keep digging.