In this video, I'm going to show you with no coding experience And we're going to do it in minutes. Now, you may have seen my previous video It went down really well and a lot of In fact, I got Android. Android. What about Android? How about Android? So here is that tutorial. Let's dive in If you could like It really helps it to grow. I noticed recently are not subscribed, Ding the bell and never miss Okay, let's dive in. And first of all, we're going to start off Now you can install it by dragging or running the executable. Now I've loaded up Android Studio. I've never seen this before. But don't worry, So first of all, let's go through What type of setup do I want? Let's go for the standard. It's good to agree to all the current which basically mimics If you don't have access to one yourself, Go ahead and accept all the terms. Click finish. Let it do its installing. Okay. With that done, So I just simply select New project And we'll start off Now I need to give the application a name. I'm going to call it And then we need to give it a package Now, this is similar to the iOS. It's just your domain name backwards. So if you had example.com it's common And then the save location. Well you can choose a different location I've actually just changed it Now we choose the minimum SDK. And again Everything else can be And there is my best bike day app folder. And we're now And much like Xcode when developing iOS Let's hide that panel. We've got code on the right hand side, and we've got a structure of where Don't worry. We're not going to need to touch that code For the moment in Android Studio It's insane. Let's load it up and link it This is the AI tool We click open a folder. And then you need to select the folder that's there on the desktop in my case And now you'll see on the screen Android Studio app I just created, so And edit them. So let's go ahead and do that. And I'm going to open Cursor Composer, for me by hitting Command Shift and I And then you can type the instructions in and get cursor Now I'm going to start really simple This is so that cursor can see And then I type in natural language And I'm going to start simple. I'm going to say best day for bike ride It needs to use an API to get local and display them on screen. Don't worry, Let's just see if we can do Hit enter and away we go. It's going to start the ones it needs to edit, and then decide writing the code so that the app can do Okay. We seem to have a nicely written piece Let's test it out on a virtual button to run the app on a virtual device Now, it's and then pop open a new window And yes, have a look at this. We have weather for Thursday, Friday Sunday Monday Tuesday, Wednesday. So a nice seven day forecast Let's take this data and further crunch it bike riding Android app. Now this is just glossing We go into detail AI in my community, Okay. Back in cursor to say that Make an algorithm that combines the weather conditions, Create a percentage score on And display seven days 0% being rubbish and 100% is perfect. Let's let cursor go back to work searching through the files writing the code for me Okay, Now it's updating the weather code that I'm looking for. And it's done. Let's accept all And here I can simply stop the app Boom! It's loading in and. Wow, It's given me a percentage score. And I didn't even ask for this, but showing exactly how good the days are Looking pretty interesting. I absolutely love the layout of this app but I think I can improve the visuals So I'm saying hey, can you color code the weather cards from red rubbish And all colors in between for the bike Also make the app look really pretty. okay. It's helping enhancing the UI. As it says here, it's It's going to make those updates And boom, that is that tool. And we'll go back to Android Studio again. Okay. Back here in Android Studio, And let's see the changes it's made. Wow. Now that is a really cool It's giving me all the days of the week The temperature, Best day for biking and of course is green. Yes, perfect conditions for biking that maybe has more variable weather I've said can you change the weather back over. Will refresh the app again And here we go. Yes, Dubai is not very good for Thursday, But actually you know what? Monday Those are banger days. Those are the days to get out If you like what you see so far, throw a like on this video and subscribe So this is great. I've designed an app in just a few minutes but now I'd like to actually get it in my jersey pocket and take it with me Let's do that. To make this work, of course, into the bottom of your Android phone First I need to go to settings. Then about phone. Scroll all the way to the build number 123, four, five six, seven. Enter Apparently, according to my phone. Next, I need to enter Developer Options And switch on USB debugging. it's going to say you sure? I'll say yes. And now if I head back to Android Studio and go into Device Manager, That's the phone I connected to. My computer now shows up Oh, man. This is super epic. All of the Best Buy days are listed here I can now put this phone Take it with me, and I'll never be Okay, first, I'm going to design the app And I'm going to do that in mid journey. So I've got that loaded up. Now imagine. And then I've generated a prompt using I. It even uses hex colors So I'll just prompt the Midjourney bot Here's a few little prototypes I've got. I quite like the first one here, Now, most AI image generators and curved edges around those app icons, this in like so, and maybe use to get rid of those little white splotches And there's our app icon, And actually So let's make sure that's exactly correct. Okay, now it's time to add my app icon Right click this red folder, go to new And then here you'll see a little folder And you just want to go to your desktop There it is. Add it. And look. That all looks pretty nice. That's going to be my app Let's click next and then finish. now just by the fact that I've hit play on It's actually built So I can use this now but say I want to share it with friends. I can go to the build menu, build It's done as simple as that. Click locate. It's going to open up a folder Now if I want, I can rename this and now I can actually take that APK file I'm not locked into an app store. Yes, I can upload it to the Google a friend will allow them to also install Pretty cool There you go. Now you're an Android developer. Thanks to I. To make your first Android app ever using one AI tool Let me know how you get on I'll be there cheering you on, supporting And if you want to do a deeper dive, The link is down below in the description and I'll see you there And by the way, there's a video showing on your screen Thanks.