Translator: Eugenia Marsico How would you feel if I was to tell you that nutrition science that in my hand I have You're never going to have to eat again, You won't be eating any meals, all you need to do breakfast, lunch, and dinner and it's going to give you carbohydrates, and fat. It is going to give you that you need to stay at exactly It's going to give you and what we call phytochemicals which just means plants nutrients, that are good for us. All in this amazing little pills. Isn't science amazing? How would you feel? (Booing) "Boo!" Yes. I hope you are feeling, &quot;How disappointing!" I hope there are some memories They certainly are in mine. I remember my mom's awesome lasagna that she always used to make when we'd used to appear and she had twenty mouths to feed and she would whip up this lasagna. I remember my grandmother gingerbread cake that my mother could never replicate I remember the pancakes always made us whenever us kids I remember being a teenager and we had bowls of hot chocolate yes, white baguette with butter and jam and we dipped it into our hot chocolates. I remember the amazing paellas in Spain on our family holidays. The point is food is much much more You'd be pleased to know Thank goodness, because food is more Food is part of who we are. Food is part of our culture. It is part of our upbringing. It's part of how we negotiate Just think about, those of you what did you do on your first dates? I'm willing to bet that you What do we do when we're celebrating? Apart from popping open the champagne, or we have some food. What do we do at Christmas and New Year? Food is always involved. I've traveled to some pretty and it's the same everywhere you go, whether you're in the most or whether you're in some village people want to share food with you. The sharing of food a sense of who we are as human beings. And here's my concern, is that ... and I'm a Nutrition Scientist, my concern is that nutrition But here's the problem, because we do have quite literally Here in Australia, and unfortunately certainly all of the developed world, and, fastly catching us up, it is now the norm in Australia to be fat. Now that's not an aesthetic problem. I'm not here to talk about body image, But that problem coaches us in We know that diabetes is on the rise. Type 2 diabetes is now the fastest-growing and 280 of us are diagnosed Every 12 minutes an Australian dies Ladies, one in three of us and guys, I'm sorry, one in two of you Now, while much of that we do know that diet, and lifestyle but diet is intricately involved in all If we were to change the way that we eat, we could dramatically we could dramatically reduce and dramatically improve for so many people. So, why is it that it's so hard to do? If you've ever tried to follow a diet, isn't that an awful word? I hate calling myself a dietitian But diet really just means and what we are eating. It's really hard to change and part of that is because in the way that we live today. So, how you've been brought up to eat will always have a dramatic influence and the way that your future children and the next generation comes through. But I also feel that part of the problem I was involved in a recent survey where we asked people about whether they were confused by it. 87% of people said that by what on earth is healthy eating. That's coming from that we have around this area. And don't get me wrong, and I love that people are so passionate but unfortunately, it ends up in some and what was the truth kind of gets bent So, let's take butter as an example. Did you see the Times magazine where it had &quot;butter&quot; &quot;There's hope. And suddenly my Facebook page were going crazy saying: "Yes! Burgers and bacon and everything That wasn't what the research The research actually showed that, if we replace saturated fat we are in just as bad a state, That's actually what the research showed. Did the research say: "Hey, saturated fats No, they didn't. It questions, yes, saturated fat and cardiovascular disease but that's one aspect It certainly didn't show us that, &quot;Hey, No, it didn't say that, So that's just one example how we're actually So, let's take a little trip back because essentially the thing is that we haven't really got fat I'm not that old but really is just those last few decades that we are starting to have So, here's what I've seen happen. When I was a teenager, mom and I became aware of my body and thinking, "I've got to be skinnier&quot;. Skinny equals beauty unfortunately in this country And here's what happened: mom and I embarked We did the Cambridge diet, which was all shakes and pills and so on. We were both ill by about day 3 in bed, so we decided: &quot;Ok, Then we tried something else that involved eating in the morning with an orange, I ate that breakfast I couldn't do it today. Tuna sandwiches I still struggle with 'cause we had tuna sandwiches a piece a fruit, a low-fat yogurt, so on. We tried everything and finally and of course that was the era I remember eating because it was fat free, In here, license to eat. And that's exactly what we see. So, the low-fat era took off, Food companies responded by giving us a whole bunch Unfortunately, lots of added sugars, additives and whatever else, flavors galore to try and make the food taste Psychologically, we all had "Oh, it's fat free, I can eat as much as I like". That's the way that we interpreted it and we continued to get fatter. So then, suddenly "Hang on a minute, we've got it all wrong, it's not fat, it's carbs! It's carbs that are to blame. Go back to eating lots of fat. And that's kinda where So, I went shopping, and normally you'd expect a little shopping basket Here there's not very much food, So, now we've got a whole bunch This one says &quot;Raw protein&quot;. So, we are fixated This is raw protein and in the ingredients says it's got brown rice syrup How do you reckon Yet this is called the raw bar. We've got &quot;Think thin&quot;. We've got high-protein, low-carb bars You know what we want: we really do. And things that make it sound like: "Eat this and I'll get you burning fat". All of those bars in here but you know what we are scared of? (Laughter) God forbid you eat a banana. It's carbs. It's going to go straight to the belly. That's the situation we are in. We've got cookie. You know, we really wanna have the cakes, the biscuits, &quot;naturally good&quot;. It's free of pretty much everything. But you know what's in it? Basically rice, butter and sugar. Just happens to be gluten-free flour. This is the situation we are in where people are completely confused, and the food industry keeps responding by giving us more and more of what? That's a basket, apart from my banana, of processed food. I live in Bondi, and I went it's honestly called Whole Foods, They serve these and I asked for the green smoothie She looked and recognized "Why are you not having &quot;Is this not a good protein powder? And I said, "Because I don't eat or try not to eat too much of it&quot;. and the dawning on her face I could see she had never considered that this green pea protein powder So, why is it that we are processed carbs are not we've certainly recognized are not good for us, but now we're doing it with protein. We're processing the life out of that and thinking that's going to be So when we look worldwide at the moment we've got a number of different We've got a very low-fat approach, from Doctor Dean Ornish He's got lots of great research, he's shown some amazing studies We've got doctor Loren Cordain, I'm sure there's some people in the room who might have tried or at least heard, it's the most googled diet at the moment, That same Kathy, by the way, now serves paleo banana bread, Where is paleo man eating any of that? But we can't see how ridiculous We've got the very low-carb approaches, now incorporated by a whole bunch still really popular We've got the South Beach Diet And then we've got traditional diets like the Mediterranean diet, which is actually pretty high in fat, but it's fats from really good stuff, avocados and nuts and seeds. Really solid evidence We've got a very contrasting diet, some of the longest living people the Japanese diet. The Okinawans have than anyone else in the world. So that diet has been studied extensively and it's very low fat. So why did our low-fat thing not work Because when we look they have some commonalities, and that commonality is on whole foods. And the state that we are at and I need to remind you or nutrition as a science, We only discovered vitamins and minerals We have so much more so it's a fascinating science to get into But there's so much we need to know. But there are, there are some very clear messages that is that there are some foundations the most important one of those We absolutely must eat more plant food. But the other interesting thing about that seem to be so healthy is about the attitudes I'm going to give you three words and I just want you to think about bread, pasta and butter. Which one is the odd one out? Butter. Why? Because bread and pasta are carbs. This question comes from that was published a few years ago. More than a decade ago And they looked at the different cultures, and they had the Americans, the Belgians with the French, and the Japanese. The French answered that question "Pasta is the odd one out, The Americans answered that question by saying: &quot;Bread and pasta go together Who has the bigger problem with food? That study showed that the Americans about the foods that they buy, they were much more likely to buy They didn't place much priority, and they certainly whereas the French do. When I was a student, I spent a summer waitressing And it was in a business area and what would happen would come to the restaurant for a sit-down lunch with a knife and fork converse and chat over the table and then go back to work in the afternoon? What happens in Sydney? You're lucky if you grab a sandwich People are eating in the street, something my mother always told me Everything is grabbing on the run. We don't give any priority, and we don't give any respect You know, when I was at school, but at school we had to say grace The whole school had to sit down and we all chanted the grace, and then everyone could start to eat. Something nice about that kind of respect, 'cause at the end of the day we are really lucky that we have a choice. We can choose to follow low carb, We have that choice. But where I want to leave you is by saying if we're really and changing those awful statistics I need you help. We need to lose the diet wars. We need to give up on the promises that the quick fix is in the pills, and everything's going to do it for us without us putting in any effort ourselves and we've got to go back And you can choose your ultimate diet. As long as you have those with lots of plant food, whether or not you choose to add meat or other animal products into it, then you can make it And above all, we absolutely must eat with joy. We have to take pleasure because otherwise you're not going to It's only when you change you change the way your thought that's the only way that And I hope you'll agree with me, that that is an idea worth spreading. Thank you. (Applause)