- The Atacama Plateau in Northern Chile. It's unlike any other place on Earth. The striking landscape is among the oldest and driest deserts in the world. And at an average elevation of it's also among the All of which kind of helps This desert is home to the clearest and darkest night skies on Earth. And since the 1960s, billions of dollars have transformed this region into the global capital Many of the largest, most are in operation right here. In fact, Chile is home to roughly 50% of the world's &quot;mega telescopes.&quot; It's my second time here in the Atacama. And while I love stargazing, I'm definitely not an astronomer. But I am looking for something. It's the same something in the stars for tens Answers to the most fundamental about ourselves and the cosmos. Who are we? Why are we here? Do we matter? This season, we'll at the top of the world, to atom-smashing laboratories, exploring the tiniest and everywhere in between. And because this isn't a we'll be sitting down with philosophers, scientists, And we'll talk about humanity's and purpose in our vast, rapidly expanding and - Let's go. - For as long as I can remember, I've been obsessed with big questions. I suspect that's helped as a writer, a podcaster, But in recent years, I've with the biggest of big questions. How did I get here? Why is there a here at all? Look at this one. Look, it's twisted. - Oh my gosh, how? - I don't know. This probably has something to do with getting a little older but some of this has always been there, creeping up on me in quiet moments. Here I am in a Universe some 13 billion years ago. The birth and death of countless stars, galaxies emerging, colliding black holes. And at some point, our planet settles into a stable orbit around the Sun. And even after all that, there's still millions and happenstance before things here, in this fleeting And somehow, despite being as everything else in the Universe, we're imbued with a conscious To paraphrase Carl Sagan, &quot;We're that part of the universe that seeks to understand itself.&quot; I think you could see this both clearly in the natural and insatiable - You're gonna get rocks in your shoes. My daughter, Lia, manages to be fascinated by just about everything. - Pretend that tree - It's something I desperately hope that she holds onto as she grows older. And so modeling that lifelong curiosity that I hope to encourage in her, I decided to spend the next few months more seriously exploring 'We choose to go to the moon, and we choose to do the other things, not because they are easy, What I found is that talking can be surprisingly difficult, even when you're talking with people who you know really, really well. Greetings and welcome back to of the &quot;Fifth Column Podcast.&quot; Today, I was recording some interviews for this new show that I'm producing. It's about man's search in this possibly infinite but - So another small subject. - Yeah, I mean, but I know this is a topic that's of interest to the two of you: science, physics, cosmology, astronomy. - I'm pretty sure Moynihan that we recorded recently that looking into space terrifies him. - It actually scares me. - I don't think looking at I think it is awe-inspiring. And I would like for more But even more than all of that, I would actually like to try to figure out what we are here for, what I am here for. - Really? - I mean, look, there are plenty of ways that people have throughout history tried to connect themselves to the infinite, to get a better sense In some cases, it's religious In other cases, it is and certainly, playing around with acid and drinking ayahuasca is part of that for some people as well. Look, I wanna sample all of the things and talk to all of the smartest people and try to get to the so I can perhaps get a of what it all means. - So I don't get there through space. And I understand why for someone who eats a lot of edibles. But like it's interesting that you're knitting that all together. So you're looking for the and you're staring at the stars, and you're doing the It sounds to me like a - Yes, that is probably about right. - What do you expect to get out of this? I mean, do you expect the way that you think of of consciousness in general? Or is there a goal that you're looking for that's going to change who you are and how you think about certain - I certainly hope that It would be wonderful if I came out on the other side of this perhaps having a better - Don't be one of those Instagram with a fucking wide-brimmed hat on. - Who knows? That may be where this ends. - You look good though. - Yeah. - 12 hours of mediocre my journey began. We are driving down very many stray dogs afoot, That's a f****** dog in front of the car? Move, dog. Am I running over this dog? Oh, my God. I'm totally comfortable with this. This is all fine. So we have come to the Atacama Desert, and it's a high desert, which is why my ears are popping now to visit the ALMA Observatory. We're gonna go meet some of who are responsible for the And hopefully, we'll learn a little bit about not merely what ALMA does, but also so that we can I'm sure that they're about why the work they do here is vital, but I don't have any doubts about that, what I'm interested in to get into this line of work at all. How do people who do this kind of work think about just the most about meaning and purpose? Speaking of which, we're actually here. We're at the gates of ALMA now. Fairly sure &quot;PARE&quot; means stop in Spanish. Kmele Foster. And we are free to proceed. Inside this unassuming hangar, a group of astronomers and have gathered to celebrate - We built the world's largest - It's a truly international effort. Chile provides the observation site, while funding is provided by a including the United States, Ireland, Austria, Belgium, United Kingdom- and I could read all the rest, but I'm not gonna do that here. - In pursuit of the answers to our most fundamental questions: Where do we come from? What are our cosmic origins? - Where do we come from? What are our cosmic origins? In the first 10 years, this has been uncovering mind-boggling planets, and the early Universe. You've probably seen that at the center of our own galaxy. The sensitive instruments here at ALMA played a critical role in One of ALMA's greatest to capture breathtakingly images that have revolutionized our understanding of how planets are born. More recently, ALMA detected 455 million light years away, meaning that the to our own planet are not unique in the vast expanse of the Universe. ALMA is rewriting the rules opening our eyes to a Universe teeming with wonders and possibilities. And we were lucky enough to get an opportunity Can I harass you for two seconds? Astrophysicist Sean Dougherty. This is kind of a big deal, culmination of a lot of effort. - This is a really big deal. - Yeah. Sean Dougherty grew up It wasn't science but a love of climbing that first brought him In fact, if you'd like to know more about Alpine climbs and Canadian Rockies, he wrote a book about it. Sean ran Canada's national radio astronomy facility for 10 years before being appointed where he's just signed on And despite the fact that his father ran the local astronomy that initially brought I wanna know about what made you first interested in astronomy. It wasn't until I was at university, and one of the math courses But I didn't go into so I actually did a master's degree in applied geophysics I thought that was gonna make my fortune and I was gonna retire in my 30s. - Very practical goals. - Yeah. But the first year of my job, I was away from home for more And I went, &quot;I cannot sustain this.&quot; And one day, I was musing, &quot;What was it I really And I was thinking, 'I And that was the basis for and going back to school to I just wanted something that was not related to making money. And it was as far as you could possibly imagine. - With respect to the connection that the average person has to astronomy, oftentimes, you'll have like imaging the first black hole project- this was the event which ALMA was pretty critical to. Do you think the public for the kind of work that you - One of the things that's about astrophysics is we of these most exotic And it's an easy way to there's a lot of wow moments. Of course, the explanations are not easy, but that's The essential part is to science in general. It's like an easy access, if you like, for people to better appreciate and the Universe that we are all in. - I sometimes wonder if there is enough of a sense of thinking deeply connects to these deeper questions about why we're all here One can learn about the planets, but be sort of far removed &quot;No you live on a rock in the solar system that is hurdling through space, this orbiting, this nuclear furnace. And it's one of billions and billions of nuclear furnaces that are in the sky.&quot; Like the mystery and the I'm struck by it all the time. And I don't know that I meet a lot of people who actually are. - So you just answered your own question. You were so jazzed there about describing the Earth in the solar I think, especially young people, they need to hear what you just described, a rock whizzing through the Universe. - Yeah. - I can say for myself, I mean, when I was teaching and really get them to look up. Most people don't look up. You are walking around in the city, you look at this eye level. - Or you're looking at your phone. - Yeah, and even worse. And so we would take 'em as part of the astronomy course, and we show 'em the night Watching the wonder that they had to look at the nearest galaxy, to our own galaxy, Andromeda- and Andromeda's 2.2 And you then tell a kid that the photons that went in the back of your eye have been traveling for 2.2 million years. Loads of kids go, &quot;Really? 2.2 million years?&quot; What I really enjoyed was suddenly realize there's than down at street level. And that they really did - So you have to go to Far above street level is where ALMA's 66 highly And it was time for us But before our ascent I needed to pass a medical exam. - Your heartbeat is normal, and your blood pressure, but it's normal, it's the first day in altitude. - Okay. You can go to AOS. - All right, thank you. - Need you to pick up your oxygen. - Yeah, yeah, okay. All right. Nicholas Lira is ALMA's education and public outreach coordinator. I have had a little shortness of breath. So I can only imagine what the average man is enduring at the moment. But it's definitely a little different. But the landscape is gorgeous. Apparently, there's a bunch and I believe that you would It's another thing about me. I am great about I have no problem saying, &quot;I don't know.&quot; In just an hour and a half, we climbed 7,000 feet from operation support facility on the Chajnantor plateau, For reference, that's of Mount Everest base camp. Basically, it's really high. - How are you, Dusty? - How are you? - I'm feeling good. - Yeah. - I mean, I feel the difference. - Don't do like fast movements. Keep it slow. And we'll put the oxygen of the building, okay? - Apparently, this is one of the two highest buildings in the world. We are up above something like 40% of the Earth's atmosphere. All I know is I should take it very slow, because I feel like I could stumble over. Hopefully, when we get a little oxygen, I will stop slurring. - Nico. - Is it too low? - Breathe. You really need to wear - Get a little oxygen going here. Okay, just give me a second. - That might be our take right there, like &quot;Oh, this is getting to me. Oh, no wonder they do this. Geez.&quot; - So at the most basic level, what is it we're trying to - Human curiosity and science needs to answer some questions. Like where we come from. How is life formed? Where does life appear, okay? So we're trying to probe the where stars are born, We will also be able to see - So we'll see there are just hydrogen, hydrogen and helium, or - We get to go up. - So come with me. - Okay. Okay. - Hang tight, hang tight. - Yeah, but we wanna let him catch it too. - How is oxygen level? - 05 or- - 2, pull it 2. - All right, yeah, do me 2 too. - Go ahead, yeah. - So we're gonna show you the front end, the cryostat, okay? It's like it's a little room. This is the part of ALMA's faint signals from the farthest Okay, perhaps not Each front end system is and each of those detects a In order for the receivers to operate at the level of sensitivity required, they need to be kept cold, so they live inside a refrigerator called cryostat. At least that's what I've been told. - That's amazing. - Astronomy with superconductors in the middle of the world's oldest and darkest and driest desert. - You could go back a thousand years, and it's possible the might be the technology. I think we were talking a about some of the ancient cultures that have inhabited some - Yes. I visited Peru a couple of years ago and visited Machu Picchu. And there's something that The sort of search for - Well, Incas arrived So the Inca trails comes by the Likan-antai people, who are our neighbors, our host neighbors. This place is called &quot;Chajnantor&quot; in Likan-antai means &quot;the place where things take off.&quot; So they don't have big But they did come here to Likan-antai people will have different constellations that we know. They don't have Orion, they have the fox, they have the animals. - And are these the kind - Exactly. parts of the sky. the shadows of the sky to name them instead of the bright points of the sky. - Wow. - The very places that ALMA observes too. We observe the cold sky, remember that, not the bright sky. So this is a really happy The Inca worshiped the stars, and their opposing dark constellations, because they believed Clearly, they were onto something, because today we know that the dark bodies representing animals are but dense clouds of celestial dust. And it's these dense clouds because it's there that planets And it's there that we may how our own world came into being. But our Earth, as is just one planet. - The Universe is massive. Sorry, that's a really bad term. The Universe is very large. It also is massive, but not And another way of is there's a really famous photograph that Carl Sagan once described, a picture of the Earth taken looking back towards the Earth, and this little pale blue dot. - &quot;This is where we live, on a blue dot. That's where everyone you know and everyone you ever heard of and every human being whoever lived lived out their lives. It's a very small stage - That picture, to me, in the big scheme of things, how insignificant the Earth is. We'e just one planet with a hundred billion other stars in a Universe with hundreds - On a personal level, I mean, how do you think that may not be traversable Does it matter that we may not ever be able to reach those distances? - For me, personally, I don't think so. I mean, we live on this In roughly five billion years, we're gonna get eaten just as a natural part - Is that an important problem for us to solve in your estimation? - I mean, we may solve it. But I'm quite content that I came from stardust, It's perfectly fine with me. - So what's the point what's out there if what we have here is kind of all will ever - No, okay. That's a really good question. And I think as humans, as the questions of where did we come from, what are our origins must be motivating, because that's fundamentally what we're trying to explore in astronomy. That's why we build telescopes like ALMA, to understand: where did atoms come from? How did we get to complex molecules? How did planets form out of the dust that came from the centers of stars? How did all this stuff, all the atoms in this building, if they came from stars originally, how did it come to be here? - Yeah. So this morning, they are up to the high site so that it can be placed into observation. They bring them back for upgrades and maintenance. And this one is ready to go. They've gotta decouple They've gotta lift it off of the ground, this massive structure. The process will take something to move this up the hill to It's kind of amazing to watch them maneuver this vehicle via remote control. All of the wheels can move independently. It was built especially for this purpose of transporting these massive antennas. I wanna ride inside of it. I don't wanna use the remote control. I wanna feel the power. I never really thought involved in astronomy. That's most basic: You just look up and out. But to obtain knowledge that's requires the design and the daily labor of hundreds of people working around the clock. And it's even occasionally dangerous. See? - Hola. This is my daughter. - Nice to meet you. - Hi. - Yeah, it's coming up on the truck. This is massive. All right, that is massive too. Couldn't hear me, you mean? It probably has another hour or two til it gets up to the high site. We went ahead to the high site. And when we got there, it Weather's just another one of the extremes that the team here at when carrying out their work. All of the dishes are and they lock them down so or anything else, they're Also, there's some snow and possibly, inside of some of the parts. So they'll come out, before they turn them back This is my second trip to the high site. But the people who work here at ALMA are forever climbing this mountain. For them, getting to The point is to do the work that stands to change our What I wanna talk to you about now is the kind of existential and that I'm sure plenty I grew up in major cities. Didn't have a great view of the sky. In my adult life, I've like looking for dark skies. I first came to the Atacama My wife brought me here, and we just spent hours And it was one of the like I've ever had. And I wonder, oftentimes if, for people who have a to the science than I do, if they perhaps derive or if it becomes, it's just work, it's just kind of part of what you do. Where do you place the work that you do with respect to how you think about your own meaning and purpose, your own place in the vast cosmos? - You guys are really I mean, I'm not a philosopher. - That's okay. - That's actually the answer Like I'm not a philosopher. I don't know. Well, great. So where do you find meaning - Yeah, that's a really - It's a very loaded question. - No, no, no, I don't think it's loaded. I just think it's gonna be And for scientists, especially for astronomers or physicists, the Universe revolves that can describe the Universe. But where did the Universe come from? Why did the Big Bang happen? Those are sorts of things to address and are much more philosophical rather than necessarily - Is it your suspicion - Oh, no, no. I think the science is hunting to try and address those questions. But at some level, people say, &quot;Well, you can't look which is true, but what is it in? Are there multiverses? Those are relatively open questions, 'cause they're really hard to test. So you can't either And to me, that's where And the physicists who think about those more existential problems, good luck to you guys, 'cause I think, for me, it's really hard, that's really hard to grasp. - Well, thank you for your time, and good luck with the next five years. - Thank you. - Meaning and purpose, awe Starting up a conversation about any of these things can be hard, but once you get going, it - The thing that really remember the famous - Yeah. - To me, that really just blew me away. - Yeah. - When Armstrong landed on the Moon, I was nine years old. And I sat glued to a television five o'clock in the morning, thinking, &quot;I can't believe there's a and then going outside and going, &quot;There's the Moon. Holy smokes, we're standing And as a young kid, that Now, and I have no idea, years later, I got into mathematics whether that Moon landing in 1969 was sort of that sort planted really a long time and then was in the back - Kind of sounds like it. for some reason. I don't know, but I think is asking the questions. You see a pebble in the stream. Where did it come from? How did it get there? Every time, the answer is in trying to understand My kids are not scientists. But I'm sure happy that to me or their mother - Yeah, yeah, very instructive. - So whether you're an astronomer or you're an English lit major or a biology major, doesn't matter. Or an artist, doesn't matter. Just being curious about to me, that's the most important thing. - Yeah. Sean was right. Curiosity is important. It is the engine of Looking up at the stars of making us as a species inspiring us to seek out answers. And naturally, that often - I really wanna know how robots work. But why? Why did they wanna go to the Moon? Hearts are like Peter. How come we're the same and we think of the same thing? I wanna ask questions so I can - Yeah, me too. It's been a really cool trip. It's inspiring to know all of the sacrifices necessary And I don't know, but I need more oxygen, 'cause I feel a little lightheaded and I'm losing my train of thought. In fact, at this moment, I'm not even sure what the show is called All I know is that around the vastness of the cosmos is enough to make your head spin, especially at this altitude. My wife says to be sure to take pictures. I'll take a selfie. It's a little embarrassing. I'll do it anyways. Wait, okay. That way. That's the way.