Earth. November 14, 1969. Three astronauts, with spacesuits, food, water, equipment, prepared to fly to the moon. Thousands gathered at the Kennedy Space Center Nixon, to witness the historic launch. It was raining that day, but that was no cause The ship that would carry them into space But how would it respond to a powerful electrical That was just the beginning of the incredible With three astronauts fastened into their Astronaut and Mission Commander Pete Conrad normal, for the first 36 seconds." The five engines of the Saturn 5's huge 5 million pounds of liquid oxygen in just up 67 kilometers above the Atlantic Ocean. When it reached an altitude of 2000 meters, Racing through the stormy environment, the down its highly conductive exhaust trail. Another bolt hit 16 seconds later. All of the spacecraft's circuit breakers The tracking system was lost. A young flight controller in Houston, Texas on an auxiliary power system. The mission was back on track. Once in Earth orbit, all systems appeared gave the crew the green light to leave Earth. The astronauts were not told of concern that system used to deploy the parachutes that atmosphere. If that system failed, the astronauts would This mission would have its share of perils, explorers, whose courage and restless spirit This one, however, was backed by years of training, and the largest support team back But hundreds of thousands of kilometers out much on their own. What made Apollo 12 unique was the friendship Conrad, Bean, and Richard Gordon were all Working and training together on the Gemini and trust. Now, hurtling across more than 400,000 kilometers mission's goals. One was to set up a scientific station designed data. Another was to visit an unmanned lunar probe two and a half years before. The idea was to bring back a part to study A third goal was to improve on the landing Dropping down over a region called the Sea himself heading straight for a crater full He had to fly over the planned landing site Now kilometers beyond the target, the lander, gas. With less than 30 seconds of fuel left, Neil down on a landscape obscured by dust stirred the vehicle's thrusters. Future astronauts would have to be able to by science. That meant they would have to touch down on and craters. For Apollo 12, the science pointed to a region from where the Eagle had landed. Here, the landscape is dark from lava that years ago. Within it, an impacting asteroid had hollowed region with rocks blasted out from deep underground. To sample this geological treasure trove, of smaller craters about 45 kilometers away. After a journey lasting 83 and a half hours, go into an elliptical lunar orbit. Five hours later a second burn put the spacecraft the lunar surface. The next day, Pete Conrad and Allan Bean entered Separating from the command module, they dropped Pete Conrad would rely on improvements in to touchdown. Pete Conrad and Alan Bean landed without a Now, they prepared to climb down the ladder The plan was for Earth to experience it too, designed to send back a live signal. Conrad was careful to keep it pointed away tubes. Unfortunately, it caught the glare from Intrepid's Back on Earth, the television networks cancelled Millions of viewers then went about their Which left Conrad and Bean to go about theirs'. The astronauts spent the first of two four-hour equipment, taking photographs, and seeing There were discoveries and surprises aplenty. One was a series of mounds out in the open, craters upon impact. Two and a half hours into the moonwalk, the to their next task. They opened an unlikely page, placed there This little prank hardly distracted from their observations and picking up rocks. That was part of a major, unheralded, scientific to where the moon came from. At the time, there were three leading theories. The so-called fission theory, championed by held that the moon was once part of the Earth, That might explain the Pacific Ocean, a giant Then there was the capture theory, which held through our solar system and was pulled into A third idea came from the American astronomer time for his attacks on Einstein's theories. He suggested that the Moon formed near Earth spell. In that case, moon rocks should resemble those Finding out which theory is correct would system at large, and perhaps even to the birth Day Two on the Moon. Neither Conrad nor Bean had been able to get Excitement got the best of them. The pair now left Intrepid for a second, and The suits they wore had been built for spending stitched together to maintain constant temperature Because direct exposure to the sun could heat layers circulated water around the astronaut's On the outside was a shell to protect against surface. The astronauts found that lunar dust was so damage, and so fine that it crept into the This time, the plan was to move out along a visit. Along the way, there were pictures to take, into the ground. It was a world filled with optical illusions The lunar landscape appears monochromatic, With no atmosphere, the light is harsh, with But close up, the moon offers a variety of past. The Ocean of Storms is an ancient basin that with lava. Finally, the team arrived at Surveyor. They cut off select components to take back Scientists would make a surprising discovery Did it sneak into the component upon its return Or, had it somehow survived for two and a To this day, no one knows the answer to this One final stop remained: Block crater, where lunar bedrock, leaving a wealth of new samples. One rock they picked up is known as KREEP, It's thought to be a piece of bedrock that surface that was entirely molten. Just a few years later, this evidence would origins. At the dawn of the solar system, Earth shared Theia. Its orbit became unstable and it headed in Theia struck Earth at an oblique angle, causing bodies to fly into orbit. When the dust settled, the debris began to The moon, then, comes primarily from the outer That's why overall the moon is less dense From this violent beginning, the moon gradually hardened into a crust. It was now time for Conrad and Bean to prepare Along with their gear, they packed up 75 pounds In the years to come, these samples, and those continue to yield clues to the history of Even as Conrad and Bean lifted off from the The lander rose up to join the command module, Conrad and Bean transferred their samples Then they released Intrepid, sending it hurtling The idea was to use the impact of a crash monitor moon quakes and asteroid impacts. When it hit, the impact resonnated like a rippled through the moon's interior. There was one more thing left to do: get home Just before arrival, they gazed at a brilliant Apollo 12 hit Earth's atmosphere at 40,000 The parachute pack opened just fine. Not even a bolt of lightning could spoil this The crew of Apollo 12 had shown how it's precision. Well, almost. At splashdown, Alan Bean got beaned by a camera His five stitches would be forgotten. What no one could forget was a camera magazine and then accidentally left on the lunar surface. Ironically, given the magnitude of their accomplishment, that oversight. Conrad, Bean and the other astronauts of Apollo off our planet. Four moon landings later, the program faded social discord, and the politics of those The incredible journey of Apollo 12 lives the instinct to travel beyond our planet, and our place in the cosmos. 3