Hey guys! Recently I read a book called The Life-Changing by Marie Kondo, and this book changed my life. I loved it so much. I read through it in three days, and today of tidying up your life by Marie Kondo. Marie Kondo is a professional organizing consultant from Japan, and she's written this book that Recently this past fall, she released the I've seen it blow up on countless blogs and and everybody is talking about the KonMari As you guys know, I'm a big fan of minimalism. I believe that a clear space equals a clear and so once I heard about this book, I knew What I love about Kondo's method is that she and then you never have to do it again, which that you had to declutter a little bit every But actually, Marie Kondo believes that you should tidy and declutter in one change in your environment which will create a dramatic With the KonMari Method, you can seriously On top of that, Marie Kondo claims none of into being messy people which is very, very Without further ado, here is how to tidy with First things first: start by discarding. We have a lot of stuff that we don't need and so the first step is to recognize the anymore. Kondo says this should be a &quot;fun&quot; event and as if you're sending your things off with So I treated it as a celebration and I wore a dress to clean up, rather than The main idea is that you have to hold each If it makes you happy, keep it. If it doesn't spark any joy, then put it in Make sure that you hold the item in your hand your body will react to an item when you touch Also she recommends that you not listen to what sparks joy to you or not because music and you really want to listen to your heart, about this. Lastly, don't even think about organizing until you have completely finished discarding So don't start organizing as you're discarding. Make sure you have everything at once, discard, then deal with the rest later. Tidy by category, not location, and lay it Gather everything you own from a single category and lay it all out For example: if you're tidying books, you have to remove the floor. It's very tedious, but it's a must. Kondo says you have to do that because when you take things off of the shelf you are &quot;waking an item up&quot; because it's been You've probably grown accustomed to ignoring so it looks like nothing to you. But once you take it off and put it on the you kind of reactivate it. When the item is awake, you can decide then whether it still sparks Kondo has a specific order of categories that this: first clothes, then books, papers, miscellaneous, Within clothes and miscellaneous, there's tidy by. Basically there's a purpose for this order to say goodbye to, whereas you go down the So Kondo says you have to start with clothes and by the time you hit all of the categories, it's easier for you to realize what sparks I've compiled all of these categories into and follow as you go. You can find that on my blog. The link is in the description below. As you discard your things, thank them and Kondo really talks about things as if they She says that each thing that you have has helped you, supported you, or served a So whether a dress used to make you feel beautiful what didn't look good on you, you should appreciate for what they've done for you in your life, Finally, once you've finished discarding your and putting things away. Kondo says that each item needs a &quot;home&quot; so it can rest after a long day. When you designate a space for each item, all you have to do at the end of the day is rest while you rest. This really keeps your home from being cluttered When I read to this point, I realized I had I would come home and just throw it on a table So now I've designated a spot for my purse my house is more clear because I don't throw I really put them back in their rightful home. That's it! I hope you guys liked this video and that As I mentioned, I made a downloadable cheat in the description below. So far, in my journey, I've tidied clothes to tidy all the subcategories from tops to That was already a journey. I'm still going to keep going and move onto and miscellaneous and the rest. But in the meantime I'm going to be making on specific tips on how to tidy your closet for those videos next. Make sure you subscribe. I post videos every Wednesday. Good luck with your journey in becoming more Happy tidying. Bye!