Before we get into the message today, I want a new book releasing on February 13. The book you get six mindsets to become who God created you and I can't wait to share them with I'm not stuck unless I stop. With God there's I won't share all of them with you here, but to dothenewyou.com after the message. Go now. Go and you'll see how you can get the book. It February 20-29, Elevation Worship, Holly, and See if we're coming near you. Okay. Now let's get Happy New Year, Elevation Church! You made a believing this year that God is going to open the not have room enough to receive. Of course, God, we thank you for what you've already absolutely incredible what you've done for in Jesus Christ. The old is gone, and the new God, I thank you for all of the messages you're I thank you in advance that these, your children, I thank you for new songs from this house this anthems for every day of their lives. I thank through this ministry this year, for all of the thank you for all of the addictions that will be I thank you for new opportunities for your people thank you for new relationships in their lives things that were given up on. I declare it, I You're a mighty God. Do whatever you want to do. Somebody shout, &quot;It's headed my &quot;It's headed my way.&quot; Put your name put your DoorDash delivery. Wouldn't if you could track him and see where... Somebody High-five five more people. Say, &quot;You've got a beautiful. It's going to be incredible. It's Glory to God. I've got a new thing coming. Yes, for the new year. I thought you needed it today. You can't imagine the agony of all of the different texts the Lord because I know your heart is in a receptive stirring. I want to share with you from a It's very meaningful to me, and I hope the Lord gave to his people long ago, but it I want to say a huge &quot;Thank you&quot; to our offering. You gave over $11 million to share the That's absolutely amazing. I cried coming to for you and how expectant I am for God to move prophetic word that God gave me for you. punish with his sword--his fierce, great and Leviathan the coiling serpent; he Does anybody have some stuff you need God dragging you down? That's what Leviathan was. figure. Many believe it represented Babylon, The truth is we all live with our own Leviathan. you wrapped up, whatever has you stuck down his fierce, great, and powerful sword, &quot;In that day--'Sing about a fruitful I water it continually. I guard it day and night only there were briers and thorns confronting set them all on fire. Or else let them come to me them make peace with me.'&quot; Let me give you verse &quot;In days to come Jacob will take root, Israel with fruit.&quot; &quot;In days to come.&quot; I want to Is That Day. Somebody shout, &quot;This is!&quot; Shout Day. Tell your neighbor, &quot;This is that day.&quot; it again. Put it in the chat. &quot;This is forward. I'm growing up. I'm moving into it. This Is That Day. The perspective of Isaiah not a fragmented faith. A fragmented faith is when him when things are down. This is an integrated in what God has for you in the days to come, hopeful. When I say, &quot;Remain hopeful,&quot; that For grown-ups, believing in God means for disappointment. That goes to every area good week with your family or a good meal with &quot;Leave room.&quot; That's what I tell the tailor room in case Holly cooks really good over the I think leaving room for disappointment... It's really how our faith is sustained so that we not dead ends. In case the first few years you... At first, things seemed to and then things went down, and you thought God wants to give you an integrated faith. In sucked... I thought about saying, &quot;Have been it sucks. You know, I just put it how you What we want to talk about today is a little responsibility, as Christian people, I have to make sure I don't let my expectations of God. Let's say this out life to regulate my expectation of God.&quot; I think a lot of the damaged relationships expectations. We really started depending God could do for us. We really started little movies we make up in our minds of how So, the integrated faith Isaiah describes... are two things happening. There is a fight. the Lord will punish with his sword...&quot; Now, through life, strolling through your day. So, 2 it says, &quot;In that day, sing about a fruitful There's a sword in verse 1, and there's a song in on the same day. Okay. This integrated faith will &quot;It's going to be one of those days,&quot; because it's got discouraged before I came out today because it up. I was going, &quot;Oh, God. How am I going Are you serious? You have the Word of God and a bad hair day and get up in the pulpit but I'm still not really sure, so I'm kind of It doesn't take much to remove us from a hopeful Nobody can ruin my day. I have a verse for right? This is a verse 24 for you. &quot;This rejoice and be glad in it.&quot; So, if God made I used to say to people when they'd send me a because I figure if they can make my day by day if they send me another type of text. Now &quot;This is the day the Lord has made. So, it's the challenge to remain in hope I think our expectations this time of year to get us on an expecting path, that God has end. No matter what they did or didn't stayed or who called back or who blocked Yet as I walk through these days, I understand take notes on my message today, my first word to remain in hope this year and leave &quot;Which one is it?&quot; I want you to do both. I want In that day, there will be a sword, because Everybody in here has a Leviathan. I a whole sermon on Leviathan. Notice Leviathan... Everybody has a Leviathan, It's a coiling serpent. It's a gliding a smile. You hide your Leviathan behind new old habits underneath new clothes. about a bad hair day. Some of us actually Yet notice this in the text. At the same he commands you to sing about the fruit that because this gives me an integrated be a fight in my life, but there As a matter of fact, I learned the bigger be. The size of the fight is a preview of the &quot;It's going to be big, baby.&quot; about Israel being planted and bearing I wonder. Are you rooted in the right thing as our global eFam and our local campuses all around we're all a little humbler about our New Year's Every preacher I know was up preaching about blindsided by the fact that the Lord didn't looking at empty seats all year, preaching in humbler in the new year. All of the plans modulated. I found a verse for that too. &quot;Boast not thyself of tomorrow; for thou knowest shout, &quot;This is that day...&quot; Shout it again. in lowercase letters, no exclamation point. This &quot;What do you mean by 'that day'?&quot; I was just the Lord is going to fight your enemies, and in That day. You know that day you dream of? There We have an expectation that God is going to God is going to deliver us from certain dilemmas Expectation is great as long as it's integrated. what God is going to do... You know, &quot;2024. God is '24. I'm going to get a stronger core in '24.&quot; seen before in 2024. My ceiling is going to be While we say that, and while it's good to of the things I'm seeing today in my life are when I couldn't see anything like what I'm I think the danger we should talk about as you do through you is that sometimes your expectation I'll break it down to a phrase I heard, When he was very little, we were taking our kids just love taking Easter kids. They were fighting. They Elijah finally, after having to change outfits in our family. He said, &quot;I hate Easter. When I'm &quot;One day, when I'm the pastor, we're not Easter.&quot; He was like 5, so don't judge But check this out, a 5-year-old's pastor...&quot; One day when. Have you ever been I'm not doing too good right now, but one The problem I have with that plan &quot;One day, 20 years ago you were saying, &quot;One day, when to a future stage where you think you'll another one. &quot;I'm going to start a business I used to laugh when teams would were starting their own church. The &quot;Hey, I have a gift. I have an anointing. to reach people far from God, but I don't I would always make something up. &quot;Oh, they have a 'Build a ministry team' store. of achiever and doer and the right amount of you think the team came from? The same place has placed in your life who are imperfect, Now, if you are expecting a stage in your your life to help you figure out your imperfect you should send them away so they stay perfect, because the moment they get tangled up with Did you ever do the &quot;One day when&quot; thing? One day when...what? &quot;I'm going to do the I'll tell you what happened to me. I saw in the mirror... I don't know how you but it was like a flash of revelation. I walked by the mirror with my shirt off and I said, &quot;Why didn't you tell me this was to it with your cooking?&quot; I said, &quot;I'm going and it involved bacon, and I like but I've got to use bacon to do it, because I'm Holly said, &quot;Great. That's great. We &quot;No. I'm not eating another carb starting that night. I donated back the bun to the I did that over and over and over and over. &quot;You could have given me time. We could have But I knew too much to have to give what I could do today. &quot;I'm telling I'm going to write a book.&quot; &quot;One day, when my great businessman if my wife would believe What if she doesn't need to get the vision? &quot;I'm going to tell you, Pastor Steven. I'm when I manifest all of the riches... I know the millionaire. I will fund the kingdom. &quot;One day, when I get this business I promise you won't do it with millions. zeroes. It's going to make you throw up even that I know this New Year's message is but I think it could be a sustaining If the first point of this sermon is &quot;Remain Because there will always be a fight, and there really allow the fight to take its course to see the second thing I want you to do this year is I know reduce is not a juicy New Year's word, you should. I want you to have more influence. I to have more laughter. I want you to have more I want you to be able to see more places and At the same time I want you to experience more, I God did not say anything to Israel &quot;In that day...&quot; Verse 2: &quot;In that I wonder. Are we stressed, discouraged, defeated, and lacking momentum and victory in our lives with your 24?&quot; you thought years? The real with your 24?&quot; is not about a year called '24. When I woke up this morning, I had 24 hours can sit here with you and dream about all of God this year. I could sit here and advertise to happen in your life this year. More in '24. Leave All of that I say about '24 is wonderful and &quot;One day when...&quot; &quot;So, round about June I'm going I'm going to have some of these debts paid off. is going to be back together. Round about 10 I believe in long-term vision. I think it's can be a trap to keep you focused so much on you could do with the days. Isn't this what Tomorrow has enough trouble of its own.&quot; Are you anxious about today or are you anxious about Wednesday three weeks you retire when you're 75? You're 17. here and there. Do you know how much peace it'll Here's the revelation of a day: the grace for is not in today. The only thing that is in today it in God's hands. Jesus said, &quot;Sufficient is the He doesn't even pray for 12 months of bread. I'm I'm saying have a financial adviser, but you have there was no need to set up online giving back in to set it up that day for this day. Now 98 percent There's something in your life like that right I'll learn to manage it.&quot; That is a syndrome that atheists, because we will blame God for that. do it.&quot; We'll say, &quot;I don't need to take care of In that day the Lord will fight Leviathan, So, I want us to make a shift. Are you open to just nod your head at me a little bit. toe. Just do something to get in agreement full of fruit. I want your year this year to year to have heavy branches. I want rain to So we're going to shift this. That's what &quot;I'm going to shift this.&quot; &quot;I've been stressed it down and reduce it, because really what I'm it has to do with where I think I'm going so God has not given me a promise concerning The promise is not for tomorrow, because you go from &quot;One day when...&quot; How many have done that most powerful thing I could teach you to help you for the disciplines you want to pass straight in your life. I want you to because Isaiah didn't say anything This is your year to win one day at a time. If we of a one-day win on top of a one-day win on top we'll be telling our kids, &quot;One day, when I made a You're going to be telling somebody the story one out of the depression?&quot; and you'll say, &quot;Well, have a conversation and begin to open myself up I need to admit some of the things I'm struggling some leverage on this addiction and start to streaming in. I got a one-day win.&quot; Hey, everybody today. Guess what? I don't know if you'll be here Devil!&quot; Let's go ahead and celebrate the baby win. I've been living in 'One day, when &quot;When I have more clarity, then then I'll share the gospel with somebody. then we'll be a peaceful family.&quot; Not &quot;One cuss them out today. How many can do that? Make &quot;But we should dream big, Pastor Steven. My when you haven't cussed them out enough days but it's going to take... Do you see the power of to God. I feel happy preaching my own notes. I I have that fresh bread for '24, Elevation God until you're strong enough to fight every sing about a fruitful vineyard, I'll slay every you were singing today you were winning? While This is how I fight my battles. This is how mind on things above. This is how I overcome my This is how I walk in favor. This is how I bear I was watching basketball one time 10 years ago, and the commentator gave me a whole sermon. one second left on the shot clock. The guy who Ten years ago in the NBA, if you got the the shot clock would reset to 24 seconds. You but if you get that ball back in your hands... I you could get this ball back in your hands. I When he got the ball back, the announcer said, to somebody who came to church on the first Sunday you up this morning. He started you on your way. breath of life. You've got a new 24! Twenty-four! &quot;In days to come...&quot; I have to break this thing at it today. I'm not hooking up with them because this is the day the Lord has made.&quot; Maybe so let's break it down a little What if you open your mouth when you wake up 24&quot;? You know what would really frustrate the if you really screwed it up the day before, and &quot;Ooh! God must not be done with me, because I got shot today. Everything I did that wasn't like a new 24.&quot; When he said, &quot;In that day,&quot; and realized the way we're going to be where we want God on this message. I don't even want to do my He left you here because there is fruit That's why you got a new 24. Once in a while days. Not a bad hair day but an &quot;All hell if you can't just break it down to the day, break He said, &quot;Israel will bud and blossom and bring fruit and bud and blossom? One breath at the next. I Googled before I came, &quot;How many day?&quot; It said between 17,000 and 30,000. I So, look at me, children of Zion. If 24 hours breaths to reset. I was praying one time before reset for everybody who came in the room that day I can't move. I can't do it.&quot; The Lord says, &quot;In God gave us and not recognize it as a gift. Have recognize. You'd better recognize. If We went to Atlanta to watch Graham wrestle last a matter of fact, it was so wonderful to watch &quot;One day, we'll look at these crowded gyms air with the fragrance of athleticism and knee I said, &quot;We're going to look back So, why not just shift it and say it right when &quot;This is that day.&quot; God brought you here. Don't forfeit the grace of the day. That's why I now because I don't know what to say next. I'm You understand, I prayed that this church would people gather, to have this level of ministry is something I saw from age 16. &quot;One day when...&quot; What I want you to understand about every day I'm going deeper next week, because the Lord worry. Somebody is out of balance, and God is this word will not last you until next January. So, we recognize these moments when we're in them, hard to know it when you're in it. That's why the reframe it. Look at verse 6. I think this one was because it sounds like God is talking about two He says, &quot;In days to come...&quot; Now we've from the present circumstance to the future Israel will bud and blossom and fill all the nation of Israel from whom the Messiah the gospel even to the Gentiles. That's what Watch the application. He says, &quot;Jacob will You know what I'm learning more and more God gives us? You're going to have both of feel like both of those people. See, Jacob In the Bible, a man named Jacob became the nation of Israel. When God changed &quot;You used to be called Jacob, but now your name Jacob was. Israel means prince with God, because Is that not a picture of what it feels like depend what somebody thinks of you on you have Jacob days that still happen in the whole church? I need to zip up my jacket. Have you ever had an Israel calling but a Jacob a total relapse? A new name and a new to new habits. I want you to notice that &quot;Israel will bud and blossom One of them is going down. One of them this year. I expect that, just like some days where I can barely some of us might have already had one, and I will have some down days where I can't find allow the down days to define me anymore past forever and ever, amen. Just because I have Israel purpose. &quot;What are you trying to say, The down days are the days where God is getting down days exist so you appreciate the great days. &quot;Oh, it's just going to be one of those years. I want you to reclaim your day and let the my root system so I will be ready for the fruit have to reframe it where you say, &quot;Oh, it's one of growing day, and it's a gross day. The roots are Then the fruit is coming forth, and it's growing. you that this is that day. Don't be surprised of the greatest fruit. They come in the same my roots are going to grow deeper. My I believe whatever you're going through right your life to produce fruit you cannot even Ephesians 3:20. I believe that on the days where &quot;This is not a fruit day. I can't feel God great integration of your life. Quit saying it was good year, or a bad year. &quot;As for me and my house, will serve. You got a new 24, baby. You got 24,000 of them to praise him with? You haven't opened &quot;I'm going to get this one-day win.&quot; You cat when you get home, you won. You came but if you did... You got this word today. Every being sown into your heart. Are you good ground? to glorify him. Are you good ground? While we're Just win one day.&quot; One breath. We can all do that. I said, &quot;One-day win.&quot; Walk around the block Scripture today before you go to bed. Isaiah 27. I read it to you. You read it by yourself. &quot;This is your year&quot;? I want to say, &quot;This is I'm going to do it. I'm going to go on my you from the Basin. I have more I want to say. can we build some consistency in our lives and house like an &quot;If everything else gets done, Trees don't fill the world with fruit that way, and you won't be able to make your mark guard you day and night, and he will water but you have to be planted in the right place. To all of you who are planted in this ministry, this is that day. I don't know what job you're don't know who is or who isn't going to I don't know what will or won't be hurting in we got a new 24. Lamentations 3:21 says, &quot;This It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not They are new every morning.&quot; Put your you the ball. Stand up on your feet. Get 24. This is a bounce-back moment for you. need a New Year's resolution until we get Thank you for this 24, God. Thank you Thank you for these roots that have grown weathered the storm. Our relationship still built on nothing less than Say, &quot;I got a new 24, and I offer you this day, is saying that for somebody, this is the day of your faith in Jesus. This is that day for you to receive his grace in your life. Right now, I want from... If you're in a building or you're watching named Zacchaeus heard Jesus was passing his Jesus said to Zacchaeus, who was a tax collector in ill repute, &quot;Zacchaeus, come down out of that Jesus is passing your way right now. This is your heart, your habits, your life, and give you a Right now, we're going to pray a prayer out those who are coming to God or coming back by faith... The Bible says that by grace we and he will save you this day. Heavenly Father, today is my day of I believe you sent your Son Jesus he rose again to give me life. I receive On the count of three, shoot your hand up if you right now. &quot;I'm receiving Jesus. This is my day. my moment. This is my day. This is my turnaround.&quot; This is that day. You'll look back on that day and if you're glad you came to church today. This is this week. I will plan, God willing and the creek 3. It's going to be an amazing year, and all Y'all let me know in the comments what you're what you're going to win one day. I want to hear you. Grab hands with the person next to you. That Father, I thank you. I bless you because strength. You nourished us today. You gave Monday. We don't have to leave our faith Into the battles against Leviathan we're We're taking a sword. Into our tomorrow a fruitful vineyard. We're taking root, and we And now unto him who is able to do to him be glory through Christ Jesus in the church Clap those hands like you're glad for hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus