Nasru, the weather is cloudy, but the goats haven't arrived yet. Go look for them with your wife. I also stay in the farm. None of the goats came? No , mom, give me a torbe (a special traditional bag) so we can go after the goats, take water and bread with you. If you find the goats late, light a fire in the mountain at night so that the wolf does not attack. Mom, we will go after the goats. You take care of the farm. Shall I come with you? No, there is no need, you take care of the farm. You take the donkey with you. I also go around and look for goats, take this donkey, Cobra, don't let Abbas come, Abbas, come and hug me so that we can take the donkey there, you take the donkey, my daughter. I also go after goats. I will let you know if I find the goats. If you find them, let me know. Park the car near the road and go to the top of the mountain. If you see the goats, let me know. Okay, which way should we go? Probably the goats went to the top of the mountain . Go that way, I'll go this way, maybe we'll find the goats, I 'll call you there, and if we don't see them, we'll go up the mountain together. The goats went up the mountain. Pay attention, don't you hear the goats? The goats went to the top of the mountain. Who can go to the top of the mountain in this dark weather? You can't leave the goats, the wolf will eat them. Shall we go? Yes, call Prizad and tell him that we did not find the goats and we want to go to the top of the mountain. say if they find the goats let us know okay let's go okay call me I didn't bring my phone use the flashlight light on that side maybe we'll find the goats the goats are here why do you think the goats did they go there It is difficult to go there and it is impossible in this darkness, what can we do? It is dangerous there , so we should light a fire here and wait until tomorrow. Do you think all the goats are here? We can't figure it out right now, because it's night and we can't go to the top of the mountain. Let's go and light a fire. Walk slowly. Give me the flashlight. My leg hurts. Take my hand. Go from the other side . Let's light a fire. Don't fall on us, is it better here or there? Let's light a fire right here , give it to me, I'll come with you, it hurt my chest, why do you keep hurting yourself? You go, I'll bring these myself, I'll go get some leaves, do you think the goats stay there? No, there's no way to go back now, they have to wait until it's clear, leave them here, it's too cold, put more wood on it to warm us, we have to light many fires so that the wolf doesn't eat the goats, it's good that on this fire, tea is right Let's make tea now. We have come a long way. We are tired, we are very tired because it is night, we are less tired, drink tea first, drink tea yourself, not you, my dear, sleep here, I will spread this here for you, I will stay awake and take care of the goats, I am afraid that an insect will bite me, I am worried Don't, I'm scared , go to sleep...I'll stay up until morning, I'll keep the fire burning until morning, thank you , wake up and have some tea...should we see if the goats are there or not? We must go after the goats. We must go and take the goats home . Wash your face. I didn't sleep until morning . On the other hand , I was very scared last night, why were you scared? Collect the rest of the things. Shall I wrap the blanket around these things? Yes, give it to me, no, I will bring it myself, let's go slowly so that the stone does not fall on our heads, be careful, give me your hand, I will come myself , we have to go up, the goats came up from this side. It is true? Yes, you stand here, I'll go up and bring the goats down, okay , it's better to stand there, no, it's dangerous there. There is a risk of the mountain falling. The goat is not in this area. The goats are not here. Check elsewhere. Count the number of goats. Can you go? I don't think so , wait until I come to your aid wait give me your hand let me chew 12 goats are missing my legs hurt look here.... it looks like honey is it soft? It is hard on the outside and soft on the inside. What pains is it good for? It is suitable for leg pain and back pain. That goat's leg was more damaged than mine. God...we have traveled a long distance. Do you drink water? No. Did you free the goat? No , maybe the owner here tied the goat himself? No. He didn't tie the goat here. If we didn't find the goat, it might have suffocated. I'm a girl, what are you wearing? Hello. My dear boy, did you dress like a girl? Yes, my dear son , let's eat khenjuk. I thought you would bring khenjuk with you. These are for you. These are for you. They informed you that there are some goats on the old road. I was afraid to go there. The power is supposed to bring the goats in the evening. 12 goats were lost. Hello. are you well? Welcome, are you tired? I have a lot of foot pain after you left, Abbas cried a lot. and bother me I also told Abbas that I want to leave here because of your behavior. Abbas held my hand and asked me not to leave. Why did you cry? We took a hard way and went to the top of the mountain