- Do you guys have any You do. What took me so The traffic? No, I'm joking. I'm joking. Because the show was postponed. Yeah. So we had, we had some because I think one was COVID. Was it, was it, what was - It, Chris Rock perform? - Was it Chris Rock? I like Like, bring me into your Tell me more. - Supposed perform in the week I was supposed - After when he address getting by Will Smith. - A week later, Chris where he addressed getting slapped - Off. - Did Chris Rock knock me off? No, I love that you were like, and you were like, Ooh, this is amazing. You thought Chris Rock and then I couldn't That's ama No, Chris, first of all, Chris would never do that to me. Like as comedians, especially we do a good job of knowing But I, I really love this I was sitting there, you were waiting for me to come out and slap him. Keep my week out your month. So, okay, so you, you from here and then I'm assuming you It's amazing to hear When I said, who's from And then who drove in? You're You had a very different tone and pitch. No, I've, I've had a You know, the aquarium Aquarium's beautiful. It took like a walk. There's a lot of history out here as well. Like everywhere you go you're like, damn, that happened here. That person's from here, It's, it's, it's, it's pretty impressive, you know, A lot of it. Historical, but still, you know, You know, it is pretty impressive. - First black Congratulations. Wait, are Are you? No, I don't know. I don't, you could have just like I'm first black governor. I don't know. I don't know When, when was the first black governor? Now that's pretty wild. Oh Oh, damn. Oh, I wondered where It's pretty wild that in first black anything. No, you would've thought by now that that would just be like, you know, second. Oh, there we go. Damn. That I am the first. Like how we've Me. Damn. You don't, you You look very tall, Jordan. Oh, okay. That makes sense. That, you know, there's a, It's basically just Once you are above a certain five or 6, 6, 6. Then statistically you are of the sports. No, it's true. It's true. It beyond a certain height, it means that you've probably played level college or, or further. So it's like, that's, that's So you played football? I did. You did play football, Oh, I don't you like, I I don't, I like that. I don't do soccer. Not, I don't play soccer. Not, I haven't played, I don't do soccer. I loved, I loved watching and we never, so we never had American football in, in South Africa. Right. But we, we would see it in movies and we never knew what was happening. Like it was, no, it was amazing. 'cause we'd like watch it on tv. Like, and we wouldn't see the full games. There would just be moments and then we would try and do it ourselves. 'cause we loved American culture. And then we would just like and we were like, Ooh, ding. I love that. I love and you're like, you know, So, so what, what position Say again? Db db. - Cornerback. What does the DB have to do in cornerback? How does that work? No, What is d Defensive back. So, and this is a stupid question. I know. So you're playing on defense. Help me. 'cause I know, I know every, I'm familiar with all the people. I just don't know like the So were you the guy who's other guy's trying to catch the ball? - Yes. - That I love, I love like You're like a professional I always think everyone where you're like trying to You're like, I can do it. And no, no, you're not gonna make it. No, no, no. It's such a fun position. I actually think that's the best position. 'cause if you're catching, it's stressful. You gotta catch the ball. You gotta do the whole toes every time you get it. That's my favorite moment in football. Like, it's my favorite moment in, 'cause football has the most range of any sport I've ever seen. Right. It's like in the beginning Boom. But then when they catch ah, I love that. It's adorable. It's It's like a little tippy But your job is fun. 'cause your job, you don't You just have to run really fast and then just like, get the guy. I like that. Were you good? I was like, of course, Of course. I was. Ah, it's a dope sport, It's crazy and scary. But And so, so you're, Not No, not in life like that. No, no, no. Don't be like, don't be like that. What I mean is like, no more Okay. Okay. So I, I see you Who, who is this? Jordan. - Michelle. I like how you're not like, you don't give her a designation? No. And not in a bad Watch out for your phone. I'm like, who is this? Most people would say, this is my girlfriend, this is my wife. This, you're like, nah, And I'm Jordan, your girlfriend. Okay. I, I wasn't trying I wasn't trying to pressure You're doing well. How did you two meet? - Hinging, Oh, look at you. Oh, congratulations. What did you like about his His height. His height. I love how like women can just and just carry on with their day. Because like, let's be I asked Jordan if it's like, he was like, her boobs. People would be like, no, Say something else. And I'm picturing you before you were just spending the day a few things you wanted hung up. You got on Hinge and you're That's him. You had flashbacks to your future. All those items in the supermarket you could never buy before. That's adorable. So what was it, what was it for you, Jordan? What did you, what did Personality. Personality. Look at that.