When oxygen, heat and fuel combine, It's basic. It's primal. And is the key that unlocked Fire provided our ancestors could move to new climates Pottery, metallurgy, and many other technologies But imagine if fire had been proprietary. What if that knowledge hadn't been shared? What if there had been What would we be? My name is Dario Gil and I'm senior vice president We are in a landmark moment that will shape our society In this episode, I'm going to show you AI firestarter, to go from being just an AI user Chances are you're already an AI user, AI initiative or an AI team in place, It might be baked into your off the shelf It may show up in chat bots, in H.R. self-service portals, and transcription These are what we might call The focus is on executing discrete tasks, individually on its own data Now, what makes Generative AI different and not limited to narrow tasks. Think of it as instead of filling it can write the whole document to create or generate What makes this possible, are foundation models. Foundation models aren't trained They're trained You don't have to manually annotate You tell them to go read And you end up with a large with more humanlike language capabilities. Algorithms use mathematical models the relationships If you give the model you can mathematically predict Instead of needing to build one A.I. model for each specific task, and adapt it to many varied So we went from one many tasks. Your chat bot and your H.R. self-service can be built on the same model that will write your marketing emails So that's the first critical point. Ideally, It's just a foundation you build on. How you use it is up to you. When it comes to using AI, there are basically three modes The first is embedded AI, which I already mentioned, The software vendor creates the AI and you put it to use in your business. Whether it's a writing a system tone in your email or image that can automatically process you get access to some great functionality that can make you more productive, But the caveat is that what you can buy so can everybody else. Those capabilities and productivity opportunities They set a new higher baseline The second mode of consumption As you develop they can call out to another company's using that company's models and processes This is also a valuable way depending on how cleverly you use the APIs of AI service providers you use. You can start to differentiate how you put But there are caveats here too. The first is that, like with software, the models and services The second is it's connecting to You don't necessarily know or the provenance which can make people nervous is still accountable And a second word of caution AI, has to do with the creation In the past, we've seen a lot of value Another company would offer you a service and you get value from that. But the other company from your usage and from your data How much faster is their value Well, you can see it in the stock There is an imbalance in the relationship, that can have long term consequences and for the overall economy This goes back to the metaphor Philosophically, do we as a society upon which we are all dependent? Is that what's best for your individual The third model of A.I. consumption is the platform model. This is the most comprehensive. This is how you become your own And no, it doesn't mean doing it alone and spending years and millions of dollars With a platform in place to build your own AI solutions. You have foundation models. You have tools to improve and you have processes And importantly, you create and accrue value Ultimately, I believe that most businesses should end up with a mix of all three. You'll use third party software Sometimes you'll be totally appropriate but to fully realize the value of AI you'll want a platform approach Let me just go a bit deeper on AI value creation, Foundation models are large scale lots of unlabeled data and subsequently It may be a broad general model, but the key is that it is pre-trained that you can further enhance it Like when a new employee they come in with some general skills The more they learn about your business, institutional knowledge and expertise, Well, the same is basically true You use your AI platform to tune it your proprietary knowledge and expertise, and it becomes more expert and And because you're in and the data, you accrue ever larger With some of the consumer we've already seen some of what happens You can get bad data You can get hallucinations, basically an AI generating very confident You can get into some trouble using someone else's We've even seen proprietary being inadvertently That's why and what data was included. And it's why tight control of Strong Yes, now it is the time to jump into AI, but please that you're investing in a smart, safe, where your business are the primary beneficiaries. There is, I think, a myth about AI right now, a basic misunderstanding. For the general public generative A lot of people think that there is a handful of consumer oriented and that one model is going to win, I don't think that that's The future of AI is not about one model, it's multi-model. Your business will be using multiple to achieve the best results That's why that platform approach And realistically, It will also be powered by open science Proprietary models will play a part. But so much of what is going to happen in It will play out in plain view with full transparency that open source provides. The energy in the open source They are distributed projects, university innovation, producing foundation models for your use cases. Hugging Face is And there are over 325,000 open source models available And this is exactly how it should be We don't want just one or a few winners, that can define what AI is and dictate But that's not going to happen. What we're going to see Okay, so I've talked about a lot of different that you have a lot of work and maybe that feels overwhelming, My goal is to take down barriers Not put them up. There is a sense of urgency too long and missing the moment. That's okay. I assure you that everybody is in the same But I promise that and easy options to check the box and say, if instead you are thoughtful about an AI platform and data management, if you become an AI value creator. You're going to be in a position and you won't have to start over You may not have all the products You may not have all the skills in place. That's fine. If you're not ready to start alone, find a partner that you can trust so that you can take advantage opportunities that generative Personally, I'm very excited about this chapter We, all of us together not just our digital world, We are going to use it to help tackle social, medical, environmental problems, We'll do it through science, like yours and mine Whatever things you do, a power full new tool to help And its the AI value creators, that will be It is the value creators who will take that is generative AI and use it to build That's why it is our goal To put it in your hands and I can't wait to see what you will do with it. Thank you I hope you will join us again as our IBM into everything that a business leader