Give us 30 seconds and I'll as we work our way into the Settings Let's open up Settings, and then Battery, on battery percentage at the top, But while we're here, scroll down and then tap on &quot;Last 10 days.&quot; more and tap on show activity. is that the on-screen number on the left side the number on the right side. It's only using your battery while you're using it which is normal. 20 minutes on screen, seven and a half hours What went wrong here? because I mistyped an email address. I cleared up my outbox. Let's find another problem app. 30 minutes on screen, 11 hours and 15 minutes Godox Light is the app we use to control but there is no reason for it to drain my battery when I'm not using it. Let's tap back to Settings to general, tap on that. background app refresh, tap on that. we talk about background app refresh quite a bit may have slipped through the cracks So let's scroll down here. Godox, Godox Light, switches on, turn it off. like the one you just heard, because this is the place to be. we're gonna talk about Settings to turn on Tap back in the upper back again to Settings and which used to be in this main menu Then tap on apps and rather than scrolling and then tap on the search field, iOS 18 brings some amazing new Let's start with probably the most important one Scroll down to RCS messaging, tap on that This is a huge deal and we do They love to sue big companies like Apple with Android users. bubbles when they're typing to us. not as slick as the integration but a huge step forward from what we've been using Let's tap back to messages and while we're here, Tap on that, if you've signed into iMessage So if you wanna use the messages from your Mac or iPad, turn these switches on. scroll down to the mentions section This is a great feature for when you silence You don't want your phone to but you do wanna know if somebody Next, scroll down to audio messages If a picture is worth a thousand words, be worth at least enough I'm not sure why two minutes is the default, Next, we're gonna go back to So I'll tap messages here in the upper left and then back to the main page of Settings. tap on that and then we're and tap on that. Sometimes I don't get all This makes Siri wait a little bit longer So I'm just gonna come here That works for me. Next, we'll scroll down to always listen for Siri. even when your phone is face down. but I do, so I'll turn on the switch. Let's say you told her to do something Now you can just say Siri in a new command I'll turn this switch on. which I've already turned on. When you use Siri, does she activate too often For me, the answer is not enough. to see if Siri would accidentally No problems so far. turn the switch on. we talk about a lot of Settings in these videos. and follow along at your own pace, Next, scroll down to call hang up. This is a no-brainer. you wanna hang up on them. Hey Siri, hang up. Next, let's go back to Siri and then back again. top of this menu and then tap on motion to open that menu. I want animated images and message effects but not video previews. autoplay can be dangerous. scroll down and tap on touch. and talk about prevent lock to end call. accidentally hanging up on somebody And as an aside, I love this Something oddly satisfying about smashing my phone Next, we'll tap back to the speech section of accessibility Settings for a game changing new way to use your iPhone. switch next to vocal shortcuts. We can have anything we say or the app switcher or the camera. but I am gonna choose flashlight. you light up my life. Now I can say, you light up my life. Let us know what vocal shortcuts you set up Always looking for suggestions. corner of the screen, We're gonna go down to the apps section again Then swipe to the top to search for Safari. This is one of the first places Scroll down and turn on the switch here And while we're here, is turned on as well as require face ID Just in case there's something in there And tap the switch next to a super important new switch Let's tap back in the upper then tap cancel to get out of this menu Now we're gonna scroll up to action button. This section of Settings isn't new, I'll swipe over here to controls. I'll choose a control. for the action button. because that's my favorite Let us know what your in the comment section below. in the upper left-hand corner of the screen Then I'm gonna scroll down portraits in photo mode setting. Now when you take a photo, that lets you turn that photo which is awesome. There are a whole slew of amazing features Why aren't we making the camera video right now? because it stinks to make a video of date the next day. I'll tap back to Settings and then scroll to the top. tap sign in and security, Tap on that. because it bypasses captures Let's tap back in the upper and go back one more time Then we're gonna tap on iCloud. and tap on private relay here to open that up. that can be divided into two categories, iCloud private relay is a great VPN using VPNs to do illegal things. tap on IP address location This lets websites know but not exactly where you are. they'll show you relevant articles Let's tap back in the upper and back once more to iCloud It's just super important. make sure backup this iPhone is on Even if you have an unlimited data plan, plan has a high speed data cap, and cause your entire plan to slow down. I'll tap back in the upper back again and back one more time. Let's open up general auto fill and passwords section of Settings. Settings app, they've moved to Apple's brand new passwords app. to go into that password get your password and then auto fill them If you use iCloud to manage make sure the switch next And to avoid headaches, password managers on your phone, make sure these are all turned off. make sure the delete after use switch This is designed to keep your messages app that we're all used to. if you use the built-in auto If you type it in manually, Let's step back in the upper tap on AirDrop at the top here next to bringing devices together. that a thief can bump into your iPhone Next tap back in the upper and then tap AirPlay and Continuity. this is where a lot of cool features live, both super cool things to have on. left-hand corner of the screen, tap on Cellular Data Options next to Limit IP Address Tracking. Next up, Data Roaming. and I live in the U.S., where roaming was still a thing, When in doubt, check with your carrier, it's a good idea to have the switch turned on Next setting to turn on, I'll tap Back. Turn that switch on. and no Wi-Fi by letting when you leave home, for instance. Then tap the eye on the right-hand side Then tap Private Wi-Fi Address. When this switch is off, Everybody can see what you're doing, and they kick you out, Rotating is like changing costumes so nobody ever knows who you Continuing this crazy metaphor, is like the host of the party. of too many different devices. it looks like a new phone is every time you leave and come back, even break it. happy medium that maintains your privacy Next up, a photo setting. of the screen and back again, Photos is no longer in this list, and then swipe, and type photo. Then make sure the switch here next to use face ID This requires face ID to view the hidden album which can protect your privacy. tap cancel, Then I'm going to scroll up to control center Make sure the switch next to access within apps from wherever you are. of the Settings app have now which is a new iOS 18 feature. That is the next video we're going to put out. and the notification bell if you want to, Thank you very much for watching this video. if you haven't already,