In previous videos, you could see we found We cleared the area around it, We fixed the floodgate, did some landscaping, The neighbors are very happy, and us too, We want to store more water, and have a cool place to refresh. Welcome to a new Project Kamp update! So, we are now at the lagoon! It seems like there is a lot of water, We're going to take this out to retain more water, We are very happy with the lagoon, Because, last summer, it dried up... So, before the dry months come, we want to make it deeper, On top of that, we could use this place as a pool. And, clean the thorns around it, Also, we will make a little bridge And, by the way, I want to introduce you to Ale, Hello! I'm Ale! I'm 26 years old, and I came with Chester from Spain, I've always liked doing physical work in natural environments, I've been interested in community living for a while! And, when I discovered Project Kamp, Eventually, I would love to live long-term in a community! Maybe, even create my own! This is the perfect learning opportunity. So, let's do it! Now, the water is flushing away... Good luck with the job! So, now, the lagoon is empty. We are going to join Chester down there. Explore the area a bit more, So, we can see that the floor is super muddy... There's a lot of cane that we have to take out too... All brambles... All leaves, plant material, and branches... I'm imagining a super cool beach with the towels! Just laying there, enjoying the sun, having a swim... Okay, enough talking! Let's get to work! Let's clear all these paths, and see what it looks like! So, it's been going quite well, But, I could use some hands throughout the process... - Perfect! We are recording! To access the waterfall, we have to cross this part of the creek... As you can see, it's a bit deep. So, we thought we could make a little bridge. There are a lot of old native trees, that burned here. But, luckily, there are new ones growing back! So, with this old chestnut, we will try to make a bridge, We will see if our friend Jaime can do something with it. - What? Nothing! I can do something funny! Okay, so, now that this whole area is clear, And, build some nice places here, to enjoy the sun. I don't know how long it will take, but let's see! - Hello Chester! Well, this is really full of worms! Almost in every shovel, I take a couple of them. Look! There's another one here, another one here... Very good soil, so, it's a good sign! Anything helps, Chester! - You need to put it here. Okay, so now, we're just making water It's working! Yeah, nice Ale! I wanna see it shining! - Shiny, yeah? So, now, we need wood for building the terraces. Luckily, we have a lot of mimosa, - Hey Sean, what are you making? Today, we've cleared out these big rocks, that we have here. You can use it as a seat, because the water level will come halfway here... We just put a retaining wall to keep all this mud back And then, we're gonna build some steps going up here, You kind of have a cool spot to sit, They're pretty sturdy! Let's move all of this! So, now, the terraces are starting to take shape! I don't know what this is... So, I'm doing a spiky thing, I'm still trying to make this wall a little bit more sturdy... This week, we're all done! - That would be funny as well! Yeah, that would be funny, right? Come on, Chester! Now, that everything is mostly done... We decided to clear the rocks from the dirt, To give it a final touch, Filipa went to pick To grow in a new area we cleared from brambles. Now, it's just a matter of time, Cool teamwork! So, we've already cleaned all of the floor... This wall, we made these rocks also clean... Now, we just wait till it fills up, see if the wall holds up, Now, we finished the work, so we invited Tonecas, He also gave us some thoughts! - Nice, eh! We are happy that Tonecas liked our work! And, we are also happy to find that endemic salamander! It's a good indication that the water is not polluted, During the making of this video, And, hopefully, we can attract even more animals, We also found a lot of native trees and plants, Let me show you all the work, that we've been doing, Our friend Jaime cut down a dead chestnut And, not only do we have a easy way now, to cross the stream... We made a new space for the young chestnut to grow! The grass, that they've planted during the winter, Really nice and smooth to lay down! So, at the beginning with all the dirt, We started putting it in here to make it more smooth. And, we also built these lovely terraces, where we can plant flowers. Then, we cleared all of this space, to have a nice pass, Also, with all of the dirt, that we took away from the lagoon... We made these big terraces, where we can enjoy, Okay, enough with the small things! Let's talk about the important part! So, we removed a lot of dirt from the bottom of the lagoon. And now, not only do we have a nicer place to swim, And, thankfully, the wall is still holding up! All of the dirt that we removed from there, most of it ended up here... And, now, this place is not so nice as it used to be. Before, this was all full of cane... So, we made use of the space, We can enjoy the water from both sides! So, now that the mud is all gone, a layer of gravel appears, And, also, it doesn't get sucked into the water. We removed so much mud, that you can see the difference! Before, it was below the knees, and now it's this deep! You've seen what we've done! Now, it's just time to let everyone enjoy the place! Look at this beautiful place! It has been a long and pleasant journey. And now, everyone can enjoy it! In the next video, you will see us renewing the yellow van You can see it already in our Patreon. Otherwise, we see you next week!