- In Lyon, where I come from in France, we have a lot of bistro very casual food, very earthy. And of course, that food I mean, it still is in some cafe, but I mean in the modern way of cooking, we cut down a great deal on calorie. I'm doing beans today. We're going to start the menu with beans. And there is a famous dish in the South of France which is a stew of beans, white beans. It's done with the poultry, with a roast of pork and a roast of lamb, all that and sausage. All that cooked together, and it's delicious but quite caloric. Our version today is not but the beans cooked is quite flavorful and We are cooking white beans. And the white beans, I have two type here. This is the great Northern beans, which are a bit kidney shape. And those are small round beans, sometimes they're called Boston beans, sometimes they're called navy beans. Basically, all of those Just be careful when you pick them out. As you can see here, I I have some damaged beans. And you wanna clean them up a little bit. And after you clean Most recipe is going to tell you to soak the beans overnight. I don't advise to soaking In fact, if you leave it overnight, you will notice the water in the morning is full of air bubble on top, which indicate that the And to a certain extent, there is already a case if you want, I mean, the context already of a gastro problem. So we don't soak them. Or if you soak them, maybe an hour, but wash them, and What are we going to do with it? We're going to put 1/2 And I have four cup of You always start them in cold water. If you start them in boiling Then we're going to put And diced onion, sliced onion, doesn't really matter to that extent because it's going to cook a long time and the onion are going to So we have some onion. A bit of ham. And as you can see here, very Fresh thyme. Thyme is beautiful. A couple of fresh sprig of thyme. Of course, if you don't have it, you can put a little bit of dry thyme. It's perfectly fine. We put a dash of salt on top of this. Cover it. Put them to cook. You bring them to a boil. You lower the heat a great deal. And very gently, you let them simmer for, it's going to take from an depending on the dryness of the beans. But no more than that. Often, I had them cooked even in one hour. So now what we are going I have some here which And I can see them here. As you can see, they fill up, and most of the water evaporate. We are going to do some green with it. And what I have here, I I have some hot pepper flake, and I have those green here. Those are Chinese What we do very often, actually, we use broccoli di rape, we call in Lyon. It's in Lyon. Not only in Lyon, but in New And those are bitter broccoli di rape, D-I R-A-P-E. And this actually is part It has those little It's long stem, and it's kind We saute it, but if you don't have it, I'm putting here the one which It's perfectly fine. In addition to the Chinese one, you could use mustard You could use Swiss chard So we cut them in pieces. The stem, cut the stem Leave the leaves, all. It's fine. Chop the stem, and you can A lot of green. This is a vegetable by itself, by the way. You don't even have to You could serve it by itself. I have some chopped garlic here that I'm going to put I don't want to... And a bit of the hot pepper flake. You don't want to burn your garlic here. So just enough to fry it a little bit, then I start my bean. (greens sizzling) Remember that those are and that give you enough moisture. (pan clattering) Now I'm going to lower Maybe I put a dash of salt in this. You don't need pepper, of course, because we put those pepper flake. I'm going to cover it so of the the green and it starts boiling and getting tenderized by the cooking. And during that time, I'm of dessert that we are going to do today. Very simple dessert of apricot. I love apricot. Again, around Lyon, in from Lyon up to the Riviera, of fruit planting, a great And I remember when I was we used to go there in and pick up apricot, big, juicy apricot that we used to have. And it's a recipe that my So basically, the apricot This is what you want. You cut around. Twist it a Actually, we used to break which was a little bit bitter. Sometime we mix it in dishes. So what I want to do here in my gratin dish this way. Fill up about the whole center here. And then on top of it, we and a little bit of apricot jam. You could have another All around, dot it. A very simple dish. Around Lyon, where I come And then I put a little bit Actually, what I have here for four people. I don't even need all of it A bit of sliced almond on top. Looks good. And that's going to go into the oven for about 30 minute in the hot oven. You don't have to worry about it. You should not serve but it's good to have it at And I can see now that (broccoli sizzling) (pan clattering) enough, and you can finish cooking them or serve them still a with the beans, like this. So what I will do is to Stir it. So you have, again, beautiful color. But as I say, I have or black-eyed peas and the same time type of You would want to serve that, But I'm going to plate it to show you how beautiful Makes a very earthy type of dish, mixture of green, mixture of beans. Remember that the beans are caloric. It's true to a certain a lot of fiber, especially which are very good for you, especially for cholesterol and so forth. So this is a good, natural way of eating. You can decorate that if I have some fresh thyme here on top. Looks beautiful in the middle. Those are wild thyme with the flowers. And here, maybe even on top of it, put a little bit of or on the individual And here, you have a beautiful You know, when I think of French cooking, you may think that steak and In France, steak and potato is really the quintessential type of dish that the French people have in bistro. And with all that talk about and all that, you may Beef is not out. It's a Look at those different cut of meat here. That cut of meat is extremely lean. There is some fat on top. This happened to be a That is the larger muscle of the leg. And this is an extremely lean piece, just about the best to do a roast beef, and slice it very thin Of course, you would remove the top layer part of the meat. That's where you have the fat. Remember that in most cut of meat, the fat is on top, the back fat. That's where it comes In some part, however, the fat is on top, but You have different layer of fat, too. If you really want a cut in saturated fat, this is a hard piece to handle, because it's in layer, multilayer of meat, and it's basically impossible Like this one, you just take the top off. Remember that you have and your prime meat, and has more fat inside the meat, but it's especially on So the inside of the meat but not that much. For the steak we are doing today, we're getting the best piece of meat. This is a New York strip, the as we have it here. And I wanna cut it in half to show you that piece of meat here. As you can see, beautiful. There is a little bit of marbling. This is a piece of choice. But look at the amount And usually, we used to and we used to have and cut and saute again, and sometime with other And now, as I say, we can have beef. You just have to trim it the right way. Now look at this here. I mean, I remove basically If I have that piece of look at the amount of probably half of the weight This is what you should be doing, trimming the fat the right way. Of course, we are in our modern way, more modern way of cooking, we are, I think, much smaller You can pound that a little bit. That steak will be about six ounces. And it is more than within the context of a nice menu. Remember, you don't have A little piece like is all you need. And it's quite satisfying. And this doesn't really Of course, I do the same thing with lamb. Veal has less fat in it. So this is what you have to Trim your meat. And now, of course, what goes particularly with steak? Potato. So let's go back to the I have here some diced potato, which we are going to use. And those diced potato, Why do you keep them in water? I mean, you can do your potato ahead. You can cut them this way. If you keep them in water, fine. They are outside of the water. They are going to discolorate. In addition to this, out of the water, it will also remove the starch that you have when you cut them, and they kind of saute more nicely when you remove that starch. So what you do, of course, you have to be careful to because, of course, they're in the oil. Now what we have here, of this happen to be canola oil. It's called canola oil It's called Puritan oil It is a rapeseed oil. Remember the broccoli that I did before? It's a mustard family, and Those rapeseed from a green mustard, tiny seed which give you that type of oil. This here, a monounsaturated And that's what we use to saute mostly. I like that type of oil. It's an oil which can So you choose an oil which so it doesn't burn, an oil who basically For this, because one, we use olive oil that we use a great deal, which is also a monounsaturated oil, it can withstand temperature, but it has a very taste of and sometime you don't. So here, I have my potato. And of course, this is It will take 10 to 14 minutes. So I have all the potato And coming back this I am going to saute the steak. And of course, I have my two steak here. Freshly ground pepper on top on each side. Remember that this is what I If I have my choice, I even which is the best in my opinion. I use the black peppercorn because the shell on the to the dish. A bit of salt on each side, and we are ready to sauteing our steak. A little dash of olive oil just enough so that it won't stick. And we saute our steak. And depending, of course, on you want them, cook them two It depend, as I say, on During that time, we are going to do the We are going to do a sauce with the steak. See, this is called a steak Marchand de vin, of course, And it always refer to a red wine sauce. In Burgundy, of course, In Beaujolais, where I am And in Bordeaux, they do it with that. And when I'm in the Napa with wine from the Napa Valley. Or wherever I am, whatever But it's always a red wine sauce. Now in it, we have a whole We have some shallot here. I have some hot mustard, I Dijon mustard. I have, of course, What we are going to do? And finally, I'm going of that beautiful chive at So we'll start with the mushroom. Let's do a julienne of mushroom. You slice it, stagger it And of course, in those you can use more mushroom, less. Wild mushroom are terrific now. I remember many years ago in the market, it was impossible even And now in a regular supermarket, very often I can find six, seven, up to eight different type of mushroom. So that's absolutely amazing in the last 10 years or so. Now those shallots are reddish, as you see, And I like the taste of it. If you don't have it, put or put a little bit of onion. Any of those will be perfectly Then I have a clove of garlic here. I can crush that garlic. Chop it a little bit. I can keep it here right on the knife. I have this. I have my red wine. And now, I think I'm which are nicely brown on Continuing saute the potato. I want them to brown nicely on both side. This is the advantage now to be able to use nonstick pan. And with a nonstick pan, of course, you use a very minimal amount of fat. And it's terrific. It doesn't stick. Very often before, we One of the reasons was to as much as for the taste. So now, at least this is progress. I have a little bit of Some defatted, very clean chicken stock. All that going to go into our sauce. I can put this on the side, actually, and do the garnish for the potato. The potato garnish is parsley and garlic. The parsley and garlic, we (speaking in foreign and (speaking in foreign So persillade together of chopped parsley and garlic together, which, as I tell you, is or basically the signature, if you want, of home cooking, regardless, especially in Provence Again, crushing the garlic. Crushing the garlic (knife tapping) will release some of the essential oil and make it much more pungent, (knife tapping) much more taste, so I crush and chop it with a good, Okay, my persillade is ready now. The persillade in France, you put it on fish, you put it on tomato, you put it on potato, as I think my steak are or that is cooked enough. Of course, it's a question of taste. By touching the steak like this, I can more or less say that those steak are about medium rare. It's a question of the way They are beautifully brown. And now, in those dripping we're going to put the and the mushroom, and (pan clattering) That really smell good. Now it start (pan clattering) melting a little bit. And you see the juice of those pan, as I say, we so they are glaze. So the process of deglazing which release those juice and give you the taste and Of course, if you don't have then the juice are burned and that's why you need good equipment. Here, I put red wine in it. (wine sizzling) Remember that there is a of course, in wine, but a most of it is really in the alcohol. And when you cook it like this, the alcohol disappear in the and with it, most of the calorie, except from some residual sugar. So we reduce that sauce a little bit. A little bit of the Lea &amp; Taste it if you like it. A little bit of chicken We finish it with some mustard. But after you put the mustard, you really don't wanna boil it too much because the sauce will with the mustard. Now, I don't really wanna I wanna thicken it a bit more. And to thicken it, what we do usually, I use here a little bit of which is very light, and a dash of water. You pour that in there. And as soon as it touch the hot liquid, it thicken on contact. (pan clattering) Then put that here. Mm, think it's good. Maybe Looks good. And the chive that I'm While I have some chive I may as well use those. Maybe a dash more of Lea &amp; Perrins sauce. And chicken stock. Getting a bit thick. And basically, my steak is finished now. So I wanna finish the potato. Look how brown and beautiful they are. We put our persillade in it. You don't wanna cook Just toss it and give and beautiful color, too. And that steak, we are basically ready to What I'm going to do here is use that beautiful steak this way, a bit of the sauce on So you see also that as soon of a sauce or something then you cut down on the portion. You have a smaller I'll take a little bit Actually, I could have like a border if I had It's easier at the in the middle of it and spread But I could do it maybe now without messing my plate so much. Put the steak a bit more in the middle. On top of that, I wanna put Et voila, our steak marchand de vin in the style of the bistro of Lyon. Now the best part of the day, So let's take the steak to the table. I want to get my apricot in the oven here. Of course, you probably of apricot boiling hot out of the oven. We are going to serve it hot today, but you would like to have it I have a beautiful steak, And I think this is a great menu, the menu of Lyon, of course. And we start with our beans. Remember that our beans are high in fiber. We have that green in it, Then we have that apricot, 100-calorie portion, If you take the cream out, it's even less. Now the steak, which is Then I cut the steak here, and I wanna show you the inside This is the way I like it, medium rare. Well, some people like it a bit more rare. I'm sure you're going to And I'm sure you're going to enjoy it. I enjoy doing it for you today. A votre sante.