I'm an English teacher, and for improving vocabulary. It's fun, [Music] Today, I'm going to teach you one simple exercise. you have YouTube because you're watching we're going to do the exercise together but after that, you can do it on your If you feel like you struggle to understand you. We've made a course specifically designed ten hour-long conversations with ten people of speech. You will hear a huge variety of topics. And that's not all--you'll receive full new vocabulary glossaries, and vocabulary quizzes. confident understanding native speakers. So, Okay, let's get started with this exercise. really doesn't matter. I want you to type into the &quot;short movie clip&quot;, &quot;silent film clip&quot;, or &quot;Pixar that is about 3 to 5 minutes long, has a story to in it. But it doesn't matter if there is. The I will provide a whole list of the videos that I think will be really good--and it getting for this video. So, if you want I'm going to type in &quot;Charlie Chaplin clip.&quot; Okay, so the first thing I want you to do is have to be exactly 30 seconds, but roughly [Music] Okay, that was about 20 seconds, but that's out loud--say it out loud--what you just you're going to speak in. Sometimes when they start in the present tense, then go wobbling between tenses. So, choose a tense. we are describing stories from movies, books, or So, tell me what happened. You can rewind Okay, so we've got, &quot;A man runs.&quot; We're going a...&quot; Now, if you encounter something and I want you to go to the dictionary or so this is a cage. If that is a new word for maybe the word in your language so So, now we can complete the whole Next up: &quot;A man runs into a cage and finds &quot;finds&quot; in there. That's okay, but can we if you encounter an adjective or a verb, for that. Don't just go for the easy option. a sleeping lion&quot;. It's a bit obvious, a bit and type in the word &quot;find&quot;. I've got the words I've got different versions for the same Then maybe I'll say the sentence in three and encounters a sleeping lion.&quot; &quot;A a sleeping lion.&quot; &quot;A man runs into a We want to expand that vocabulary, and your are attaching them to the context of the the cage, the music, and you are so you are much more likely to remember them. And So, let's carry on. Let's watch the next part. [Music] Okay, right. So, the obvious thing to do here is isn't very specific. &quot;He walks away from the He's not just walking. I want you to be specific. as you would be in your native language. What So, the perfect word for what he's you walk on the tips of your &quot;He tiptoes away from the lion.&quot; He the perfect word for this situation. If What happens next? &quot;He reaches a door, but it won't open.&quot; Okay, now be specific. What do? He reaches his left arm out of the cage and which falls and locks the door. That's how is the only way to get your English crisp--if you Oh dear. Now, how is he feeling at emotions. How do you think he's feeling? so go to a thesaurus and find me three words for anxious. All of those words are really great, didn't know before. Write them down, get them just done. Go back and try to narrate the &quot;A man runs into a cage and encounters a lion towards the door. He pushes the door, but it cage and around to the door. He accidentally leaving him feeling very anxious.&quot; I would As I was just watching that, I realised this story. We've got a verb, so can we add away from the lion. Can we add an adverb for tiptoes. Tentatively--if you do something you're doing it very softly; you that's &quot;tentatively&quot;. Add adverbs to We've done our first 20 seconds, so let's carry [Music] Next... okay, so what was that? What was specific. So, what do you think? See &quot;He reaches into his pocket and takes out a...&quot; you don't know, go to your translator. Find the that is handkerchief or hanky. A lot of the time, silk scarf, if it's posher than a handkerchief. What does he do with the handkerchief? it. Why? To try to get someone's So, &quot;He reaches into his pocket, and waves it out of the cage to Let's carry on and see what happens next. [Music] He's waving that handkerchief, the handkerchief back into his pocket and [Music] Towards... okay, now specific. The easy thing to door, but is that a door? Is that the best word say door? Door? Maybe you would, but the real it opens that way, and it's little, so we call a hatch,&quot; but again, I want to be more specific. he slides open a hatch. Always go for the most side? So, he slides open a hatch and he discovers [Music] Right, okay. So, what is that? First of all, you call it? What would you call it? What's the you could say, &quot;There is a tray of water he accidentally knocks it off the shelf. To make it fall off a surface. So, he accidentally [Music] Okay, so he accidentally knocks it off the floor. He catches it before it hits the floor. back. He reaches into his pocket and pulls cage to try to get someone's attention, but no hatch. He slides the hatch open and discovers a he knocks a tray of water off a shelf, but he [Music] Okay, new character. [Music] Okay, so a lot of my students make this mistake. don't we? We've got this little guy here. Now, story, so a lot of my students will say something the dog starts barking.&quot; But this is the first time you are mentioning this dog. So, if it's the and if it's non-specific, we've got to say a or an Now, let's describe the dog. Don't just say a a little scrappy dog runs up to the cage and So, whatever adjective you want to use to describe Then the way that Charlie responds is quite he tries to put his fingers in his ears, in English? What is that action? What is it? we can beg someone, or we can plead with he's saying, &quot;Please stop barking, please.&quot; and he starts jumping up, he starts jumping up Okay, prepositions. What's going where? What's or he sticks his leg out of the cage to try to make it run away. Be specific. Suddenly, haven't met her before. A woman arrives. Let's [Music] Okay, what happened? What did she do? So, she faints. In the UK, we say faint; in the US, [Music] Okay, so you probably know exactly what he's it in English? So, she has fainted. She is on water and starts--well, you've got two options. He water--or you could say, &quot;He starts flicking the So, if you are splashing water, you are trying to that action, but you can say flicking water--flick, her. That's so much more specific and so much that's so much more specific--splashing water, I I know exactly what that means. But it doesn't at that point, he wasn't waking up. He was doing moving a little bit. So, when you are sleeping you're just having a little movement. We say you he wakes up. The lion wakes up very suddenly, and the door. Very tense. Very, very tense. He stands but then the lion walks away and leaves him again, a very different emotion. How is relieved. He is feeling relief. He is [Music] Okay, and that's pretty much the end. So, let's is kind of rolling around like a cat--well, I seems very content, very happy. So, Charlie, who I suppose. He just waits for something to that she wakes up, but normally we use wake up for was unconscious, so we can be quite formal and say or we can say she comes to. That's it. To come the woman comes to. Then she races--let's think back to the cage, or she darts back to the cage Now, how is he acting now? He is showing off &quot;Hey, it's just a lion. I don't care about a He is showing off, or you could say he is he is being a showoff. He's going, &quot;I don't care. when the lion roars at him, he darts out of the see that big long stick and you think, &quot;What's learn so many random words with this exercise, So, he is now at the top of the pole. &quot;What are you doing up there?&quot; And he shows off does a little dance. He puts his arms out. He &quot;Come down now.&quot; So, he slid down the well with the world. He didn't get eaten So, like I said, that's all you need to do. And more fun, easier, or more enjoyable way of watch a nice video, you get to be a bit creative, thing to do--and your brain gets to attach context the video when it learned that word, so it's much I will provide a whole PDF of all the videos that that PDF, become a member. It costs the same as and you get all of these perks. So, thank you so please give it a like. If you would like to If if you want an English lesson with me or sure to become a member, thank you so much for [Music]