a large group of Baki fish, one forefinger is still a white spear, we can get fish. Hi, if you catch it, it has to come from the bottom like this, so you can't tie it too tightly, this Cing trip, there are so many turtles floating around, this is very tame, friend. Yes, maybe later we will try to planting mangroves in the river area here, the turtles are very tame because they are not disturbed by irresponsible humans, this is no better than chicken meat, friends, here too, friends, there are lots of them here, very tame here, this big one is called this type of green turtle, this is a turtle. This turtle can't survive for decades, it reaches the seas of Australia and overseas. Basically, this turtle travels around the world. When it swims, when it lays its eggs, it will climb into the sand. Every time, that's how it lays eggs every 13 days, friends, so it's it. This turtle is one of the marine animals that is most loyal to its husband because it will not want to have sex or mate if it is not with her husband. Even though many things happen when she wants to get married or marry, she will not want to mate if it is not with a man. a man who is not his partner is very loyal, different, just any kind of human being, okay, friends, this time I will be camping in this area here, here, here is the location, here are the beams that we bought from the rest of the building, these are the boats we use, this is Masahdi's boat, this is the location, this is the link between this lake area, this Muara, this is my cameraman, this is the cameraman's skills first, this is the cameraman's skill, he is still young, he is handsome, he is just a pity, this is to eradicate this, the cameraman wants to win alone, this is the sea. OK, my friend, keep listening to the orders from the crazy open camper . OK, Besti Brother, that's the shelter in It's finished there. So now we're going to pick up the used mineral water bottles there. Uh, far from the far end there, it's still there again. Yes, it's about an hour or so . So maybe we'll go back to the shelter that hasn't finished this part of the wall around an hour or so. 30 o'clock OK, my friends. In the middle of the journey, when we wanted to carry out the used bottle distribution, we were surprised by a very large flock of dolphins, friends, you can see, so, Brother, we have collected approximately four sacks, we need approximately one sacks so next time maybe a video for the future we won't use anymore or make houses from used bottles or from because I will make a special boat for me to use for adventures everywhere There is rubbish like this I will try to clean it up Yes More or less, it's impossible for everything, right? So for my friends, if you have leftover sacks like this, please, my friends, send them to my location, like the ones below, my friends. So this is for the purpose of making it easier for me to collect them. picking up rubbish like this is required and then I will burn it OK Brother So we collected approximately six sacks yes this might be enough because the setter we made is not too big so this is already an hour. So we have to quickly go back to our ster to finish OK, my friend, it looks like it's going to rain quite heavily, I see it's all dark. To finish a hut like this, this shelter takes more or less 4 days. It's impossible to finish straight away. That's a fool's name, friend. We're going home. This makes it quite far from where we are. The journey takes approximately 20 to 15 minutes, even if we take the speed boat preparation, well, like this, it's quite far, friends, where we're going home, there's only enough water, so this time we'll be fishing using outdoor sticks . OK, here we go. spears in preparation for tonight J we'll be fishing in a bit , try using hermit crab bait, rubber bait, I lost the shrimp, the fishing rod in front of the shelter, guys, that's great , ma'am, that's the maximum, you can get it, Boss, nudge the frog. I'm curious, what kind of fish is this? Okay, friends, this type of fish, in fresh water it's called something like a statue fish, well, in the sea it's called the Tibuk fish. This Tibuk fish really likes to eat rocks, so we shouldn't eat this fish. we have to release this one, it's quite big here, but it's really not very good for consumption, we released it, there were two of them, well, this is the same type and it can't be eaten, so we released it too. Well, that's OK, so be Besti Brother if we camp on the edge In the sea, we don't need to look for kerosene, fuel, fuel and so on. To light a fire, we just need a cork, this cork, a cork like this, well, this cork, it's very easy to start a fire with this. Look at this . It's very good. It's lit using this cork. It's very fast. Of course, on the coast, there are a lot of corks that have drifted here and there . Okay friends, now the fish is cooked. OK, it's cooked. Don't eat it yet. Don't worry, friends. There are lots of animals. Let's just eat what we have for now. OK, friends. my friend, enjoy your meal Bismillahirrahmanirrahim cameramenaan because cameramen are humans too, take this, cameraman, let's boil some water first , brother, before we do the activity of fishing at night, the ginger doesn't appear, so this is hot, this is me, this is me, this is the gold cameraman , the cameraman is black mas Ken Ken Ken okay my friends Brother Have a good drink bismillah OK Brother now the water is shallow we will do a fish night fish hunt maybe we will look for sea snails similar to bolelo sea creatures hopefully this evening we will catch a lot Hurry up okay here there is a target fish but we didn't catch it Well, there's a group of Baki fish whose name is like the Sembilang Lele fish, this is this [ don't get your hands on it, be careful, because if you get it on your hands, it's very venomous. Usually, if you get it on your hands, it will immediately break sharply. It's good to get in. It's already hard to get out. It's definitely very difficult to get in. it can even be broken, it can cause excruciating pain in the hand, this is what it's called, well, there's another, this group of large maki fish, here's one forefinger, well, this is the same, it also hurts, this is a bit big, the one before, but this is a bit big, it hurts too, this is my friend. If it's still a white spear, we can get some ornamental fish. This is a tame fish. You can get Diti again, it's quite big. Well, this is called Gat Batu. It's black. Well, this is how it looks. Boiled in the opening of the stomach. Boiled in the sun. If it's like this, it's this big. If it's sold dry, the price is around IDR 900. ,000 nih B Brother Gamat mermaid like this yes is well this Brother this is a sea urchin the name is this this is this if it is pricked in this hand or foot sorry-sorry yes this is the medicine this is this urine or our urine this is this well this is this if You have to catch it from underneath it like this, is it okay? It's called Buu Babi. Remember when my friends go on trips to the beach or in the sea, if they get pricked, they will immediately feel the urge to pee. Just pee on the part that's affected, hold on for 1 minute, but actually you can't pee. if it hits our body just for the sake of medicine, it will immediately produce black liquid from where it was stabbed. This is like the Dajal, maybe this is one eye, well, here it is, remember that's the best Brother, if you catch it from under it like this, well, here it goes, catch it from the bottom, okay? This is Jan Laut, Brother, he will swell when you hold him. His teeth are very sharp. Be careful if you can hold him from the bottom, OK, because the bottom spines are not sharp, the top part is sharp, brother. If he feels threatened like this, he will pump his body and it will swell. it's like a balloon. It's called a durian puffer. I'm talking about durian or sea durian. This can be consumed here. The meat is also delicious. I just don't have a fever. Well, this is a sea snail, one of the sea snails that is also eaten. here it's called bolelo, here it's a lot, OK, here, Brother, there's a bawis fish swimming bawis , here, Brother, this is Leon fish or this sea lion, this is very venomous, this is Queen nitrxinya is very great too, this is here, here she is, don't be fooled by beauty Beautiful, beautiful, charming Even though this is very painful, it's got Leon fish. Well, there's this fish, it's called beard fish. It tastes really bad. If you eat it, it tastes like H. Selo tendro fish. We can huh. He's running. Brother, OK, Brother. Well, we're back, we'll be cold tomorrow morning. I'm going to search for mangrup seeds , take them, Su, after taking them, then we'll plant them after breakfast. OK , bro. Have a good breakfast, bro. OK. Brother. Have a good breakfast. Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. Cameraman for now , from here the view is very cool there. That 's a fish, best brother. OTW immediately took the seeds. Brother , pari, there are lots of P. Well, that's the mangrup that was previously planted in Masadi. It's growing very well, here it is. AG we have arrived at our destination where we will collect or look for mangrup seeds n This is what Masadi said in this area, there are lots of piles up. Wow, that's like that, well, down there, we will try to pick them up , we will. Well, that's right, don't do something like this. This one has leaves. It's possible that it won't grow. We'll look for one that doesn't have leaves. Oh, that's what we collected there. The mangrub tree this year my friend is like this. Well, this is the mangrub tree. Well , in autumn it falls straight away. If it's in a shallow place or water. when it dries, it will fall, then there it will grow by itself, it will grow after the head falls off, well, like this, we will see that it still has its head or helmet, if at first the fruit was like this. Well, this is this, this mangrove tree, the fruit is like this after it's big, it forms a gecko like this, well, like this, well, when it falls, after this the head comes off, it will make the leaves appear, which is more or less normal, after 3 months it will come off, OK? Well, that's what the cameraman picked up, that's about 150 trees . Well, that's why I Make a knife like this, this one that has serrated teeth like a saw, this is useful for when we throw away the side of the fish from the skin, well, like this, don't do it like this, wrong like this. That's why if your best friends want to do it or not, there are lots of knives like this at Lasada Shopee. or other online shops, if I make it myself, here we will make the fish half salted, half dried. Sir, there he is doing this, choosing mangrup seeds that are suitable for planting, he will sort them, he will sort them, I will nih, I will scale this fish, bro, for GTI fish, generally white fish, we take parts here, set like this, we remove the sharp part, well, this is like this. Well, we throw it away because it can hurt your hands. You can't even eat it [Applause] Well, so this is bolelo, Brother, we boil it in salted water Yes, we don't need to use fresh water, salt water because later we will immediately stir-fry it. We just need to clean it just like this. We just wiggle it like this. Clean it. We squeeze it, knead it, because in a moment we will immediately cook it, now it's boiling. like this, this is the position of the mat, we will leave it until the water cools down a bit, then we will wash it with salt water, and then we will pry it out of the shell. We will plant the mangrup seeds first, because it's sea water again. shallow OK Brother so don't tie this too tightly because then it will be difficult for this to develop, I mean for him to grow up it's very slow because if it's very tight the bond so try not to be too tight like this, is it now done, this is more or less about 7uh rows in one row, that's about 15 seeds planted, 15 stakes, that means 15 seeds are planted, this is 15* 7, yes, count it yourself, my friends, Brother. Yes , fry the fish we fried earlier. I'll cook the siut masi, I'll boil it first, this is it. These are the oranges. Here you are, use this orange juice to make this amisah. Adi, you can still wash them first, here are the shares , here is this one, two turmeric lemon grass , the orange leaves are already wilted, Brother H and this orange H, let's say bismillah straight away, this is the last one, this set of coconut milk, look at it, bro, brother. Let's put in two pieces of lime leaves, we put in the crushed lemongrass, we cook the coconut milk snails, Bro. Brother, the coconut milk snails are ready out there. Bro, I'm busy frying fish. Okay, Brother, so I'm going to make a typical Kalimantan Gami with Lombok seasoning to taste, pekin salt to taste, don't add sugar. This red onion is spicy or sour, this is special for Kalimantan, brother. First of all, let's pecok it. Yes, who knows, this is for my friends, I want to try cooking Kalimantan gamis with the spices, yes, shallots to taste, Rasi or acan, which is specially prepared. from East Kalimantan indeed and don't forget the tamarind or cempa pekin salt and don't forget the sugar because that's one of the mainstay spices, sugar, it's spicy, it's sweet, it's sour, basically the taste is savory and savory, that's it, let's put the onion back in, don't pinch it, brother, we'll slice it up. like this, actually we have to saute or fry it using a Gami mortar, this is using a mortar, but because we don't have a mortar, this mortar is very hard, this is a stone mortar, not an earthen mortar, so we can't use this to fry it here, we use a frying pan, that's what it is. water and add enough cooking oil OK, Brother. Well, once it's like this, we can lift it, Brother. It's already a typical Kalimantan Gami. Well, that's what it looks like. Brother, it's time to eat, Brother. OK, brother, let's eat, Brother. OK , so, Brother. Looks like I'm going to have to I'm going home because of this. The weather is raining all the time here where we are. It's raining all the time. It's the rainy season and also my feet can't stand up because they have this wound. This wound actually doesn't hurt. It's just that when I wear these shoes, it gets bumped and it hurts. That's why I have to go home. I'm waiting to get better, then I plan to go back to this shelter. Brother, so wait for the rain to stop, then we'll go straight home, even though I'm staying in this ster, I can't help because my feet hurt so much, this is a wound on the heel. Yes, I I 'll try to sleep . _ _ _ _ _ like a bird on a tree I'm just sitting Here I got time it's clear to see