Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. About 6 percent of the &quot;the&quot; - is the most used word in the 16 words we encounter on a daily basis words in order are &quot;the,&quot; &quot;of,&quot; &quot;and,&quot; &quot;to,&quot; &quot;a,&quot; &quot;in,&quot; &quot;is,&quot; &quot;I,&quot; &quot;that,&quot; &quot;it,&quot; &quot;for,&quot; &quot;you,&quot; &quot;was,&quot; &quot;with,&quot; &quot;on,&quot; &quot;as,&quot; &quot;have,&quot; &quot;but,&quot; &quot;be,&quot; &quot;they.&quot; also more. You see, whether the most entire language, or in just one book or pattern emerges. The second most used the most used. The third one third as fifth one fifth as often. The sixth one sixth Seriously. For some reason, the amount of proportional to one over its rank. Word follow a nice straight line. A power-law. it doesn't only apply to English. It also all of them. Even ancient languages we haven't been And here's the thing. We have no idea why. complex as reality should be conveyed by such a predictable way. How predictable? which ranks words as found in the 5,555th most common English word. every word on Wikipedia and in the thousands of public domain books shows 181 million times. Knowing these two &quot;sauce&quot; should appear about thirty Gutenberg combined. What gives? The world is chaotic. Things are power laws. And language is personal, intentional, idiosyncratic. What about the complex activities and behaviors to don't know. More than a century of Moreover, Zipf's law doesn't just also found in city populations, solar immune receptors, the amount of traffic number of times academic papers are neural networks, ingredients used in people received, the diameter of Moon in wars, the popularity of opening chess There are plenty of theories about why and this video doesn't contain a that's a bummer, since we appear to like we also ask more than we answer. So related patterns, some possible mystery itself. a linguist at Harvard University. It is a distribution from which we get the real-world processes behave this way, of thumb, it's worth assuming that 20% of the outcome, like in language, where the most account for over 80% of word occurrences. approximately 80% of the land in Italy population. It is said that he later pea pods contained eighty percent of the other datasets and found that this 80-20 The richest 20% of humans have 82.7% of patients use eighty percent of health reported that 80% of the errors and by 20% of the bugs detected. A common states that 20% of your customers are eighty percent of the complaints you customers. A book titled &quot;The 80/20 Principle&quot; office, 20% of the carpet receives 80 percent of said, &quot;eighty percent of success is just everywhere, which is good. By focusing on just 20 percent of what's eighty percent of the problems. A variety this to be true from case to case, but if some of them, maybe we'll find that one or more of Zipf's law in language. George Zipf frequency distribution was a consequence tendency for life and things to follow it drove much of human behavior and in our species, speakers naturally possible to get their thoughts out there. what was being said, listeners preferred larger vocabularies had to do less work. The compromise led to the current state of language. many words are used rarely. Recent papers have suggested that having helps dissipate information load density so that the information rate is more been learned by applying the least later researchers argued that for simple. Just a few years after Zipf's that there may be nothing mysterious just randomly type on a keyboard you to Zipf's law. It's a pretty cool point and exponentially more different long words alphabet can be used to make 26 one words. Also, in random typing, whenever the Since there's always a certain chance that stretches of time before it happens are exponentially less likely than exponentials is pretty 'Zipf-y.' spacebar are equally likely to be typed, begun, the probability that the next one letter word, is just one in 27. characters or hire a proverbial typing percent of the stuff between spaces, appear when after beginning a word any in 27 chance and then the space bar. A three-letter word is the probability space. If we divide by the number of we get the frequency of occurrence its length. For example, the letter V will random typing. The word &quot;Vsauce&quot; less likely, but watch this. Let's spread ranks they'd take up on a most often letter words, so each of the top 26 about this often. The next 676 ranks will be taken up by two letter words that show up about according to how many members it has, detailed how changing up the initial mysterious distribution has been created of math. So maybe there is no mystery. Maybe words segmenting the observable world and the describes what naturally happens when And as always, thanks for... wait a minute! Actual language is very different from deterministic to a certain extent. what was said before. And the vocabulary result of purely random naming. explain why even the names of the week are used in language according to by the natural world and they're not the world into labels. Furthermore, when given never heard or used before, like when creatures with strange names, people will alien twice as often as another, three be built into our brains. Perhaps there topics of discussion ebb and flow that Another way 'Zipf-ian' distributions according to how they've previously attachment processes. attention, variation, friends, jobs, to how much is already possessed. people walk from the living room to the will be placed elsewhere, making that a video or image or post has, automatically or make the news for it more views. It's like a snowball rolling down a bigger its surface area becomes for There doesn't have to be a deliberate process. It can happen naturally. Try this. two at random. Link them together and then throw them over again. If you grab paper clips that More often than not after a while 'Zipf-ian.' A small number of chains total paperclip count. This is simply greater proportion of the whole it of being picked up in the future and get richer, the big get bigger, Perhaps languages' Zipf mystery is, if not preferential attachment. Once a word is Critical points may play a role as well. Writing and conversation often stick to a and the subject is changed and are known to result in power laws. So, in mechanisms might collude to make Zipf's be. Perhaps some of our vocabulary and to Mandelbrot's theory. And the natural preferential attachment and criticality, effort when speaking and listening are between word rank and frequency. It's a shame that the answer isn't the consequences it has on what speaking, and this is mind blowing, nearly will be nothing but the same 50 to 100 words that appear in that selection only consider the fact that one word accounts most used words make up about a third of half. Seriously. I mean, whether it's all the the words in Plato's &quot;Complete Works&quot; or or the Bible itself, only about 100 words written or said. In Alice's Adventures in of the unique words used appear only only once in a given selection of words Hapax legomena are vitally important to only been found once in the entire known be very difficult to figure out what it everything ever said or written in collections and it's fun to find hapax legomena in them. probably won't be the case after I is in the Oxford English Dictionary, but Gutenberg corpus or in the British Corpus, but it does appear when searched in book titled &quot;ElderSpeak&quot; that lists it means &quot;in a mocking manner,&quot; as in 'Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. But who is Michael weigh?'&quot; It's a little sad that quizzaciously fun word, but that's the way things go in love, some get little. Most of what you forgotten, forgettable. The Dictionary of Obscure Sorrows, as it often does, has a word for this - Oleka - the awareness of how I've been alive for almost 11,000 days each one of them. I mean, not even close. Most of what we do and see and think and at a rate quite similar to Zipf's law, naturally selected for thinking and a 'Zipf-ian' way, it makes sense we'd really well, most things hardly at all. means that so much is forgotten, could never forget. My locker number - senior year - its combination, the jokes the names of people I saw every day 10 I look at all the books I've read and detail from them, it's a little the Pareto Principle dictates that my pretty much only the titles and a few Ralph Waldo Emerson makes me feel better. I've read any more than the meals I have And as always, thanks for watching.