American fast food is taking From recent arrivals like We appreciate more American themselves. To established favorites. Kfc, of course, because I It's like the hype. It's the trend now. It's addictive, I think, happiness to people. Between 2019 and 2023, more opened in France, bringing 2023 alone. Despite its reputation for palate is changing. France is McDonald's and market outside of the US. A lot of brands want to come an Eldorado. You do 2 or 3 other country. It's a country that has a American brands and has the that restaurants have found So how did American fast culinary conscious, fine French crowd? CNBC visited It's lunchtime in the Lille I take this menu today uh, I love nuggets. Between 2013 and 2023, fast whopping 61% in France. McDonald's and Burger King Their combined sales billion in 2023. Burgers play a big role. Quick service restaurants accounted for about half of year. The burger has taken a over the last 30 years, and on every restaurant menu. But it's not only burgers. American fast food marketing, built their products. People in France went to And when you explain that iconic burger, you succeed. For Popeyes is a chicken For McDonald's, it's a Big Whopper. We are the country Michelin restaurant. It's standards. And still, QSR What that shows is that food, we still understand ourselves. In a five year span, the fast food chains, excluding stores across France. Total profits for the during that time. In the most recent decade other newer concepts, more over to France. I think American concepts making their offerings an The potential of France is the customer, for both for brands. So you think that combination. France is a global leader in boasts more Michelin other country. It's home to esteemed the Cordon Bleu, producing the world. In 2022, the eateries. More than half service restaurants. Because of this, legacy, Restaurants, or QSRs, took entering the French market. But I can tell you about don't get fed, we eat, and emotion. So whenever you can't just bring an You need you need to bring You need to bring Just given the cliche that eat, the concepts have foot forward, really images, higher quality, innovative offerings as That includes sourcing most French farmers, like the French fries and the sandwiches. It's very important to build They have strong farmers. That's why the succeeded. American QSRs have adapted standards, and as a result, and less processed than the These brands also cater to menu items or creating new But if we speak specifically it takes is that you need when it comes to the offering. The one campaign every year for the past six and people love it. Our most successful raclette. And it's paid off. Many consumers now consider much French as they are It feels like it's part of It's American based, but we difference. There's KFCs McDonald's has the strongest its first-mover advantage. McDonald's was the first to France and found And I think as a result of of folks have wanted to Burger King, on the other year hiatus in 2012. Now, it boasts the second QSR franchises in the Pizza hut arrived in 1987, and Domino's in 2006. But their rapid expansions decade. Popeyes and Krispy French stores in February It's a new brand in France fantastic for the French Shifts in French society allowed the fast food Takeaway, drive thru, click All the QSR restaurants can It's a perfect match for hybridization of concepts the wake of Covid. We have a very small part, customers coming at the I mean, like it's less than online. 1 in 5 meals in France is Experts predict that number It's a young population, uh, as well as the fact that that leads to strong unit industry. America's pop culture powerful tool. For young people, they grew where in America, you know, So I think now, uh, when we France, all the young about that. Bigger portions and modest the most delicate palate. High inflation and contributed to a need for The American food is tasty, You know that you will Lunchtime today is around 42 This prevents people from encourages out of home The QSR American brands problem with the to improve consumer quality I really like good food, but So when I want to have a take my time. It's usually During my working time, i But the restaurant industry susceptible to domestic and In 2024 McDonald's and that boycotts related to 2023 sales to slump in population. That includes largest Muslim population After all, France accounts chain's total revenue. McDonald's also blamed its on pricing backlash, in the US but not markets. Something I don't like is They reduced the size of the price. Subway has closed more than storefronts since 2015. I think the more near-tum macro oriented, that France European market that's restaurant industry traffic traffic softness. Staying competitive in the tricky even with decades of We come from a world where that were delivering were I compete with pizzas on the best in class in that But I also need to be the delivery business because have sure actors like between 7 and 12 times Not everyone has welcomed A neighborhood collective arrondissement protested 2023 over, quote, outdated France implemented new laws fast food companies over Now, Qsrs are required to cut down on single-use We have created dishes restaurants and their than the others. The QSR market in France has still. Chipotle, for locations so far. Taco Bell has not entered The burger, the beef, the in the future. Steak n shake now boasts 37 Carl's Jr is playing catch its first French location Wendy's is supposedly The next push is going to be which we know in the United as well as more younger One of the missions was broadly available. That's in the next five to 500 stores. There is a big potential, distribute our products. we're looking at pizza distributor. The industry is projected to by 2028. And so far, the French The taste is really other restaurants. I think they have a special everything.