The gypsies. These are the gypsies, here in northern India in Rajasthan. We are in northern India, Rajasthan, the city of Jaipur. This city is amazing! Look how all the buildings are orange. They say it's pink The pink city. It's like the trademark of Rajasthan. The whole city looks like this, look! The land of colors, here in India, Jaipur, Rajasthan. It's the largest state in the country The name Rajasthan means "Land of Kings," and most of it is covered by desert. Welcome to Rajasthan. Today, we're off to meet the gypsies. -Rajasthan. After a two-hour drive, since it's the original homeland We ventured into their area They wear unique clothes, Gypsy girls. Yes. Gypsy dance also. This is the most famous gypsy girl and she became famous Photographers from all over the world just to take pictures Because her eyes You can look at that. She is the desert queen. How old are you? 18. A gypsy girl from Rajasthan. -How are you? -What is your name? And you guys are famous for what? Famous for dancing, Singing also. -Singing? You're famous for cobra too? Yeah, we also catch cobras. Yeah, very famous. Nice dance. We're Rajasthani gypsies. -You're Rajasthani? -Cobra? We have cobras. Let's go! These are the gypsies. But who are the gypsies, Originating here in Rajasthan, India, taking on different names In the Arab world, while in Europe, they're called &quot;Roma,&quot; about whom I filmed an episode They live and travel in groups, guided by unique customs and traditions They've embraced a nomadic lifestyle, Their activities largely center singing, entertainment, and even sorcery. Some of them have settled in urban areas, yet they remain outcasts Due to their inability to integrate, people often view them It's coming to me. This tribe is known as Kalbelia. Look at the cobra hunters. This is their daily life. They catch venomous snakes, using them for performances These are the nomadic gypsies. This is their way of life, They have a unique style of music You'll stand? No, don't fall. One leg! Do you want to drink tea? It's called "chai." -Milk tea. We're in the desert now. Most of Rajasthan is desert like this, but they also have colorful cities. We came here to drink tea. Bro, can you do this famous move? This tea is called masala chai. Here's the mom. What's daily life like here? -They dance. Do people treat them badly? No. People don't do that, they respect them because they dance So they are working! What is the original story of the gypsies? So you've been living in the desert Yes. I Like the desert. -Desert! Okay, okay. This is the famous chai, huh? Yeah. It's very good. It's tasty. Tea with milk. In the middle of the desert! The atmosphere is amazing though. Tourists come here to ride camels and watch their performances. They work for a living and don't beg, contrary to common stereotypes. Do you know about gypsies in Europe, -Are you the same? She said, "They are white gypsies." Yeah, and she is black. -That's all. Because you live in the desert. I like smoking. She likes to smoke. What is she eating? She is chewing tobacco. They have other means of earning a living, they catch cobras and sell the venom... I put cobra venom inside my eyes. Gypsy people don't wear glasses. ...which is used in Ayurvedic medicine, a traditional alternative medicine My ancestors used to put venom for better eyesight. She started applying the venom. Is this cobra poison? Yes. They say it completely I've never gone to a hospital. -Because of the poison? ...by placing drops of the venom Gypsies have a different way of life. This is Rajasthan, guys. My ride is a donkey. It's an animal, you know. Animal, yeah. Do you live here? That's your home? This is the gate of the house. Where is your home? This. This is my home. Now they are preparing tea for us, guys.