"So the panel comes at the bottom and the "Yeah, the plastics and metals and then the glass comes at "That is insanely cool." -Matt Ferrell "I know, having been, having worked in yeah, we still just love watching this "It is like a magic trick. That is Okay, let me backup for a second. This is going to take a little bit the surprise of no one ... I'm fascinated by electricity for yourself onsite, on your roof, it has its downsides. There's a growing of life coming in the next decade. And one of video comments is that "solar panels can't be Texas to visit SolarCycle to see if that's I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by I flew myself down to Texas to visit hand what recycling solar panels looks they're located is that it's kind of rigs everywhere ... and in the center of energy company. What's really funny is that "There's our oil rig. You don't have a solar recycling facility if you don't I was taken on a tour of their facility by Suvi Vinje, their Chief Operating Officer. But to recycle a solar panel? Why haven't we been doing long lasting solar panels cheaply and efficiently, difficult. A solar panel is made up of layers that's sandwiching the solar cells to protect frame. It doesn't sound complicated, but because together, it's really hard to undo that. That's Their process starts off by loading up a machine first machine breaks off the aluminum frame in collected and prepared for recycling, while The next step of the process is the tricky step and doing it in a way that doesn't of the hardest parts of recycling solar panels. "This is glass, basically, but it was glued before and effort on developing equipment to get this it out in a pure form like this, you can reuse it you can't make new glass with it. It'll kill your impurities that are in there. So getting them out The workers prep the glass before sending it heating the panel up to soften the materials "So the panel comes out at the bottom and the "Yeah, the plastics and metals and then the glass comes at "That is insanely cool." -Matt Ferrell "I know, having been, having worked in yeah, we still just love watching this "It is like a magic trick. That is What you're left with is glass that the solar cell itself, which is sent Because many of the machines and exaction I can't show the exact details. However, cells is that they're ground up into Before we get into that, there's grind you up... and that's online tracking can help with that. I always recommend but VPNs can be very useful even when you're sophisticated commercial tracking and machine VPN can protect you from some of that. SurfShark's and malicious websites making it safer to use make it look like your IP address is coming from handy if you want to stream a video that's only this feature on a few recent trips. One of the up on all your devices, whether that's iPhone or offer one account to use with an unlimited number additional months for free, don't miss out on that. SurfShark offers risk to try it out for yourself. Link is in the of you for supporting the channel. Back to what "So here, after you get that glass, the frame, and actually the cell material here. There's lots the backside. So this goes through the additional comes out of here, bags of it over here. We individual supply chains that really value a great example of solar metal. Copper, "And Silver, of course." -Suvi Sharma "Silver is the big one in here. So, this goes right back into use, "That is so cool." -Matt Ferrell None of these materials are difficult de-sandwiching a solar panel to get at the which drives up the cost. A 2021 National cost of trashing a solar panel at under $5, and $45. So, in most cases, it's just not That's a big problem. There's a lot of grow. Just to be clear, this isn't the problem 8 million metric tons of decommissioned solar that number could reach 80 million. Chucking And calling decommissioned solar panels 'junk' is they're filled with lots of valuable materials that just the materials in the solar panels estimated $2 billion by 2050. But to get at solar panels going into landfills, we have to a solar sandwich. That's why SolarCycle has been developing new machines and technologies to break "...at a high level, taking the materials hardest job that we have, really, at you know, that's the hardest job "We've developed machines to remove the so there's not a lot of plastic residue and equipment and the processes. What custom equipment to do what we do, because "So this tool is an interesting example machines to put aluminum frames now let's figure out how to take them that's what we did here in this tool. It's Speaking of aluminum, though it's recycling it still represents a massive energy energy than making virgin aluminum. New aluminum bauxite, and then transporting and refining panel recycled using their method saves us about more than 1.5 tons of CO2 if a panel goes on to "We are finding that there is an interest companies. At SolarCycle, we are focused not just from some of those recycled materials and becoming So these are new business models effectively and which a lot of investors are seeing And of course, the less we can mine the very rarely environmentally friendly, rare earth or valuable metals that end up 90% of solar panels are currently manufactured chain bottleneck. Again, we want more solar so finding any way of reducing our reliance to Arizona State University's Meng Tao, we're we build all the solar panels we need, so "Today to our knowledge, we're the the silver and the copper. Out of inside the solar panels use about 15% of the world's "If you look at the forecast, by 2040, a hundred percent of the annual "So it's very important to get that silver from the ground. So yes, we do get the silver, the back into supply chains that can make new silver So, yeah, recycling upwards of refurbishing one like SolarCycle does? And SolarCycle isn't alone. Arizona State from the DOE Advanced Manufacturing Office. The recover high value materials like silver and blade to separate the silicon cells from the Then they'll use a chemical cocktail to 'wash out' the cocktail isn't environmentally friendly, it And the field gets even bigger when you look University has come up with yet another innovative them. That's an oversimplification, though their like the one that's probably in your kitchen right microwave 'loosens' them up, and should make it parts individually. Researchers from France's the photovoltaic cells, separating the module's and thus making everything easy to My point is, solar panel recycling is an to pop off. There's just so many cool techniques and companies like SolarCycle are getting traction is already on track to recycle 500,000 to 1 That said, at the time of making this video, which is on the very low end of the recycling I saw some new machines they're working on There's really good reason to believe that as to kick in, that the price of recycling a solar "You know, if you look back 30 years ago, solar cost, you know, easily north of $10 a watt them 600 watts and they cost 30 cents a watt. technology innovation. Bringing the cost down, And in continuous R&amp; D and innovation, that's absolutely it can be recycled, but we just to do it. And that's what, you know, we're I want to thank Suvi, Rob, and the rest of what they're doing. I'm going to be keeping But what do you think? Do you think companies future? Jump into the comments and let me know. Still TBD where we'll be discussing some of who get ad free versions of every video. delivering you these videos every week. get in on early videos, check out the link in