I'm Jake O'Neal, creator of Animagraffs, and We've built a generalized teaching model our source inspiration comes The submarine consists of a reinforced tube called which houses all personnel This inner hull is divided into 8 which are separated by reinforced Special pressure-rated doors separate and isolate An additional watertight cylinder Wrapped around this core, there's an ballast water, air, and other A hollow superstructure extendeds along with limber holes so water Now, let's get into the details, There's a large buoyancy tank Shutters on both sides cover The anchor is perched here, connected by 600 feet (192 meters) of chain. The A motorized device called a storing it in a special chain locker near the bow. A hydraulic ram drives a shaft to tilt the fly through the water when submerged. since they're no longer needed, and From here we can see into There are 16 torpedoes here, and 10 reloads stored in the compartment. in diameter, weighing about Between the tubes, there's the gyro angle setter inside the torpedoes for firing at a different resulting in a curved shot. These analog on board, which we'll examine in The torpedoes themselves are expensive, The gyro angle setting from the computer is to set the torpedo's inner gyro. Every torpedo has its own adjusted setting Torpedo depth and speed are set by hand The gyro angle can also be set by hand if needed. There are 6 movable bunks but this compartment could There's a crew's head or toilet here, A hatch overhead provides which in turn leads to the bridge. The escape trunk can be individually sealed necessary to equalize inside and outside pressure The underwater log is attached with a rod that extends 3 The rod has openings at the tip through which and thereby derive speed and distance traveled. Heading aft or rearward, we pass through We've now moved into officer's quarters. food to officers, though only coffee with food itself coming from the crew's galley. mess hall, recreation room, There are 4 bunks at the other side, with another 6 bunks down the hall. The rooms are partitioned with textile curtains. with redundant course indicator and a writing desk, and wall-mounted components for access There would be anywhere There's a small office at the end of the From officer country, we pass through which is packed to the last square inch with At the center, there's a dead reckoning shown underwater log device, to automatically move a pencil which draws It has knobs to make adjustments, or recalibrate The master gyrocompass occupies a with a shatter-proof glass viewing port. instead of magnetic north. Magnetic affected by other electrical or metal At the heart of the gyrocompass, in a cup partially filled with mercury. The cup is part of a hollow metal sphere encased by an outer supporting sphere. The core apparatus is held and isolated and flexible metal bumpers with felt tips, Through connection to an outer gimbal ring, orientation, apart from the submarine's movement. relationship to earth's gravity, allowing finite Above this central table there's a temperature at various depths on paper cards. sonar range and accuracy, including There's a fathometer which displays the result of There are repeating gauges Along the port side wall, which would be the left side of the submarine looking towards with separate wheels and a similar plane at the stern. plane angle indicator, something like a construction level, using an with separate glass tubes for coarse In the center, there's a deep depth gauge, Moving forward on this side, there's with status lights which show red for open or exhaust ports, hatches, and so on The boat is ready to dive Even then, some air is pumped into the boat, and internal air pressure, ensuring water tightness. which control vents, valves, At the back of this side there's the Trim Manifold or between tanks. On the opposite or starboard side of the we see the Air Manifolds and Gauges. This is used in ballast tanks, for firing torpedoes, for ventilation and breathing, and so on. Control Panel, with metal twist knobs, indicator and relay readings to various repeating Next to that, there's a large switchboard systems on board and also indicate the status At the front of the control room, The boat's main steering An auxiliary gyrocompass sits behind this wheel. compass, and a motor order telegraph which is used to There's a ladder here which leads At the back of the control room, we see completely through the control room, with Near the ceiling, there are three colored alarms. meant sailors had 10 seconds to get below The yellow alarm is for general quarters, stations and prepare for combat. this alarm sounded, sailors closed all There's a ladder here which The conning tower gets its name from the This is the main attack and At the center, there are two periscopes. Periscopes extend upwards which are visible at the exterior Max effective periscope depth is 65 feet in an incredible 35 seconds. all the way to the bottom of the pressure hull, The forward scope is the It's shorter but thicker in circumference, It has superior capabilities Below the main viewport there's a radar array. The rear scope is the attack periscope. It's also about 4 feet longer Back in the conning tower, Handles also twist to control The attack scope has an optical range with the supporting stadimeter which helps derive to bottom for objects with a known height. of the ship looking forward, There's also indicator gauges and controls In front of that, there's the sonar control panel with gauges and knobs to remotely Visible sonar components include a side of the bridge for standard sonar capability, and two retractable sonar projectors boat for supersonic sounds, that is, sound that Back in the conning tower, there's a ladder which The main steering station is at the forward and familiar gauges for speed and compass repeater, and a motor order telegraph. torpedo firing panel, with status indicator Behind that, the Torpedo Data Computer. in at about 1,500 pounds (680.4 kg). uses electrically driven physical gears, wheels, calculations for accurate torpedo firing between at ranges up to 9,000 yards (5 miles, 8.23 km), Calculation results are sent to other Against the back wall, there's a Dead Reckoning Let's head back down the ladder. there's a separate radio room which is Near the door, there's a special cipher machine Traveling aft or rearward through another where the ship's 60 to 70 cremembers eat, All the food for the crew and officers A large, distinctive coffee open end of the galley for easy access to crew. There's a floor hatch for The mess area has various tables, Apart from meals, the crew could relax here, There's a bookcase at one end, among various food storage A ladder near the back leads out to the main deck. Passing through the curtain at the end of the There are 36 bunks for sleeping, with individual storage bags Bunks were used in a shared with some sleeping while others were on duty. at the starboard side. Dangerous and meant these sailors were afforded the At the back, there are two restrooms, showers, We continue rearward, heading through Four huge diesel engines A few different types were common for the era; I've chosen to feature the 10 Each engine is individually The engines extend between decks, from the bottom They rotate opposite one another for balance. All are supercharged. The air intake has an attached silencer be deafening. Even so, the running engines for communication. Air intake caused a Air arrives at the engine room from the main air Its high position helped Engines are cooled with both a closed Sea water is sprayed into mufflers The engines exhaust out through side There are special fuel ballast tanks with vents, water flood valves, and air blowers that can Water, fuel, air, or a combination of any of These are supplemented by 4 normal fuel tanks, so the ship can maintain Saltwater is heavier than the submarine's fuel, so seawater is pumped into the tank but There's an additional, smaller the bottom of the pressure hull. the engine room for access to the main deck. The submarine uses a diesel electric setup, where each diesel engine has an Power from these generators When submerged the diesel engines are shut battery banks that take up a large portion There are forward and aft battery compartments, A single battery is about the These compartments have complex air and water When surfaced, some of the generator's Now let's return to the motor room. The ship has four electrical motors Motor shafts pass through a reduction gear to slower speeds. Noise from this reduction so much effort went into From the reduction gear, two main propeller Max speed on the surface using all available while max submerged speed under battery At max underwater speeds, the Maximum underwater range is around 100 practice most dives were short and any dive Located just above the motor the control center for this complex The stand and its various electrical motor speed and rotation direction. There are gauges for propeller shaft speed, and many smaller gauges to track the The system is highly flexible for many battery power, for powering onboard There's also a fully functional metal working lathe at the starboard side. packed with components that link gauges and There's a small engineer's From here, we pass through the final There are 8 torpedoes here, and 4 reloads on skids just behind. I've shown 6 bunks, though up to There's another head here as well. As for the inside of the boat, the only remaining which is beneath the control room. It houses Behind that and beneath the crew's galley and Now let's move outside the ship Submarines had various gun configurations. of the conning tower with a shorter range, and There are water-tight, pressure proof canisters mounted nearby with ammunition All of these guns were used for The main deck has teak-wood planks at the center, camouflage. She could be completely invisible to The raised portion at the center is the fairwater or sail which wraps around There are two target bearing transmitters, which There's a button to mark the bearing or angle automatically send this information to the torpedo There's a search light, Air many critical submarine functions and tasks. air to eject torpedoes from tubes. water from ballast tanks to resurface, There's air supply for many components on The ship had about 15 hours of breathable added from stores but would increase internal including air bubbles, might be dangerous Diving ventilation intake and exhaust ports are closed. escape and water to enter, inducing The bow planes are rotated to guide the ship into Rotating stern planes adjusts the dive angle. Once the desired depth is reached, ballast tanks to achieve neutral buoyancy. trim, meaning the angle of the boat should be At depth, bow planes are now used to alter the ship's depth, Doors to isolate damaged areas of the hull, so the ship As such, special doors are designed They're installed into the reinforced bulkheads. There are sturdy rotating levers at With a couple turns of a central handle, a worm gear actuates parts rotating levers into place. The inherent leverage in the as the rubber door gasket presses against an exposed metal part These submarines are seagoing works of art, and more to them than I could cover here. I'm in awe