Please be kind Please give me some money. Please give me some money, please. Ah Fang, come quickly. Thank you. Thank you. Let's go, thank you. Brother, look how big Jingzhou is. Invite the birthday star to ascend to the position of crane Bowing to the Master, the East Sea is boundless and the South Mountain has a peak Disciples wish Master a long life and good health Get up Today is my fiftieth birthday Friends from all over the world came to celebrate my birthday You should receive them attentively. Everything for good luck Don't argue with others. You guys should go and prepare separately. Will Dad, Third Uncle come? He will definitely come this time. Master, look there. You be careful Don't dirty my master's clothes. What's wrong with you? Look how dirty my master's clothes are. Forget it, really. I don't have eyes, forget it. Master, are you okay? Brother, look, everything is alright. Do you think it looks like me? Brother, you said I'm good at kneading He's still good at kneading All good What are you doing, you water spinach? Ah Fang Yun'er is coming. Let's go, Junior Sister. Mr. Zhou Mochi from Golden House Bookstore has arrived Mr. Zhou Mochi, please come in. The leader of the Shahu Gang, Mr. Hu Sihai, has arrived please please please The leader of the Dragon Fish Gang, Mr. He Long, arrives please Please ask, little brother It's so lively here What are people doing? This is Master Wan celebrating his 50th birthday. Who doesn't know about the Wanjia in Jingzhou? It is Wan Zhenshan's home To Master Wan Daddy Master Uncle's Birthday It's quite a grand occasion. Junior sister, come and see how fun it is Tiesha Gang leader Liu Lao Ye arrives The head of the Lotus Sect, Master Tian, has arrived Come in, please. Come in, please. Senior The pretty lady you mentioned Why hasn't it arrived yet? I don't know. They said they were coming. Daddy, look The master's birthday celebration is about to begin Dad, let's go in. Go Go Go Come inside please Junior Sister Qi and the others have arrived. Come in, please. Come in, please. The third uncle Qi Changfa came with his daughter and apprentice father father Third uncle Qi Changfa and his family have arrived Dad, Third Uncle Qi Changfa and his family have arrived Come, come, come in, please come in Come on, my master is walking over there. Third Junior Brother Third Junior Brother, you miss me so much When you get old, you have white hair. I almost didn't see it But you are still so rich Let me introduce These are my two unworthy disciples. Daughter Qi Fang met Master Uncle Hello, Master My niece has grown up so much. Di Yun met Master Hello, Master, Hello, Nephew Di Let me introduce These are my eight useless disciples. I have met your third uncle. Met Third Uncle Third Junior Brother, please come in, please Sister Qi, please Sister Qi, let's go Brother, let's go Junior Brother Qi You came all the way to celebrate my birthday Or is it the brotherhood? Birthday gift for you Good Kung Fu Brother Wan Zhenshan came to celebrate my birthday today Give you a ton of gold Congratulations on your success Stop right there! It turned out to be the Lv Dazhai master of Taihang Mountain. I have made a fortune in recent years. The house is full of gold. I carry so much with me. Wan Zhenshan Three years ago, my brother committed a crime in Taiyuan Prefecture Someone secretly tipped off Ruined my brother Lu Wei's life Until last year I found out it was your good deed. How did you say this matter ended? Yes, it was me, Wan, who tipped off Doing business without capital in the arena That's nothing. But your brother Lu Wei raped someone's daughter Four lives were lost. This is such a hurtful thing I met Wan Zhenshan Can I just ignore it? Wan Zhenshan is truly a chivalrous hero. We should come out and fight for justice Why did you secretly tip off? And swallowed it My brother has already received six thousand taels of silver You are despicable If you have the guts, fight to the death Nonsense I won't beat you up. You don't know how powerful the Wan family is. You don't need to take the lead Lv Dazhaizhu Three years no see Your kung fu must have improved. I'm here to learn from you today. You ruined my master's new clothes. You pay me, pay me I tell you You ruined my master's new clothes. You compensate me You compensate me It cost several taels of silver. You give me back you You I tell you I won't fight with you This new dress My master sewed this cloud after selling his big yellow ox. You compensate me You bastard. What are you messing up? I tell you to pay me back This dress belongs to my master. It cost three ounces of silver to sew it. Yun'er, come back to me immediately Master, you are embarrassed to ask him to compensate I asked him to pay because of you. Why shouldn't you pay for soiling someone else's clothes? Country people are not that easy to bully. Nephew Di, please step back first I will pay for your master's robe. Master, it's not you who made the clothes dirty. Why should I ask you to pay? I just look for him. Will you compensate me? I will compensate you Yun'er Wan Zhenshan, this is the guest you invited. Aren't you afraid of being laughed at by others? Brother Di, what are you going to do? Gui'er, you don't need to worry about it. Compensate me Nephew Di, please step back first I won't force him to pay today. You compensate me You... you don't compensate me for my clothes and you hit me I beat you, you stupid boy, so what? Okay, if you hit me, I'll hit you too. You can't beat him, nephew Di. I will fight even if I can't beat him Brother, please step back. Let Uncle Wan send him away I'm not afraid of you I'm not afraid of you Junior Brother Qi doesn't listen to me You ask him to back off. Di Yun withdraws You compensate me for my clothes Senior well Wan Zhenshan, wait for me Don't run You haven't compensated my master for his clothes yet. Master Yun'er You won by luck, don't chase me But what about your clothes? It's okay. It's okay. Brother, are you okay? Let me check. fine Damn, he also got my clothes dirty. It's okay, brother. I can't forgive him. What a pity this dress I didn't even ask for the meal, but got a bowl instead. Old uncle Thank you, old uncle. What are you thanking me for? I'm starving. I'm starving. Whose apprentice is this? Big Brother, Third Junior Brother, look Congratulations on having such a good apprentice. Thank you for your praise Guile Take your uncle and his family to the room to change clothes. Preparing for a birthday party Thank you very much Wanjia, what happened? How can we let others take the lead in such a big matter? Yeah, it's really weird. Brother Wan, guess what? What? The wolf is like this It's squatting in the middle of the road I stand opposite it. I spent a night with it Then I used a trick Lying Corpse Sword Technique The wolf was stabbed to death. Let's toast to Junior Brother Di. Come on, come on, Brother Di, have a drink fine Junior Brother Di's Courage and Bravery We really admire The most yeah We who were born in rich families There's really no comparison. Yeah yeah Since you two are so compatible Come have a drink Come on, come on, have a drink good Brother, I'm fine. Brother Wan, let's drink one. well Please take a seat good It's too boring for us to drink like this I think how about discussing wine through poetry? Okay, okay. Sixth Junior Brother, go get the drinking order. Proposer comes first Cloud word cloud cloud Drinking and talking about heroes, the heroic spirit rises to the ninth level Who among the people sitting here is better to take action to see Di Yun? well Drink one Brother Di, you are a distant visitor, please Come come come I won't No, no I really can't No, no, come on, come on Dear brothers My brother and I don't know how to read. Don't make it difficult for him. No, no Come one by one Then I drink No, no You have to make a poem out of one word Please, let me come quickly. Take it, take it I think I know this word. real This is not the time when Master asks me to drink. Is that the word for wine? Do you think it is wine? Yes Yes Well, I'll drink one. well The wine is drunk, but the poetry still needs to be written Is it even this face? Don't you give it to us brothers? Yeah, come one. I really can't Senior Brother Di, he really can't say a word, right? Okay, then I'll tell you one. A dog came and barked loudly When I asked it what it was growling about, it said it wanted to drink. Good, good, good Great poem, I drank it. Let's sit down and have a drink. Drinking Auntie Taohong, you are here Miss Qi, your father said you are good at embroidery. I have a few tricks. I'd like you to take a look, please? Yes, Sister Qi Just help Aunt Taohong. Yes, Junior Sister, you go. I also want to talk to my brothers Let's have a good chat Yes, yes, yes, Junior Brother Di, come and have a drink. Okay, let the men drink. Let's go All right then, brother, you guys take your time. I'll be back soon Let's go Dear brothers, I offer a toast to you all. Good good good Brother Di, listen to the poem you just wrote. Aren't you a puppy? Why am I a dog? If I were a dog Then we all drink together Wouldn't that just be a group of dogs drinking? What are you talking about? What did I say wrong? Brother Wan, am I wrong? Wrong, can you be like us? You are the dog What did you say you were a dog? I am a dog You still look down on country folks. Junior Brother Di, you showed off yesterday. I think that I am the Wanjia of Jingzhou There's no one at the door, right? Am I not as good as you among all my disciples? My master's clothes were soiled by that person Of course I'll ask him for compensation. What does this have to do with you? Yesterday, in front of many guests, Showing a big face It makes us brothers lose face Don't talk about being in the underworld anymore. Even in Jingzhou City It's hard to find a foothold Don't you think this is too much? I have no idea Third Junior Brother, this kid is just pretending What do you say to him? Compare with him Compare and contrast with him for you I won't fight with you. Walk, walk, walk, gesture, walk Okay, you don't want to fight me. My master didn't say that. Don't let me fight with others I listen to my master. Why did you pierce my clothes? You compensate me Still competing with us? This kid really dares to play it for real Third Brother, please don't show mercy. I can't stab you I'm not really fighting with you. What are you doing? What to do I'll stab you in a few more transparent holes You lose, don't you? Let's stop here you It seems that the disciple of the third uncle I can only bark like a dog Lying dead, unable to move, barking at people Following the Third Uncle, I'm always like a dog Right, right, right. How dare you scold my master? I'm fighting with you guys You two are shameless. What are you talking about? Who is shameless? Say it again, what about you? Say it again How did I bully you? I tell you Even if there are eight of you I won't embarrass my master. It seems that this kid can't beat the third apprentice brother If you hurt your life Uncle Qi's face is not good. Let's go help him. Good, don't let my brother hurt anyone with his sword. Don't move Is the redneck convinced? Serve ass You guys hit me. What kind of hero is this? I'm still stubborn. I'll cut your throat Come on Cut my throat if you can. If you don't cut it off, You're not a hero. It's a turtle bastard superior superior I'll spare you today. If you are not convinced You can go and cry and make a fuss to find your master and junior sister Just say that we are many and bully the few I hit you You're a pus-filled bastard. I will definitely cry and complain What to file a complaint It's ok, revenge Just one person is enough Leave a mark on your face So that your master can ask A real man turned into a bear and cried Crying Crying When you came to our house, We buy wine and kill chickens You are not human hello If you are wronged You might as well cry and tell my dad You want my dad to punish me to vent your anger Uncle Wan, your eight disciples bullied me. You vent for me. Only you boneless embryos I won't complain to my elders. Good boy, you have guts We'll come back tomorrow. Master, I'm leaving today. You city folks only know how to bully others. Are you so unreasonable? I want revenge You bully people I want revenge I want revenge Can't beat them? I got beaten for nothing. Is it unfair? I'm old, no one cares. This rheumatism hurts so much What to do Old man, this is all the money I have. Just buy a few steamed buns. Thank you, young man. You're welcome. It's no use just giving money My back hurts so much now. I have no children. Please give me a back rub It hurts so much. It hurts so much. If you want to beat a guy, give him a good beating. Like tickling Come come come sit down sit down Please sit down, please sit down Beat it well, beat it well It hurts, do you understand? Hit harder! Hit harder! Old man, I'm afraid that I'll hit you with this punch Break your bones If you break my bones You won't get beaten up. you The young man hit hard Hit it harder. Boy, why are you so weak? No wonder you got beaten by others. What's the point of living for someone like you? You beat it Use all your sucking strength Then I'll beat it, beat it Comfortable, comfortable, comfortable, really comfortable Hit hard and feel comfortable How did you hit me? Looking up at the bright moon, thinking of my hometown Raise your head to flee or bow your head to die in your hometown This is what my master taught me. The sword moves are so similar The boxing and sword techniques are the same. It's just that your master's teachings are not effective. You are talking nonsense. Why do you say that my master is not good? If your master teaches you well, You can't beat them. Yes, yes, they beat me up. I can't beat it, of course. If they fight one-on-one, who will win? I'll teach you two moves Let you beat eight of them alone Do you learn? you You don't believe it, do you? Or you come over here and punch me again I promise to shock you to death Okay, I'll learn. Old man, please teach me. Don't worry, I'll teach you. Do you dare to go to someone's house to fight? Of course I dare Even if those brats beat me up again Nothing Good boy, follow me. alright You should practice your sword skills with me. While practicing, right? Tell me the name of your sword good Brother Weng called up Interesting, interesting I dare not cross What are you laughing at? You won't laugh at me if I don't practice well. Qi Changfa, Qi Changfa You are really fierce. Give me the sword, boy. Look at me The lonely wild goose came from the sea, Chi Heng dared not look back Uncle, you are so good at martial arts. Just the move you made just now That will kill all the enemies. Is that right? Good boy The sword technique used just now is the Tang Poetry Sword Technique Tang Poetry I don't know what Tang Poetry swordsmanship is But my master taught me the Lying Corpse Sword Technique Also very impressive The sword stabbed down The enemy will immediately become a dead body. Silly boy Silly boy I tell you The sword technique I just demonstrated is Poems by Zhang Jiuling Zhang Jiuling knows Zhang Jiuling's self-esteem He never fought for power. So turn his poems into sword moves There is a sense of pride The lonely wild goose came from the sea, Chi Heng dared not look back But your master But I taught it on purpose Brother Weng shouted that he dared not cross In this way The previous sentence becomes a loud cry The latter sentence became timid again In this way The mood of this poem is gone. This kid, Tie Suo Heng Jiang, is really amazing No master teaches his disciples like this. Awesome! Really awesome! I'm going to sleep. I won't study anymore. Why do you think I'm wrong? I don't want to learn from you. You might be right. But you said my master is not I won't learn it. My master is a farmer and he can't read. I don't understand what you're saying. Boy, you said your master can't read. That's weird. Farmers are illiterate What's so strange about this? Good boy, good boy Good boy, I love you so much I tell you I like your straightforwardness. Please allow me to apologize to you. From now on I will never say a bad word about your master again OK Is it okay? All right As long as you don't say bad things about my master in the future I can kowtow to you right now Okay, I like it. I like to come and knock. Old man, your martial arts are really amazing. I kowtow to you Knock two more times. Knock two more times. Suddenly I heard a question: How could the wind blow through the mountains and flee? This move should be heard suddenly startled The mountains are like waves The little sister Ma Mingfeng The setting sun illuminated the banner, and Ma Mingfeng was in a bad mood. Two pineapples are crunched Okay, okay. There is something strange in your swordsmanship. Too many So I'll teach you three moves You must remember this carefully Tomorrow when we deal with them It will definitely be useful The sun sets over the mountains The Yellow River flows into the sea To see the world from afar Going to the next level Yun'er, remember this trick The day is long and life is like the current of the sea The stinky boy has come to see clearly Fish swarm thousands of miles away to catch up with the next level Why are you hitting me? Beat you and I'll teach you sword moves You shouldn't be beaten for your crazy thoughts. That's my fault. Old uncle Just now I saw you teaching me how to pronounce sword moves The tone is a little different from what my master taught me. But roughly the same But the swordsmanship is completely different That's why I find it weird. I find it strange too. That move just now is called the slap move, remember? Slap Shoulder stab Sword-Removing Style Did you see it, kid? This move is called the Sword Style Very good The boy originally had these three moves Each has an elegant Tang Dynasty poem name What's that called? I can't recognize a single word as big as a watermelon. I told you, but you don't understand So I changed three for you. A name that you can easily understand Practice well Okay, okay, okay, okay Old man Although you are not very smart But there is perseverance. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay You have to remember this, kid. You can't tell anyone about this today. Old uncle Can't I even tell my master and junior sister? You have a pig brain Anyone heard it clearly? If you leak this out My life would be in danger. He will probably die in In the hands of Wan Zhenshan, the Five Cloud Hands Old man, you are so good at martial arts How could he die at the hands of my master? Do you intend to hurt me? It's all up to you Old uncle If I were to leak a word Just call me the punishment of heaven and earth Old man Old uncle Old uncle Uncle, where are you? Daddy Daddy Ah Fang Senior Brother Brother, where did you go last night? I went to practice swordplay last night I was talking about last night What happened to your face? How could you become like this? How did Yun'er get hurt like this? Did you get into a fight again? Didn't Daddy give that guy something the day before yesterday? The Avenue Lutong Dad, it's getting late. Didn't you say you had an appointment with Uncle Wan? Come on, I'm going. Brother, you had a fight with someone again last night You don't have to hide it from me. That day you fought with Lu Tong He punched and kicked Where did it hit you? I see it all clearly He didn't smear your eyes. After you left that night they they What happened to them? What Eight of them beat you. What kind of a hero? It's not eight against one. They came up in groups of three or four That's not the same Let's go find daddy. Discuss this with Wan Zhenshan Junior sister, I think we should just forget it. I lost the fight. So I go find my uncle and master That will make people look down on you even more. Put on your clothes. How come your clothes were torn? Let me help you sew. Junior Sister Water spinach, don't talk Don't let anyone accuse you of being a thief It still hurts Dad, you are watching the birds. I like to watch the birds jumping and chirping in the cage I feel very comfortable Wan-gyu, do you like birds? like But what I like is The best bird is in my cage I don't know if you feel this way A little bit Wan Gui A free bird you can't control When it is locked in a cage You can do whatever you want. It's Dad Dad, Third Uncle is here Wan Gui is here You go down first. Third Junior Brother, Big Brother Big Brother, you are in a good mood. I have so many birds. I am free to cultivate my mind Big Brother, your birthday has passed. I think I'll go back tomorrow. What's the hurry? You came all this way Stay longer As the saying goes, no one will be a good guest if they stay for a long time. I'm redundant here. Third Junior Brother, let's go! Come inside and chat, please. This trick really works Shoulder stab Third Junior Brother Are you interested in playing this chess game with me? Big Brother, this game of chess between you and me It's really in the endgame. Don't beat around the bush. You said you have mastered the Liancheng sword technique Why till now I haven't seen your true swordsmanship yet. Third Junior Brother I thought the true meaning of swordsmanship should be kept in the heart Just like you Hiding in the countryside pretending to be an illiterate country bumpkin If I don't hide And you're still allowed to hunt me down Third Brother, this is serious I want to find you to study the sword manual together Crack the Liancheng Jue But when the sword manual was lost We three were there How can you say that I took it? Besides, you want to crack Liancheng Jue Where can I find Ding Dian? The Jianghu is not a legend Did Ding Dian save the master? Maybe the master has already taught him the sword technique. Yes Ding Dian must have the Liancheng Jue passed down to him by his master But now he is lost in the sea I haven't seen him in the world for six years. Who knows where he is hiding? Didn't you hide like Ding Dian? This is called a guilty conscience. The sword manual must be with you You said the sword manual is with me If the sword manual was really in my possession That was stolen by you too. Otherwise what do you say You have already mastered the Liancheng Sword Technique Qi Lao San, ah Qi Lao San This is really the beginning of the Phoenix Pillar The Shuqin wants to play the mandarin duck strings This song is intended but no one passes it on I wish to follow the spring breeze to Yanran Mount Yanran is too high to climb Liancheng Sword Technique is here I make Mingqiang's heart open You shoot an arrow in the dark Wan Lao Da It seems we have no results. I don't want to be imprisoned here with you. I'm leaving tomorrow Do you want to leave after entering the tiger's den? I have been in the world for a long time I have already mastered the skill of breaking through the bad waves. Why can't I leave? Do you want to try it? Just your few moves I'm afraid you can't stop me What are you doing? Sister-in-law Junior brother, come on, let's continue playing chess Play chess You guys are playing chess. Sorry to bother you. Do Not Disturb Third Brother My dark horse is broken But the winner is already determined Big Brother, look I, a pawn, am crossing the river But the troops are approaching your city. Do you understand? I really don't understand your chess game. Third Junior Brother, you insist on leaving tomorrow I can't keep you either. I'll give you a farewell dinner tonight Thank you, Senior Brother Since Third Junior Brother is determined to leave tomorrow Brother, please prepare some wine. I guess this is a gift for you. Thank you, Third Uncle. I'm leaving tomorrow. yes Your third uncle is going to take his family back to his hometown tomorrow. Let's drink this glass of wine together Good job Nephew Di, please Come and invite Nephew Di, you have worked hard these days. Come and eat more vegetables good It seems that nephew Di was seriously injured by Lu Tong. Guile goes Bring us our own golden medicine yes My senior brother was not injured by Lu Tong You eight disciples teamed up to beat me. It was like this Junior sister sitting Is it true? Master, we drank together that day Junior Brother Di said you are timid and cowardly Thanks to him, Lu Tong was driven away. I didn't embarrass you, old man. We were really angry after hearing this. Then it started Yes, that's right. Originally Di Nephew I saved face for my Wan family. Brother Wan was really angry after hearing what he said. That's why I asked him to duel with swords It seems that Brother Wan took the lead you Don't talk nonsense You eight of you beat me up. Third Brother The apprentice you taught is so talented Do I have to have eight disciples? Can you beat him alone? That's it Cloud Master, there are eight of them beating me. you Is this the case with Keiji? Junior Brother Di is a guest, I can't say Di Junior Brother Nonsense Master We have always followed your teachings. How could several people beat one person? That's right Originally, Senior Brother Wan asked him to duel with swords Later, the elder brother said As the eldest brother, he has to show up. After three moves The eldest brother suddenly used a move, Chang'an Moon Where is Junior Brother Di? Under the moonlight, I can't tell the direction The eldest brother used another trick Children weep together when they are at a crossroads As a result, Junior Brother Di was hit by three swords from Senior Brother. I could only lie on the ground and cry It is indeed so. Yun'er, I warn you I told you not to hurt the harmony with the other brothers. Why are you fighting again? Master, I don't have you Third brother, look! Dad, can you let Senior Brother explain it clearly? People can explain it clearly Can he explain it clearly? I can tell you clearly Senior Master, they said they can beat me. Let these bastards come and fight. You come back I don't Come back to me right away I won't Come back to me Daddy If you eight have the guts, come out and fight me. Whoever doesn't come out is a turtle bastard Come on In this case You just accompany this Junior Brother Di Sword skills training is also good yes Third Brother, please bring it on Brothers, please get out of the way. Let me first see the skills of Junior Brother Di All nations look up to the Zhou dynasty and pay homage to the emperor The corner of the rice makes the stinky zongzi worship the monkey What does this mean? No one can beat Still bragging and hitting eight Get up, get up, fight! Why don't you get up? Slap Shoulder stab Sword-Removing Style very good Daddy and the other eight of them beat up my senior brother alone Go save him! Very good Brother Qi I congratulate you on mastering the Liancheng Sword Technique Congratulations! Wan Gui, come here The moves you just practiced If it's not Liancheng Sword Technique, then what is it? What is Liancheng Sword Technique? Guil is This is your third uncle. I will teach you Junior Brother Di's Liancheng Sword Technique How can you cope with it? Junior Brother Qi, you are pretending very well You are indeed a wise fool. Iron lock across the river Big Brother Who did you learn these sword moves from? I explain The master is the disciple's own idea Nonsense Such a clever sword move Can you think of it? Who taught you? If you don't tell me I'll kill you Daddy and Senior Brother are always with us Who else can teach him martial arts? Aren't these sword moves all taught by you, old man? nonsense Kneel down If you don't tell me, you will kneel here forever. Third Brother Don't be pretentious Your daughter has made it very clear just now. The clever method of iron locks across the river You can't use it on your brother. Brother, please give you three glasses of wine. Go inside and take a look Third Junior Brother, as your elder brother, let me drink first as a sign of respect Junior brother, please give me some face. Please Good Third Brother, come to my room and have a chat Strange, please. Liancheng Swordsmanship How come I've never heard Master talk about this? Is there anything more powerful than Tang Shi's swordsmanship? Will Third Uncle and Dad quarrel? Let's go and see Good walk Senior brothers, they have all gone, let's go too No, Master asked me to kneel here. I kneel down When is the water spinach? What if Dad gets hurt? Take Daddy and leave without any weapons Third Junior Brother Ten years of secrets Today the truth finally came out I don't understand what the truth is. Do I need to say this? Have you forgotten how your master died? I didn't forget But what you want is not in my possession Maybe you can't remember it after a long time. Don't worry, think about it carefully. I don't have to think about you being there. I was there, but what happened later? Even my second apprentice brother Yan Daping said Liancheng Sword Technique is in you Third Junior Brother, if you don't hand it over today I'm afraid I can't leave. You insist Master's Liancheng Jue is in my possession Where is the evidence? The evidence is in your apprentice. The sword technique he just used was light and clever. Exactly the same as Master's Isn't that what you taught me? My apprentice is naturally smart. He figured it out himself. Even I can't Where did the Liancheng Sword Technique come from? You ask Wan Gui to invite me You said you mastered the Liancheng sword technique You said this, right? I heard him say this. Why don't you speak? I said this If I didn't say that, would you come? It's really a scam, big brother. right If you hand over Lian Cheng Jue today Then kowtow to the master's grave and apologize I will let you go Why should I apologize? Because you stabbed Master in the back It killed his old man's life. Is that so? fart Big Brother, please explain clearly. Did I kill the master alone? You stole the sword manual. Secretly practiced the Liancheng sword technique Do you still want to deny it? What is Liancheng Liangui? You stole that book. Okay, you said I stole it. Then tell me Where did I steal it? you Which day I Third Brother, I advise you Or you should hand over the sword manual to me as soon as possible. Why should I give it to you? Because I'm the eldest brother Okay, I'll leave it to you. It's really the Third Uncle Shameless Master Daddy Master Master, Master, Master father father This is impossible. My master wouldn't do that. My master won't do that. No, it wouldn't be my dad. Your dad did it. He stabbed me and ran away from here Go catch the murderer! Going Around You guys come with me. Dad, let us help you to the bed. Junior sister, I think we should go back first. stop You two are accomplices in the murder of my master. No one can leave This matter has nothing to do with my sister. If you want to kill me, come to me. Lukun This matter has nothing to do with them Let them go Sister, let's go. Someone, come and catch the murderer! Catch the murderer quickly! Someone come quickly! Come on, come on, come on Catch the murderer, catch the murderer, hurry up Don't let the assassin Brother Dad, how could he I don't know either Will Uncle Wan die? What if he died? The murderer was not found. What should I do, big brother? No matter where he goes We must avenge our master. Just chase to the ends of the earth We're gonna tear him to pieces. Tomorrow we will spread the green forest stickers Please ask the martial arts hero to do justice Right Kill these two puppies first. Revenge for the Master No, the master is in danger. Wait till tomorrow Go Go Go What? Uncle Wan is going to die? Brother, what should I do? Don't worry, sister. I will explain it to them in public tomorrow. Master is innocent But Uncle Wan was clearly stabbed by my father. Can this crime be cleared? I I can't care so much. No, let them kill me. Brother, I'm very confused now. Let's go back Good walk Master Help! bring it on bring it on Help! Go for a walk Help me pull out the dagger and save my life Where did the thief stab you? Help me pull out the dagger quickly Help! Where What are you doing to save lives? What are you doing to save lives? What are you doing What's going on? Who is so bold? you It turns out you are a rapist Listen to me Flower thief Flower thief What are you doing, Junior Sister? Junior sister, don't move, be quiet Don't move! Don't move! What's going on? I sleep well in my room He just barged in and you He also said a lot of inappropriate things He said your master was killed He wants to run away with me I didn't say I didn't say He also said Said that Master killing someone would bring trouble to him He hid a lot of gold and silver Said we would have no worries about food and clothing for the rest of our lives You're talking nonsense about this rapist Junior sister, she's talking nonsense. Go, go, go Go Go Go Let me go, let me go Slow down Please don't embarrass Junior Brother Di first. Before things are clear Don't wrongly accuse good people You're such a good person. Didn't you see it with your own eyes and hear it with your own ears? Take him to his house. You are talking nonsense. Go away. You are talking nonsense. Brother Wan My Senior Brother Brother, he is not that kind of person. Today, Junior Brother Di drank a little wine Maybe it was drunken sex I won't steal anything. Let's go and have a look Walk Go inside Let me go. search The loot is here look Open Let me go This is not mine This is not mine Not mine I'll kill you, little bastard. stop Give me some face. Don't make it difficult for him. Send him to the police. Go go go let me go let me go Sister, I'm not a thief I didn't steal I didn't steal I didn't sneak away Junior sister is leaving Sister Qi, please don't be sad. Don't worry I will definitely find a way to deal with this matter Go to court mighty Bringing Tao Hong, the accuser of Di Yun, to court mighty Let's go, junior sister, junior sister, let's go, Kneel down Kneel down Is your name Di Yun? It's the adults who are wronged. Madam Wan, please speak. The incident happened around three o'clock The woman was about to fall asleep Suddenly a dark shadow broke in. The woman was about to shout He covered my mouth Only then did I see clearly that he was Di Yun AdultsAdults Silence AdultsAdults I am wronged I am wronged I am really wronged, sir. Roaring Court Call Me stop The plaintiff then said He said that he would take advantage of the time when the master was injured. Let me go with him He also said that he stole a lot of gold and silver treasures. You are talking nonsense. You are talking nonsense. My Lord, she is talking nonsense. The woman refused to obey him and became angry. He pressed the woman down on the bed and threatened her with a knife Fortunately, the master's eight disciples arrived in time Save me or You said he held a knife? Is it a knife or a sword? It was a slip of the tongue by the sword woman The knife and sword are collectively called a knife. Accused of sneaking into Wan's house late at night Stealing silver and raping Madam Wan Is this true? Adults are all fake This is all fake It's all fake They hurt me. They hurt me. Do you have evidence that she harmed you? me me me plaintiff Whose gold and silver do you think he stole? It belongs to my master Wan Zhenshan. Is there any physical evidence? My Lord, there is physical evidence. Bring physical evidence Bring physical evidence It's really not a good thing. I really didn't expect this. This guy looks honest. Doing such a heinous thing Sister Qi, don't worry. No use what others say You have to listen to Master Ling. All physical evidence has been handed over to witnesses Heir certificate adult See the dog man Adult Children Lukun Di Yun raped my junior master's wife We saw it with our own eyes. We brothers all saw it. The Big Man and the Little Man Wu Kan I found the stolen goods from under the bed. At that time, the brothers were all Sir, I am not a thief. I can't adult Put him in jail. Heavy punishment I'm not afraid that he won't recruit Temporarily detain the criminal and then adjourn the trial Adjournment My Lord, I am leaving unjustly. I am the wronged adult. Junior sister, you have to believe me I didn't steal my sister. You have to believe me Junior Sister Junior Sister How is Miss? The lady is still sad. You go down first. Brother Wan Sister Qi, you have no appetite and your face is haggard. As a senior brother, I feel sad when I see this. A few days ago You are still having fun with your senior brother But I didn't expect Di Yun actually did such a despicable thing It's like this bird is imprisoned You can only know a person's face but not his heart. Knowing that you are good to him and protecting him Even now You still don't believe he did it. Right? I don't believe it either, but the fact is Brother Wan Brother Wan, please stop talking. I feel so upset Sister Qi, please stop crying. It's all my fault for making you sad again You have a good heart Brother Wan, I'm sorry to have embarrassed you. where It is human nature to be laughed at. Brother Wan, please take a seat. Sister Qi In fact, I have always envied Junior Brother Di Envy him for He was thrown into jail. You envy him I envy him for having you. A good and righteous sister He did so many things to make you feel sorry for him. You are not angry with him or hate him at all Men of the World Who has such good fortune as him?