ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome to where we discuss science for everyday life. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, my guest is Dr. Dr. Carhart-Harris is a of neurology and psychiatry of California, San Francisco. He is one of the in the field of psychedelics neural circuitry in the brain. His laboratory is responsible for instance, how referred to as magic neural circuitry in the and new forms of learning occur. His laboratory is also various clinical have demonstrated that of psilocybin can alleviate than 67% of people Now, this is not to say psilocybin, and today's the clinical trials and why in some cases work do not work in order to As well as discussions around diethylamide, to as LSD, as well as DMT. And how these change the brain, can relate to changes as it relates to depression and as well as how psychedelics in order to change neural different aspects including creativity, During today's discussion teaches us about the history of well as how the legislature, psychedelics, are evolving and elsewhere for the to treat psychiatric challenges. By the end of you will have a of how psychedelics work. Both in the short-term during In fact, much of my discussion talks about the of the psychedelic relate to therapeutic outcomes. And, of course, by the you will also understand of psychedelics, that rewire the brain. Before we begin, I'd that this podcast is separate roles at Stanford. It is, however, part to bring zero cost to about science and to the general public. In keeping with to thank the sponsors Our first sponsor Eight Sleep makes smart mattress and sleep tracking capacity. I've talked many times about the fact that of mental health, physical One absolutely critical variable is the temperature of That is, in order to fall and your body temperature by about 1 to 3 degrees. And in order to wake feeling refreshed and has to increase by There are a lot the temperature of your but one of the best the temperature of the surface that With Eight Sleep, you There's a you can program in the across the night. So you can make it slightly cool getting cooler, putting you rapid eye movement sleep. And all of that, in terms can be tracked I've been sleeping on cover for more and it has completely If you'd like to you can go to for their exclusive Memorial 2023. Eight Sleep currently Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia. Again, that's Today's episode is also Levels is a program see how different foods affect real-time feedback on your monitor. One of the most important levels and your immediate are your blood glucose as they're commonly called. With Levels, you can assess how impact your blood When I did this, it First of all, it taught me spike my blood glucose levels. And while spikes aren't always a bad thing, how certain foods were spiking that I would have post-eating And by removing those foods and it really evened out So if you're interested in and trying a continuous go to levels.link/huberman. Right now, Levels is offering of membership. Again, that's Today's episode is also brought Ketone-IQ is a ketone supplement Now, most people have heard of But most people, are not on the ketogenic diet. That is, I and most people eat and things of that to quality proteins, et cetera. It turns out that even if you're increasing your blood ketones So for instance, I use want to do extended Preparing for podcast, and if I ever want to exercise or I don't want to have Taking Ketone-IQ and thereby allows me to do cognitive without getting hungry and with focus. If you'd like to try Ketone-IQ, to save 20% off. Again, that's hvmn.com/huberman. I'm pleased to announce that I in September of 2023. The first live event will on September 12. The second live event on September 28. Both live events will include and answer period The Brain-Body Contract, during and science related to mental and performance. And I should mention that will have absolutely no overlap on the Huberman Lab If you're interested in of these events, please go and enter the code &quot;Huberman&quot; Once again, that's the code &quot;Huberman&quot; I hope to see you there. And now for my discussion Dr. Carhart-Harris, welcome. I've been wanting to talk I certainly have known who because I place you in special and important who has been pioneering for the treatment of and really carrying the the entire field. So I want to start with and say thank you for doing Could you tell us a little bit In fact, I'm curious as to came to be. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Mhm. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And what reveal about the And then we'll talk about ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Sure. Well, even that one because opinions differ on But perhaps, a is to start with the etymology, And it was a Brit in Canada Humphry Osmond a paper at a National on psychotomimetics-- drugs that mimic aspects of And certain drugs let's see, 1956-- and And he felt being under this category and felt that the signature of these compounds mimicking psychotic symptoms. And so he wanted to to speak to, in a sense, of their action. And he jotted down a few about a dozen or so, I think. And one of them was it started as and ended And he had a correspondence also living in the US, they were playing to refer to these compounds. And in the end, Osmond and he had this little ditty of, just take a pinch That's where you put And so what does that mean? It's two ancient Greek words or if we're being actually means soul. And then the other component or to make visible or to So all of those work. And it's a neologism. It's a made up word. But it does have that And it's speaking that these compounds reveal of the human mind, the soul entirely visible. And so that's the etymology, But I happen to think It's a useful term, you might say It doesn't say, you're or that you're going to go mad. It's more that-- it reveals a but it could be heavenly. So that's the etymology and And sort of pointing the subjective experience. But there's also a And quite recently, there was about psychedelics to what we call the classic are all compounds that work in the brain, the And that's another way that we I said this one's a little that while the pharmacology the drugs work chemically, you And if we're true where the term came from, and we cannot neglect the ANDREW HUBERMAN: Thank you of what brought us of using the word psychedelics. And now, it's thrown ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Too much. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Too much. And I'm guessing-- I'm certain that it's also used don't touch the 5-HT2A, So there is a broader And it'll be interesting to and naming goes. For the time being, I'd a bit more about this idea one defines them, can reveal can't be revealed otherwise. Are you talking about I mean, psychologists and most and also neuroscientists, I processing. I think, perhaps, the for me that's outside the would be blindsight. This phenomenon that you take have some connectivity and you present or a computer screen with on each side and you are on each side of the screen, I can't see the screen. I'm blind. And you say, well, just guess. And their guess rate than chance would predict. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Mhm. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So they and people have said, well, revealing itself. There's no psychedelic But what you're describing is that reveals something that masked or that we even though it's What does it mean to be revealing something about would not be obvious ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. So the example of blindsight is Blindsight would be referring to implicit processing. So stuff going on in in a sense that is of conscious awareness. But yet is influencing you. So it's sort-- it's kind of So in depth, psychology, psychology, Sigmund Freud, We talk about the unconscious. And there, it's more and guts of the human both the personal unconscious. So things that to necessarily be conscious So that's the repression of conscious awareness. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Repressed ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Like traumatic memories, It could be complex just a specific index trauma, And then you have the which was really Carl to say that there's a to the unconscious. There's aspects about humans, There's aspects to our are not fully available but can come up Psychoanalysis went crazy for to a knowledge of That was Freud. But we now with was what drew me into the area. Was discovering speaking to this particular And was saying that like LSD, psilocybin when they're used material comes up that may be is of therapeutic value of this material the therapeutic process with These cathartic Whether they're insights or whether they're But for me, this is really is with psychedelics and classic The likes of compounds I would say that if it by classic psychedelics, so interested in psychedelics. I think, if we only had cannabis, that could be to be psychedelic-like. I don't think it have captured the world's are right now. I actually think it's Is this principal action of What does this mean Psyche-revealing. What is that? And I suppose where is, what is that in terms What's going on in when people become that previously they ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd of the clinical trials that In particular, As you mentioned, the principal in magic mushrooms. I'd like to start with a kind just so that everyone's I've read the papers and that others have And typically, the dosages are 25 milligrams of psilocybin. And we talk about in particular, that to more frequent use 1 milligram over 3 However, when people talk they often talk about gram because I'm assuming that dosages of psilocybin. Here, we're not encouraging These are clinical trials. But for clarity of is the conversion, typically? Like 1 gram of contain how many milligrams Because what I'm is calibrate people to versus macrodosing. And that's fairly to do with respect to But then in a lot of the you hear about heroic And so I think there's So if you would, of what's a microdose. And perhaps, also how many are contained in a gram of quote ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Sure. Well, a microdose is Simple. But they're fun. It's a fun challenge. But microdose, one a dose of typically a or psilocybin that has some effects. It doesn't put you into a of consciousness that And if that was LSD, it is around about, let's ANDREW HUBERMAN: Micrograms. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: Want Micrograms. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So are you saying will not induce people? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: So That's about the level that could feel it. But if you were to talk they might say that that's that you would and then you would It's typically on, one day off or one This kind of thing. There's different protocols. And yeah. So some like Jim Fadiman-- one of the popularizers would say that a true microdose You shouldn't feel is it's going to change you level more than a state And the typical story goes, And maybe, maybe, certain aspects related to creative thinking. I emphasize the maybe another angle with microdosing. We're waiting for some As things stand we lack that There's some suggestive stuff, aren't that strong. It's really hard to do a because you need to have a microdose that for they would go home with, them to be in the lab, say of weeks to meet the criteria which might be two or three And that's a hard thing It's expensive. You'd need to do that so a placebo control. And there is a study in New Zealand that has some that did-- I think did the design right. But it hasn't been I've seen some positive around improvements in mood. But it's a bit early to It needs to go through But as things stand, the And we have to be We did quite a creative study The guy leading that, Balazs did a really creative design. Very much his brainchild. He instructed people to their own of their own microdosing. So this was a classic like do it yourself science tabs and chop them up, put opaque, and have other capsules just close empty capsule. And then there was a whole so that you kind But they've got the So you can break but once you've you no longer know which and which ones are empty. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Was this LSD? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Also tried it with with the mushrooms was They'd belch. And then they'd have So then he instructed some non-psychoactive So it's really-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: And it was-- I love Real creative first And the results because the short story is compellingly beat the placebo. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It did not. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It didn't. And he controlled, He controlled for expectancy. So people's positive expectancy, the vehicle that carries It's why you have a placebo. Is that positive expectancy to a large extent. So you measured that it to correct for the response. And how did it work? Those who got a they got a microdose who thought they got a microdose So it was the bigger effect-- the majority of the that you got a microdose. So in a sense, it was a victory response. And it's created all People don't want to believe But that's the beauty That science is not about That right there is ANDREW HUBERMAN: I Kudos to them. I'm not going to attempt to ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: I tried. Yeah. Probably you made a mess of it-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: No. No. I think you got it. You were involved in was published last 25 milligrams of psilocybin to a drug called escitalopram. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Lexapro. Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Lexapro? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Mhm. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And this 1 I'm wanting to discuss the and some of the other done involving psilocybin the treatment of depression. Could we calibrate ourselves? 25 milligrams of it's going to be a Hallucinations and all that. And is that what I'm guessing here, this does not mean that But 2 grams of mushrooms? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It's Yeah. Sorry. I missed that-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: No, no. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Went off on a tangent. But yeah. 25 milligrams of we don't know, that I say that because to hear my answer it to calibrate their and get it way off. So it's guesswork. And I would love to see someone And look at the in a given mass of psilocybin But to my knowledge, that Someone like Paul Stamets would But I think the percentage of psilocybin in the which is the metabolite is something in the 1%, a ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. So 1 gram, 1000 milligrams would contain about 10 Is that right? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. Great. That helps calibrate. And I think, again, just to understand a we're headed with trials and the results. So we don't have to to just that I clinical trial. But if we include that to some of the other I mean, your laboratory in my opinion, in the treatment of, otherwise, major depression, which so From two-- I suppose of using psilocybin in these Do I have that correct? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. Could we talk a little bit experience during allows this phenomenal and state and trait as well? And I'm especially it is the experience is the trigger that's necessary from a depressed to a Because the impulse That what one thinks and and hears is so vital. But of course, these drugs can in our neural wiring, presumably So what are your thoughts And maybe for those who have you could explain a typical for people, is leading to that incredible in mood, state, and trait. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: I would that is leading us to think that It's really data and So independent teams, are converging on the magnitude rated, yes, with is predicting Pretty strongly And so that's guiding us. Now, could you say, well, are some kind of epiphenomenon Well, absolutely. But then all experience by that principle. And yet we care And it matters to us and with each other. So I think it does when they're in say, a and as the drug effects and the body starts to feel and there's some And then in their start to notice patterns and then, maybe, those patterns and they have this ANDREW HUBERMAN: Are they-- patients in your studies ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So So eyes closed? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's why to looking out into ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yes. And that's one of to psychedelic therapy Is you shut your eyes. And it's a world away Yeah. A rave or something. In a sense, good luck with that. But in psychedelic It's settled conditions. There's music playing. And what I'm describing here There's actually very between the different this work on these conditions. Typically, it's two people. Ideally, mental health who's a psychiatrist or or some other kind of nurse. But ideally, two who with a individual who's ingested throughout. A kind of runway into taking so there's continuity. ANDREW HUBERMAN: They're music ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Without and the music typically And then builds and There might be, I don't in the distance or or like the sound of a A call. And then as it gets into the music starts and very intentionally, strings, and it would be an that we'd love to do actually to pull that out, whether the be as emotionally intense as when you have music And across the board, people because it kind of is. All of the published are now having such an impact have music there as And we just take it as I tend to share that assumption. But it's remarkable that it But it's there. And if you were and if you had a critical well, this is music therapy. Why are you making all this when it's music that's there these fantastic findings. So there is something to that. And this will tee me about psychedelic-therapy We have a hyphen because I share the hypothesis. The assumption that There is a positive That there's a synergy ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's why with a hyphen, just ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: OK. Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd like and acknowledge one of our Athletic Greens, now called AG1, drink that covers all of your I've been taking Athletic So I'm delighted that they're The reason I started taking I still take Athletic Greens is that it gets that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by communicate with the brain, the all the biological to strongly impact our And those probiotics are optimal and vital In addition, Athletic of adaptogens, that make sure that all of my are met. And it tastes great. If you'd like to you can go to and they'll give you five really easy to mix up you're on the road, in the And they'll give you a year's Again, that's to get the five free travel of vitamin D3 K2. This is extremely think most people think, OK. Psychedelic. Whether or not they with psychedelics or not, get some auditory hallucinations, some visual auditory blending, Rubbing a surface and the sounds in one's mind. Of course, et cetera. But so seldom do about the specifics of these for instance, points to key variables. Now, you mentioned enter these psychedelic states, of initial anxiety. About a year and a half with Dr. Matthew Johnson who's at Johns Hopkins, as you know. And he mentioned the at least in his of the patient, quote go&quot; or allowing the experience as opposed to their sensory and I'm curious what your And why it might be so And this ties back to we were having about or about psychedelics there all the time but that And again, I'm struggling for this, because have a neural mechanism or something like this unconscious in the psychedelic experience. But to make it quite simple and think it really to feel like they are, and what in the in biological terms? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think we'll of having the neural revealing itself to itself. The emergence of the or unconscious material It's a wonderful challenge. It's a huge challenge, but And letting go very a staple component of do this work in terms of to let go. And when we started out and did that first trial, of psychedelic in a formally Where that was the A depressed population. It was the first modern And we visited and were mentored on how to do Cusumano. They were just so brilliant and as how to do the And so this phrase of trust, let I don't know who fairly it but I would attribute Yeah. Everything's borrowed. You probably got it But it's such a key principle. And it's almost like trying to instill in people. Trust, let go, be open. And those different is about the therapeutic goes beyond just intuition now. We formerly measured We do it even with just a single item, a subjective rating scale and we find that it's of the quality of the have under the drug in and then the therapeutic later. So very powerful chain there, but trust, And again, not just to intuition Let go, there's a readiness to not resist. And we do measure that predictive of response. And then the being open is to confront, to be inquisitive. Something that's Can be terrifying. When you're dealing with a it's probably more-- the rule then, the carrying some significant or frank trauma that And so that message of be and to go there is And that's how it plays out. And often, there is struggle. There's something don't want to be feeling this. Make it stop. That can be but it's very, very strong. And with these big doses that And actually, a worked with, I think now is working on a fantastic the different phases of where the early by negative emotions and of anxiety and struggle. And then it's a different ANDREW HUBERMAN: Could First of all, I think that's to analyze the different phases here because people about a psychedelic really hear about the of the beginning, middle, We know that there's a peak down and et cetera. But when you say that typically some negative valence do you mean about the sensations or about some prior event that they're remembering? Likewise, for the positive journey or trip are people-- do they still call it a trip? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: All right. For the-- I guess, For the psychedelic trip. Are people feeling positive Like there's been some or they're in a that they tend to be that were positive. So in other words, through of some concept that Maybe about an earlier trauma or a sense of other forgiveness. It could be any of these things. But what do we know about the ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Mhm. I would say, the is more against the than pinning it on It's more that normal We have a sense, if we're well or well enough, a is a table here and so on. And we have that assuredness as well. It might be illusory, And what the drug's doing is And it's scary as hell. And if it's a big dose, to rage against that a I don't want this. It feels like I could be dying. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. That too. ANDREW HUBERMAN: ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Is oh, but I might know that and I might even know a but I still fear that or I know that these drugs don't have I still think I'm going to die. And it's very palpable So yeah. I mean, those are That those two and very And it's really like It's dose-dependent but that is forcing something of the mind and the that makes it feel that way, my mind or it feels like or that I could go insane and this is bad. Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You've and have done really at the changes in communication while people are under the And I think the gestalt of those is that compared to the under psychedelic influence. There is far more-- let's just call it or communication between brain communicating, which surprising to people given of these drugs. What is the evidence that is over, that some of that enhanced communication is maintained? And if so, what role play in these incredible ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. So we've had some recent where, yes, it's true. And picture says that some people might be circles project that with some researchers where is going on within of the visual system within the visual system. There'll be a kind of to the quality of the And then the cool finding with is that the communication, yes. It transcends these modules and crossing different modalities with the magnitude of and then we replicated it with And a new paper with DMT showing It's a bit of a debate implicated. But the general effect of an connectivity is what we call in the brain. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And this of these drugs. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: So putting while they are under the Is that right? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That itself given that these You're in a bite bar, you've That's quite a study. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: have a bite bar, at least But yeah. You've got to keep And you have the loud But because it's regular, there So it's actually ANDREW HUBERMAN: You're So you're not worried about a cardiac event or something. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. You got professionals around, tolerate that setting quite But yeah. We do all that. And yes, we do of the communication across And it does speak the subjective experience. The different modalities might ANDREW HUBERMAN: Sorry but I have to ask, is it of the serotonin responsible for the increased areas that under would not be communicated? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yes. So there's a few reasons why computational modeling work that receptor is and then looks at-- models its basic effect Will recapitulate the-- that we see actually in So doing the You can see the same effect by are and then making them know psychedelics do. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I can And I think it's important to One possibility is that the receptor leads to and thereby auditory and changed patterns of That's the obvious But the scientist is it possible that all of is occurring, and yet that is on top of some other effect impacting access to the In other words, is it the that's leading to the or are those two things ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Well, and they map to each other. But the question of is the tricky thing that the causality is circular. That they influence each other. And this gets a But it matters, because a trap that it's easy to fall that it's all about causing the And that's typically what we It's like the first port of But one can be a materialist, appreciate that circular interacts with brain. And it's so hard to And there is a kind where subjective experience But that's not to going on the biological level. ANDREW HUBERMAN: is because as I understand a bit of a movement within that studies psychedelics essentially, cure of the symptoms of that are built off our psychedelics like psilocybin and although classically not a We can get back to that later. But that do not or massive changes in Actually, I think this into conversation had learned about this of a group at UC Davis. That essentially so that they have potential for the treatment of hallucinogenic properties. And I thought, wow. This is going to be a in the world, right? Because the history as you pointed out, accessing different modes Seeing things and letting go. Trust, et cetera. A therapeutic relationship. And here we have-- I don't want to say pharma but we have laboratories who the activation of receptors that subjective to, essentially, treat I'd love for you to you think it might be going. And whether or not the right or the wrong approach, ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It is sort of startup pharma. But-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. So because pharma drugs that can cure depression hallucinate. Is that correct? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: And patients might would love it, because It's medicine. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. And it doesn't give this mental in San Francisco or of It's more of-- ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You I have to be careful Those who would not be might embrace a therapeutic effective at treating depression ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. And it doesn't look like an crying their eyes out about And that deep catharsis Is very different I'm skeptical of it And one is that I I can't see the pieces fit And I'm also skeptical, be wishful thinking, because would like it and the And you got to bear So wouldn't it be and you could get the without the psychedelic effects? ANDREW HUBERMAN: a little bit of what microdosing Like you said, take dosages or awareness of some over a longer period of time in or alter the circuits Not have a catharsis. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: So and it's sub-perceptible, isn't a psychedelic the psychedelic action. When psychedelic, when defined, You're not getting that effect. You might be getting you might be getting some agonism that could be driving but you can get that And so my point is, what's new? OK. Maybe it's a bit new developing direct 2A through a serotonin releaser reuptake inhibitors, ANDREW HUBERMAN: that selectively agonize, activate, in a good way. Agony sounds terrible. Those not informed might But that can activate the Are there any drugs that will I'm not aware of any, not a psychopharmacologist. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: I mean, are there any as medicines in psychiatry? I actually had this debate and I couldn't see a I saw 2A agonists that You have a compound used in treating Parkinson's, more of a dopamine agonist. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. So they're always hitting ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: other neurotransmitters-- ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: All that So is there a 2A receptor that isn't psychedelic, that and the answer firmly is, no. I haven't seen it yet. Will they develop one? Well, for patients Because it would be great. Let's wait and see. If they do, I doubt and I doubt it would have much And it would be much more of chronic pharmacotherapy. Take your drug every day. Let's hope they find it and But as things stand right Now, some of the being seen that are work being done, showing in the communication dendritic growth, spine ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, just I'll interrupt for not the cerebral are these little on the end of neurons that points between neurons. So neuroplasticity with growth of and so forth, which is That reminds me, and I that we close the hatch because I interrupted you. Is the increased or communication that's observed while people of the psychedelic after the effects of ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: throw in another question there, now. To what extent do we think that changes in neurons, are responsible for that? And how long does that last? Let's say I come I'm a subject in your come in the morning, I five or six hours later. I'm parachuting back to and then I go home. Increase connectivity and how long are the structural ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: asking fantastic questions, don't have the answer yet. But we do have some data. And so we have looked in a sense, the functional it to be or at changes, the increase in that increase in functional connectivity. Do we see it after the trip? We know we see it during the correlating with Do we see it after the trip? Well the answer in two different depression for depression. In one study where we looked A kind of residual effect being seen the next day. And then in a saw it also three weeks later. So we've seen it in two This decrease in modularity It's the same Broadly speaking, An increase in functional connectivity. And actually, in healthy volunteers on Not on an absolute look at its relationship and this is an important thing work, we saw a relationship of that change, the decrease in global connectivity, in symptom severity. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So interesting. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And just so what Robin is referring to as neuroscientists, we think of of the brain. The eye talks to a region in vision, which talks to the converges with auditory But there's a separation This increased connectivity in during the trip, And you're saying that that with the strength of for depression. I mean, the logical is that extreme modularity is depressive in some way. Now, we don't want but what does that crosstalk between different is so strongly correlated with ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: than there's a relationship. I mean, this is the thing. We need to be a little careful I mean, there's some I think it suggests a more functioning, if you're not or the modules cut off from each other. But you see different things if you were to Sharper cognition is with more modularity. So it's a rule that's And we need to be ANDREW HUBERMAN: Again, but I think I have I would say, are Who are very linear and extremely of classic sense of through hard problems And then I have just call them what they are. From the creative communities that are very expansive, between many different have to-- not all have to catch their ideas And oftentimes, what it just doesn't make any sense. Now, they also produce But to have a is anything but a They are not random but there's a non-linearity or that's distinct from that I'm describing And of course, it's a spectrum. There's a whole It sounds to me like there to being able to move along linear to the nonlinear. Is that correct? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. It's resonating It's speaking to my intuition. That you could be very chopping things up like an doing a bit. ANDREW HUBERMAN: A splitter You're either a Yeah. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: being very particular about when That kind of passy analytical might associate with Whereas the system that's and open, yeah. Might be more flexible in the associations Yes. That's speaking to my intuition And I imagine, if you take mental illness I've always thought that about the term itself. Like a depression in a ANDREW HUBERMAN: ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: that is easy to fall into. And if you do, it's ANDREW HUBERMAN: So almost-- if I understand what almost like getting stuck at Because most people don't or the other full time. They can kind of between expansive states ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: If you're &quot;healthy&quot; you can feel your low But you can spring back. But someone with-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: And you ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. Whereas the suicidal depressed person, somehow, there's something about that and extreme anxiety states, a bit more familiar alters the perception of like that negative state or that if it goes away, that ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Kind to the time domain. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Yeah. And it's so tragic, that that everything's is no light at the Yeah. Yes. So if you were to get stuck in then you're cut off other sensory cut off from the world, Stuck in your inner rut. So yes. I think we're sharing that a decrease in up of the system, the brain up of the mind that is enduring session. And yeah. And the third replication an improvement in well-being. Because they're healthy, we ANDREW HUBERMAN: that are healthy ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Take ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: But the first dose is don't feel it's a placebo dose. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Quote Yeah. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. We stick EGG on their heads during each dose. And 1 milligram, ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think No, I'm just kidding. I mean, nothing against I've always just been based on my conversations actually doing the It seems like the answer 1 or 2, maybe 3 macro doses ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: The evidence for And that's what's making all Microdosing is just science isn't about it's about what's and what seems to ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd like and thank one of our LMNT is an electrolyte drink and nothing you don't. That means, plenty of salt-- sodium, magnesium, the so-called Now, salt, magnesium, are critical to the function in particular, to the function called neurons. And we now know that in electrolyte concentrations can lead to deficits in performance. LMNT contains a science-backed of 1,000 milligrams, that's 1 of potassium, and 60 I typically drink LMNT when I wake up in order and make sure I have And while I do any kind and after physical training if I've been sweating I drink LMNT in my water and after going in the causes quite a lot of sweating. If you'd like to try LMNT that's L-M-N-T.com/huberman to with your purchase. Again, that's drinklmnt-- Would you say that's right? That one or two or three apart are those ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Typically, one to three is the way people are doing dosing sessions. Two sessions, you know, That's been a kind we actually use three trial, psilocybin Two patients left who've gone through the trial. Very exciting results there. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You're of the obsessive thought to consume healthier ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Even improved weight ANDREW HUBERMAN: So critical. When we did an episode I learned that anorexia the rates are not increasing. It's been pretty despite what's said about But anorexia nervosa deadly of all which is a big statement, so-called bipolar depression, the typical suicide rate. Basically, many people with is what one says, not anorexics. But people with Many of them die. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. So tragic. So often young people as well. And similarly, with suicide So the tragedy with It's so rewarding to and to be seeing good results. I have to check that I'm reporting on it in and the trial isn't yet So it's still ongoing as well. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: And I can't say what the dosage there is a blinding component. But there are three Let's see now. I think they're two weeks Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd this description of the by extending past the take the drug into this-- as the integration phase. You have to re-integrate. All this increased connectivity Hallucinations, insights, Maybe revelation, OK. Great. At what point is Meaning, are these in studies having with their therapist? Are they journaling every day? And I want to keep in mind to be part of a clinical trial. And of course, here what people do or not do. But let's just put it this way. Were people to use psychedelics, maximize on the neuroplasticity in a positive way in the In other words, how long does last? And how far can we take this? I mean, I could imagine chooses to think could also have an impact. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right? Because clearly people people did psychedelics We don't know if clearly But we don't have You have access to the spending their time and which we haven't gotten to are incredibly impressive. In upwards of, as 60% or more people getting ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. 70%, yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: 70%. Incredible, especially to the typical antidepressant So what is this How is it done properly? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Yeah. Gosh. Well, how long does A lifetime? You know? Life is a journey like And there's always work to do. As Jack Kornfield says, after And you know? ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love that. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Yeah. There'll be other good ones But yeah. So the work is But this gives you a foot up. It enables people to do the work The classic psychedelics Very true of MDMA therapy for It's really giving you a to do very, very difficult Trying to digest it, So it's such an of the treatment model. But one has to be realistic integration lasts a lifetime. Well, people can't be there for a lifetime. So what's the answer there? And people are wrestling And I think one of the solutions on you to appoint. The therapeutic team and then it becomes what In a similar way, that It's something that And if it slips, then And that's the way it is. Or you have another So people have even used in relation to there's a psychedelic practice practice. But I'm using meditation actually think that of spiritual practice could to psychedelic therapy. And I think it's probably in terms of promoting a former colleague of In relation to versus chronic being on them all the time. Says psychedelic to sit with rather than sit on. And so that's quite good. Yeah. So the meditation, the yes, be present-centered and accepting so you can watch and ANDREW HUBERMAN: That ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Awareness I grew up in the hear this language, right? And I'm not being I have friends that are on down there. And I've gone there. And yet you hear Be responsive, not reactive, is like grates on me, I have issues. And surely, I do. But what does that mean? It's saying like, oh, but not be drawn And again, I don't want but what I find so compelling because it really is data, for depression and trauma, is that it really seems to is so commonly thrown around. Giving space between Viktor Frankl talked about this. But I've been reading called The Prince of Medicine. Dates back to the Very dense book. People have been and thinking about this Psychedelics seem to give people of self, which is remarkable. What's also remarkable, it's, is that, five years have been comfortable I would have been Stanford Magazine, this week, about psychedelics with psilocybin with the appropriate But clearly, times are changing. Speaking of which, I know you're of psychedelics. What inspired that? And what are you observing? And as you tell us a few of the key contours. What's the dose, how I'm assuming it's men, women. Are they suffering What's the landscape And I realize this is still or maybe it's close It's not yet published, ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It's not it is completed. So this was another one of meaning COVID hit and we And it was hard to finish That was true of our psilocybin Lexapro trial, which is Journal of Medicine. But the-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: This was '20-- we'll provide a link to as well as some of I think the 2022 New England fabulous given the different to, essentially, and the comparison ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Mhm. Yeah. That's interesting we gave small doses of We didn't think of it that way. We thought it was just for the big dose, Yeah. So that we could say to everyone and not be lying. Yeah. For those who got escitalopram, they got a very, very But it allowed us to standardize on. But the other study was in healthy volunteers. Middle-aged. Average age, I think, was 40. So not your typical that is so often the case All the undergrads end up So this is more of an I think it was an equal All the staff which the staff were ANDREW HUBERMAN: Although, confound, right? To become all one sex of staff. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Possibly. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: They that we saw significant at the end of the trial. So let me describe the design. It was a repeated measures you collect your baseline and you give people a placebo. We gave people a placebo. And actually let me Everyone's healthy volunteers, a psychedelic in their life. None of them. Entirely fresh, virgin And the plan is to give them experience. So that's what we But to do it, we have this they'll first get a placebo. And we have the can do all the procedures, listening but not give a Again, we gave them a 1 milligram. We stick EEG headsets to record the brain activity electrical activity. And we do the MRI scanning into the brain, and we can look that we were referring to of brain anatomy, which So the short story is that saw both psychologically were seen with It all happened with And what did we see? Well, we did see in psychological well-being. We saw what I call the entropic formerly quite accurate. We see an increase in the of ongoing brain activity on the dose of psilocybin. The activity becomes It's harder to It's more informationally rich. And that effect very reliably with the magnitude So the bigger the trip, the effect. Now, pretty well But then the MRI, seeing was probably our where we didn't just see some but we've seen some anatomical And we used a technique called looks at the cabling of the And we saw a change So we limited our search Really thick fibers. And the fibers that were ones that traveled and the thalamus There were two tracks, two And they changed in the in axial diffusivity, as tract integrity where an increase in tract integrity. It is something that you The axial diffusivity from being a baby Axial diffusivity goes down. And then in aging and axial diffusivity goes up. ANDREW HUBERMAN: This is of the results you talked of brain connectivity communication across areas. If I understand perfectly happy to be wrong, in axial diffusivity fidelity of communication and the thalamus and And your description like the transition from to adulthood. Speaks to the same where a massive culling of to growth of connections. So in other words, we get better at and less good at doing else. Is that right? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Ish. Because the change was So the other stuff was is in the brain by looking at across time and whether those are synchronous between regions. And if they are, we say And we infer that they're because they go up But when it comes we're talking about the And so we're seeing the fibers change. At least that's what we think. And recently, we had come in and reanalyze the data, incredible finding really strong evidence. And I would say, the evidence So we need to be But we did re-analyze it procedure-free water correction was a change in the rather than something to do The water surrounding And it came through. In fact, the change by doing this correction step. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So as the consequence of one milligrams of psilocybin. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Yeah. So we're excited and the two-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: --the two coming in wasn't and then she thought this kill the result and then it came Now, I'm excited too. So we'll see. We don't know what it means. What does it mean functionally? We don't know. How did the people change? Well, psychologically, as I We did look at their used a cognitive looks at people's ability and then flexibly adapt their this rule change and people milligrams and didn't after the placebo dose. There weren't correlations with change and these But with these studies you don't always see those So it's something. We don't know what it means. But it's a change that's in the opposite you see in an aging brain And it's what you see as it goes from normal into adulthood. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Very, very And I appreciate that it's just one study, said, it sounds like it's So we will eagerly await the so we can peruse all the data I want to hear a that you have been carrying for the treatment I'm intrigued by have a good friend who also-- I won't reveal who it is. No. It's not me. This isn't the &quot;I Who also is a scientist who in the National Institutes has expressed to me frustrated with the fact that has largely ignored And that for many years, it was fatigue syndrome and again, so-called. I'm not saying this. But people often It's psychosomatic. That's all in your head. Which, as a neuroscientist, is because it's all in your head. Your brain is in Your physiology are influencing each other. Of course. And the world is starting But first of all, tell people what what inspired you to do using psilocybin of all surprising to me. And if you are allowed to the data in a little bit about what you're ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Sure. Yeah. Happy to. So again, it's psilocybin is fibromyalgia syndrome. So this is people a generalized chronic pain. So unlike some where the pain is focused. You can say, it's my lower Chronic lower back pain. This is more generalized. And for that reason, it's And that's why it's been a and it's been-- yeah. It's had that charge thrown psychosomatic, and is anything ever independent But this is actually for how subjective experience, and the mind can Because there's some really around the etiology. How the pain has come about. In a sense like what What's the story there? And the head of the trial, I let's just be careful. Because there is some around things like a and how that can relate to and how that can like fibromyalgia syndrome. I just said, be because if you go in that there's some buried then there's that of psychoanalysis that around false memory and so on. And so please don't that you're going to uncover Now, the team of eight people and it Again, I just want to I describe it to manage get too carried away. But I check in with and they're still based And it's remarkable what I hear that people have under the drug. In this study, we It's a very mechanistic study. We actually have the EEG like in the healthy but this time now taking it And-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: So they under the influence of 25 Most of them probably have So it's a little bit like the They have fibromyalgia that's They don't want it, obviously. And during the session, are Are they being told to ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: being told to think In fact, as I understand it, model around acceptance unlike some of aren't encouraging them to and then work through it We don't do that with the pain. So the pain is there, but to focus on it. And that's probably with classic psychedelic Arguably, MDMA therapy is to traditional talk therapy People are able to talk on MDMA. ANDREW HUBERMAN: In know whether or not because this seems to be between, as you described, versus the trip that one and taking psilocybin in or while staring at Again, I'm not trying to I mean, obviously, So I'm told. But the MDMA trials as you said, more And sometimes, even between people by looking at one another, being such a key part of connective networks. So do you know if they during the therapeutic session? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: have the eye masks there. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. Because a lot of was part of an MDMA trial. Was, as I understand because it's an empathogen ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. I'm pretty sure they but they probably-- and because you could It probably don't ANDREW HUBERMAN: Mhm. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: The psychedelics, if you're or your facilitators and ANDREW HUBERMAN: might really start to feel ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. They might look especially ANDREW HUBERMAN: sure. Yeah. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: And yeah. There's that fascinating that you're with. And so yeah. I imagine they talk more And it is more interpersonal or going inside. They do use a that some people have critiqued, phenomenon. And it's this notion They use that language a lot. It's been critiqued because You know? And that's probably one Driving the therapeutic I think we have to So when they go inside, that we use very much in the work. You go inside. You put the eyeshades are encouraged to go inside. But when they do that especially, they might and listen to the inner So you could see how could come in and see that as priming or biasing. I think they have a point. Skeptics often do, but I don't And just briefly, because speaking to that point therapy versus we measured And we did it for So what kind of expect with the Lexapro, at the end of the trial? And what kind of improvement if and get two big What kind of improvement do you And of course, it as to what arm people went into What we found was that it was so most people had higher On average, there were higher and its efficacy versus the SSRI, the Lexapro. However, when we looked or the predictive relationship and response, we saw for the escitalopram to escitalopram across virtually these different measures and well-being, and I I'm pretty sure it was none of rating scales. Was there a relationship Even though it was high, pre-trial expectancy to the psilocybin therapy. So that was a bit of a smash that the classic some kind of placebo response. And I think it's so important Because if it as it didn't come opens up even more intrigue If it's not just a placebo response like an amplification then it must be something else. And how intriguing? It has a direct It must be something. And we don't yet I talked about the in global connectivity. That's one possibility. But the truth is, we're ANDREW HUBERMAN: And yet are, again, just so I'm curious as to why as-- well, there are that many labs. But the laboratories that are for the treatment of mentioned, promising results as well. Although preliminary Why the lack of Is it that the LSD Is it that they are Are there any data on And here I want to because I learned through my that this term microdose And in some cases, can be because, as you the effective effective meaning a real trip with hallucinations, is actually in the So some people hear microdose, is a-- micrograms is a a macrodose of LSD can be So this is where in the people can really go astray. Or even just in lack of the metric system. And since now you're a fortunate for us. Sorry. England's loss is Robbins Lab moved from England So score 1 for us. But why isn't there more ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: is the duration of the trip. It used to be stigma to get your psilocybin because others were, they So there was the likes of in Switzerland and coming along and doing the So you could appeal and say, well, they're Can we not do it So that's how it worked for us. We did actually go on once we'd laid the foundations And it was a brain It was a really where we used both MRI called MEG, sort of But you know, why didn't to think, oh, should we not It does have something like a study day with ANDREW HUBERMAN: So ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. And the FDA asked us to until eight hours post-dose, could be quite excessive, And if you have that in the it becomes impractical. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Scientists are not to warrant the-- there's for the graduate ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. It's often those that are doing that ANDREW HUBERMAN: It was by a student when I was-- a they really can't afford Because we used to work. He was a electrophysiologist, No joke, folks. Three to five-day experiments. Sleeping in bouts of in a dark room with a bunch So these are long, long recordings. So yeah. No scientist does it for There is money in money in personal income. It's not lucrative for So yes. LSD is what? Anywhere from 8 to 15 ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. 15 would be a little long. You'd be a bit worried tripping at that time, maybe ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oops. No. Just kidding. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Eight hours plus-- and If it's a bigger dose, But if you're going in the morning, which is more that's 6:00 PM still And then how long do you before they can go home. Even with psilocybin, you into the evening. And the staff are of course, because they've So these are long days. And it's too much, you know? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Practical constraints. I learned from a recent that we recorded with, is a colleague of mine when I Pioneered a lot so-called intermittent fasting. That the reason that the eating in animals and now the feeding window is because the graduate student lose their relationship. Because their significant you can be in the lab meant some hours before the and then some hours afterwards. But you can't stay And many people use the as a consequence. So the scientist has to in real-world frame. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It does. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It does. ANDREW HUBERMAN: MDMA is a It's about a four to-- it's also about four ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. It's kind of similar Yeah. It is. And actually, in redose after a certain point. ANDREW HUBERMAN: The booster. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: They have yeah. So there is that. And now, people even the psilocybin sessions And if you have to have all the time, that's expensive. That's where most Is in the staffing. So can we abridge the and get away with it, and get So there's a lot of ANDREW HUBERMAN: sorry to interrupt, I don't forget to ask about therapies. The reason I ask about this is-- and here, truly people who do psilocybin and MDMA. I think I heard this right. I think it's called There's another one Again, I'm not suggesting people But the way it was was that the psilocybin, sometimes can be not a downer of a murky feel to it. Some real deep in the darker realms of one's et cetera. Not that it necessarily stays but that the MDMA, a very strongly serotonergic I mean, it has an Cocaine-like, in fact. If you've ever seen their pupils are about For a reason, they're compared to a sedative, would constrict the pupils. So they describe the use the affect component of it. What are your thoughts on Does this hold any This is, obviously, backyard that people are cowboying which again, I don't I'd like to see the but I understand this is how Yeah. What are your thoughts ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Well, I guess, they're cowboying but also underground therapists ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's So I'm not talking about people I'm talking about there are that offer psychedelic really, because it's not to possess or sell. But that are doing this. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So that's ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. And I think there's one has to be careful But if they're doing some kind of trial and error? The same is true, of of psychedelic plant include the fungi as well. So in the extended sense plants. There will have been It might not be as systematic but maybe there's been And maybe what they to because they found it works. So by that principle, I'm and whether it does offer in certain patients. One of the buzz these days is A precision medicine and So maybe there are introducing say, psilocybin around could offer And the differences Psilocybin can get Maybe the kernel of your experiences and complexes linked to whatever the pathology But it can do it, sometimes, And if it say, post-traumatic it can be overwhelming. And you can fight it. And really, it's that. The resistance is and they fight back. And the therapeutic isn't happening because mechanisms. Whereas what MDMA offers more directionally reliable It's more directionally positive ANDREW HUBERMAN: Hard to ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: To be But one of the concerns I've never done I have had not and have not But when it was done in I realized, because there was I actually asked because I realized that such an attractor that I suddenly was starting and my love of the focus of the session And I'm glad that they because the moment able to drop in within the eye and address some certain felt key and productive. So that seems to be the Is that it's such an empathogen could go down any number ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. But it's also-- it's a the classics like psilocybin but maybe a bit aggressively. MDMA makes it And that's its strength. And that's why that marriage in particular, is a good combo. It works, because you In a sense, you have to really You're going to have But we're going to set it up and feel safer and able to go back there whereas been able to go back there horrible flashbacks and so on. So that's the strength I guess the limitation doesn't take you as deep as And I tend to think that there's a kind of in that it is hell And that's the psyche. It isn't all roses. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I that you bring that up. Because I think that of so-called bad trips. There's such a fear in to avoid the painful and and the treatment of trauma. And we've had several And my close colleague, close, Dr. David Spiegel, our Clinical Hypnotist. Amazing human being and has really just embedded That the only way is to get right up next to where some relief There is no other real way. And so, I really saying that the classic with a very strong the opportunity to get into that MDMA or some non-classical We were talking about time and these different and how they're similar. I'd love for you to educate that you're doing with DMT. My understanding is that it's People I know who Again, therapeutically, just point to one very group and initiative which Initiative, which is a group-- this is carried out in with laboratories at Stanford evaluating the neural changes. And this involves is iboga, which is a very 22 hours or more, followed by I This is for veterans to deal Appears to be working And I've spoken who've gone through this. And the way that they described was quote, here I'm just Anecdata. The most profound experience even greater than the quote, &quot;like being attached to Quote. &quot;There's no way I because the first one Interesting, by the way. I think most of would think, why wouldn't But this idea that that So these are me these are significant from individuals at the extremes of human These are so-called within special operations have trauma. But DMT sounds like a big deal. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Short What do we know What do we know about how And what in the that people are I just mentioned ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. It's a rocket ship. If the psilocybin is like a This is a rocket ANDREW HUBERMAN: ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It is. Yeah. So it is a classic psychedelic. It's a direct agonist, a direct receptor. It's an order of magnitude But potency is a funny thing, So that doesn't mean that is less than that of psilocybin. It's just that you But that's matched for the serotonin is this kind of golden rule that it was discovered This tight relationship between or the binding potential of a in particular. Serotonin 2A and its potency. And the stickier the So LSD really sticky. Very, very potent. You only need those So DMT, by its affinity, but by its effects when it's just wild. And DMT, because there's another which is a bit different and subjectively, it's similar It's another rocket ship. Both compounds in the wild, DMT and 5-MeO. People are vaping There are vape pens that are to administer this, it's been a smoking thing. ANDREW HUBERMAN: This is or both. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Both no. I mean, underground are using the vape pens. They like them because They get a feel for what it so that they feel they And actually, I think might be giving 5-MeO Phenomenologically, if there's and 5-MeO, people being more of a reliable Less visual and more in the greater whole and just immersion ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Maybe we could just talk about because it's such a I can take a step back as a Ego dissolution. This idea that-- from we have a concept of self and and I know I'm me and And presumably, you do the same. And most people do the And that there are and people in the But every time I hear it sounds like it's kind of the idea that between us and everything else. Almost like in a kind trying to sound philosophical but there's the molecular We're all just little bits-- ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: ANDREW HUBERMAN: Not a functional way to Because you want to you don't really want if your goal is to But what is the power Is it the idea that we belong, Is it the sense that we're which, of course, could be to go through life? To think that we're not as-- like we are vitally important, right? Because I do believe connection What is ego dissolution? And why would this serotonin That's remarkable. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Great questions. I mean, what is it? You alluded to it with Because you could In a sense what isn't as the a developing is me that a child And so a major characteristic experience rather than just a My sense of self going Oh. Now, I feel interconnected at large. And I realize that there is And actually, that's And oh, maybe the ego thing is a construction of my mind. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. I mean, there's no It's just not like logic. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think we like family. I mean, we all know what like-- forgive me for I do it all the time, anyway. When I teach neuroanatomy, always figures out, OK. Well, that's connected to But ultimately, is connected to everything else. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: There's That's a true statement. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And have to decide where you ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Where do you draw the line? ANDREW HUBERMAN: What are the modules? You could say, the brain is ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And then you And now fortunately, to embrace this idea that Because the nervous both, of course. So the same could We're related, right? Not just by virtue of the If we did our we would find a ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And of course, But then one realizes that and if you draw them at biological parents, et And so it is just a construct. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. I mean, it is a fun game. Where do you draw the and when to collapse. It's also a classic when to pass and when-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: That ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It's brilliant. Yeah. But you asked this why does psychedelics do it? And there, we think because the target classic psychedelics do it. And that's important to stress. So MDMA doesn't really might soften the ego a bit. But yeah. That's debatable. ANDREW HUBERMAN: My is that it's such a ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And that it Certainly, you could where one in MDMA says, oh, my oppressors are And here I'm not referring But they did the best Actually have empathy for them. Forgiveness. But also for oneself. That there's an I know I said this earlier, that to access. Perhaps, not the narcissists They'll be like, of But everyone else, I think, or the healthy people and not picking on narcissists. I have to imagine In fact, I think that's the That empathy for that comes reflexively And here I'm not talking about But this notion of being able deserving of love and that in place while with something challenging not less access to adaptive I think that's the way ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, drugs offer a great-- they offer great-- they for tackling this question. What is ego dissolution, and And what does that tell Because other drugs more of a different dopamine more than serotonin. The opposite is Is more of an ego ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, absolutely. People will become to their own desires and wishes, an obsession. It's the stuff of and the cliches and stereotypes ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Yeah. We did a study once at dose-dependent relationship on one axis and ego and saw that it just massively between cocaine It's quite a neat study. ANDREW HUBERMAN: people's egos super inflated? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. And doesn't touch is the case with psychedelics. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is to explain how ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: That Yeah. Great idea. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I have a sabbatical coming up. I've got 12 months of ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. That's-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm going ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. That's a really good one. If it's all right to finish and ego dissolution, or we have some hypotheses. And it's that the target receptors that classic are heavily expressed like to call recent brain. Because evolutionarily, It's cortex that humans have If you look at a mapping of macaque or chimp to human, that you'll find So that's the target. And it's just easy to could be the egoic brain and the They scramble up the activity. That's the entropic And in terms of the that entropic action It doesn't shut it off. It spreads it out. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Dissolution? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. And you were talking about So that fits. If it's more capacious, it fits. The big qualifier with that people rightly bring That's the paradox of it. The paradox of ego dissolution. So the ego might go and you have these about the molecular continuity and interconnected. And then you come long later, the ego comes back, And sadly, things people haven't done the work. Perhaps haven't work and maybe ego and it's not a pretty picture. ANDREW HUBERMAN: How often that you do? What percentage of do you think end up were before the trial? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It's that we've done. Yeah. But you see defenses come back. So you do see people relapse. That's more-- if to like three months plus resistant depression, than the exception sadly. People relapse. If their histories are then while you might give sadly, it doesn't last. That's not to say that It does. And we have people who resistant depression well to my knowledge doing fantastically well. But sadly, the majority have ANDREW HUBERMAN: And need to ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Well, they That's been the really that we've been up against. Is that we do a trial where drug becomes a or at least an We give the treatment, it gives people a remission had for however long, and they're denied And worse still, if they they would be It's a sick joke in a way. But that's the situation ANDREW HUBERMAN: And for what I want to is, what is the current in terms of-- or the I'd also like to touch on incoming big pharma. There are a lot of start to capitalize on that you and others have made. The landscape out there Maybe I'll just call out and maybe we can draw if they exist. At the ground level, but at the ground level, like yours, Matthew some laboratories at Stanford. Nolan Williams. Laboratories studying the in human beings, so in terms of their clinical of depression, anorexia. I now know fibromyalgia, trauma. Let's lump MDMA assuming that it all at the level of where the OK. So labs using government Then there are the that are accessing are clean sources of MDMA. Psilocybin, LSD to do this. They are doing it illegally. This is in the US or other because, obviously, it's Who are administering on the basis of what they're that you all are publishing. But also expanding on flips and combination drugs But let's leave ketamine out But there's that. Then there's the-- I don't want to say black market. And here I want to that Dr. Peter Attia did recently in his own The fact that fentanyl-- is now showing up in MDMA are purchased on the street. So serious caution from uncertain sources. And then you've got pharma. And then as an umbrella you've got the FDA and law currently say, this unless it's being used Selling it or possessing with a crime ranging from-- I don't want to say But up to felonies. Right years in prison. So can't take it don't get caught with it, kind of thing. So where are we going from I know things are in Most people, including familiar with how the different to legality. Could you just give us the you think it will that come through go get a prescription or potentially buy from a reliable but without the risk of I used to live in My understanding-- and please Don't trust this information My understanding is decriminalized in not the same as being legal. So what is going on out there? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Mhm. Wow. Well, so much. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. I just asked 55 questions. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: I know. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But feel free if you like. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. Well, Oakland's a funny one. I live close to Oakland. There are head shops might be selling cannabis and that are selling Psilocybin, mushrooms-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's a fact. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: --openly. Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's a fact. I can verify that. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: OK. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I but I've gone in and checked ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. So the police aren't that activity, the purchasing now in Oakland because So those head shops shouldn't Well, they shouldn't be selling. They won't have a Licenses don't exist But let's see whether They probably But there's a church say that they're selling and They're using that church that Native Americans and they have a more Because there is But they're trying to Anyway, that's close to But federally, which is really is the FDA and the licensing to be legally prescribed across and beyond, that is close so there are different and the key one to know Phase III trials are If they're successful, have to do at least show the results to are the FDA, the medicine is this good enough now for so that I can sell and provide demonstrated is a medicine. So that work has been for post-traumatic MAPS have led that work and I think they've already that the second consistent with the first. We know the results because they're published and Something like 67% ANDREW HUBERMAN: And long term. My understanding is rates for trauma were years, you're describing where people might ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. That's true. Yeah. Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: for trauma in those trials. My understanding is those focused on depression. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yes. Yes. Focused on the trauma. So that's something, is being filed now, to my And they're anticipating with rollout happening I mean, that's ANDREW HUBERMAN: Could I ask you and it's the appropriate of so-called rolling. About 20% of my will understand that not Who's going to roll it out? Where would one get the meaning not laced with fentanyl, not undergone any to some other drug which can life, et cetera. Are people going to go to And who's going to Is it going to be This seems like a ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Mhm. It is. And I don't have I do know that MAPS would be done the work and they have to potentially whether as a pharma company, they're wrestling It's very expensive to ANDREW HUBERMAN: And yet to make the choice, put in so many years of hard was considered like they were the ones that spotted I mean, we knew there was on work going back many and I think in my opinion, to make those decisions. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. And it's such a remarkable And I think they've done it I think so. Yeah. So there is this And the FDA are also to your question, because in the phase III there's been a MAPS training, And you have to do this to be a practitioner But now, there's a whether that MAPS training that a clinician has to And when I say rollout, as a service, essentially. And so where would the That's a good question. That I'm not 100% on the answer. Whether it would have to come someone's-- sort of general physician But they will be going is licensed and certified and And there will be constitutes good enough There will also be on the basic underlying of the clinician who provides. So I imagine, they'll have to I don't think they would have to they could be, I think, For all the dosings, I there would have to be a within ready access in ANDREW HUBERMAN: with MDMA because of the ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Because of And where is psilocybin in Is it in phase II, phase III? ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: There's psilocybin done for treatment by a company called Compass. Those trials which So there's always a bunch Geographically spread contributing to data that and is then submitted as part So that's happening It's psilocybin therapy for Those trials have think the earliest heard in a journalistic because I don't think or they wouldn't say ANDREW HUBERMAN: '26. Wow. So MDMA is ahead of psilocybin. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's quite a few years ahead. And it's more of, but it's very, very Whereas the work's with psilocybin in terms But then you have of however many psychedelic there are now across the globe, in 2019. The first one in and I don't know But so much has happened in Yes. But all these I've been able to tell and fibromyalgia syndrome. Trying to do a trial at UCSF in methamphetamine He's got a trial going and chronic lower back I mean, there's OCD. Almost the full gamut of Not schizophrenia, to my So there's so much And I think these small typically, they're small are going to be reporting I know what we're seeing. And it will be four-- let's see now, at with really positive results disorders. And that's just us. And I know there's Addiction disorders as well. Mike Johnson's work, So all this compelling it's really something. And yet the system a big breakthrough in terms of And that can frustrate people, ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Else we revert back to where there was a lot of It's interesting to me. There was a close and behavioral approaches to and psychedelics. Meditation made it I mean, there were it was considered counterculture stuff by Western science. But now, I mean, there are-- probably tens of an overstatement of how meditation can provide and even for mental health. And psychedelics but they used to in the cultural framework. But the problem was, were viewed as And university professors for having discussions that you and I are And some people went to either left academic or lost their jobs, whereas these studies of the and that are taking place elsewhere are some of the for philanthropy Donors are very these sorts of studies, because and people they know suffer from the current big pharma worked. So it's interesting was seen as poison as a potential therapeutic. It's not just it speaks to the evolution People seem to be coming more more open-minded. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Right. Yeah. That's a good one. Yeah. And yet-- yeah. There's so much that's And there are elements of-- There is critique, there's in psychedelic therapy, that have caused some scandals. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's too bad. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: Isn't it? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Well, I think too the It just takes one bad incident. Gene therapy was on a fast and then sadly, a child died And it's like shut down for half a decade started ratcheting up again. Gene therapy broadly in the age of potential CRISPR and things makes some people cringe and If you have Huntington's CRISPR is like the most because you could potentially line going forward, of course. ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: that we can be balanced Because it could go similar the history that people would be incidents. And overgeneralize them, shining a light is important that is important, because how important it is that and what the necessary be. Yeah. And it won't be an But let's hope-- we've got because current about the mental health earlier about not always actually you look at the epidemiology. When you look at see a big inflection of psychiatric illness. I would say, it's more-- the treatments haven't moved. They haven't really progressed. They haven't got any better And new drugs have So there haven't been And that's why I get when I talk about psychedelic that this is It's not a drug every day. That system, it's Do we really want to Sure. Not everyone will want to trip. And that will so much that they'll on their Lexapro or a or whatever. And of course, it should be Of course. And the more But I think there is great what psychedelic therapy is. And I think when that it is a major paradigm And the fact that it's appeal at the moment, I think. ANDREW HUBERMAN: grateful for your passion for to be added to the array And I really also appreciate alongside the other treatments. Maybe even in combination as opposed to saying, going to cure everything. And yet the passion for this potential paradigm appears to be happening at is so important. So I want to extend for that and for the I mean, I've been but as a neuroscientist, I've to it really for the last And it's abundantly is a small group of individuals in terms of how the and what needs to be the system for the that are really the driving or paradigm shift. That without question, to improvements in mental health So I just want to say Also thank you so much for this immense knowledge set about What they are, what they aren't. Their clinical applications and other laboratories. I'm sure people but you're incredibly generous and also in your how some of the on anorexia, fibromyalgia, are exciting. They're not published We wouldn't call And also for touching That is not just about people to some potential in terms of connectivity So thank you so much Thank you for the work And thank you for the work We will provide links to links to your laboratory and support in the ways that But just thank you, Such important work ROBIN CARHART-HARRIS: It's been a pleasure. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Thank for my discussion with I hope you found it to be as and clinical uses of If you'd like to learn more research or support that a research subject in one please see the links in In addition, please to his Twitter account and also in the show note captions. Also in the show find a link to Dr. account where he regularly in the field of If you're learning from please subscribe to That's a terrific zero In addition, please on both Spotify and Apple. And on both Spotify can also leave us up Please also check mentioned at the beginning and That's the best way to If you have questions about the podcast or you'd like me to include on please put those in the I do read all the comments. Not so much on today's episode, of the Huberman Lab podcast, While supplements aren't many people derive for things like improving as well as focus. The Huberman Lab podcast with Momentous Supplements. If you'd like to see the on the Huberman Lab podcast, spelled O-U-S. So it's If you're not already I am hubermanlab So that's Facebook, LinkedIn, And on all those about science and some of which overlaps with podcast, but much of which on the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, it's hubermanlab on If you haven't already Network newsletter, the is a monthly newsletter the essential points and we list out toolkits toolkits for for optimizing dopamine, is available at zero cost. You simply go to go to the menu, scroll and supply your email. And we do not share Thank you once again for joining with Dr. Robin Carhart-Harris. And last but thank you for your [MUSIC PLAYING]