Nintendo's always been an experimental their most experimental era. They were on one after another, ended in failure. The Virtual turned into embarrassing money-pits. Even their that Nintendo called it &quot;a crisis.&quot; But there was Power. It was a Japan-only cartridge rewrite games for series like Mario, Kirby, and Fire and new Game Boy and N64 titles were planned disc drive games. But some fumbles led to the become reality. Nintendo Power didn't only make past, resurrected previously-cancelled projects, and preserved Satellaview games that would've hundreds of back-catalogue games available for Console, before the modern internet. Nintendo unfortunately -- while in some ways, lagging a mountain of coulda-shoulda-wouldas, as you'll there in its heyday. And for us Western fans stuck just as we never got to play dozens of 64DD games been passed down through time. So let's dive deep from 1997 to 2007: what it gave us, what we shaped the gaming world we know today. Yamauchi gave a speech, warning that video game publishers launched a new game, they didn't underestimated demand, they'd miss out on millions lose millions, and get stuck with literal tons of wrong forecast could bankrupt an entire studio. crisis of collapse, with profits and high risks,&quot; be profitable, but most of them are not... and his ripe old age of 70, Yamauchi was always very tried beaming games down to Super Famicoms via the very moment Yamauchi was talking, Nintendo was Power. There'd be thousands of kiosks all across hours a day. And it'd use digital distribution If you've never heard of Lawson, it's similar to the corner. At the time, the country was home there're more of 'em than there are McDonalds in multimedia machines called Loppis, where you buy CD's -- stuff like that. They sought out games too, and eventually the two mega-corps a built in Nintendo Power system. Gamers could and write up to 7 games onto it. Nintendo Power standard carts, with numbers 1 through 7 on the stick 'em on the numbers, to show which games were but on Nintendo Power, most were only 12 bucks. In Gamers got cheap games. Lawson got gamers other stuff while they were there. And Nintendo and sell games without worrying how many year after the N64 launched,and it wasn't selling which isn't just less than PlayStation... it's still 17 million Super Famicoms in Japanese and a lotta people were still playing it. So the but revitalize the console, and Nintendo announced pillars: the N64, Game Boy, and Nintendo Power. its time, but that doesn't mean it was the similar system for rewriting Famicom disks back and you could only have one game per disk. Rewrite like Takeru machines for MSX, FM-Towns, and of. Those early rewrite machines were archaic by so let's get back to Nintendo Power. The system who you might remember from our recent a collection of studios half-owned by Nintendo, Hey You Pikachu, and were also involved with Pokemon Company president Tsunekazu Ishihara, personal mentor of Pokemon's creator Satoshi but mostly it was Marigul running Nintendo Their mandate comprised 2 distinct initiatives: the 'Star Wars' project. The former aimed to bring along with a bunch of third-party classics, bringing back every game ever, just the good gaming magazine editors, and popular fan requests. the time, because Sony, Square, and other trying to outlaw used games. More on that later, were gonna disappear -- which is why the good the Star Wars project, focused on remaking and Game Boy; as well as competing platforms, like games. It didn't matter if the originals were made some classics. Remakes were relatively easy and in the overall goal of game preservation. At the also making some brand new titles. The initial exclusive new games or remakes every single month, Nintendo Power's early goals were pretty exciting. Lawson locations throughout Tokyo. On day one, plus 25 from third-parties. Mario, Donkey Castlevania, Mega Man -- everything you're dozens more third-party games got added, one PC New Island of Ogres volumes 1 and 2. They were Satellaview, but now reworked for Nintendo system's fans called Monthly Nintendo Power the system even reached its full strength in in all 7000 Lawsons across Japan, in various And the exclusives just kept on comin'. every Lawson got a CD containing the full, with Wrecking Crew '98, a sequel to the Famicom it's Peach's Castle in 16-bits, and it even came brought Kirby's Super Star Stacker, a remake of but now with better graphics, music, and some that was Super Punch-Out, a Nintendo-made boxing but never in Japan. Then Famicom Detective of the 1989 visual novel murder mystery, with some including an extra ending sequence. All these here on out, that'll go without saying. Next was nations, characters, and gameplay elements that people argue if it's actually a remake, or really maps from the first game, plus 17 new ones. Super Satellaview broadcasts, but didn't see full Derby Stallion '98, a sequel in the long-running, about breeding and business simulation than the WGP2, the newest entry in an RC car role-playing three reworked Satellaview games -- Dr Mario, Satella games, had only been available during the sometimes years earlier. And thus, not readily brought some previously-cancelled games and Messiah's Put It All in the Ring -- which were due to physical production costs. Both games thanks to Nintendo Power's digital distribution. over those, a word from this video's sponsor, War vehicle combat game ever made, available now vehicles from nearly a century of warfare and 10 cars to modern fighter jets and battle tanks. of over 70 million players, and battle in intense realistic graphics, and authentic sound effects. stunning visuals and smooth performance, even on War Thunder's sophisticated damage model makes etcetera, vulnerable to damage, with armor, real-world counterparts. Use the X-Ray View like which components were hit and Arcade has fast-paced action, Simulator provides strikes a balance between the two. War Thunder lets you customize your vehicles with countless including community-created designs. Play War or Xbox by signing up via our link in the pinned those who haven't played in the last 6 months can featuring premium vehicles, the exclusive 'Eagle and 7 days of premium account. This offer is for rewards now! And now back to the trivia. like Famicom Bunko: Forest of Beginnings -- release, and a new IP they hoped would sell enough same folks who did Earthbound, it's about a kid then after meet-cuting a girl in the forest -- village to find her again. It's sort of a slice and environmentalism, and everyone who played impact. '99 was also the start of Picross NP, a franchises, like Pokemon, Zelda, and Star Fox. Power Sokoban, based on the PC-8801 puzzle game; sidescroller that originally came out on Apple 2. of Wizardry 1, 2, and 3; which were influential started on Apple 2. They also released a new game, god-simulator society-builder. Then they made a brought over from the Sega Genesis, called to bring over Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog and couldn't pull it off. Later that year, Nintendo Emblem Thracia 776 , a wholly original entry in to Genealogy of the Holy War, and added new like fog of war, capturing enemies, and achieving few Nintendo Power exclusives could be pre-ordered cart with the game already installed. They or had some extra goodies thrown in. The Emblem Thracia Deluxe Edition, which came The World of Fire Emblem VHS with story and some pins to keep track of where you'd been, and launch, but nowadays sells for a whole lot more. few more small exclusives from third- parties, take a step back and look at the bigger hardly anyone was actually using Nintendo Power. its heyday. One guy who calls himself Satella-A I never saw anyone rewriting other than myself. the Nintendo Power library, [but by then] the and Sega Saturn, so Nintendo Power failed to gain Power had popular and also harder-to-find games, was convenient combining multiple games onto one And when you account for the [$50] price of blank at second-hand shops. Even for rarer old games, I asked a shop to order it in. And if it's a box.&quot; Now's the part where we need to talk about concept..... in execution, it actually kinda marketing, storage, price, and convenience. for Nintendo Power, so hardly anyone knew about so most folks walked right past it without knowing Nintendo fans who subscribed to gaming magazines Those Japanese fans told us the flash carts were only held 4 megabytes. Storage was divided into save data. Nintendo boasted you could write up able to fit one or two. Just take a look -- along with how many blocks they required. As you and a lot more take up at least half. When you've up one F block of its own, so you might only be left for one small game -- something like Space Metroid, plus 1 for Space Invaders, and 1 for the all you've got. So in reality, if you actually arcade titles. Some bigger games couldn't fit on Phantasia. Even worse, some of the console's most Power carts just straight up weren't compatible Yoshi's Island, Star Fox, and a few Kirby and finished-but-unreleased game to make exclusive needed a chip. Now the third problem: price. Old 35... but there was also the up-front cost of a you weren't paying for ownership. If you deleted gone forever. If someday you wanted to replay it, receipts, so it would've been nice if Nintendo and re-download games for free. Unfortunately, to delete a game they just bought last week. So in practice, Nintendo Power felt like more of it made more sense to shop at a used game store. box, manual, and usually stuff like maps. Lawson 30 cents, but obviously, that doesn't have the The final problem: convenience. The Loppi just click what you wanna buy. Instead, you had to or the Loppi itself to find each game's six-digit It was super tedious, and really didn't have to be on how many blocks your games needed, and finding out your receipt, and you'd take it up to the rewrites your games, on a separate machine talked to said because hardly anyone used Nintendo so it was a pain getting your orders filled. Then loaded your games. There're even more steps we're had to make comics and tutorials explaining how confusing. Now you know what we meant when we said problems were completely avoidable -- ideally a better-designed customer experience. Alright, Nintendo Power revenue was never made public would've bragged about it. But we do have official games sold in total. So that's new physical sales me to say... at no point did they crack a million context, most previous years measured in the tens assume every game after 1997 sold through Nintendo the system was only responsible for 1% of the take away one figure from this video, that's the Famicom sales were from Nintendo Power. Break Loppi wasn't selling thousands of games... or even a few dozen games a year at each store. So, point the Super Famicom, as the company'd hoped. So to 25 bucks, but by then it was too late. Nintendo months later to try'n make back some of their and Monthly Nintendo Power magazine was canned magazine... that only ran for one month. At games -- but they barely managed to hit 150. They get. but unfortunately, it just wasn't popular. available on launch day? They never added a single years later. I guess they realized pretty quick, Third-party publishers stopped bringing new games -- the initial promise was one or two a months started getting skipped. Missed months nothing. They at least managed to go out on Metal Slader Glory: Director's Cut. It was a improved graphics and cut content added back in. for 400 bucks at the time, so it was a perfect worked out some of the kinks, the system could've like they originally planned. At the start, from various old consoles they wanted to remake dozen came out. At one point Nintendo discussed with updated graphics and new content. And Marigul though they were intentionally vague about which that would've been awesome. It's possible they they released right after for the PC-Engine, but that would've been a pretty weird pick. As for guess. Zelda 2 was famously the Miyamoto game been a good candidate. Metroid, Kid Icarus, and well. Nintendo only remade one Game Boy game -- benefited from face-lifts and new content. and Game Boy Wars entries. Third-party oldies were and away Nintendo Power's biggest supporter, of their classics were under consideration or Konami themselves. Konami's Super Castlevania so it would've been cool to see Castlevania 2 and Metal Gears that originally released on MSX. That fun to imagine the remakes that might've been. come over -- like BS The Legend of Zelda, a remake 1 and 2, which were basically expansions with became lost media due to their broadcast format, Preserve the Good Games project is an absolute games would be, quote, &quot;easy&quot; to bring over... didn't mention earlier was Nintendo Power's third Good Games and Star Wars projects, there was also creating some new visual novels for the system, and romance authors during the soft-launch A lotta their plans got abandoned, but entirely their fault. Even if they fixed all still a couple headwinds beyond their control. legality of used games was under threat. Japan's and Konami argued in court that Japanese law that it's illegal for shops to sell second-hand permission. And that gamers should only be they embarked on a crusade called &quot;the Campaign that Japanese film law, their position was used events telling gamers and shops they were breaking sales. But ultimately, they lost. Nintendo wasn't effectively made the Let's Preserve Good Games We're not saying we wanted those lawsuits to go Nintendo Power would've stood a much better chance called Digicube. It's a bit more complicated Digicubes were Squaresoft vending machines Lawsons. A few dozen publishers signed up with Power's competition. Digicube had a lot more with almost 10 million software sold in its Square, Enix, and others didn't participate in of the Super Famicom's best RPGs -- like Final in Nintendo Power....... So, all that's to say, the best RPGs and also to used game stores, left you know... it didn't have to only be in Japan. failed -- even more so than the fumbles we talked in America. If they'd localized those games and more money into the system. Now, it is true that console's lifetime, but in the years that Nintendo buying ten times more than Japanese fans. Over Nintendo's forecasts were way off on this one, and on 90% of potential profits. They thought their it couldn't. But it was still alive in the US. made that Nintendo Power should've actually been obviously it'd be nice if the system was available country... they picked wrong. They would've So yeah... it was bust. But don't count 'em out back for round two. From the very beginning, right next to the SFC slots. And just as the that Game Boy Nintendo Power would commence in a lot more potential for success. It was still still a ways off. And at the time, Game Boy outselling N64 and Super Famicom combined. Much Pokemon Gold &amp; Silver were also gonna launch have their Game Boys close at hand, and hopefully, finished their Johto journeys. The timing was arose that was out of Nintendo's control. An act a massive earthquake shook Taiwan, in what locals people, destroyed 50,000 buildings, and inflicted It also severely disrupted their semi-conductor is where Nintendo got their semiconductors to copies of Gold &amp; Silver available on release shortages...and Nintendo Power GB's launch got carefully planned timing was ruined -- syncing up Advance was considerably closer to launch. out a banger back-catalogue of 30 first-party Donkey Kong, Zelda, Metroid, Kirby, Game Boy Wars, Boy flash carts were relatively cheap too -- only Nintendo gave away free downloads for Wario Land, carrot on a stick. It was basically a remake of and it'd already released overseas the previous Nintendo Power exclusive to attract more eyes to still persisted -- very little advertising, clunky issue. GB flash carts only held one megabyte, able to fit one or two games. Nintendo obfuscated physical sales again, so it's hard to get precise 'cause after launch Nintendo only released five kinda new: Balloon Fight GB, which was a remake content. The original never came out in Japan, but Nintendo said they were considering making but they never ended up releasing any. They were they were done. Nintendo withdrew support parties stayed on one more year, mostly adding up to the promise of what Nintendo Power was games found their way to Japan for the first And ten new games, though none were especially I'll have another!,' 'Koguruguru: Guruguru to and six low-price Loppi Puzzle titles. Long story little was there, wasn't very desirable. A year line, Nintendo Power announced they were leaving get covered up, and rewritable flash carts no but you'd have to do it with Nintendo directly, by games you wanted. Financial reports show sales of of the mail-in service, then dropping to near-zero much better. To their credit, Nintendo continued sense to. But in February 2007, they announced the end of the month. The Wii Virtual Console old games, Nintendo Power just didn't need to is that's what Nintendo Power became. evolved into Virtual Console. In fact, a lot of could also say the Star Wars project sorta turned Pokemon Ranch, and Castlevania: The Adventure and exactly the kinda thing we wanted Virtual Console and WiiWare also fixed a lot low storage, and being able to re-download games being available worldwide. We might've sounded we love Nintendo Power. It was ahead of its time, some ways. It gave us games that otherwise never got English fan translations, so we can play 'em in the West just recently, like Kirby's Super Star And that's great, but... we can't help wishing It sure would've been cool to see what which was planned, but once again... never they already had Zelda Master Quest sitting and it's honestly puzzling they never dropped it with Ash and the gang that finished development games they did put out. Nintendo decided not to Pokemon games coming out all at once. Six games Then they never ended up releasing it at all. So Power's exclusive Pokemon game? The entire reason so it seems like another fumble that Nintendo the back catalogue. Or at the very least, they color. They already did that for Link's Awakening, and released 'em on cartridge. None of the Gen 1 people in with a color version of Yellow? The 1998 with new areas. It's unknown if it was actually but regardless, those sorta upgrades coming and much appreciated. And just like Super Boy games were selling in America than Japan at these pipe dreams might've actually happened, if instead of the Rising Sun. But, okay -- at this veering into wish-casting territory, so let's Nintendo Power lasted just shy of a decade, from By then, the Wii and DS were already out and Famicom and Game Boy two generations old and dead six Loppi Puzzles, about 30 new games and remakes its all-time best-sellers. Nintendo supported the than most other companies would've -- and there's an experimental company, and by their very nature, probably their most experimental era, and even glad we got as much as we did. It's a helluva lot also know the Nintendo 64DD had over 60 cancelled 'em, click the video on-screen. Or if you'd rather maybe for background watching or something, click Brenden, and Satellaview enthusiast Cabbusses of the rarest Famitsu issues for us, Jacob for their experiences with Nintendo Power back in the