A Man Ate 600 Pounds of Ramen Noodles Over 6 GN is a 42 year old man, room disoriented with psychotic delusions. pregnant, but he's here to deliver. GN will believe hes going to pass gas, but it's ate 3 pounds of instant noodles for dinner. Recently, he took out a massive shop business, but something was wrong. people started driving all the cars off the lot. the shop had more business than it really had. suddenly disappeared to another country. a terrible reputation. All negative reviews insurance companies wouldn't allow their GN started panicking. He had been scammed. No make loan payments. He couldn't live off his wife Thinking about how he could make lifestyle cuts cent ramen noodle cups. He felt kinda weird he noticed that he was having sloppy GN would constantly feel hungrier and hungrier. the more one eats, the hungrier they can he started eating pounds of ramen every day day. 30 days a month. Over 100 pounds every One evening, GN woke up in a cold sweat. himself in an alternate timeline where he was GN wouldn't sleep anymore. Sometimes, Sarah And the moment she opened her eyes, she'd see GN he couldn't remember any of it happening. brain. That could be from the stress. But of a pins and needles feeling in his fingers, too. Stress isnt going to cause that. Something his wife. At the family physician's office, GN fine. But a blood test reveals that he has anemia. blood. He had less red blood cells than normal, supposed to carry and deliver oxygen throughout could explain why he feels so tired and fatigued as if he had a traumatic injury and was bleeding where they can take a closer look, and his wife At examination, GN had no signs of physical but they immediately notice his delusional but where did the blood go? One cause of massive bleeding in the gut. The medical team heard Sarah so this could give them some more clues. They send what's happening, and possibly take samples it tells them everything that they need to know. finger-like projections called villi. The you eat. Villi increase the surface area of the because they also have even more This is in normal function. The problem is, intestines through that camera, they thought but instead, they found that it looked like are vital to absorption, and GN has anemia and anemia could be caused by a deficiency carry oxygen throughout the body, then it means he deficiency caused by a problem in his intestines. for the medical team. They took a sample of his and they find that the villi, were in fact, those villi were gone because white blood as if his immune system was attacking and confirmed by this imaging, and an additional previously-undiagnosed Celiac Disease. This delusional thinking and erratic behavior. make the instant noodles GN ate, contains proteins gluten is a protein, it is made of amino acid we are usually talking about cleaving these chains gluten is rich in a specific amino acid makes it difficult to digest. have a genetic mutation. The genes in our someone who has Celiac Disease, has One important kind of protein in our bodies which is typically on the surface of cells from your body, and which ones aren't. version of HLA, which happens to connect with to the immune system, that a pathogen is present. destroying the villi, impairing absorption excessive gluten intake in his diet, from was causing everything happening to GN. form properly, causing anemia and fatigue. And connected to the Brain through the Vagus Nerve But something that he was consuming throughout a scent based flavoring system for pure, straight wanted to talk about the recurring theme in my don't put it in your body. But something you than just water, while being just water. You don't which is how they're normally flavored, other sweeteners. But taste doesnt need to be it also comes from smell, and this is how air which you put on a mouthpiece on their water and here. Air will pass through these to give the of the mouthpiece. Activate the pod by pulling it the holes up exactly. If you pull it too far, air bubbles will come up through the straw with air passes through your nose, giving the taste. my own money to try. This was my reaction trying It's now my main water bottle, and I drink about favorite flavors. Right now, you can get holiday click the link in the description to get not this is a cool gift too. I highly recommend it. but an important one here is a protein called support cell survival, among other functions. established that high proline content makes amino acid that's even more prevalent in Tissue Transglutaminase, trans-glutamine-ase, something that makes "Gluten" bind really strong immune system response. And it's still not over. against tTG. This is often the blood test is that these antibodies disappear on a is occurring anymore. Which means for someone when gluten isn't present anymore. to replenish GN's deficient nutrients, eliminate gluten from his diet, specifically, wheat flour. No barley and rye based foods When GN was well enough, his delusions had was discharged from the hospital, he was As the months passed, his business and he was eating well. But as months turned One evening, GN could feel his gut quake and and he could feel that he was losing weight that sweating. And his body temperature would be He started having all the same problems he ramen noodles every month, because he was noodles again. Knowing that he can't eat like this. But the harder she pushed him to stop, the One problem with going Gluten Free, is that It's possible that he was still INCIDENTALLY instant noodles, without knowing about it. but it's not to say that it wouldn't have gluten somewhere in the supply chain, like spices, and sauces might also have gluten But GN's night sweats, recurring fevers and At the hospital, again. Sarah tells the gluten-free diet. They confirm that his thoughts Abdominal imaging reveals what looks like impair nutritional absorption in his gut, but the narrowing of the intestines, something called a an obstruction of his gut. If this isn't addressed stretching the muscle walls, starving it of leaking its contents everywhere in his body. GN was sent in for surgery, where they removed at those removed parts under a microscope, the cells inside an unusual growth that shouldn't have to infiltrate deep into his intestines, and when it tells the medical team what was We've already established that when someone cells interact with gluten in a way that prompts cascade of interactions that ends with destruction period of time, when gluten is continually some of the white blood cells involved in the possibly in the chaos, the genes of these a way they weren't meant to grow. And to Celiac Disease is an enteropathy. and opathy denoting a disturbance of that the white blood cells found in the parts of and that there was an abnormal growth of tissue indicates that GN has Enteropathy-Associated abnormal growth associated with lymphocytes, the of enteropathy. This didn't have to happen. is tough. And it's likely that even in GN's most it's possible something else that he didnt old kitchen utensils, had gluten in it. thinking leading him back to aberrant behavior, ending in increasingly massive ingestion of gluten Enteropathy-Associated T-cell Lymphoma is an end but in literature, you can see it's associated Disease that doesnt respond to gluten-free diet. Or we don't really know where "Hidden Gluten" despite them taking the most sincere and But for GN, removing those "ulcerated" parts of mutated and abnormal white blood cells floating visible yet. The medical team start multiple blood cells from doing further damage. and start to have other organs, and other parts GI tract perforating, becoming unmanageable by any hospital stay, he appeared well enough to go home. symptoms that happen when you eat gluten, But that raises the question, was GN born with somehow in his adult life? He was 42 when is that Instant Noodles alone, very likely but rather revealed something that was Thanks so much for watching. Take