Isn't he the richest man in the past like a daughter? So bleak now I've got AIDS. Yeah, I heard it's all because of a man What is the name of the richest man in Yucheng now? He Jinchen He Jingchen, the richest man in Jiangcheng I have been in love with my girlfriend Fang Jingyi for 10 years The wedding of the century will be held at the Marriott Hotel Where did the beggar come from? Get out of here I sacrificed everything for He Jingchen Unexpectedly, he couldn't hold his heart in the end Master Shen You came to see my jokes I'm here to save you. Why is that? I am not married to you The two marriage contracts have not yet been fulfilled You are still my fiancee Shen Shizhu I used to treat you so badly Sorry. Nini Nini Nini I made a mistake in my life If there is an afterlife, I will definitely I was back in college. I was born again. Sleeping like a dead pig I thought you were dead I was born again. Sleeping like a dead pig I thought you were dead Get up and get to work Hey, can't you see that Jingyi's leg is hurt? In my last life, I gave everything for you In exchange for your calculation and murder of me I will never touch Tengu again in my life It's not good to call him in the morning He'll be mad. I'll do it myself Oh, Jingyi, have a good rest. He is willing to do such a thing If you don't call him He's not happy yet Nobuya, you are so kind He is the young master's dog He will do whatever the young master asks him to do I really think I'm a soft persimmon Can't Mu Ningning hear me? Get up and get to work You feel so sorry for Fang Jingyi Just do it for her Mu Ningning, are you tired of me? Why do you really consider yourself a monk? What do you mean? It means nothing I just want to tell you when I don't like you He stopped work and changed his surname. He didn't even listen to the young master's words What kind of shutdown is he? The nanny of the young master's house Of course, you have to be respectful to the young master No, the next person is taking pictures of the organization He's tired of it. He Jingchen is just the son of my driver You really dare to think of yourself as a young master Has Empress Meng been too kind to you recently? If you are so unreasonable again You see I am all today Blame me Never mind. Obviously, I have a little temper occasionally. People are still good I know you because I have a good relationship with Jin Cheng A little jealous If you are unhappy Then I'll stay away from him in the future, okay? What do you want? Don't wear it, it's shameless Let me teach you a lesson This ignorant stinky nanny you What do you want? How dare you splash me What are you afraid of? He is a human being, more direct and harmless I'm sick enough It was you who pushed Aunt Jing first Zhao Ke just wants you to calm down Calm down yourself Crazy Liu Jing Obviously you have any dissatisfaction and vent at me I won't fight back if it's lost. How could you do this to Jing Chen? He Shao knows how to wag his master's tail even if he keeps a dog I can't stand it if you don't fire him expelled expelled expelled expelled expelled expelled expelled expelled He police, I am your nanny He Jingchen, I am your nanny You want to fire me? That's enough! That's it jing chen He did that to you. You still haven't fired him There is no way Shut up everyone's words That tomorrow weekend? Everyone goes to my private golf course Isn't the cost of a private golf course over a billion? Heard about it before The golf course is open only to the upper class And it's membership-based. This time we can finally see the world Well, Ningning Why don't you come with us? After all, after this You may not have the opportunity to go to a place like this either I didn't get a chance to go to the biggest golf course in Jiangcheng I just didn't get in. Don't delay the year A worthless and disobedient pig like him There's no need to mess with people Don't let me see you on my golf course tomorrow When will my court become yours? God This golf course has lawns that big. So grand It's a lot of money to be a director As expected of He Shao Any court is a top official Your stadium is so luxurious I've been to a golf course before Nothing compared to here Hey, isn't that Mu Ningning? How dare he come? How dare he, a nanny, really lose his temper with He Shao? Want me to say? It's just that He Shao has a good temper You should put this kind of ignorant servant Fired He had been chasing Jing Chen before I guess I know that Jing Tian brought us to play ball today So come after me Also doing the tracking set That's disgusting. Wasn't Ningning very tough yesterday? Why are you chasing after me like a dog? Did you enter my court with my permission? The mother cow will leave you some face, almost A nanny is a nanny. I don't know any rules Without He Shang's permission Can you enter He's stadium? And casually touch other people's poles Can you afford it? How can you be sure this is his family's golf? The court is ready I won't bother with you Hurry up and give us the club and ball It's not impossible for you. But I used to want to teach He Jingchen how to play golf He is noble Don't let me teach A battered hand How could it be? Tell me about it. Like this rich man's movement We, He Shao, must have played from childhood to adulthood Do you think everyone is like you? The bumpkin has no money and still comes here to pretend Jingchen, you hit two balls Let Ning Ning also learn After all, Ning Ning had never seen such a movement You teach him I won't play today Mainly for you to experience the experience Master He You don't sneak them Come to someone else's golf course In fact, you can't fight yourself Who said I wouldn't? Then please ask Master He to demonstrate it Master He, this is your ball line I'm not used to this pole I usually play with the most expensive and top-quality clubs Your club is so ordinary. Of course police cars are not used to it Ordinary custom clubs cost millions. Since you said you're not used to it Then put the most expensive club in the game Cop I heard the clubs used by world champions Hidden in this golf club Yes, here is a collection of the world's top clubs But only the owner of the stadium can use it I need you to chime in He Shao is the owner of this stadium, He Shao Hurry up and get the most expensive club at the top Give this poor crane a long insight I brought it home two days ago. Master He can't hold it anymore Sure enough, the fake will never become the real Mu Empress, give me enough Jinchen, take it out and show it to Ning Ning I think he won't be executed if he doesn't see it I took it out and showed it to this ignorant person. Otherwise he thought it belonged to his family No, I can't let them know I'm not. Mortal Mu Ningning Go home and coax I've always wanted to save you face Since you have to go Then don't blame me Hey, bring the clubs from the library to the court I've got someone to deliver the clubs Just wait for your eyes to open It's yours, I'll see who dares to move The ball you gave me It's He Shangliang's Maybach He Shangliang is here Gu Nian You just wait to kneel down and apologize for your ignorance Really? The club you want. The club you want. Driver, hand me the pole Mu Ningning, you quarreled with my son again. Forget it, he's so easy to talk to Just in two days. Master He, the club you want This couple is really in the same gear This club is full of fruit Club head gold Also set with diamonds Did you see the buns? World class ball cannon If not for birthday celebrations You will never see The price of this club is at least tens of millions I must help He Jingchen It's been noisy for the past two days. I'm just jealous Want to pinch me Do you like it in your dreams? I'll send it to you. Really? Jinchen, you are so kind to me. Ning Ning, do you think this club is beautiful? He Jinchen, you really take this as your own If you say give it away, give it away. Mu Ningning, what are you doing? You are really going too far. Nini, how dare you drop the club from the crane? Do you know how much he costs? I can't afford to sell you. I didn't fall Yingying How could you discreetly send this to me out of jealousy? Just break him Kang Jingyi has no idea who fell Empress Meng, I have seen Shen Mingfen I still want to pollute Jingyi Oh, I see. You are just jealous He Shao gave the club to Jingyi That's why I dropped the club I bought this club in England for 50 million dollars Are you ready to refund the money? 50 million The UK ignores you Do you know how to go abroad? Still here You are a simp and dare to drop the owner's club Dare to say the club is you Why don't you say The whole golf course is yours Exactly. This golf course is indeed mine You say this golf course is yours You poor and sour goods even let you install it. It's the whole of Jiangcheng University Who doesn't know that you Mu Ningning is He Shao's nanny? Dead simp Such a luxurious golf course Your nanny can follow He Shao to take a look It's your pleasure. I still think it's yours He Jinchen, who do you think this golf course belongs to? Is it a son? What happened to Mu Ningning today? Keep looking for my eyebrows Mu Ningning is serious What happened to the empress today? Family ugliness should not be publicized Is there no need to argue with the police in front of outsiders? Hestin Who do you think owns this golf course? Okay, Sting, who do you think this stadium belongs to? Damn girl Usually follow my son Why do you have to go against me today? The future is married to Jingchen No, you have to kneel down and make me tea and wine The owner of this stadium It's Master He Yingying is not me talking about you Master He usually treats you well You shouldn't always lose your temper Convergence point I told you This top golf course How could it be you poor and poor How about being slapped in the face now? This damn simp still doesn't recognize his identity I still fantasize that I am a daughter Ningning We all know you are Jincheng's nanny You don't have to lie. How about this? You kneel down and admit your mistake to Jingchen I'll plead for you Compensation waived Kneel down kneel down Kneel down kneel down Kneel down this is my last chance to give you Apologize now, I can still forgive you. Apologize He Jingchen Can you afford it? The wooden empress He Shao has already talked to you well How dare you yell here Broken police Don't blame it. What are you doing? Dad our family The servants and drivers are going to rebel Your mother actually complained Enough is enough. It's useless for you to call your father, mother, and ancestors. Your whole family? He is only assigned to us as a servant I'll give you regret in a while. Soon you will know who the regretters are Miss Who dares to disrespect the lady? Who dares to disrespect the lady? Miss, do you call her Miss? A nanny's daughter You call her miss Dare to disrespect the lady court death How dare you hit me? How can you hit someone casually? What's going on here? The tag has been made for so long Want to help me take care of you Just let them go Yucheng, I should say you are ridiculous It's still me. It's you. Satisfy you to kick this group of people out for me Yes Hey Mu Ningning Are you crazy? This golf course belongs to Jingchen Are you chasing us on his turf? The daughter of a lowly nanny Are you tired of living? Jingchen, say something I'll count to three. If you don't go out again I'll have you thrown out two Master He, why don't you go find your sweetheart? Empress, this is too much I will never forgive you this time. The empress is not good for uncle today But don't you embarrass Jingchen like this? First, you are my driver. What kind of uncle Two, the golf course was mine. How can I embarrass you? Miss, it is normal for two people to quarrel. I'll ask Jingchen to apologize to you later. But today you made him lose face That's not quite right. Men need face A driver dares to educate me I really give you face. If you forget who pays you You can leave now I'm being pretended to by that bitch The dove occupies the magpie's nest But what happened to those bodyguards? And that Gu Ningning talked so much He Shao actually said a word Don't tell me what a nanny does Is she the real lady? Slender master Jingyi wait for me Le Shao Le Shao Why did you get kicked out? What is the situation in Jingchen now? It's all my fault I didn't expect Mu Yun to take her out alone She actually found a group of actors to support her actor Yeah, she's a nanny's daughter Where did so many sisters-in-law come from? I also blame my dad for having such a good relationship with him Dare to be so arrogant now Ah, I see. I told you I really got hit by him. I'll go back to him now. Hey. Forget it, he's used to being unruly I will definitely educate him well when I go home. Sorry. Jinchen, I misunderstood you Don't blame you Jin Chen But if he thanks me I will definitely not forgive him. Mu Ningning, you made me pay such a big grudge This time you don't kneel down and apologize to me I will never let you go. Miss, why did you come back alone? Master He made you angry today In the future, there will be no Master He in our family. Miss, you finally understand You were so kind to them father and son before So that they can't tell who is the master Uncle Zhang is the best person to me besides my father But I listened to He Jingcheng's words in my previous life Broke his heart That's right. Master Shen is here again Will you ask him back directly this time? Shen Shizhou Miss Shen Xuzhou I finally see you again Shen Shizhuang Long time no see. What's wrong with you Happy to see you Because of He Jingchen before The marriage partner I arranged for my father Shen Shizhou avoided it I didn't expect him to give it to me in the end. You have something to do with me I just came to see you I'm going back first Hey don't I mean do you want to stay for dinner together? OK Is Miss still waiting for He Jingchen? No wait, there will be a notice. Uncle He was fired OK I just remember later at the mall Ray Li Fengxing's Inspector I didn't expect him to be so cute now Why don't you look at me? Don't I look good? good looking I remember Shen Shizhou is from the Department of Finance Professional first every time Maybe you can help me Help me with my tutoring Isn't He Jinchen helping you make up lessons? Expect him to look down on me at all As long as you want I'm up for that. I lost so much face today. And threw me off the golf course Just to meet this man Does this matter have anything to do with you? Empress Mu, do you think I really won't forgive you? So find this man to pressure me to bow my head first, right? You are overestimating yourself Empress Mu, let me tell you Everything on the pitch today is true I will never forgive you again Humph masculine Shen Shizhong doesn't think I'm using him, does he? Don't listen to his nonsense OK I'll be going back then. Shen Shizhou still seems to care about He Jinchen's words Hey Are you free tomorrow night? I'm inviting you to dinner on my cruise ship Take me with He Jincheng? No, definitely not. Just me and you Well, see you tomorrow. OK Tell me what's crazy today Let me lose such a big face And fired my dad I fired a driver and need to tell you You're just jealous Threatening me with my dad What on earth are you talking about? Mu Ningning, you want to operate because you have some money. I tell you no way This will only make me more and more disgusted This time I'm really angry. You wait, I will never forgive you this time. Where did you get that face? Bitch is really capable How dare you kick me off the field after the Hasheng thing? If you're out of your mind, go to the hospital A simp nanny hired a few actors Really treat the land as a daughter But the driver behind seemed to be afraid of Mu Ningning Well, he invited so many actors It is normal for drivers to be afraid But the driver's surname is also He Isn't the surname Wang the same as He Shao? Brother Zhao, I suggest you find out who I am first Help them get back to their seats Class starts soon. Quietly, I am teaching Mr. He a lesson for you, Mr. He Why did you let him show off in that place? Teach me a lesson Jingchen's family education is to treat his servants well I was told by his father yesterday No wonder he was so malicious So shameless I still want to pretend to be a lady What kind of day is today? I remember now. Jingchen Your dad just finished training you yesterday. Or your birthday party on the cruise tonight Do you want to invite him too? So he doesn't have to complain again. A few days before the birthday party Mu Ningning said it has been arranged for me. Then if he doesn't go What about my birthday party? I said why is he acting crazy these days? Oh. It turned out to be a surprise for me on my birthday This time he embarrassed me so much. I will never let him go easily Jinchen Ah! When did I go out to a party and he didn't follow? No, please. He will go by himself No matter what you do, he will stick to you. That's really cheap for him. That's the royal family. Thanks to the young master's birthday We can be the biggest in Jiangcheng Eating on the most luxurious cruise ships The manager said that only the person in charge can enter when he arrives. Master, since you are here Let's go in, then. Mu Ningning didn't come? Mu Ningning doesn't seem to have come Oh, he won't come and pull it down. I missed the luxurious meal arranged by the young master for us It's his loss. Damn Mu Ningning Are you still waiting for me to beg him to show up? Hey, it's so pretty. Young master Is that Mu Ningning? It's been so long Don't you have to come to my birthday party with your face crossed? Gu Nini, you have the nerve to come Why are you sorry? He Shao didn't pay much attention to you at school recently He even came over to rub Young Master He's birthday party while licking his face Sister He's birthday I almost forgot. I'm going to give him a potion a few days before I'm born Today is Jinping's 18th birthday Stop it. Have fun. Jingning, you are too kind. People like him are crawling on their heads everywhere Mu Ningning Don't think I can forgive you when you come A monk can't get rid of a mangy dog like him You should be taught a good lesson Okay, there's always a way without a mirror Just a few of you deserve it. Ning Ning, don't be brave Since you're here, let's play together It's expensive after all Nowhere else but here The stuff here is really expensive But sister, I can eat it every day. You're a dead nanny It's all on He Shao's luxury cruise ship now You're still talking nonsense here I know you have a better face as servants But you trust us. We won't look down on you. If you hit me, you can stop making trouble I don't mind. Mu Ningning actually beat Jingyi You are so vicious Apologize quickly He Jingchen, I didn't hit you You don't need to donate your eyes. How long will Feng Jingyi play this kind of drama? You dead nanny He must be jealous of our good relationship between He Shao and Jingyi That's why they target her everywhere Just don't look at yourself for nothing Stupid and bad He Shao still dares to provoke us This is wishful thinking. You damn nanny dare to climb on our Jingyi head See how I teach you a lesson Sorry. I'm late. Are you not hurt? How did you get out? I see you haven't been in for a long time. So come out and see Mu Ningning Looking for the little white face to bully is your only means, right? Angry at you please Meeting you is not within my driving range You didn't come to celebrate my birthday You deserve it too, and you don't look at what you look like now. Worth my attention for you Don't hold up our date because of unimportant people There we go. Hey Jinchen, don't be angry Never mind. It's better if a servant like him doesn't come to your birthday That is. Look at you. Yeah, if he doesn't come, he won't come. It's not like you can't do anything without him No, he's gone, I can't afford a hundred thousand-dollar order. Mu Ningning, stop Hey Mu Ningning, if you are inconvenient because of me You go I can leave you If you are satisfied Would you stop that? Hmm, that's interesting It turns out that you are also afraid of losing face if you can't pay? That being the case Then I'll give you a special gesture I know it's your birthday It's not good to spoil everyone's fun Humph Is there any extra banquet hall tonight? There's one ballroom left. But our cruise hall You need to make an appointment one day in advance to arrange. Since it is He Pingzhi's birthday Then make an exception for them All you do Sure enough, it was to separate me from you. You think too much Over time you will find Without our names, you are nothing Okay, remember that. The humiliation you have given me these days I'll get them back one by one. Then I'll send someone to take them to the banquet hall now Well, but let him pay for it himself No one is allowed to leave until the order is paid. understand Wow He Shao deserves to be He Shao This pomp costs hundreds of thousands Just a few hundred thousand Usually, the gifts given to me for short are more than this price. It has to be Fang Xiaohua Modeler He Shao and He Shao are a natural match Of course. We are He Shao But it's so famous that this is the prince of the golden circle This cruise ship It's someone else's What is this? Everyone likes it, let's come again What's the matter hello Sir, it cost a total of 900,000 tonight How to pay? This is the fifth call he has made to you. Aren't you picking up? Then take it Annoying Mu Ningning, what do you mean? What's wrong with He Dachang's love to eat? Make such a fire Hurry up and buy me the order Don't get me in trouble. Why do I pay for your birthday? Does Mu Ningning have to do this? How on earth can I come and pay for me? You must always have a begging attitude unwilling Then I hang up Li Ningning, I beg you Come on, I'll take you to a good show Miss Mu, Mr. Shen Why is Mu Nian Nian still here? Could it be that he wants to pick up some of our leftover trash? Pack and take it back. This stuff is running out of the tissue He Mu Nian Nian may not have eaten it Ning Ning, try this You haven't eaten anything so good before, have you? I can't eat them. After all, it's still embarrassing if you don't have money to pay it back. We have He Shao here This can still give you a bite to eat He may not know This cruise ship is the owner of our He Shao It's free to eat here Be quiet, it turns out that He Shao is rich? That relationship is good Mr. He, this is tonight's consumption list. A total of 900,000 How to pay? Oh, isn't this He Shao's cruise ship? Why do you still let your young master pay? Didn't you buy the order for me? Do you want me to pay for you? Isn't this He Shao's own user? He Shao is your young master How can the young owner pay for eating? Are you tired of living? Are you good at doing things? You see clearly This is your young master Our family name is Mu Bu He You kneel now Lick my shoes clean I'll give you the money. Pardon me? Didn't you like to humiliate me with money before? I'll give it all back to you today. I want you to kneel down and kowtow to me and apologize I bought this order On your knees Mu Ningning insists on this Humiliate me, right? This is unbearable. Isn't that what you've done to me before? unwilling I'm leaving now. OK Miss Mu, I was wrong. Please pay me What if it's not enough? Enough is enough. This account is out of my private account Happy birthday to us Heshang Spend 900,000 today Account balance of 99.8 million yuan Is Mu Ningning the owner of the yacht? Isn't this yacht He Shao's? He's a dead simp Just a nanny How can there be such a cruise ship? Mu Ningning, are you deliberately making trouble? I want to embarrass our He Shao You have to ask your Master He What's going on in Beijing? Empress Mu, stop making trouble, okay? I bought it alone, and I'll let it go, okay? It happened before. You mean feed my heart to the dog? Or step on my pride Aren't you just jealous that I only like Jingyi? Okay, I will definitely be nice to you in the future. I can't take it anymore He Jingcheng's reaction This yacht can't really be his, can it? So what's going on? He can't even afford the order, can he? Stop making trouble, okay? What do you want? Would you mind breaking up with you? Okay, I promise you to buy the order, okay? Mu Ningning, you actually humiliated me like this I must make you pay The world's top black card Shot is 900,000 Is Ning Ning really He Shao's nanny? Why is Mu Ningning paying the bill? Is it He Shao's home court? I think He Shao begged him Is this Mu Ningning really a young lady? The owner of this cruise ship I don't think that card is necessarily hers She turned out to be the nanny of He Shao's family That card must have been given to her by Mr. He for safekeeping It has always been simp before. How could it be a real lady? Mu Ningning, you've gone too far this time Jinchen has always been very kind to you. How could you humiliate her like that? Mu Ningning You actually take He Shao's card as your own business Are you still shameless? He even swiped He Shao's card to raise a little white face Really spineless Your card is under the care of the nanny. You are nothing more than relying on He Shao to treat you well Do whatever you want here Ning Ning Ning Today's big battle still brought Shen Shizhou Just to make me bow? Don't be too affectionate You are not worthy of He Jingchen. You should wake up from this dream Ning you I would rather humiliate my mother like this What do you mean? I was never the He family's nanny But this He Shang in your mouth It's really my maid What! But the monk in your mouth It's really my maid Enough wood empress No, it's a loss that we kept calling you master before He won't call us stupid behind our backs, will he? The liar actually bumped into the richest person in Jiangcheng We are so kind to him. Boarding in someone else's house and calling himself a young master Too shameless Jingyi, what's going on? I don't know. Mengchen, won't you explain it to us? Empress Mu, you have been my simp for so long. Don't you find that I like Jingyi who works hard Are you angry? You asked me to call my classmates for the birthday party But in the end you're so humiliated Do you think you have money? You can just play with other people's self-esteem Yes, He Jinchen's grades are only the first in professional courses Making money on your own is not difficult There is no need to rely on such a false reputation to establish any character He didn't bow his head to envy you for money It shows that he is a man of principle He is not the son of the richest man But he usually gives me so many expensive gifts. It shouldn't be so bad, money. Jingchen, although you are not the son of the richest man But even the richest man I also eat with my own hands The results of hard work step by step A son from a poor family I believe you. Compared to people like Mu Ningning who will be destroyed if they don't get it. Psychologically it's just so good Mu Ningning is mean He just wanted to slander He Jingchen Fortunately, I didn't believe him. Bunch of idiots Don't talk nonsense with them, let's go Hey, who do you think you are? It's great to have two broken money. I am Shen Shizhou of the Imperial Capital Shen Group The Shen family is one of the four major families in the imperial capital How could he be with Mu Ningning? substance What is their relationship? I think Shen Shizhou is very protective. Are they boyfriend and girlfriend? Why? The people around Mu Ningning are so outstanding Mu Ningning, the humiliation you brought me today I will definitely pay you double. Go back and have a good rest Don't let today's events affect your mood He's so gentle! Why didn't I see him in my last life? Shen Shizhou Thanks to this time I met You and I go back first One more thing. Uncle Zhang What are your orders, miss? Go and pack all the things in He Jingchen's room Throw it out from now on He Jingchen and dogs are not allowed inside Miss Mr. He You are no longer Miss's make-up teacher. The Mu family doesn't have your land. Let's go Empress Mu humiliated me so much How interesting are you? You should humiliate me Forget what you did to me before Spend my money every day Treat me like a servant Let me serve you like a nanny You volunteered. Yeah, but I was blind before Now I see clearly You'd better think this through. Except me. No one wants to be with a worthless pig like you indispensable My tutoring is hard to even graduate Then don't worry about it. I have found the make-up teacher. Then you won't send it. Okay, Empress Mu You wait for me. I will never forgive you this time. It's no use begging me on your knees I chased He Jinzhi away The make-up class will be waiting for you in the future. Uh, yeah. Do you have time on weekends? Let's study together Wu Lingling fired me What? She fired you? Doesn't she like you very much? I don't know why she went crazy so that she can change back Her make-up fee is 150,000 a month If you don't do it Let's drink the northwest wind at our house. Hurry up and coax him back Dad, I'm not going He threw me out. Let me go with his brother It's impossible to work part-time, and I won't go either. I'll tell you what. You have to go I'm out in so much debt Still waiting As long as I can marry him The entire Mu family's property is yours Then let's adjust it first. Muningning He actually specifically investigated me for working here Come to me on purpose to brush your presence I really thought I would compromise so easily Mu Ningning You know that I am his intention to humiliate me, right? You think too much Please don't disturb me. It turns out that after you fired me, he was helping you make up lessons Correct it. I'm studying with him Only later did you find out Only you will charge make-up money for a few questions And they teach very poorly. Even your mileage may vary Just think about it You are as stupid as a pig Anyone can teach you I think he's pretty smart. Is there a possibility that you trash you? Mu Ningning dares to gamble on the results of the next exam Wait for the results to come out You know There is no way for a pig to change its life against the sky through hard work Okay, so since it's a bet There's always a price to pay What do you want? You didn't teach me much last month The exam is coming soon. If I improve my grades by 50 places I won't give you this month's tutoring fee. And you're going to run 50 laps around the playground And you're a terrible teacher. He Police, do you dare? I haven't taught him for so long Grow up, he's so stupid It's impossible to change people by leaps and bounds Now my mouth is sinking I will definitely not do well in the exam by then No problem, Mu Ningning Don't let him teach you worse and worse. Come back and ask me to make up lessons for you Okay, we're women. Don't worry. I will never let you beg He Jinchen to come back Ok don't be so serious I believe you. So let's move on. Before the exam starts You still have a chance to apologize to me Maybe I can consider continuing to help you with tutoring I don't need your hypocritical concern You don't have to worry about my studies Hey Gee, I really don't understand. You look so good. I still don't cherish you Humph And by the time he got the results, he'd know he was wrong. Students, this is a class that records our credits Cheating is strictly prohibited throughout the exam Getting caught can affect graduation Now I start handing out papers Come on, Mu Ningning You can do it. We need to convince them. Zhu Tingting is about to announce the results Oh, I'm so nervous. If you don't cross the line, you will have to make up the exam at the end of the year Zhu Tingting, if you are afraid, you should admit defeat as soon as possible. I can still talk about you To get my attention Leave you some tears Yingying, we have always been for your own good. You don't have to despise us so much I'm too lazy to talk to them. Jingyi is just too nice to her Don't look at her attitude Students, the test results are out today. I'll announce it now List of students who entered the top 50 grades 50th place Li Xiaoming No. 5 I make you regret your humiliation to me No. 3 Liu Zhe 10th place Fang Jingyi No 10th place Muninger, he must be out of the game The first place is He Qichen Ning Ning Ning If you're stupid, don't blame me for saying that in the first place I still treat my aunt like a baby Still consider him Hey And here's a top 50 paper. Mu Ningning He Jinshen tied for first place I actually won the first place in the exam Teacher, are you mistaken? His grades are so bad How could it be the first place? That's right, you two are so consistent. Is tied for first place He should crane tail How did it rise so fast? Ah! Ning Ning and Jing Chen were lords during the exam His grades are usually so bad Shouldn't be cheating? Why didn't I think of that? Teacher, I report Mu Ningning for cheating in the exam. I read Police He's paper After all, they come to me for paperwork. Brother Zhao, do you have any evidence? His grades were so bad. How can a person improve so quickly in a short period of time? Ning Ning, in fact, you really don't need to cheat. Our classmates won't really laugh at you because of your grades I didn't cheat. Cleaner clears Well, I promise the video is not leaked. Mu Ningying can take the test again. If there is no problem with the grade It will prove that he did not cheat. The teacher's re-examination is to question my grades Did the students say that whoever cheated was a carving insect test? If you didn't cheat Then what are you afraid of? Could it be that you are afraid of re-exams? The results are revealed Hey Next year must be because of the previous bet with Jincheng That's why I cheated. It would be nice if I got my grades earlier Of course I can retake the exam But opening your mouth is a lie Should pay a price Why is he as quiet as a different person? As long as there is no problem with your re-exam grades I will definitely handle it. Ok, thanks teacher. Obviously not right Can't graduate lifetime event lifetime blacklist Have you thought it through? Mu Ningning's re-exam score is Gu Linlin re-exams The score is full You get an 8 on the mock test. What! How could he not have cheated? SWAT inspection Come on, you can't get that batch of skin diseases. How did he suddenly become so Am I really worse than Shen Siqiu? Nothing, are you really hiding it? Forget about having money at home Academic performance is also so good He is in such good condition Why was it so expensive before? Drink it too I really can't think of it. He posted it himself None of my business I don't like it All right. Now Mu Linlin's grades are out He didn't cheat. The atmosphere in the class is very bad right now I hope you all get along well in the future Stop exposing your autobiographical classmates Teacher, I have proved that I did not cheat. What should I do with the classmate who accused me of cheating just now? Ningning We are all for your own good. I'm afraid you'll go by the wayside Don't think too badly of me. Each of you will write me a signed review Yes! He Jingchen Don't forget we still have 10 dollars in our bet Empress Mu has pushed her luck It was you who provoked the poisonous moon Why do you regret it now? I didn't expect you to be such a toxic person. you When did you change so much? Forcing your dad Don't say anything else The students all saw it Just say whether you are running or not for the 10 kilometers. i Oh, dear. Ningning You also think about it from a different perspective Allure, it's all for your own good You see, your grades are up now. Good thing you love her so much Otherwise, you can go well. Dunning Do you have to do this to Jingyi? She usually speaks for you You are simply a dog biting Lu Dongbin Don't know good people That's ridiculous. If I lost the bet today If I were to run these 10 kilometers Would you speak for me the same way? Those of you who accuse me of cheating Will you let me go too? I will definitely speak for you. I always tell my classmates Think better about you To despise you because of your status You keep emphasizing that I am you No face I'm doing this for your own good. The way you're dressed makes me sick. Do not touch He Qichen, are you looking for death? Sheng Shizhao is you again What are you doing here? Of course, I'm here to celebrate Ning Ning's exam results See your joke by the way How did you know I did well? I believe you. And you were raised by me Absolutely scum What is the relationship between Young Master Shen and Mu Ningning? At the last birthday party I still see them together His girlfriend Can't you? Some time ago, I saw Mu Ningning wearing thick legs Changing objects so quickly Because he is his friend. But that's because he can't take He Xiaocao So immediately find a rich and powerful person to continue Don't say that. He must have a reason Jianyi is so kind Unlike some people Just a hoof Zhao Ke saw that he finished writing, right? You're smearing me here I've been walking really tightly with Ning Ning recently. But it's not Ning Ning who is chasing me. They mean it. Shen Shizhou, didn't Mu Ningning come to anger me? How is that possible? The dignified young master of the Shen family actually took a fancy to Mu Ningning Mu Ningning is obviously a player of He Jincheng Why do you have a crush on him? If you dare to insult you again It's not as simple as a slap Ning Ning is the kindest person I have ever seen in this world The cutest person He just gave all his heart If someone dares to bully Ning Ning in the future Don't blame me for being rude to you. Thanks. Don't be afraid, I'm here. Mu Ningning changed her mind so fast What means did Mu Ningning use? The eldest young master of the Shen family actually protects him like this He Jinchen, I'm also checking your original main appointment. If you were still a man Then be willing to admit defeat Ok I run there Not because of you Because I mean what I say. He Jingchen, your mouth is the hardest all over your body So handsome, who is that handsome? It seems to be the eldest young master of the Shen family, the shareholder of our school I didn't expect him to appear here Today was really shit luck I can actually see the true face of the young man I think the young master of the Shen family is more handsome than our He school grass There is still an exuberance on the body Huh, what's so great? Isn't there just a few stinky money? What is He Jingchen doing? Run quickly He Jingchen's physical strength is not good? It only took 5 laps to cut open Why is Empress Mu's life so good? Empress Mu You half-hearted woman you Hey Jingchen, are you alright? Yo look at you today Let you go first Run tomorrow Mu Ningning, are you going too far? Jinchen is already like this What's the matter? Is he bleeding or broken? I'll tell you what. Even if he broke a bone today I'm going to take him to the hospital too Get cured, give it to me, and then run you. You have something to say? You really want to be with Shen Zhuzhu So what? Qualified with you you jealous I can forgive you. You deserve to be forgiven Forgive me, are you mistaken? I suggest you figure it out Not everyone has to revolve around you Not to mention Shen's Zhou Bin ten thousand times better Empress Mu, you didn't do this before You never look at other men? I used to be blind and couldn't see clearly Now I see clearly Can't you take back the sovereignty of your life? Good girl This is my last chance to give you Don't regret it. Then I'll wait. spread Don't let the woman you love Jincheng you Jingyi i I don't like Ningning I just don't want to see him with Shen Shizhou I see. And you don't have to argue with them. So what if they have money? Your grades are so good Certainly not in the future Will be worse than them Or do you understand my respect? Hang him first Even if he's not that rich It's not bad to be a free meal ticket Dad, you're drinking again Don't call me dad See what days our family used to have What day are you living now? Since you came to tutor Our family has no money Go back quickly Dad? Gambling again You lost all your money again. Dad, there is tuition for my part-time job in that card. The money Dad earns from working part-time is useless It is not as generous as the pocket money given by Mu Ningning at one time. Hundreds of thousands at a time Go back and coax him for me Dad, he's humiliating me I can't go back Unfilial son, watch your father be chased to death Must go to me I don't care about old things Big brother is spacious I'm really out of money now Can I deliver it to you in three days? That's what you said last time. Can you treat me as me for three days? So cool bro No no Nonsense ah ah ah ah ah put put Don't fight, don't fight Still don't pay If you don't pay back the money, the house changes I have a way He knows my son. The daughter of the Mu Group I like him Hundreds of thousands of pocket money each time I owe you money If you don't marry, you are blind hehe How can you make people believe Get your real estate certificate first If you can get the money I'll return the title to you Big brother yes yes yes Settle accounts and eat big brother Dad? Humph Your son has better eyesight than you See more Let's go Oh, dear. What's the matter with you? Gave the real estate certificate Where did you get the armor war? The one who wants the account comes again and again. Or is my son smart? If they find out that the money is not paid That's a big problem Then you go to ask for help from that Empress Mu again No matter how heartless she is It's impossible not to look at the relationship in the past few years No, right? Then I'll go Dad I go Ning Ning Ning rather He Jingchen, what are you doing? I ask you if I separate from Fang Jingyi Will you be with me? He Jingchen, you took the wrong medicine, come again Ningning I really have nothing to do with Fang Jingyi Then we are eating together Take classes together There is nothing else, Ning Ning. I'm not interested in the two of you How about love Ouch Ningning Can you stop making trouble? Don't be angry I can't live without you. He Jinchen Don't take those high-sounding reasons to excuse yourself Don't you just have no money? What else can't leave me? Don't be so rude Tell me your dad asked you to come Or did you come by yourself? It's hard to keep your head down, isn't it? Don't you think that's cheap? He Jingchen You've always been proud of your nobility before Or are you not that noble at all? Ningning Dad, why are you here? This thing can't be done well Tell him well. Hello dad He Driver Please look at your father and Jingchen's face Help count I don't have time for you right now Empress Mother, do you like Jingchen? Uncle knows in his heart You are the daughter-in-law in my uncle's heart You can't help but hug the hardship Are you asking me to die? Really can The daughter-in-law forced her father-in-law to die The little girl just goes to school Why are you married? Maybe it's not easy to study and mess around The little girl is gone now You are now lying I can sue you. Yeah. His father had already made an engagement with my family If you continue to spread rumors Then I'll call the police and arrest you Dad, let's go Hello, keep an eye on your dad, he won't leave next time. Mu Ningning, you really have no feelings for me at all I seem to like you a little bit Mu Ningning and Shen Shizhou have developed so fast Never mind. Although He Jincheng is not a rich second generation But not short of money As long as you are willing to work hard The strength may not be worse than Shen Shizhou in the future Do you know No more money I got chopped Hand over the hidden money Dad, I don't have any money. Dad I'll pay you off the gambling debt with the money I took from Muni Ling And I bought you a gift. I'm really out of money You pay a woman and not your father You don't have any money? I told you There are still some. Hurry up and make up with Mu Ningning or else No one can escape You have received 740 yuan. I thought He Jingchen could have a little money I didn't expect him to spend Mu Ningning's all the time Jin Chen Are you all right? Why did your father treat you like this? I was really worried about you just now or What am I doing with Mu Ningning? Mu Ningning liked you so much before The make-up fee alone can give you hundreds of thousands at one time. Come to think of it, he should be very willing for you to make up lessons for him. I won't give Mu Ningning make-up lessons again Jingchen After coming out of society Isn't it all about making money? Since you earn more from make-up classes Why not? But everyone in the class knows we're together If I go to Mu Nian They must be talking about you. It's nothing for your grievances But But I think Mu Ningning has changed He's not the same as before It's Mu Ningning who is becoming more and more aggressive now I understand you. Don't worry, I can handle this for you. Mu Ningning has done so many things that have embarrassed me in the past I didn't want to bow to him. Okay, stop talking about this What's the use of that broken self-esteem without money? Ningning I have a good thing to tell you Jingchen needs work Why don't you hire him back? That's not a good thing. His parents treated him like that How miserable he is Do you have the heart to ignore his righteousness? I can't bear it, you can't bear it. Just give him the money. Of course I didn't. You have money Just raise your hand Do a good deed I promise He Jingchen will treat you better than before What ability do you have to vouch for him? Besides, I don't need him to be nice to me. Yingying, your family has money. I can't understand the difficulties of our ordinary people Eating, drinking and having fun are all temporary Why don't you let Jincheng teach you the knowledge? Benefit for life How can I spend my money? I don't need you to help me plan I know I don't like me interfering with you Don't worry, I can break up with him. Forever disappear in front of you Ah Huang Jingyi You used to think he was the son of the richest man Enjoy commuting to and from school in a luxury car He gives you luxury treatment Now I find an empty dream You start to dislike him I don't have it. If you regret it, you will regret using me as a shield How much attention? If you regret it, you will regret it. Using me as an excuse How much attention? Ning Ning, how could you frame me like this? I just want everyone around me to have a better life that's it. Ning Ning, don't go too far Why do you scold Jing Jing? I don't blame me I want to give you the opportunity to go back to teaching Didn't Jingyi say it? Don't bring this up again What are you looking for him for? If I am wronged by these In exchange for your bright future It can relieve Ning Ning These are nothing Mu Ningning, I warn you If you continue to call him Jingyi My name is Li Chen You got kicked in the head by a donkey He came to me on his own initiative Let's go This He police officer is really stupid On his own Is he going to be poor all his life on his own? Go go hey What's wrong? Like a sprained ankle I think I heard the name Shhh! Drink first Muniti Now I'm angry because I'm standing among you You go and apologize to him. You said we broke up Why is that? I am all For your future I can't ruin your future just because I like you Jingyi, we have discussed it many times You don't have to worry about that. A man can bend and stretch You are short of money now Besides, it's only temporary It doesn't matter. Go ahead. Don't think about Jingyi I won't make up with him If you don't want to Then I'll ignore you. No money anyway I want them to treat me as a great injustice Don't look, go Take another look. Save time for them to recruit behind their backs Fang Jingyi What's up? Is it because my family is poor? That's why you broke up with me No, definitely not. I'm just not like Mu Ningning Love is selfish What if I don't make up with Mu Ningning? Will you still be with me? i Never mind. That's all. Dad gambled as a child Mom left me and ran away I just want to find a kind and simple girl Since he is so ignorant I don't have to hang myself from him But Mu Ningning, who really doesn't want anything Pushed by me little by little And Fang Jingyi because of Mu Ningning's money Just be with me Maybe I'm wrong. Ren Ningning, let's laugh and talk Don't move. He hasn't agreed to go with you yet. It's okay, some things should be made clear Tell me what's the matter with me Lingling I was obsessed Let's be together. He Jingchen, are you confused? I was wrong before But now I want to be true to you How can your love be so cheap? Change Didn't you go out and enter with Fang Jingyi every day before? Why was she abandoned? Fang Jingyi is with me because of the money I didn't see clearly But she's not like you. I don't care about those at all You still protect me everywhere Only you are sincere to me So you regret it now? Yes, I was wrong. Ning Ning, please forgive me. You want me to forgive you? Well, can you give me another chance? Forgive you. Do you deserve my forgiveness for what you did before? I'm sorry, He Jingchen You don't like me. You never saw me as a human being From start to finish You only care about yourself Ningning Ningning I was really wrong before Can you give me a chance to make up for you? you Lingling I specially bought you the hot and sour food you like and Lemon chicken I don't like lemon chicken I don't like hot and sour food All right Then I'll buy it for you again. He Jingchen, you don't need this Are you in conflict with He Jingchen? What happened to Zhao Jincheng? The landlord is so attentive every year. Ah! Nothing much happened. I asked him to pay more attention to Mu Ningning After all, we really ignored him before Jenny, you are so kind. He used to be so bad to you It seems that He Jingchen and Mu Ningning have made up that Can't he still get money from Mu Ningning again? police This question is a bit difficult Can you tell me about it? Not available. Well, I'll think about it myself Yes, the police. Didn't you say before that you would go to the imperial capital to play during the Chinese New Year? This winter vacation is coming soon Let's plan where we're going Hmph, it's this time, and you still want to make money from me Yes, one more date planned. I can repair my relationship with Ningning I believe that Ning Ning represents everything It's okay, you can all come It's okay, you can all come Really? Of course, as long as the funds for travel are paid out What's not allowed? Did the three of them go out to play before? It's all Mu Ningning's money. It seems that this is outrageous This couple has gone too far Between Mu Ningning and Mu Ningning They're telling the truth, aren't they? Are you awake now? He Jinchen Come out with me What are you doing? He Jingchen, explain to me What's the situation now? We did it wrong before. So I tried my best to make up for it. Ning Ning, you know that's not what I'm talking about. Then what are you asking? What was your attitude towards me just now? Aren't you going to break up? I satisfy you. I said it was temporary I do it for your own good. Cut it out. I want to marry Ning Ning in the future So I drank some water. You want to break up with me? You forgot what you promised me before I used to think it was too simple I'm sorry I can't give you the life you want It's not like you don't know about my father You say it nicely What are you doing early? Your father hasn't been like that for a day or two Now say you don't want to drag me down Then what am I? What is the time and energy I put into you? Sister, I was wrong. All right. I really shouldn't lie to you. I'm tired. Can we talk about this later? Let's all calm down Jingchen Jingchen He Jingchen, do you want to dump me like this? No way Waiting for me here so early? What do you think? I knew you were still reluctant When did I say I wanted to go to the imperial capital with you? It's you who think What do you mean? What's he doing here? I never said that. I'm going to the imperial capital with you It's what you think. So you two are going to the imperial capital Yes, Mu Ningning said before that he would always be with me Doesn't it count? When did I say I wanted to be with you? Don't listen to him Is Ning Ning not with me because of him? So what if you are cowardly? I'm not with him anyway I won't be with you So you two have been together for a long time Even going to God is lying to me I never invited you. You had to paste it yourself. Mu Ningning I don't understand why you used to have so much confidence in me What? Everything's changed now It's all your fault So let's go Endure you for a long time People like you don't deserve to be around Ning Ning at all Shen Shizhou, what's so great about you? Do whatever you want with money? Ning Ning, wake up Are you not someone who values money so much? Hit me That's right, it's you What qualifications do you have to point fingers at Shen Shizhong? You don't deserve it. Shen Shizhong, what are you so proud of? Aren't you the tool Ning Ning is using to abandon me now? He Jingchen, you dare to talk nonsense again I will make you pay the price You've always wanted to know why. Then I'll tell you. Because you used me Betray me and abandon me Leave me to fend for myself Die in despair Joe? I don't know what you mean. You don't have to understand. You don't understand. This is compared to what I have suffered before Nothing at all How much I used to trust you How much I hate you now Don't come to me again It is my greatest kindness to let you go From now on, we will return from the bridge to the bridge road Niu Niu, don't regret it Shizhou, what he said just now Don't worry about it. I knew he was trying to piss me off. That would be fine. only Just what? It's just that I think you've always been alive by his side Always seemed gentle to me So I always had this idea Are you using me to piss him off? Then I'll tell you now The reason why I did that to him It's because I really hate him I have no feelings for him But Chizhou, I'm serious about you Maybe it was at the behest of my parents at first But now I really like you You, I didn't protect you well before. Let him hurt you I will be fine in the future Ning Ning I beg you Help in the morning Have something to say come Yes, Uncle He Don't worry, Ling Ling. Will definitely help you Empress The owner of the village came to the door and kidnapped Jingchen They said if they can't get 2 million Let me never see Jingchen again Please save him Why do you ask the police to come to me for this kind of thing? The village owner is very cruel If you don't see 2 million They got angry. That cop still has to break his arms and legs? Uncle, please! You should lend me the money first Take out the wine and give it back to you Empress, you have been with Jingchen for so many years For Wan'er's sake Just help them Ok I can lend you the money But you also have to call the police. Ok ok Thank you. Thank you. You are a great benefactor to our family Okay, Uncle He You go save people Get up! He Jinchen Empress Gu It's You How dare you come to me? Ouch. Listen to the doctor You'd be blind if you didn't have a cornea. What is this called? It's called retribution The police said you gave the money You hurt me with fake money. It seems you don't know yet It was Fang Jingyi who exchanged the money I gave you. The money ran away But don't worry. Has been caught by the police What! Fang Jingyi Yes, if you don't believe me, you can ask the police. Fang Jingyi No idea. The innocent and kind woman you used to think It's such a person But you two have the same stink. Ningning I was wrong. I was blind. Please help me Now my dad is in too Only you can save me. Be honest I have saved you once Do your best You deserve it now. God will charge you. I can't go against the sky Ning Ning Ning rather Chen Jing