Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard. Today I turn the camera over to you, the Hollywood to visit famous and historical graves in your In this tour we travel through the American Donna Douglas, Jackie Gleason, Little Richard, My friends, the time is yours. Having wrapped up our explorations of the to the south, to visit the American South. On the itinerary today are Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, and Louisiana. Alright, off we go! We begin today about as far south as you can State: Florida. This is Evergreen Cemetery in Fort Lauderdale. Here we find a legend of comedy, Leslie Nielsen. The Canadian-born actor didn't start out His career began in very early television, fiction like Tales of Tomorrow. His breakout film role was as Commander Adams He had almost no comedy under his belt when Airplane! It would be a major turning point for Nielsen, his 50s, he became known as a deadpan comic. Nobody did absurdist comedy played perfectly "Can you fly this plane and land it?" "Surely you can't be serious." "I am serious. And don't call me Shirley." He followed up Airplane with Police Squad, series. He continued to make us laugh right up until 84. But Leslie ensured the laughs wouldn't die his grave. It's quite common to see the letters RIP "Rest in Peace," right? Well, usually. But Mr. Nielsen's epitaph, "Let 'er Throughout his later life he was known for He even carried a little fart machine around one rip whenever it was most comedically expedient. "It's just a prop. We used in in Airplane, and had so much fun So, Leslie Nielsen, who dedicated much of act would do just that, with a good fart joke. Thanks for the laughs, Leslie. Also here at Evergreen is the tomb of Wayne He was a businessman, known for founding entities In the 1980s, Huizenga became co-owner of from just a handful of locations, to a multi-billion globally - the top movie rental business. He would use his wealth to bring sports teams the Florida Panthers. Huizenga died from cancer at age 80. This tranquil spot is found at Forest Lawn Here is the crypt of Rocky Marciano. He was a professional boxer in the 40s and 1952 to 1956. He was the only heavyweight champion to retire His career knockout-to-win ratio of 87.8% Today he ranks among the all-time greats. In August 1969 Rocky was a passenger aboard The plane encountered adverse weather conditions, Rocky Marciano. He was 45. Our Lady of Mercy Catholic Cemetery provides of one of television's biggest legends, Known affectionately as "The Great One," writer, comedian, and musician, whose career half a century. Ascending the stairs of his sarcophagus we phrases... "And away we go!" He shot to fame on television in the early This would spawn the show, The Honeymooners, the blustery, short-tempered bus driver, Ralph The Honeymooners would set the stage for many The Flintstones. Jackie also had notable film roles, including and as Buford T. Justice in Smokey and the Bandit. And in the 50s and 60s, he produced a number Jackie Gleason died from cancer at age 71. Hopping over to the western coast of Florida, villa known as Ca d'Zan, former home of This historic landmark is now a museum, that legacy, but the treasures of the man himself: In the 1870s John and his brothers began putting Within a few years they would be able to open United Monster Shows, Great Double Circus, and Congress of Trained Animals." Whew, that's quite a mouthful. By the turn of the century, they were traveling the country, and would buy out their major By the end of 1918 the two circuses merged Barnum &amp; Bailey Circus, which operated until John and his wife Mable made their home here. Mable was an art collector who, with her husband, of Art, on the grounds of which they are buried. John was the longest living of the Ringling Mable was just 54 when she died from Addison's They were originally entombed in temporary could be resolved. In 1991, 55 years after John's death, they the grounds of the museum. Heading over to nearby Manasota Memorial Park Ringling. Charles would become the operating manager Circus. Charles was also one of the early developers He died shortly after turning 63. He had this mausoleum built with marble to Continuing our adventures under the big top, Wallendas. They were a family of daredevil circus performers, without safety nets. Among the Wallenda performers resting here patriarch Karl Wallenda. Karl formed The Great Wallendas in Europe to the states after being hired by John Ringling. They were particularly famous for their 7-person While performing this stunt in 1962, the pyramid Karl's son, Mario, paralyzed. Karl himself would meet a similar fate years In 1978, at age 73, Karl attempted to walk on a high wire, without a safety net. High winds kicked in as he attempted the cross, Our next Florida stop is Trinity Memorial Here we find a legend of baseball, George He was owner and managing partner of the New 2010. He was the longest-serving owner in club history, and 11 American League pennants under his Steinbrenner's personality and managing sitcom, Seinfeld. George Steinbrenner died from a heart attack Crossing back over to the east, we reach Daytona Here rests baseball star Napoleon Lajoie, He was a professional baseball player in the Philadelphia. He's been called the best second baseman in batting average many times in his career. So popular was he one of the teams he played Broncos to the Cleveland Napoleons. Nap was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame This is Rosemary Cemetery in Bronson. It's hard to miss the iconic marker to an With his signature rectangle guitar, Bo Diddley in the 1950s. His style and signature beats would be influential era, and inspire future artists like The Rolling This led to him being known as "The Originator." One of his best-known songs is alluded to Bo would be inducted into the Rock and Roll, He died from heart failure at age 79, his Proceeding north we reach Middleburg Methodist Here lies Slim Whitman. He was a country music artist, known for his He was prolific in his musical output, releasing In the 1950s he toured with Elvis as his opening He would also be a major influence on artists Slim's music would be introduced to a new Love Call" became the means of defeating Slim Whitman died from heart failure at age Continuing our exploration of Florida's and Jacksonville Memorial Gardens. Here we find monuments to the legendary but Steve Gaines joined Lynyrd Skynyrd in 1976 He'd perform guitar and vocals on two of and Street Survivors. But just days after the release of Street aboard a plane with other band members, when The crash claimed his life at age 28, along Ronnie van Zant. Also abord the plane was Steve's sister, for Lynyrd Skynyrd, but had recommended her Cassie was 29. You'll also find here the original burial But in 2000, vandals broke in and disturbed by the family to a private location, and Ronnie's To find Ronnie's current resting place, Park. Ronnie van Zant was the lead vocalist, primary rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd, which formed in That's Ronnie you hear singing on their In 1977 Ronnie was aboard the same flight their next show, when due to pilot error, The pilot attempted an emergency landing, board, wounding others. Ronnie died on impact, at age 29. As mentioned, he was originally interred at But in June 2000, van Zant's unopened casket on the grounds of the cemetery, having been So his family had him relocated here, secured Another member of the band rests just feet He played bass for Lynyrd Skynyrd beginning Leon was aboard the plane that claimed his He was severely injured, but survived. His injuries required him to then hold his here on his grave. Leon was just 49 when he died in his sleep, His epitaph is an allusion to their song, Another southern rock icon is in these grounds, He was lead guitarist and founding member the early 70s. Among their biggest hits is 1980's "Flirtin' Dave left the band in 1987, but would re-join 66. Where am I off to next, Gladys Knight and "He's leaving on that midnight train to That midnight train has pulled into the station Our first stop here is Rose Hill Cemetery southern rock through the graveyards of the In this gated area we find members of the Duane Allman formed the Allman Brothers Band The band achieved great success in the early Duane was particularly remembered for his But Duane's tenure with the band would be On October 29, 1971, Duane died from injuries He was 24. Close to Duane is his brother, Gregg Allman, He played guitar, keyboards, sang, and was He wrote many of their hits, like "Whipping Greg would rank among the great rock pioneers and Roll Hall of Fame. He died from liver cancer at age 69. Nearby is Butch Trucks. He was the drummer of the Allman Brothers Through the band's various incarnations, the band's decades-long career. Trucks died from a self-inflicted gunshot At the other end of this garden section is He played bass in the band, and in his short players in rock, known for long melodic bass But in a tragic parallel to his former bandmate a motorcycle accident, just blocks from where He too was 24. Moving on now to Tennessee Georgia Memorial Terry "Bam Bam" Gordy. He was one of the original Fabulous Freebirds, Among the many championships held by Gordy and the WCW World Tag Team Championship. He was just 40 when he died from a heart attack. Terry Gordy would be posthumously inducted of Fame. This scenic view comes to us from Laurel Grove Here lies the woman who brought us the Girl While living in the UK she met Robert Baden-Powell, She became involved in the Girl Guides in the girl scouting movement here. In 1912 she formed the Girl Guides, to help In 1913 the organization's name was changed Juliette died from cancer at age 66. She was buried in her Girl Scouts uniform, to attend her funeral. Here in the grounds of Saint James Episcopal pageant world, JonBenet Ramsey. By the tender age of 6, JonBenet had won a Miss Colorado, and National Tiny Miss Beauty. But the unthinkable would happen Christmas The morning after Christmas JonBenet was missing, to have her, and demanding $118,000 for her The police were called, but hours later, her father. She had been strangled and suffered a blow Before the crime scene could be documented, This and other missteps early in the investigation a case which quickly garnered national attention, homicides in recent history. All members of the Ramsey family have been been charged in JonBenet's murder, and the Our last Georgia stop is Waco Baptist Church Keyes. One of the greatest films associated with Evelyn had a role in that film, playing Suellen Other memorable film roles include as Bette and Helen in The Seven Year Itch. She semi-retired in 1956, but made a few more a few appearances on Murder, She Wrote. Evelyn died from cancer at age 91. She was cremated, a portion of her ashes not Hopping the border northeast, we've arrived Let's begin our time here at Union Family We've left Georgia behind, but our next Brook Benton was a singer and songwriter who and Roll and R&amp;B music. He found his second wind in 1970 with the Throughout his career he had over 50 songs Benton died from spinal meningitis and pneumonia This is Greenlawn Memorial Park in Columbia. Here is the fabulous monument to the Fabulous Born Mary Lillian Ellison, she began her wrestling In 1956 she won the Women's Championship for the next 28 years. This would make her the longest reigning title In 1995 she'd become the first woman inducted The Fabulous Moolah died at age 84, and remains female wrestling. Next to Moolah is fellow wrestler and friend, Like Moolah, Mae Young was one of the earliest Mae began wrestling in the 30s, and never she was in her 80s, giving her the unique decades. She was known for her comedic performances, Moolah on WWE televised events. Mae lived to be 90, and was inducted into of Fame. Moving on now to Woodlawn Memorial Park in Joe Jackson. He was an outfielder who played baseball in His nickname came from a game in South Carolina blisters, so he went up to bat without any At the height of his career, he was one of game. His batting average for a rookie season is later. But his career was abruptly halted in his Sox Scandal, in which the 1919 Chicago White World Series. Jackson's guilt and involvement in the scandal in the end it led to him being banned from He would spend the rest of his career playing, teams in the south. Shoeless Joe died from a heart attack in 1951. He's been portrayed in films like Field Our next star is a man who literally reached Dr. Ronald E. McNair Memorial Park is in Lake Ronald McNair. He was a physicist and astronaut, the second He flew his first mission aboard Challenger Two years later he would be aboard Challenger Tragically, Challenger exploded 73 seconds including McNair. He was 35. McNair was initially interred at Rose Lawn to this Memorial Park, created in his honor. The history center here on the grounds has As a youngster here in Lake City, the inquisitive the local library, which was segregated at Told no black people were allowed, he was leave. Police and his mother were called, but he Decades later, the building where this library This story was made into a children's book, Our last South Carolina stop brings us to This is where Bill Pinkney is laid to rest. He was a singer, the longest surviving original to popularity in the 50s and 60s. Bill was with the group in the 50s, and helped Among the early Drifters hits Bill performed The group also did a popular rendition of Bill Pinkney left the group in 1958, but later He continued to perform throughout his life was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Bill died from a heart attack at age 81. Let's visit our friends to the north, in Black Bottom Cemetery is in Belhaven. Here lies Little Eva. She was a singer who rose to popularity in As a teenager she was working as a maid for In 1962 they asked Eva to sing and record The song was "Loco-Motion," which became Eva had other hits in this era, including Turkey Trot." Her career dwindled by the 70s and she retired of "Loco-Motion" renewed interest in her, and oldies circuit. Eva died from cancer at age 59, and is now William Greer's grave is found at Green He was a U.S. Secret Service agent, best known carried President Kennedy through Dallas Texas, After shots rang out in Dealey Plaza and Kennedy Parkland Hospital, where he later died. Greer died from cancer at age 75. Our next North Carolina stop is in Charlotte, Here lie a famous pair of Siamese twins, Daisy They were born in England in 1908, conjoined From a young age they were exhibited in pubs Soon they'd be travelling the world, performing, add dancing and music to their performing But the twins were essentially held captive emancipation. Taking control of their own careers as performers, and burlesque stages as The Hilton Sisters They would also appear in two films: 1932's After performing opportunities dwindled, Daisy at a local grocery store. In January 1969, after they failed to report the twins were found dead in their home, victims Daisy died first, and Violet died two to four This is Westview Memorial Park, where rests He was born Sylvester Ritter, and in the 1980s WWF's most charismatic and electrifying His headlining cards would draw huge crowds, a fan favorite. Junkyard Dog died in a single-car accident He was posthumously inducted into the WWE We're in Waynesville now, and Green Hill This grave reads Byron Barr, but you cinephiles from the character he played in 1942's The Gig found considerable success as an actor He was thrice nominated for an Oscar, winning He would also make frequent appearances on Zone episode, "Walking Distance," and Gig's worsening alcoholism cost him roles, shows like Charlie's Angels. On October 19, 1978, three weeks after his found dead in their Manhattan apartment. Gig had shot and killed his wife, then shot He was 64, and no motive has ever been discovered Moving on to Forest Lawn East Cemetery in we find the niche of actress Lisa Robin Kelly. She was a familiar face on television in the as Jill, and making appearances in shows like But her best-known role is that of Laurie comedy, That 70's Show. Substance abuse began to take their toll on Days after checking into a rehab facility multiple drug intoxication. She was 43. Our last North Carolina stop is Wake Forest He was a major league baseball player in the for the New York Yankees. He was a left-handed pitcher who would win and 1956. After baseball, Byrne would become mayor of He lived to be 87. Pardon me, boys. Yes. Is that the Chattanooga Choo Choo? That is the Chattanooga Choo Choo, which means Let's begin our time here in Chattanooga, This is the grave of Grace Moore. The actress and singer got her start in musical Opera, becoming well-known as an operatic Nightingale." At the advent of sound pictures, Hollywood Jenny Lind, the Swedish Nightingale, in A Among her best-known films are When You're Grace was nominated for an Academy Award. Marking yet another tragic death in an aviation in a plane crash near Copenhagen Denmark in Here too is a baseball player named Jackie She was one of the very first women signed She signed as a pitcher with the Chattanooga That April, she pitched in an exhibition game In that game, she famously struck out both The legend of the woman who struck out two to this day. We're in Clarksville now, and Greenwood This is the grave of Charles Watts. He was a prolific supporting actor in the He played Judge Whiteside in Giant, and Ned And you saw him quite a few times on TV shows Dobie Gillis, and Alfred Hitchcock Presents. Watts died from cancer at age 54. In section 12, near the road, we find the He was an actor, who's best-known role is 150 episodes of the 60s comedy, Gomer Pyle, He appeared in many of the other great shows American Style. And on the big screen he can be seen in films Frank died of a heart attack at just 50. Woodall Cemetery is also here in Clarksville. This is where Mel Tillis is laid to rest. He was a country music singer and songwriter, part of the outlaw country movement. He had a number of top 10 hits, like "I Among Mel's many honors are induction into Halls of Fame, and being named Entertainer Not only would his songs appear in numerous also appear, in films like Smokey and the Mel died from respiratory failure at age 85. This is Edgefield Missionary Baptist Church An Olympic legend rests in these grounds, She was a track and field athlete who competed She won bronze with the 4x100 team in 1956, the 100, 200, and 4x100. She gained world-wide fame as the fastest woman to win three gold medals in a single She became a role model for young black athletes, nationwide. Wilma was just 54 when she died from cancer. She would be inducted into numerous halls Fame, and the National Women's Hall of Fame. This quiet cemetery in rural Tennessee is Resting here is a giant of women's basketball, She coached the University of Tennessee Lady over 1000 wins over her career, the most in The team would win 8 national championships As a player Pat won a silver medal at the winning team at the 1984 Olympics. She was named the Naismith Basketball Coach the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame in 1999. Pat suffered from Alzheimer's later in life, Another quiet rural cemetery in our travels In these grounds is an intriguing figure in His claim to fame is inscribed right here In his latter years, Uncle Bush, as he was us will never know what is said about us at So on that note, he decided to throw is own He felled a big black walnut tree, constructed motion to put on a funeral party while he The plans were reported in a local newspaper, Through the media buzz generated, it's estimated attended the funeral, from some 14 states. At the service, Bush was seated in front of Pastor gave a sermon for the living corpse. He called the sermon the finest he had ever funeral held in Tennessee at that time. The story would naturally inspire a film, We've arrived in Nashville, "Music City." We found quite a few country music stars here always more to find, like Keith Whitley, here The country music singer and songwriter only hit singles in the 80s, like "Don't Close at All." Keith was just 34 when he died from acute Also here at Spring Hill we find a wife and Kitty Wells and Johnny Wright. Kitty Wells was a pioneering woman in country 1952 hit recording "It Wasn't God Who The song would top the charts, a first for first female superstar. Her chart-topping hits continued into the and most successful female artists in country In 1976 Kitty Wells was inducted into the The Queen of Country Music died after a stroke Kitty was married to Johnnie Wright, also He spent much of his career working with Jack Among Johnnie's hits are the song "Hello Full Metal Jacket. He and Kitty also recorded a duet, "We'll Johnnie died of natural causes at age 97, passed. We're back at Hendersonville Memory Gardens, Carter who we visited previously. Here too we find the grave of Merle Kilgore. He's remembered as a songwriter in the country In fact, with June Carter, Merle co-wrote Other hits he wrote include "Wolverton Mountain," Later in life he would be Hank Williams Jr's He died from heart failure while undergoing Let's head to the Sermon on the Mount section Husky. The versatile country music singer and songwriter His epitaph, "Gone home on the wings of his biggest hits: "Gone," and "Wings He'd also make appearances in films like In his induction into the Country Music Hall entertainers country music ever produced. He died of congestive heart failure at age Gallatin is just northeast of Nashville. This is Sumner Memorial Gardens, where we name was Harold Jenkins. He was a musician who found his biggest success His hits include "You've Never Been This He topped the Billboard Hot Country Songs Before being a country music star, Twitty and rockabilly, sometimes being compared to And in the 2000s Twitty was introduced to Guy. Conway Twitty died from an abdominal aortic He was inducted into the Country Music Hall In part 5 of our Viewers Special we visited Since that time the family suffered a tragic of Lisa Marie Presley. His mother would describe his resemblance uncanny." By his teens, Benjamin showed inklings of He was offered a record deal with Universal, Ben struggled with substance abuse and depression, We find ourselves now at Memorial Park Cemetery Before finding famous graves in these grounds, and unique features, the Crystal Grotto. Back out to the grounds, not far from the He was a singer and songwriter, a driving He wrote scores of songs for himself, and One of his songs, "Soul Man," is recognized past 50 years. Hayes also wrote music for movies, most notably "Who's the black private dick that's "Shaft!" "Damn right." Isaac was also an actor, playing The Duke Hood: Men in Tights. And you heard that distinctive resonant voice "Hello there, children." "Hey Chef." Hayes died after suffering a stroke at age Here too we find the grave of Charlie Rich. He was a country music artist, known for incorporating He's perhaps best remembered for a pair and "The Most Beautiful Girl." He received numerous accolades, including by the Country Music Association. Charlie died in his sleep from a pulmonary Next up is the grave of a musician named Jimmy He was a singer and songwriter, known for In 1971 he won an Oscar for co-writing the and Other Strangers. Jimmy Griffin continued to perform with and his life, passing away from cancer at age Another musician resting here is Marshall He's remembered as the bass player for Jonny That was Marshall you heard playing bass in Prison Blues." Johnny and Marshall would play together for He lived to be 83, and was portrayed by Larry Let's make our way to the southwest section West. He went from being a bodyguard and confidant find his place as a stuntman and actor. He began doing stunts for movies like Spartacus, he would also make several appearances as This gradually led to more prominent roles, Micklin in Black Sheep Squadron, and perhaps "That's a wrap" is what is said when written here too when life is completed, which at age 81. And that's a wrap for Tennessee, let's order, Alabama. This is Elmwood Cemetery in Birmingham, where He was a singer and songwriter, known for He was one of the founding members of the and would sing lead one some of their biggest As a solo artist Kendricks had a hit in the He was just 52 when he died from lung cancer. Also here is an actress named Anna Lee Carroll... She was well-known as a theater performer Hollywood. Her best-known role is as Nurse Bradford in She also made appearances on shows like Perry Boots lived to be 86. A trumpet marks the grave of a musician here He was a trumpet player and bandleader of Gabriel. He's remembered for co-composing the jazz become a hit during WWII. Hawkins lived to be 79, and was inducted into One more Elmwood stop. Here is the grave of Paul "Bear" Bryant, college football coaches of all time. He was head coach of the University of Alabama and 13 conference championships during his He was inducted into the College Football Alabama stadium is named in his honor. In late 1982, Bryant retired from coaching. When asked what he would do next, he said He wasn't far off. Four weeks later he died after suffering a This is Mobile Memorial Gardens. Here we find the grave of Jean Byron. She was an actress, best remembered for playing Patty Duke Show in the 1960s. She also had a recurring role in The Many On film she'd be known for roles in B-movies Jean died from complications of hip replacement Cedar Hill Cemetery is in Scottsboro. This is where Lucille Benson is laid to rest. The plump, quirky actress with a heavy southern actresses of the 70s and 80s. Among her memorable roles are as Gas Mama She also played Lilly Sinclair in the TV sitcom, Lucille died from liver cancer at age 69. Our next famous grave is a unique one in the We find ourselves not in a graveyard, but This is the grave of Miss Baker. If asked on your fifth-grade history test into space was, you'd likely answer Alan sort of. If we're counting other species, then the The intelligent and affectionate monkey boarded 16 minutes voyaged where no man, woman, or 300 miles above the surface of the earth. After returning safely from space, Miss Baker celebrities, gracing the cover of magazines. In 1971 Miss Baker moved to the space center and school children, and lived out her days She died from kidney failure at age 27, and Back to the graveyards, our next Alabama stop This is where the legendary Little Richard He was a singer and songwriter, one of the the early days of rock and roll, soul, and His frenetic piano playing and raspy shouted and would influence artists for generations He had a smash hit in the 1955 song, "Tutti Other hits include "Long Tall Sally," style and success would make him one of the of all backgrounds. In 1986 he would be inducted into the Rock Little Richard, the architect of rock and 87. Our last Alabama stop of the day is in Jasper, Here is the tomb of George Lindsey. He was an actor and comedian best known for in The Andy Griffith Show, and the spinoff, He would later play Goober again on Hee-Haw. And if you can believe it, George Lindsey to play Spock, but he turned it town. Lindsey also lent his voice to a number of Robin Hood, and Lafayette in The Aristocats. George Lindsey died from heart failure at Hello to our friends in Mississippi. Not far from the Alabama border is Leakesville, This is the grave of Bill Hicks, a comedian touched on a wide range of social issues. He toured extensively, and built his most Bill was a frequent guest on talk shows like Night Stand. He brought a sense of rock &amp; roll to comedy, greats. His life and career were cut short by pancreatic Further west in Columbia, is Rest Haven. Here we find football legend, Walter Payton. He's considered one of the greatest football that spanned thirteen seasons with the Chicago He was a running back, and at one time held many more. He was a nine-time Pro Bowl selectee, and In 1993 Walter Payton was inducted into the And the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award, and charity work, is named in his honor. Walter Payton died in 1999 from a rare liver He was interred here with his parents. Let's find another football star here in Griffith Cemetery in Prentiss is where Steve He was a quarterback in the NFL, playing for and 2007. He would lead his team to a Super Bowl in Air McNair was a three-time Pro Bowl player, A year after his retirement, McNair was shot the gun on herself in a murder-suicide. He was 36. This is the grave of Eudora Welty, at Greenwood She was an author, who wrote about the American Her 1972 novel, The Optimist's Daughter, Her grave features a quote from The Optimist's She won numerous honors throughout her life, Eudora lived to be 92. Moving on now to Arkansas. We begin at the Campbell family cemetery in of Arkansas' favorite sons: Glen Campbell. He was a musician and actor who rose to popularity of hit songs in this era, including "Rinestone Nights." Glen Campbell was also a familiar face on variety and talk shows, and even hosted his He also dabbled in acting, including playing Decades later he would co-write the song "I'm his life. The song was nominated for an Academy Award It focused on Campbell's diagnosis with He died from the disease at age 81. Oak Ridge Cemetery is in Malvern. Here is the grave of Julie Adams. She was an actress, best remembered today movie, Creature from the Black Lagoon. Other films include Bend of the River alongside On television she had a regular role as Eve Capitol, and Martha on The Jimmy Stewart Show. Julie Adams lived to be 92. Moving on to Cedar Grove Cemetery in Floral, Graveyard animals: cows. Let's head into this quiet cemetery to find As an actress she would receive a Golden Globe and a Gentleman. She can also be seen in the cult horror film, Lisa was also a producer, winning an Academy Accountant, with her husband Robert McKinnon. In October 2010, Lisa was found dead in her results of a blood disorder. She was 53. Next up is Oakland Cemetery in Clarksville. Here is the crypt of Daffy Dean. He was a pitcher in the major leagues, playing During his rookie season he pitched a no-hitter Daffy played alongside his brother, Dizzy, 1934. Daffy died from a heart attack at age 67. Also here at Oakland is another man who lived He was a stand-up comedian, who appeared on Comic Standing. He would finish in second place. Ralphie May would go on to appear on shows a number of Comedy Central Specials, and Netflix "Hey, my name is Ralphie May. Y'all been great - thank you so much!" Ralphie would also dabble in acting, including In October 2017 he went into cardiac arrest He was just 45 years old. Our journey through the quaint rural cemeteries in Sulphur Springs. Here is the grave of Tommy Morrison. He was a professional boxer from 1988 to 2008, Fans of the Rocky movies will also remember in Rocky V. In 1996, Morrison tested positive career. The issue would be clouded when Morrison later he never had the disease. He would even test negative years later, and But for the last year of his life, he was AIDS. Morrison died after suffering cardiac arrest Crosslawn Cemetery is in Wynne. Here lies Hugh "Bones" Taylor. He played professional football for the Washington Bowl in '52 and '54. After his career he would coach, including of NFL teams. Bones is a member of the Arkansas Sports Hall He lived to be 69. One more Arkansas stop brings us to Coop Prairie Here lies Arthur Hunnicutt, an actor known characters, in films like El Dorado, Cat Ballou, him an Oscar Nomination. He made memorable appearances on television, of Disney. Arthur Hunnicutt died from cancer at age 69. Our last state of the day is Louisiana, famous like Metairie Cemetery, the great Necropolis This is another star-studded cemetery we've Back again today for more historical figures, He was a key figure in the investigation into He was a New Orleans district attorney, who in the assassination... the only person ever brought to trial for Shaw was acquitted, and Garrison would later Trail of the Assassins. The book would serve as source material for was portrayed by Kevin Costner. Across the freeway from Metairie is Greenwood Here is the tomb of John Kennedy Toole. He was an acclaimed author, who tragically during his life. In the 1960s he began writing his novel, A After its completion he submitted it to publishers, demanded seemingly endless revisions. John became discouraged, and eventually shelved His discouragement grew into depression and He went on a cross-country road trip that by attaching a garden hose to the exhaust He was 31. His mother Thelma, also entombed here, discovered and went on a crusade to have it published. She succeeded, the book finally being published The very next year the book was awarded the become a masterpiece of American Literature. Strolling along the streets lined with tiny of Sam Butera. New Orleans has a rich musical heritage, particularly Sam was a saxophone player, known for his another jazz legend, Louis Prima. Butera played the 500 Club here in New Orleans he would find himself relocating to Vegas called "The Witnesses." His R&amp;B and pop style of big band jazz would 20 years. He died from pneumonia at age 81. Let's enjoy a little scenery here at Greenwood This is the grave of Emile Meyer. He was an actor in the 50s and 60s, known like Rufus in Shane, and Lt. Kello in Sweet He shed his tough guy persona to play the Paths of Glory. Meyer suffered from Alzheimer's later in Last up here at Greenwood is the grave of He played baseball in the major leagues from the St. Louis Browns. He played pitcher, and would lead his team Kramer was also a 3x All-Star. He lived to be 77. Our next New Orleans cemetery is Holt Cemetery, In these grounds is the grave of Buddy Bolden. He was a musician who played the cornet, which Bolden was a key figure in the early development which would later become jazz. Bolden's band reached their peak between is considered by many as having originated the father of jazz. Next generation jazz greats like Louis Armstrong ahead of 'em all," and etched in his stone him "The blowingest man since Gabriel." At age 30 Buddy was diagnosed with schizophrenia, institution. His death at age 54 was attributed to cerebral Also here at Holt we find Jessie Hill. He was an R&amp;B and Louisiana blues singer and "Ooh Poo Pah Doo," which reached #28 on The song would be a favorite for Mardi Gras, artists. Hill actually died in 1996, at age 63, from This is Mount Olivet Cemetery in New Orleans. In the mausoleum we find the crypt of Fats The pianist, singer, and songwriter is another and roll. His 1949 single, "The Fat Man," is sometimes the first to sell more than a million copies. Later rock and roll legends like Elvis and Other of Fat's Domino's hits include "Ain't He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall and lived to be 89. Also here in the mausoleum is the crypt of He was a rap musician who rose to prominence He had a number 1 hit in the song "Slow Soulja Slim, whose real name was James Tapp, He was 26. No one has ever been convicted for his murder. One more musician to find here at Mount Olivet, He was a pianist and singer who performed He performed in the heyday of early Rhythm a second career in the 70s through the New His style combined elements of rumba, mambo, Professor Longhair was inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 1992. He died in his sleep from a heart attack at Providence Memorial Park is in Metairie. Here is the crypt of James Booker. The self-proclaimed "Bronze Liberace" rhythm and blues pianists to come out of New He had his first hit in 1960's "Gonzo," in the 70s. Booker would perform with greats like Dr. Connick, Jr. piano lessons. The Piano Prince of New Orleans died at just Also here at Providence is the world's greatest In a career that spanned some 40 years, Mahalia of the 20th century. She was instrumental in the development and selling an estimated 22 million albums. One of her early hits was 1947's "Move Mahalia would perform on television, in sold worldwide. And she would use her powerful voice in support Mahalia was included into the Blues and Rock The Queen of Gospel was actually born in 1911, age 60. This is Cheramie Cemetery in Galliano, where He was the bass player and backup vocalist 90s. He also formed and played in the band Shrum. But in 1997, Audie and his parents were killed He was 26, and after his death Acid Bath disbanded. Lake Lawn Park Cemetery is our next stop. Heading into the mausoleum we find actor Michael His credits may have been few, but he did some 100 episodes of the soap opera, As the But his career was cut short by an accidental We're in Baton Rouge now, and Resthaven Here lies Pete Maravich. He remains college basketball's highest He went on to play professionally, for the and the Boston Celtics. In his career he was a 5x NBA All-Star, and And he would become one of the youngest players Maravich died suddenly during a game in 1988, He was 40. And finally, our southern travels take us Here lies the legendary Donna Douglas. The southern belle began acting in the 50s, be best known, referenced right here on her Clampett in The Beverly Hillbillies. "Pa, you sure was right... oh hi Granny. You don't have to wear boy's clothes to "Elly May, you promised me you wouldn't "I ain't been wrasslin'." "Then what've you been doin' in your "Doin' what I'm supposed to do: playin' She would play Elly May in some 273 episodes She made other notable television appearances episodes of The Twilight Zone: "Eye of the After The Beverly Hillbillies, Donna shifted singing, and writing. The beloved Donna Douglas died from pancreatic And that concludes our tour. What are some of your favorite memories of Share them in the comments below, and be sure grave tours. Thanks for watching! We'll see you on the next one.