In 2005, Capcom would release a survival horror an experiment in design and of the formula they themselves had crafted. And that game was Resident Evil 4. Of course. Thing sold like 3 million copies in 2005. Was the most critically acclaimed game of But a couple months later, Capcom would redefine horror experience. And that game was Haunting Ground. Expanding on the building blocks of the Clock Tower series, Haunting gameplay, added several created a disturbing set of complex antagonists, and made the beating heart of the story the dog that she rescues from mistreatment. So today, let's enter Belli Castle to experience Haunting Ground. Haunting Ground is a third-person survival Capcom and released for the PlayStation 2 Its original title in Japan was "Demento," represents what's actually going on with title "Haunting Ground." But neither are really great titles. Demento because it's just kind of silly. And Haunting Ground because there are no ghosts; You could reach and try to make a case to we'll touch on that later, but in my mind Anyway, Haunting Ground had the unfortunate after Resident Evil 4, which changed the face for quite a while. This led to Haunting Ground just being kind Capcom didn't invest too heavily in marketing all that well. But the lack of confidence in Haunting Ground The team had a desire to make a survival horror that it would fail because they thought big just some girl. So they gave her sexy outfits, uh, boob physics, Hewie who is a king among kings and the real That's not to completely dismiss Fiona, She's a complex character, who has more And the relationship between Fiona and the one of the biggest aspects that holds the and in the overall story. Going back to Capcom's unease at marketing I don't really get it. Konami's Silent Hill 3 had come out about as the lead character and was a critical and Capcom had also already had their own successes series. The original game featured Jill Valentine had Claire Redfield as one of two main playable again in her own standalone adventure, and own standalone adventure. Not to mention Dino Crisis. Then there was Square's Parasite Eve. This list could go on and on. And all of those games were hugely successful. So what gives? I don't think it's just a cut and dry I think they were actually worried about their that Haunting Ground rips whole swathes of So much so that it's usually considered Capcom had acquired the rights to Clock Tower after Human Entertainment, closed their doors in early 2000. Capcom then developed their own third entry Both Clock Tower 3 and Haunting Ground feature female protagonists who levels. In Clock Tower 3's case, because of time Both games feature chase and hide mechanics, to really defeat enemies outside of boss fights. I guess I should also mention Rule of Rose, and also features a girl and a dog escaping Just because if I don't mention it, people Back to Clock Tower 3, though. That game is great in terms of its presentation Gameplay-wise though, it kinda sucks. Honestly, seems like the perfect thing for Rule of Rose too. But I digress, Clock Tower 3 was met with Yet, Capcom still wanted to iterate on the a female protag, so maybe it was a kind of kicking rocks, hoping it would drum up support release. Unfortunately, it didn't really work. Critically, the game fared a bit better than failure. And with the runaway success of Resident Evil the indestructible enemies until a boss fight about 12 years later. So I think it was more that they just weren't so than worrying about but then just blamed it all on poor Fiona. Hasn't she been through enough, Capcom? She's already got all these creeps trying Ahh, yeah, maybe I should, uh, explain the As established, you take the role of Fiona The intro cutscene that plays when you first And lots of skin. As Fiona walks through the halls of a castle her. After starting a new game, we don't get Fiona is already a captive inside some kind deformed man reaches for her through the bars Lightning and a crash of thunder scares away There's a brief flash of a car crash, and Realizing the cage is now unlocked, she exits modesty. From beneath a nearby table, a dog jumps out And she finds a collar with the name Hewie With that, she exits the cellar and finds From here, we gain control and are free to There's not much to do initially, what with a few landmarks to take note of: an old tree a hole in the wall off to the side, too small some cages and a kennel area, as well as a A set of stairs leads to a second floor landing door, and here we find a bedroom. The voice acting in Haunting Ground is actually The maid here is named Daniella, and I love It's perfect. We'll see more of her later. Don't worry. On the bed, there's a change of clothes. While changing, Fiona is watched from behind There's a lot of objectification of Fiona And at first you might be inclined to think some of it is, but there are story reasons look at more as we go. With her new tight-fitting outfit, Fiona is At this point, Fiona also gets access to several She can kick, backstep, and crouch. Kicking can break objects, but can also be It's nothing more than a way to get some It doesn't do much damage. Backstepping also isn't all that effective. A lot of the time you're running from enemies, the charge move. By pressing backstep and immediately tapping This is useful for some puzzles and during Crouching is used to hide behind obstacles to discover her. Fiona can also crouch to recover stamina after an enemy. Once we get some items, Fiona will be able on the ground. It's a simple mechanic, and I honestly didn't items can be extremely helpful in certain She can also push some objects in the environment. Hope you like block pushing puzzles. Don't worry, there are thankfully only a But pushing can also be used to block doorways a neat mechanic that's introduced early, game. And that's about it for Fiona's actions. We'll get some more control options once Much like the yard outside, there are several The ticking grandfather clock acts as a save Any clock you run across throughout the game Even a sundial. There are also these unsettling paintings the area near Fiona's bed. We've already seen that the old man portrait are some interesting details about these two The bedroom may look comforting. I mean, check out that cozy fireplace. But listen to this background music. Aside from the foreboding piano, there's effect mixed in. It's very bizarre. The sound design in Haunting Ground is really It's not quite as in your face and disturbing unsettling elements that hide beneath the moments like this one. There are also softer, more emotional tracks game. Hewie's theme reminded me of a child's piece that gives you a reprieve from the otherwise the game. I also love the little musical stings that that needs to be solved. Visually, the game is spectacular. I think the PS2 is peak graphics. Games like this, Valkyrie Profile 2, Final Okami, Dark Cloud 2, Rogue Galaxy, Metal Gear Timesplitters 2. I mean, do I need to continue? There are plenty of others. List what ya got in the comments. But yeah, Haunting Ground is drop dead gorgeous. The character models are so good, and the She actually doesn't have all that many of her character is communicated through her Speaking of that, character movements were And the team did a fantastic job making the differently. Fiona is very tense and runs with her arms She always looks scared and uneasy. The deformed guy from the opening, whose name lumbering brute who has a lot of weight and Daniella strides confidently around the castle. She moves like a worker bee, fitting since all the time. Another character we'll meet later, Riccardo, And, Lorenzo, we'll talk about Lorenzo later. The smooth animations also give way to really Fiona feels very easy to move around. There were only a few times I got stuck on usually due to panic. The game doesn't feature tank controls, Outside the bedroom we're given a small the environments and art direction in this The brown and gray color palette really grounds Ground. Probably should have chosen a better phrase But yeah, the color palette despite its muted It makes the castle feel, at turns, old and There are also areas that make use of plenty And there's contrast everywhere. I mean, just look right here. The candlelight outside the bedroom doorway to the harsh whiteness of the electric lamp away. Just the fact that you have this juxtaposition is already beginning a theme of old versus Comfort versus discomfort. Safety versus danger. We're going to see a lot of these kinds And the environments themselves become integral I'm going to be luxuriating in these details The camera work is fantastic as well. When you first enter an area, you'll be the environments are fully 3D, the camera It's really well implemented, and I never or the movement of the camera while playing. The controls can get a bit wonky sometimes Usually if you continue holding the direction you'll keep going, but if you let go, you're the camera is now placed. And that can get a bit annoying, especially Also, notice that we can open and close doors For the love of all things, leave the doors In the next hallway, there's a pillar with If Fiona inspects it, we get introduced to Witnessing distressing sights, getting attacked enemies or hearing them do something menacing At first, the effects are subtle. Fiona may stop in her tracks and the screen As panic increases, the screen colors will more difficult to control, and finally when her and she runs wildly. All you can do is try to steer her away from into them and fall down. At the end, she'll just stay on the ground ample time to deliver a finishing blow. Panic can be reduced with certain items. The same goes for stamina. While being chased, Fiona will become slower need to either hide or use items to replenish Fiona's actions and the screen effects are levels. There are no meters or other ways to gauge But you really don't need more than this. The visual effects tell you everything you And we get to see these mechanics put into we run into Debilitas again. The big guy has an interest in dolls, and Run away. There are actually a couple of ways to avoid the game before and know what you're doing. The developer-intended way is to run all the You can shut the doors behind you now, but we're not running far so it doesn't really Back in the bedroom, we'll get a prompt it. This will initiate a first person view with Unfortunately, we can't move Fiona's view me from getting good footage of some of the There are several set hiding spots like this that can be interacted with to trigger special for longer amounts of time. In addition to these designated and special and dressers, behind doors and other objects, In these situations, the camera will cut to her. When a pursuer leaves the area while you're get a coast clear message. In the other hiding spots, the camera will Take note though, you're not really safe Pursuers can hear you, and if they're not back. Hide in the same spot too often and Fiona So you need to vary up your hiding spots and enemies. From now on, Debilitas can and will show up There are a few scripted moments where he'll You can tell when a pursuer is around, because And when they get close, you'll hear their This whole pursuer, stalker mechanic is the but it's really not that bad. The pursuers show up enough to be threatening get annoying. Well except for a tower climb section near were really well implemented. I'm not someone who enjoys horror games The Clock Tower series, the Outlast games, Honestly, not a big fan. So I was really surprised with how much this I think it's well balanced here, and you've enemies to make it tense, yet fair. They also can't enter puzzle rooms, so that's You can take your time figuring those out chased all around. With Debilitas gone. For now. Fiona can continue to explore the castle. Eventually, she'll find her way to a music As she's about to pick up a key on a nearby So Fiona is going to become a pregnant tree? If you say so. The key we picked up unlocks a door to a new We also get a short cutscene introducing us In the hallway where we ran first into Debilitas, had a note about these little floating orbs They're tiny creatures that respond to Azoth. We don't know much about Azoth yet, unless between that and philosophy, it's probably degree. Don't worry philosophy majors. I have a degree in English, so I'm right Azoth is sometimes referred stone. It's an alchemical solvent or universal related to the essence of life. According to alchemical study, all living usually found in the womb. For reasons we'll learn of later on, the because Fiona herself possesses a high concentration That's all you need to really know without Anyway back to the Luminessants, in terms of If Fiona bumps into a Luminessant they burst which is not good. They can follow from room to room, but can I also found that you can kind of cheese them them to appear. If you time it right, when you run back through won't suffer their effects. Neat. Continuing on, we arrive at the kitchen and stairs, we can enter a basement and find our castle. Hey, that's Fiona's last name. You can use the map in your inventory and but honestly, the environmental and level looked at the maps except to get footage of Every room and hallway is unique, and there paths to take, so I never really got lost. Both the castle proper and the old mansion that loop back on themselves, which I'm Back upstairs, we meet our friend Debilitas That breathing in the background is ominous As Fiona is about to be captured, the voice to back off. He looks so sad. This man introduces himself as Riccardo and parents' deaths. He also informs her that she is the sole surviving The news causes Fiona to faint. Dude, sick sandals. Fiona awakens back in the bedroom, and it's Hearing whining outside, she checks the window yard. We gotta go down and rescue that poor guy. Don't worry buddy! I'm on my way. Whoa, wait a minute. Check out these lights with the bugs floating That is such a cool detail. I told you. This game is absolutely stunning. Oh [__], oh yeah. I'm coming, buddy. After rescuing Hewie, Fiona returns to her Debilitas! Heyo! It's so disturbing how he crawls towards This is our combat tutorial for Hewie. Hewie can be commanded by using the right When a pursuer is near, up sends him to attack. While he's attacking, you can press up again onto an enemy for longer. Down will get Hewie to stop attacking. R3 will have Hewie stay and if you time it up and Hewie will do a more powerful attack. It's difficult to pull this off correctly Outside of battle, the actions Hewie performs Up sends him to search for items and interact Down will call him to Fiona. Right will praise him. Left will scold him. R3 has Fiona give him a sit and stay command. Pressing R3 again while he's sitting will Hewie also stops and growls when pursuers added alarm. He has his own stamina, as well as items, his status. But Hewie is more than just a tool or a weapon. He is the goodest boy. And you need to earn his respect and trust. When you first meet him, he won't always It may take several attempts just to get him Praising helps raise his obedience and affection, But it's not all about positive reinforcement. Just like a real dog, Hewie sometimes needs Otherwise, he'll just be a spoiled brat. Dog training is about establishing a leader, take that into consideration to some degree As you spend more time with Hewie, praising Getting him to help you with puzzles and fend Fiona will grow. Where at first, he sometimes stops and sits growing bored of your constant calls for him treat him well, he'll follow without being Sometimes even attack and distract enemies And instead of sitting bored as you shudder forlorn and unforgiving environments, he will at you with complete affection and trust. Two friends, braving the unknown, together. As some of you know, if you watched either dog. A six-year old Shih Tzu named Zoe. She is a divine creature who deserves nothing I think all dogs are too good for this world, Shih Tzu's specifically have very independent scale. I've heard it described that they hear what whatnot, but it just doesn't align with And man, I see proof of that everyday. As mentioned, my dog's goals are food, scratches, In that order. We worked hard to train her though, and she's But when I witnessed Hewie's aloofness and him, I was reminded of Zoe, and I was determined It took time. It took patience. It even took a few deaths. But I did it. If you remember that area, out in the yard through and unlock the gate, giving you access You can even pick up a ball here to play fetch The way your relationship with Hewie develops is such a master stroke. It forms the emotional core of Haunting Ground's Both Hewie and Fiona are alone in this world, believe, has brought them together to find It's beautiful. Not to mention their relationship is a factor get on your first playthrough. My dog-loving nature then makes it all the in the game. You can, if you have no soul, abuse Hewie. Scold him, kick him, feed him onions. He won't take kindly to your maltreatment He'll wander off mostly, and even attack This of course, makes the game harder, but juncture in the story, he will leave you to One last thing to mention about gameplay, find a good spot to fit this before spoiler in the game. We've already had our hints of alchemy in holes in the walls that you can crawl through that allows you to create items. You'll find different medallions throughout and then there's a mini-game where you need different combinations result in different Or nothing at all. You can mostly craft healing consumables for degrees of items that can be thrown at enemies However, by matching most or all of the same special equipment for Fiona. Like a pair of boots that do extra damage, decrease the effects of panic mode. Crafting is incredibly helpful, so don't It does take some time to get used to the It's worth learning it. There's also another way to earn additional maker at a certain point in the game. Anyway, now that we have Hewie at our side, we'll eventually meet becomes a bit more We can even launch our own counterattacks There are 4 pursuers throughout the game. Technically. The last one gets a bit complicated, but that's Each have their own idiosyncrasies and ways they're each segmented into their own portion takes them out entirely, leading then to the Obviously they get more tenacious and difficult itself also gets more linear. The bulk of your play time will be spent dealing and Daniella, in the most environments of the game. The final 2 pursuers show up in the last quarter they just don't stick around as long, and get a good sense of familiarity with those But honestly, by that point, I felt like the of glad it narrows and doesn't overstay What I'm trying to say, in a roundabout was very well-paced, so I'm just pointing it. Haunting Ground took me about 8 hours to beat length for this type of game. A few more things to mention before getting that are fun to deal with, like the room full room with the crossbow wielding suit of armor. There's always a unique death cutscene to I also like this one hallway in the castle, narrow and then widen again to a door at the claustrophobia. The physical spaces you pass through will say, unorthodox as the game progresses. Oh, and that doorway at the end of the hall a rocking chair. Hmm, a long narrow passageway that widens Just let the symbolism of that sink in for There are many moments of symbolism throughout just telling you to your face, "Hey, this on." And I like that back and forth. Getting captured by any of the pursuers results Nothing is shown on screen, but the audio and I fear demonetization by showing them yourself by playing or look them up on YouTube. As I mentioned, the game is not shy about She's an object of desire for all of her For childish reasons, jealous reasons, carnal And it all gets very complicated. It's not like each of the antagonists definitively It's messy, in a good way, and though there screaming of intentions, I think both the Haunting Ground vacillates between are both whole binary design ethos of the rest of the Like I said, there's a contrast to everything I guess I'm speaking kind of abstractly, There's a lot to pick apart with this game's So from here on out, let's get into the If you want to play Haunting Ground for yourself, Despite its complex themes Haunting Ground is pretty thin on actual plot. It's very gameplay focused and uses a lot is fantastic. But there are a lot of implications and backstory are worth discussing, so I'll also be diving At this point, it probably goes without saying, that contains some potentially disturbing from here on out. It's a great game, and, this is not something play, well, I won't say bad, but let's to appreciate. But, having said that, I highly recommend interesting to you. For those who've already played it or don't Our goal now is to escape the castle. As Fiona explores further, she gets a phone into the receiver. Despite his creepiness, he does seem to be Maybe she has an ally here. After this another scripted chase occurs and There are a few ways this can play out, but from Hewie. You can also get it so that Debilitas will and this will put him out of commission for Even though I only had Hewie at my side for felt more vulnerable without him. This part also took me like half an hour to where Hewie was, and I'm pretty sure I ended it all worked out, which is just a testament You can even find the shack where Debilitas It's a shit hole. Naturally. And there's a cutscene that can happen here you where you can distract him with his doll. Anyway, after opening some shortcuts, dropping own a few times, I finally met up with Hewie Beyond the drawbridge is a building with a allowing Hewie to join you in this part of There's also a locked door where you can scene between Daniella and Riccardo. Where is he? Where is the old man? Where's he hiding? I won't let him touch her. Do you hear me old man? The Azoth is mine. We also learn some of the character's motivations Riccardo mentions that Lorenzo wants Fiona. But Riccardo wants her for his own reasons. He wants the Azoth. Due to Riccardo being able to command Debilitas, control, but he can't quite reign in his It's not clear exactly where Daniella stands She appears to have some allegiance to Lorenzo. And also seems used to taking physical punishment. The turn towards the keyhole and the laugh also going to be someone Fiona is going to Later, Fiona runs across some conspicuous through, Silent Hill style. This gives us a memo detailing how Riccardo for how to access the old mansion. The note was written by and given to Fiona His was also the voice we heard on the phone Maybe he's one of the good guys. We can hold out hope, right? Eventually, after some more Fiona and Hewie arrive at a chapel where a key hangs from a statue. Fiona's got the key to the old mansion now, And this is our showdown with Debilitas. Oh my god, that's such a freaky moment. You get much more of the mental instability He waves his arms, smacks himself in the head. Yells for Fiona. There are two ways to deal with him. We can either kill him outright or break these the chandelier on him. This affects your ending, and for my first I figured there was no way to actually kill devices on the side kind of stick out. Using the bash move, makes them break faster. Debilitas survives this, but seems to have forgiveness. Then, he leaves. You can actually find him again, alive and He's non-hostile now, and will even give a hidden room, but this situation isn't I'll come back to this later. Moving on, we've got the key to unlock the puzzle room, there's a door with a symbol Before she gets that chance though, Daniella Yeah, ok, then. Something must have been in that soup, because She heads back to the bedroom to rest, and say, lovingly caressed by Daniella. Well, that went some kind of sideways. The ticking clock in that cutscene was such That builds the tension so much. I also like Daniella's chase music. Daniella is much more of a threat than Debilitas. She moves faster, carries a weapon, closes much better because she's the maid, which Because of her self-loathing, Daniella has Lucky for us, someone placed some mirrors Now that we know one of her weaknesses, whenever we can throw back the covering and Daniella a moment. But I think the most unnerving thing about you. Sometimes, it's cleaning time. Oh. My. God. Also be careful when interacting with her area you can trigger a cutscene where she weapon, for an even deadlier hot poker. Lovely. Daniella is a really fascinating character. She covets Fiona for her body and the fact human. I think she's also jealous of the fact that And again, as with all the pursuers, it gets But I really like how, for the most part, even more disturbing things going on underneath fascination and desire for Fiona. And we'll of course look more at this when Fiona comes across a very curious room that And now we're trapped here. This is where things start to get a bit weird Clearly the old mansion has flourishes, and we'll actually be doing some puzzles to get parts of the mansion to new areas within it. Not to mention, because of that flooding earlier, underwater in this section. Eventually Fiona makes it We need one of these for a puzzle, but the And this gives us access to the crypt, which can ever enter. It's such a relief. Whenever you're being pursued in this area, Down here there's a puzzle involving a golem. We've actually already seen a puzzle like it involves typing the correct combination the plate into the golem to control it. The path through the crypt is blocked by fire, There's only one way forward, but several letter combinations. There's an interesting puzzle in the library that you can pick up earlier on. Who filmed these scenes? By eventually taking the correct path through mansion, and here's where the whole twisting turn. Yeahhh... This part here really reminded me of Thief: Specifically the mission "The Sword." And any game that reminds me of Thief is an But yes, we've fully entered the realm of We were just taking baby steps before. I like how the camera pulls back when you "what the hell?" aspect of this moment. A few rooms later and Fiona arrives in a large colored pedestals on tracks placed in conspicuous Welcome to the Daniella boss fight. Fiona needs to move these pedestals into place The good thing is, you can knock her out for and Fiona's own, creating some time for Once the pedestals are in place, the mirror again enraptured or enraged by her own reflection Good boy! Daniella drops another key that allows us It's always nice after a boss fight, because the previous area and pick up some items you free. There are some strange creatures hanging around around mumbling. We caught a glimpse of one for the first time just chillin out in the hallway. Hewie will stop and growl at it, but if you There will be a few others scattered throughout At the bottom of another spiral stairway is And here we also meet a new enemy, the failures. These annoying little creatures that run up They don't do any damage, and you can easily her, they let out a piercing scream which Luckily, when we're first introduced to it yet. These guys don't show up all that much, After heading further into this older, more a laboratory room that has a scribbled note It talks about an item called the Prima Materia. It's an important ingredient in creating Hewie stole it. I'm gonna rename you Yuffie. Fiona stumbles into a room with a green vat Jenova? Enter Riccardo, our third pursuer. Riccardo's got a flintlock pistol, which firearm. But actually, he can't hit anything with Even if he's standing right in front of never get shot. At least in my experience. Only when standing still was I ever hit by Now, there are a couple of ways to incapacitate One of the best ones is in the lab room where There's a part of the floor that is clearly It looks different from the rest of the room All you have to do is lure Riccardo over it Turns out Hewie left the materia behind some we couldn't access earlier. Hewie fetches it and the next challenge is We've been running past several machines There's an extractor, a purifier, and a Putting the materia through the machines in You can also produce a red one, but that's Also, I didn't really notice anything weird but when I checked the concept art later on, designs. Now, we can head back to the mansion entrance scales. And placing the godstone in the scales opens Finally, after all this time, we've escaped Breathe that fresh air. Take in the green of these trees, but get Hewie?? Fiona finds Hewie shot in the leg in the forest up. There's nowhere to run in the forest though Let me just stop here for a second and say in the story, the delivery completely falls We've only caught glimpses of Fiona in the We've seen her mother's face, but not So when Riccardo reveals his face here and like this should be a big surprise for us, We have no idea what Fiona's dad looks like, the character's reactions that we should I don't know. I just thought it was really weird the way Afterwards, we get a clearer picture of the Riccardo was the one who ran Fiona's parents' Fiona's mom died in the impact. Her dad survived, but then Riccardo pulled And this is where we finally get a clear view I feel like we should have seen it earlier, when Riccardo revealed his own face. Anyway, as Riccardo said, he and Fiona's a powerful alchemist and the original owner Fiona passes out, and there's a secret cutscene criteria that shows Riccardo examining Fiona's Another two or three days at most. Fiona is then awakened by Hewie. She's locked in a cell in the basement of middle of a nearby lake, and this is the next If however, you were a complete asshat and come to rescue you, and you'll get the worst Riccardo says he needs to borrow Fiona's time infused with Fiona's Azoth. We then see Fiona in the bedroom from the having lost her mind. Let's try not to have this happen. With Hewie's help, Fiona escapes her cell, of the water tower. There are some objects to find scattered around, We'll need that. We also find a note from Lorenzo again, saying needs to find her way to the House of Truths Still holding out hope for Lorenzo being our Getting to the top of the tower is one of tower itself is a pretty boring design. I praise Haunting Ground's art direction tower is the low point. Aside from the small dungeon area underneath, Riccardo has lost his pistol, but having drunk invisible. For some reason, he becomes visible when he with him following us around as we flip switches tower. There's no way to really hide from him, in place and running far enough away. You can't pull the necessary levers to move You'll only get a message that you don't This is actually how most of the puzzles and pursuers nearby, but before you had more space In the tower, you can only run and hope you to interact with the levers. Anyway, after much dicking around, Fiona makes it to the top, which turns There's another floor switch puzzle which easy enough to figure out. The planetarium is the most memorable part This room is really atmospheric and the song nice breather after the After unlocking the spiral staircase and placing top, an actual bridge will appear from the Then, Riccardo confronts Fiona and Hewie and I told you these last two pursuers occupy time. Now, Riccardo's boss battle is mechanically, the biggest pain to get right. There are holes in this structure in the middle Hewie needs to be sent through one of them Then you need to lure Riccardo in front of right, and have Hewie attack Riccardo. It's easier said than done. The positioning is very precise and if Riccardo Hewie won't do anything. Using some of the traps and other items from Once you've got it right, Hewie will pounce Good boy! Back down and across the bridge that Fiona is waiting. This is the final area of the game and is design than the water tower at least with other mirrored side to the house itself. I dig it. When first arriving, it's important to do We need this. Deeper into the house, we finally meet Lorenzo. Well, yeah of course, he's a bad guy. Who was really fooled this whole time? Holy crap, this old dude can crawl. He's so fast. It's terrifying. Remember how I said we need that candlestick, with some flammable boxes in a corner and Lorenzo seems to have been defeated and his If we take a moment to collect ourselves and The explosion has blasted a hole in the nearby And nope, he ain't dead. He's much slower than before though, and kicks to knock him out and steal some items It's pretty funny. After you're done beating and robbing the leading to a rock crusher. The machine's on the fritz, so you need Lorenzo busts in, so here's his boss fight. It's a matter of luring him onto the conveyor running over to the controls and bashing into Make a pancake out of the old man. Lucky for us that rock crusher spit out a This unlocks a door that leads deeper into Further on, another door will close behind Hewie, and a young man's voice will taunt Is Riccardo not dead? Even when she tries to hide, the voice taunts After messing with her for a bit, the door but when we pass through it, we're in a Fiona then meets her new tormentor. So Lorenzo has somehow succeeded in making a villain from Final Fantasy XII. Also, that face looks familiar doesn't it? Remember those portraits in the bedroom? Old man Aureolus and young man Aureolus, staring Fiona. Young Lorenzo can use alchemy or some form a chase sequence with him. Fiona will end up passing through another of the House of Truths. There's a short puzzle involving some differently And this leads to a room with a lava pit in to be placed. Finding that something involves using Hewie in one part of the house. Fiona feels a sensation in the birthmark on game, but isn't mentioned, and is only focused on the wall and reveals the Cane of Caduceus. Now, the cane is from Roman and Greek mythology, the gods. The cane also has several ties to alchemy, awaken sleepers, and revive the dead. Taking the cane and placing it in the altar a doorway that we don't have access to yet. First, we're going to have to deal with And he's got one-hit kill attacks. This is the final boss in the game, essentially, No other gimmicks to this fight. It takes a while, and he's dangerous, what is another method that can help out. Every now and then some tremors will cause Kicking these into the lava pit will cause the room. Fiona can walk over this stuff no problem, Using the fire, with a combination of Hewie's younger Lorenzo go down a bit quicker. You can also use the controls on the walls fans in the room, but Fiona and Hewie can find it as effective. After beating him up enough, he'll fall Now, the House of Truths is crumbling and Oh my god. This dude doesn't know when to quit. Now, we have a burning Lorenzo after us. The goal here is to escape and not get knocked They can be avoided by crouching when the But then, there's this part where a statue it upright. Wouldn't want this to fall over and break When she makes it to the entrance Lorenzo He just stands there screaming until he's And that's it. Ok, now that's it. And here's the icing on the cake. This time you really are dead. You bastard. All that's left is to exit the house and the ending. Nice Clock Tower reference. This is the best ending, which can be achieved having the best relationship with Hewie. The alternative ending is achieved by killing better relationship with Hewie. This one just doesn't have Debilitas show I've already talked about the worst ending, Hewie poorly. But there's one more ending that can only Remember when I mentioned that if you take visit him in his shack, he'll give Fiona Well, by following the path that the key unlocks able to open the castle gates in the beginning You can then escape the castle before even Doing this, gets us this special ending. Don't go. My life. My Fiona. Now that you've seen the full story, there to fit together involving some backstory not We know now that the entire plot to capture He was the one who sent Riccardo to run the Ugo, Fiona's father, and Riccardo are both of the original alchemist Aureolus Belli. Ugo was the first clone of Lorenzo, but was mother. There are no details about how these two became produced Fiona. Lorenzo was enraged by this betrayal and attempted was a failure, stricken with accelerated aging. This is why, even though Riccardo was created age as Ugo during the events of the game. Probably due to this, he wasn't the favorite in alchemy himself. We already know that Azoth is the source of all living things. This may be why there are empty cages for Hewie is there in the first place. Riccardo was experimenting in extracting Azoth Debilitas is probably a And Riccardo was most likely also the one throughout the old mansion and the failures Aureolus Belli was on a quest to utilize Azoth which naturally would require eternal life. Powerful Azoth is needed to create a perfect of Aureolus, she possesses a potent amount Lorenzo, the oldest clone of Aureolus at this that by using Fiona's Azoth, he can create and succeed in Aureolus' original quest However, Riccardo, being the problem child, but then used his manservant Debilitas to the keeper of. He wants to create his own perfect clone of Debilitas being another failure and possessing for a plaything and wishes to keep her for There also may be some remnants of Aureolus' by him and witnessing the game over screen, Fiona. And again, all of the gameover screens are Daniella may also be a failed experiment of loyalty to him. He may have tried to make a woman that contained Belli. It's heavily implied that along with not being probably also infertile. This could also feed into the jealousy she She may have tried or been forced to attempt Riccardo as well, but failed. So she's left only as the maid of the estate Riccardo only pays attention to her to abuse of Lorenzo. And the old man never even makes mention of There's also a darker possibility when it She could just be a normal woman who was kidnapped to her captor. Over years of abuse and neglect, she's come can't feel pain. The whole idea of attempting to make a clone And by capturing Fiona and stealing her Azoth, of Lorenzo's attention. She could also just be trying to dick over Whatever the case, Lorenzo easily became wise attempted to act as Fiona's ally. He's old and feeble, so has no way to fight so he stays hidden for most of the game and some level of trust. Probably out of desperation, this all falls to the House of Truths where he's sequestered. There's another cutscene that can only be seems to breathe in Riccardo's Azoth after the water tower. This is most likely how he was able to reverse And survive being blown up and pulled into And also falling into a pit of lava and still alive? Weird and wild stuff. Fiona is now the last heir of Aureolus Belli, to assume that the quest for the ultimate affect her and she and Hewie have effectively So as for the English title Haunting Ground, could refer to the failed Humonculous or clones It could also represent how the antagonists or mentally and exist as ghosts of themselves And I mean, yeah, I guess, but I still feel Either way, I do prefer the English to the But that's just me. After completing the game, you get access A secret room, which is the bedroom from the You can check concept art, rewatch cutscenes, Hewie gets a brown German Shepherd look that to control. Fiona gets some of the outfits that she's outfit where she can use a pistol, as well Then there's the frog suit. The last bonus is the mini game where you while being pursued by one of the antagonists. It's fun being able to play as Hewie, but Still cool though. Anyway, yeah, Haunting Ground certainly has through it, but the game itself is also really I loved the art direction, the gameplay, and and Hewie. There are a couple spots where the presentation it was thought-provoking and affecting. I'm sure many of you have your own thoughts over is up to interpretation since a lot of your own thoughts in the comments. And that's it for Haunting Ground. This video was brought to you by the Dungeon They support the channel on Patreon and through They voted on this video to be covered. And I'll be doing another poll maybe in I have a few games I personally want to cover that I've received from people up for a So if you'd like to participate in that, get exclusive updates from me, as well as a link to the Patreon in the description and video page. I need to personally thank the people who Those are the Dungeon Architects: As well as the Dungeon Connoisseurs: Thank you all for your support. And once again, thank you for watching. Next time, gonna relax a bit and do a stupid Until then. Haunting Ground. Check it out. Dungeon Chill. Out.