Season 1 of Fallout is great. Wonderful. Fantastic even. And one of the reasons is the attention to Fans of the games are going to be eating it references, easter eggs, teases and so much So in this video we're going to be covering is a blurred line between what's simply an but honestly I... I ehh we're talking about it all. Deal with it. So do all the things, like, subscribe, grab we hit the wasteland... Kicking things off, the opening scene showcasing Fallout world, who's movie posters were latest updates. Anyway he's sporting the same blue and yellow patented vault jumpsuits. The song playing in this opening is "Orange A subtle nod to what eventually happens in featured in a TV advertisement for Fallout stations in Fallout 4 and 76. Cooper mentions his horse's name is "Sugarfoot", the same name. Heck, Cooper's outfit and persona are also character Tom 'Sugarfoot' Brewster. On the television set, there's various ads with Sugar Bombs cereal. It then switches to a Saturday Morning cartoon version of the 90's cartoon Conan The Barbarian. Grognak is featured in various magazines in state, whereas the title of this episode is one of the pip-boy games you can play in Fallout Later on you can find a unique weapon in a When we first meet Lucy, she is the embodiment We are quickly shown a classroom featuring Fallout game, with the stars standing for The vault boy images around the room are the perk card system Lucy talking with the vault council is basically her stats, much like the Fallout games start perks before hitting the wasteland. This movie shows up and is references several same Cooper Howard movie that is being filmed The War and Peace book is a clever foreshadowing time. HOPING for a war and then peace. Yeah good try. Lucy's brother Norm is playing the pip-boy is basically a rip-off of Missile Command A familiar vault boy bobblehead is shown front games as they could help increase stats or I'm not going to point out EVERY piece of Iron Fist perk card from Fallout 76. Maybe a stretch, but Lucy's husband from of which there is a character by the name and he is affiliated with the raiders. Could be him, with this series taking place Lucy's pip-boy detects radiation with the Upon opening the first aid kit, Lucy heals games to aid the player character after they've The weapon Lucy uses appears to be a sleek rather syringer rifle from Fallout 4, that at enemies. There's a "Don't lose your head poster" Lucy to keep her cool, but also foreshadowing severed head. This is also a subtle easter egg for the Fallout quest called "Game Show Gauntlet" where they confront raiders and try not to "lose This raider takes a hit of Jet, an addictive of energy and heightened strength for a brief Once the Vault 33 projector goes out, the Stand By" screen used in many of the games, We're first introduced to Maximus, currently Maximus's name, could be a hint at where of the name being a military title to honor be the future path of Maximus. Further exploring the Brotherhood of Steel, California style flag, while the father later "Lost Hills" featured in Fallout 1 &amp; 2. The squires are also sporting the "official" games. The "relic" that Maximus is asked to identify item, used for high-tec weapon modifications, nothing but power. This Brotherhood of Steel airship is the Caswennan, accessible in Fallout 4, when working with The power armor model the Brotherhood use They mention other models, but this is the Of course this wouldn't be Fallout without of this world, and its pop caps are what's While the power armor is store used a Power and later used to upgrade and modify your Once Lucy is outside of Vault 33, we can see Santa Monica Pier because of the ruined ferris Which this location shows up in the original actually access it. Shout out to Indiana Jones and The Crystal in a refrigerator if there is a nuclear explosion. BEST scene of the whole movie, I said it. Dane can be seen reading the Guns and Bullets Device? One of various magazines in Fallout 4 that guns. The giant bags are easily my favorite addition to be a cheeky visualization of how you purposely pack mules. Picking up weapons, armor, and scrap, and for you. The "mug drawings" of Wilzig and the Dog magazines from Fallout 4. One of the criminals digging up The Ghoul Fallout 4 that jets junk, thats about it. It also makes an appearance in Filly when and funny enough it has a price of 285 caps, 4. The Ghoul, or rather Cooper Howard has a lot with this standoff scene taking inspiration Although this puppo at the Enclave is named dog you meet in Fallout 4 at the Red Rocket Which almost beat for beat happens later in CX202 from the freezer. Also umm... you know, dogs and red rockets... it's allll a joke The guard outside of the Enclave is holding stock, and I'm saying it's actually the you can acquire in Fallout 4. In this scene you can also see a monster hand doubt a super mutant experiment, probably by West Tek. The brain in the jar has gotta be an early we get to see later in Vault 31. Essentially it was a way to extend life spans settings. Wilzig and CX404 have to avoid a machine gun stationary turret that's a major headache, measures. As Lucy is continuing her exploration of the rusted Assaultron. I hated these in Fallout 4, as they were originally the Great War. Radroaches make a few cameos throughout the They are mutated cockroaches. So no thank you, but you could eat the meat The more you know I forgot to mention these earlier, but Maximus of Steel Vertibird, originally used as US There are a lot of Fallout food logos that We already mentioned Nuka Cola and Sugar Bombs. Here Wilzig opens up a can of cram, our version Lucy drinks from a "purified" water bottle, Big Boss cigarettes are featured in Ma's cleaner. At the campsite Lucy is munching on some yum In the super duper mart, there is a baggie abandoned overseer office glue, a prominent Another beloved weapon or I guess hated depends rifle from Fallout 4, with a few different Which instantly gets chomped up by Yao Guai, And is quickly dispatched by Maximus, using pistol from Fallout 76. Amongst the venders in Filly, Lucy walks by nod to the puppo from Fallout 4. But he also sells iguana, another food staple Stingwing meat, a mutated version of a scorpionfly, Which we see a live version of later, essentially A little behind the scenes info, Jonathan to Filly is supposed to be intended to generate to Megaton in Fallout 3, juxtaposing the &quot;pre-&quot; During THE GHOUL shoot out of Filly, he basically aka V.A.T.S. Which is a system that allows players to specifically them that way. And yes, I know The Ghoul doesn't have a limbs AND the slow motion sequence of following The Ghoul is also packing some explosive ammo. In the chaos of this firefight, other company company in this world. Rob Co Industries, a robotics and software ranging from typical gas stations to oil rigs. There are half a dozen things in Ma's shop, counter, looking similar to Grognak issue On the desk, there is a copy of Wasteland Decoration Guide. There's a copy of Tales of a Junktown Jerky is another copy of Wasteland Survival Guide Other things in Ma's shop is a mini-nuke and there is a poster of Mr. Pebbles in the I.. I'm supposed to say that. This is a great one, so the brand of robotic called Jim's Limbs, and this is a nod to But the special ability of it is a 20% chance Perfect, no notes. The heads up display of Maximus's power to players of the game when they get into The integrity of the suit, fusion core levels, The tool Lucy has to use on Wilzig is a variation A small handheld clipper chainsaw tool. Funny enough his severed head is a.... Nod... To the Fallout tactics: Brotherhood of Steel of a scientist is used as a quest item. The phrase Cooper mentions like 5 times is translates to "Ugly, Strong, and Dignified", on his own gravestone. The giant salmon colored creature we learn refers to it as a Gulper, which are big old in the wasteland. Back in the vault, when the one vault member is the same design as the water chip from clever, because the events of that game start the player to find a new chip. The billboard The Ghoul shoots is pretty cheeky, a clock, as in "time is running out on these it's symbolizing the doomsday clock and Vault-Tec you sneaky bastards. Another sneaky Vault-Tec thing is when someone referring to the Vault-Tec jumpsuit, because a plus +10 radiation protection The other ghoul that The Ghoul knows mentions 28 years, a nice reference to the 28 trilogy the upcoming 28 years later. Another corporation reference is Super Duper in this world, using the logo and coloring Fallout 3 design. The Pick a job that's special to you banner as the perk cards section of Fallout 76. Inside of the Super Duper mart, all of the side mission in Fallout 4 called "Kid in featured here. Obviously a kid is stuck in a fidge, and then or sell him essentially into slavery, much Lucy's new get up shows she's slowly adapting the Wastelander's armor set found in Fallout The Ghoul takes a break to enjoy some chems King. This appears in the world, the games, they is actually a reference to The Simpsons, first in 1994. Apparently this was a purposeful inclusion laugh, both original creators of Fallout. While the movie The Ghoul watches is The Man westerns, but Dead Horse may be a reference located at Dead Horse Point on the Colorado Lucy talks about Power Armor, and mentions Battle of Anchorage. Something that the games featured in the opening simulation in Fallout 3 with the add on Operation: This was a war between the US and China over roughly a decade, leading right up to the On the chalkboard for voting day, there is official US flag, and that the 14 Star flag War broke out. When crossing the bridge with the two raiders, Now at first I thought it just meant they to the chem based raider group by the same Vegas. Shady Sands is heavily featured in this series, As it was the best attempt at rebuilding, Republic, featured in Fallout 1 and 2. And we now know Vault-Tec was behind it's Less of an easter egg and more of a potential are scientists who experimented on vault dwellers, Vault-Tec anyway, we learn Stephanie who is is Hawthrone... Coincidence?! Matt Berry plays Sebastian Leslie, one of sold his voice rights to the Mr. Handy robot, he recites he is Bartholomew Codsworth the handy robot you first meet in Fallout 4. When Lucy takes a glance at the New California Fallout 4 drops The scientist in Vault 4 grabs a harpoon or but this doesn't look like the models in this looks like the simple spear gun from The cap farmers in the opening of episode that is the same armor featured on the cover where the series ends, showcasing the New Lucky 38 Resort and Casino. The snake oil salesman is like any sleezy fixing a foot or growing back limbs is casually result in ghoulification ties in with John just like Thaddeus, whereas most other ghouls The poster behind Regg in the bathroom is Of The Fishmen from Fallout 4, but even funnier toilet. I forgot this one, A fallout lunch box can Lucy. In game these were fun little almost mystery in them. Another magazine is spotted in Coopers home, in game these magazines would give a boost I already mentioned Thaddeus turning into he is shot with the arrow, he displays the HP to the character when irradiated Speaking of perks, Norm's hacking perk has into the overseer's computer, using the games. Maybe the game reference I nerded out the I couldn't help but think of Anakin and the father, it feels very sinister, and like not going to end well. The meeting of the minds, or Vault-Tec and world, start to throw out ideas of experiments are in fact pulled straight from the games. Vault 87 was the vault used to create Super in episode 2. Vault 51 had an AI overseer, via a ZAX 1.3c Vault 27 was the purposely overcrowded vault. Vault 106 had psychoactive drugs released the door was sealed, resulting in a destroyed And Vault 29 was the vault that was run by to an undisclosed location. All of these are big wigs in their own respect, in is the head of RobCo Industries, Robert New Vegas. The frozen corpses and cryo-chambers are no tie in with the opening of Fallout 4, where one once the vaults are closed without them Outside of Vault-Tec, in the background you all the way to simple office tasks, sweeping Barb Howard, now thinking about it, I'm Howard, producer, director, pretty much everything I'm getting off topic, Barb mutters the been a staple to how almost all of the Fallout Hank's pin code that Holdover needs for the the original release date of the first Fallout Holdover is rocking a laser pistol when the and lastly we hit the Mojave Desert, one of we see a Deathclaw skull, scary ass monsters creatures developed by the United States military missions. Season 2 better have these lizard bois! That is everything we found in the Fallout There is a LOT packed in here, and I love I mean the small nods, references, and easter solid story and maybe the best video game Or at least it is by far my favorite. Let me know in the comets what were some of along with some things I might have missed. Because I know for a fact I did NOT find everything, thing, and I would love to hear about it, A MASSIVE thank you to everyone who made it again thank you, please subscribe and like me know just what you thought of Fallout in If you want to help the channel even further, on screen and in the description below. Honestly I'm on every platform, it's obnoxious,