Do you know what occurred to me? the faintest idea what you're talkin' about. there's something particularly painful about in Good Will Hunting. The set up still is the the weary psychologist and the troubled young latter's veneer of superior intelligence is about the importance of actual lived experience. bet you can't tell me what it The words are undeniable timeless, relating to existing in survival mode; alive but And you wouldn't know about sleeping sitting holding her hand, because the doctors &quot;visiting hours&quot; don't apply to you. hit so differently today, and the reason I keep moved further away from this kind of meaningful specifics of Will's situation; his poverty, his to work with his best buddy, hanging out at bars, watching him exist in that broader time and place and feel an even deeper poignancy in what Sean up with the internet, and that are growing I spent much of my youth, probably too much, but still isolated. Having everything within A life lived vicariously through intermediaries. balancing act. And it took me many years to and that no matter how informative or constructive never fully replace the directly experienced one. Will Hunting. Now, I do know what it smells like places, transformative places. Most of them what it's like to sit in a hospital room holding another day. The point is, Sean's words definitely of the nature of wisdom and knowledge, and, And perhaps above all, he underscored how how easily we can fools ourselves that we have a lifetime living in that pretense, never truly Unless you want to talk about you, who For that's ultimately the real reason to care random bits of experiential trivia about places in books, it's about deepening your own inner to know yourself. It's about becoming a person. presented a beautiful articulation of what being. The entire movie feels like an unsettling drawing you in, only to strip you down, and leave techniques that achieved this experience, you the deliberate blocking of the actors, the sound and deconstructed over the years, I feel the has gone somewhat underappreciated as a It leads into the broader question here; why do the first place? Why dedicate an entire video right? As opposed to literature or a stage play, director Denis Villeneuve recently said; "I don't movies because of a strong image ... Pure image and that recalls similar sentiments from other great for example, who doesn't believe movies are sound, a lot of emotions. The stories are I agree. There is a unique potential to cinema in express in words, but while it is true that this it's also one of language, and more specifically; to all the monologues that deeply affected me, mantras to be repeated over and over again, it's it's also the context in which they were spoken, They're not real. You get that, It's been 3 years since the movie Pig came out, scene in which Nicholas Cage's character a chef who looks like he's achieved great a lie, trying to conform to some image of who he Every day, you'll wake up, and there'll be less don't even see you. You don't even see yourself. and beautifully capture a story that, at and about how easily we can lose sight calories for nourishment, subsequently finding is just something about the way Nicholas Cage yet also strangely heartfelt and empathetic, that he's not trying to get a win, he isn't to make him see, make us see, what he is saying. Sometimes, truth is best conveyed by presenting audience no space to ignore or to misinterpret like when trying to point out how that shell you can safely live in, isn't just tragic it is also futile, bound to break apart; pathos and emphasis, to help you understand like a young romance that has come to an relation to love for the rest of their lives. Maybe you never wanted to feel anything. This conversation between a father and his son the story about a young man named Elio who just the whole movie has this beautiful dreamlike almost feels like a different realm, which is at the end of it, when the summer is over, and grounded moment with his father who, as the camera calmly and thoughtfully reframes his son's pain but as a profound quality to be cherished. and with it the joy you felt. Terrence Malick's To The Wonder is a strange speak of a traditional narrative here, is almost and scattered thoughts. It's a movie that feels which is probably why it still is such a something unique within it, something they and bounce back on its complete absence of the the middle. It's not my favorite Terrence Malick on me nonetheless, which, somewhat ironically is mainly because of one of its monologues. We fear to choose. Jesus insists on choice. By Your Name, Malick doesn't put his grand speech with the words floating somewhere in until eventually being drawn out completely by however, for it reflects the larger thematic the disconnection experienced by Ben Affleck's with that which matters most, with that which wrote in his review; "Never has Malick created Neil. In conspicuous contrast to the never-ending his most characteristic action is to stand and Now, I was going to immediately circle but it was at this point in the script this is Terrence Malick's Fight Club. Ok, not There is a particular kind of modern commentary variety of monologues that you surely remember; working jobs we hate so we For a slightly more updated version, you might I'm not saying anything new. not because Hunger Games books makes us happy, painful not to pretend, because we're cowards. that many people, especially men, We're the middle children of history, man. No Depression. Our Great War's a spiritual They certainly hit on some truth. After all, been remembered. But as much as I can connect briefly making me feel cooler and edgier, these for me. They didn't end up giving me a meaningful but no real antidote. Because no, Tyler Durden's to have achieved some form of enlightenment not the answer either. And this is where To gave me a different, more eloquent perspective in actually achieving some kind of growth. of modernity and the way it's obscuring our sources of meaning and purpose. In fact, it's The world's gone to the dogs. People In his works, this fundamental conflict is materialistic, selfish, dominating, and the way engagement. Neil, who works for an oil company, is world. Lost in a haze of failing relationships chasing some vague desire that never truly truly able to fulfill. Going back to Baskin's only that he wants." And as such, as the review inexhaustibility of the Western male's longing, motive: truly Weber's 'specialists without this might read as a condemnation, there is also is genuine longing, a genuine capacity for Neil, meaning; it's just in conflict with the ways of and grandeur it offers in particularly to men, I wanted to be loved because I And it's on this note, that Niel's priest, a gives a lecture that might as well have been aimed from, if only he was listening. "We wish to live referring here not so much to actual laws but comforts, and other artificial obstructions, in the way of true meaning - "We fear to thing he condemns utterly is avoiding the choice." yourself is to run the risk, is to run the risk He goes on to explain that Jesus can deal with and that if you make a mistake you can repent, with me, the part that is almost erased by attention to if you want to even properly says - "who does nothing, who buries his talent Now, I don't consider myself a religious person, useful as a metaphor. And so even though it or an agnostic person, I think there's great value scripture, or any ancient text or philosophy, particular struggle you are going through is at deeper, more fundamental issues that aren't solely fact, another way to arrive at this conclusion is now has been around long enough to prove that many problems have actually been around for much Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator for example, may as well have been written yesterday; the world with hate, has goose-stepped us into but we have shut ourselves in. Machinery that has made us cynical. Our cleverness, hard and To be fair, the temporal distance from which a more pessimistic interpretation; namely that maybe fundamentally bad. But to me, and this is of the priest resonate so strongly with me, Malick's commentary from that of a Fight Club this struggle signifies that the real achievement by the state of the world around us as much as it responsibility for our place in it. In other or personal happiness, it's not just about we about what is demanded of us. And as such, the The director's cut of Kingdom of Heaven is I also believe it's a genuine masterpiece when the protagonist, is a character in search of not make the world better?" - he has engraved in of knighthood; a code of honor that in its Be without fear in the face of your enemies. Speak the truth always, even if it leads to your And yet, when I think of Kingdom of my attention is drawn towards, one that adds ones proposed by the knighthood are so important. your soul is in your keeping alone. the king prepares Balian for the socio-political much the same game that we all have to take the more existential conflict that lies hidden because no matter what our place in life is, freedom that cannot be compromised unless we innate demand for personal responsibility. be kings or men of power. When you stand by others to do thus,&quot; or that virtue was not What he explains here are basically the Kant, which to put it simply; propose that what of an action, but rather by the intention that adhered to. There is obviously a lot more to it here, what matters is that it's a philosophy that allow us, as Balian is eventually confronted with, It's a kingdom of conscience, or nothing. philosophies, and also one that, despite having complicated when it comes to actually bringing it I've always been so fascinated by it. For to would lead to a kingdom of conscience if seem so consequential, or even righteous such moral simplicity is just never the case. for what we do, what we fail to do, aren't we? Malick movie, which beautifully explores implications through the true story of Frans Nazi Germany, and who was prosecuted for it. By being confronted with a choice between at times impossible complications of and the real cost that doing so might have. It shows how that which compromises our core be evil, might very well be that which is lawful, believed, or even, what is commonly valued in a more than that, especially in our modern society, that which compromises the principles that we that which we, in some way or another, are already difficult, if not downright impossible, to willing to make significant personal sacrifices. kind of fatalistic relativism, you know; the idea that any attempt of doing something would only it's therefore better to just ignore it all, to distracting ourselves with the superfluous, go gain, false ideals and empty philosophies. of this prevailing sentiment, this ease with unbeing, that I find myself coming back to these and to the strength by which they are to remind myself of what truly matters, what it in personal relationships, in the causes connection to the world and the people in it. action as an individual or as part of a greater or a more abstract leap of faith, the dedication We rip out so much of ourselves You have to struggle with yourself. You're sitting on a winning lottery ticket - time we start with someone new. More than machinery, we need humanity. More than I dishonored it all I didn't notice the glory. You shall love, whether you like it or not. You do what's in your heart son you'll be fine. surface when it comes to covering all the great our worldview, monologues that stir our emotions, we go. On this note, there is a wonderful Gerwig and Noah Baumbach, which talks about in a relationship, but which really points to that own secret worlds of meaning and connection; and you love them and they know it, For the rest of the monologue, I'd highly which is now streaming on friend of the MUBI. MUBI is a curated cinema streaming you will find a vast library of great movies from and every one them being carefully hand-selected offer. And if you go to mubi.com/likestoriesofold, sure to claim your extended free trial, to