[Western Music] [Kevin] In the late 1950s, Texas-based visited the newly-opened Disneyland in Anaheim, California. After seeing the full potential of theme parks, Wynne decided that he would create his own in the Lone Star State. This led to the development of Six Flags Over Texas, The name &quot;Six Flags&quot; came from the Spain, France, Mexico, the Republic of Texas, the Confederate States of America, These would also operate as the park's six themed lands, all of which would contain simple attractions and shows. Six Flags Over Texas was a success, In June of 1967, Six Flags Over Georgia Just four years later in June of 1971, would debut in St. Louis, Missouri. This would be the last full-fledged amusement park in the United States to be constructed by the company, and every Six Flags to open after 1971 The first of these would come in 1975, with Six Flags rebranding a young park [Music] [TV announcer] This crowd of more than 50,000 attending a Houston Astros baseball game in the world's largest air-conditioned room, is but one example of the reason attend all kinds of events and [Narrator] In the early 1960s, Judge Roy Hofheinz, spent over $30 million to construct a sports stadium The complex would be named the Astrodome, which like the Astros, was given its name in honor of the newly-constructed manned spacecraft center. Due to the scorching climate of coastal Texas, creating the world's first fully-domed sports stadium. The Astrodome opened in 1965 to much fanfare, being hailed as the 8th wonder of the world After the success of the stadium, Hofheinz saw potential which he would call the Astrodomain. This was to include a convention center named and a brand-new amusement park named AstroWorld. Hofheinz wasted no time, and beginning development on the Astrodomain. The plans for Hofheinz's theme park In the fall of that same year, He touted that the park would become with the potential of 1.5 million guests every year. Hofheinz had consulted with management at in an attempt to avoid issues that the Hofheinz have purchased around 115 acres of land on the other side of the interstate from the Astrodome, and only around 57 acres of the plot would be used for the park at opening, with plenty of room to expand. AstroWorld was designed by architect After spending decades as a designer Duell would create a firm that would combine With this, he and his associates would go on to design a large number of US theme parks, including Six Flags Over Texas. Designing AstroWorld was not going and many obstacles were clear from the start. The first issue with the area was that the This required over a million cubic yards of dirt to be brought in to fill the foundation in order to prevent flooding. Also, Loop 610 separated the park from so a private bridge would be built across the interstate in order to allow guest parking on the At one point, discussion of a monorail loop for the Astrodomain properties was discussed, but this never came to fruition. Finally, Houston's heat would bring out the He, Duell, and the air conditioning company, Carrier in which fans blowing cold water would be placed The park received elaborate landscaping, giving AstroWorld lush greenery that was rarely seen in the area. As for the layout, Duell divided the park into 8 themed areas; American Square, Oriental Corner, Plaza de Fiesta, Children's World, Western Junction, European Village, Alpine Valley, and Mod Ville. The American Square was the park's entrance. It was similar in design and function to with a variety of shops Oriental Corner featured a station for the park's train, The Black Dragon, an octopus-style carnival ride, and a station for the AstroWay, Plaza de Fiesta was home to the Lost World Adventure, a Jungle Cruise-style boat ride that took guests along a river and featured narrating skippers and animated figures. Children's World, as the name implies, These included the Maypole, a teacups ride, a petting zoo, and the Rubba-Dub, The Western Junction featured another as well as the Crystal Palace Theatre, The area also included a Wild West shooting gallery, and the Millpond Bumper Boats. The European Village prominently featured the Astroneedle, originally named Skyrama. This 340-feet-tall double-decker Intamin gently spinning in order to give them Due to its size and placement, this was Also located in the European section was the Le Taxi, a French car ride that allowed guests The Alpine Valley featured a carousel, and AstroWorld's most complex ride; the Alpine Sleigh ride. This thrilling dark ride took guests in sleighs From the outside, guests could view the large structure The ride itself utilized state-of-the-art technology. On the way up the mountain, guests would pass the They would eventually reach a second tunnel This was executed with a microphone in the first tunnel recording the sounds onto a specially developed tape. It was perfectly timed to play the recording The next effect came after a steep drop into the mountain in a section nicknamed the Blasting Tunnel. Here, strobe lights would brightly flash, disorienting riders. They would then fly past the scene of a miner Guests would dip and turn, eventually making their way After this, guests would come face-to-face played by a park employee in a crude costume. While the entire ride was inspired by the addition of the monster actually predated The next section guests would enter was the cold room, complete with falling ice and freezing temperatures. This effect was made possible and the cold room was the attractions biggest draw, After making their way through the room, guests would take a final steep drop, returning them to the loading station. The attraction was by far the most unique It would open three weeks after the The ride would unsurprisingly experience causing the removal of many of the original effects, which only lasted a few years Finally, the Mod Ville section of the park These included a double-lift ferris wheel, the AstroWheel, a scrambler ride, The Happening, and another tracked auto ride named Spin-out. AstroWorld came with a high price tag, around $25 million, but it seemed that it was well worth the cost. Hofheinz and Duell's attention to detail rivaled that of Disney, and the assortment of attractions built With AstroWorld completed, it was time to open the Let your troubles slide away, let's get happy for a day. AstroWorld is waiting for you, anytime you say, hey. Dancing in the moonlight, playing in the sunshine, We make people happy. AstroWorld. AstroWorld. Ha! AstroWorld opened its gates to the public on June 1, 1968. The park saw around 50,000 guests in its first weekend, receiving rave reviews for its theming, its attractions, and especially, its air conditioning. AstroWorld was another success and the planned expansions to the park went forward. The Oriental Corner would receive a log flume named the Bamboo Chute The park would receive its first new themed land in 1970. Fun Island was located in the lagoon in the center of the park and would feature two attractions; a tilted house named the Wacky Shack This was Chance Industry's signature toboggan coaster. This style was usually portable, with the simple ride lifting guests vertically through the coaster's center and then letting gravity spiral the cars downward. AstroWorld's version was unique and that the coaster was designed to look like a giant tree. In 1972, another new land, Country Fair, opened. This expansion cost around $1.5 million as it included AstroWorld's first big coaster; This Arrow minecart reached a height of 80 feet A new carousel, a walkthrough museum and a bumper car ride named the AstroWorld's official mascot, Marvel McFey, The character would soon get his own theatre The park was filling out quite nicely, renovating rides, and switching out the The park had become part of Houston and the locals looked forward to its operating season each year. However, whether guests had asked for it or not, We're in a world, but AstroWorld, and you'll have so much fun! Flying high, on top of the rides, cooling off on the water slides. Thrills and chills both night and day, the memories will always stay. If on the loop, eat, and dance, and sing, you won't believe what surprises will bring. We're in a world, but AstroWorld, and you'll have so much fun! And so close to home. [Banjo Music] The biggest change to AstroWorld Less than a decade after the park opened, Hofheinz, hindered by health and financial issues, decided to lease AstroWorld to Six Flags with an option to purchase, which the company would do before the 1976 season. Being their first acquired park, In 1976, the Coney Island area would open in AstroWorld. This would bring a new theater Six Flags had considered relocating but after factoring in the cost of transporting the existing ride decided to build a new attraction based off the classic coaster. Reaching speeds of 60 miles per hour the wooden coaster was one of The Texas Cyclone dazzled guests and critics, The Texas Cyclone would soon be labeled In 1978, the shuttle loop coaster, Greezed Lightnin', This coaster, manufactured by Anton Schwarzkopf, that the train would travel through once forward after launch, and then again backwards. Two years later in 1980, AstroWorld Thunder River, the world's first river rapids ride, While a common ride type now, this was the first of its kind, and a huge kit for AstroWorld. In 1983, SkyScreamer, an Intamin drop tower, The tower was 143 feet tall, and dropped guests This same year, The Alpine Sleigh ride would close due to high maintenance costs, leaving the mountain abandoned. The ambitious ride had a 15-year run at AstroWorld. 1983 would also see Waterworld, The park featured a standard array of slides and pools. A year later in 1984, AstroWorld received which would be placed in the Plaza de Fiesta area. Its track would dangle guests directly which had been renamed to the River of No Return. In its later years, the coaster would allowing guests to choose between riding This was also the time that Six Flags acquired the rights to the Looney Tunes characters from Warner Brothers, and Time Warner was becoming The Houston park was at the mercy but so far, it had treated AstroWorld extremely well, constantly bringing new rides, attractions, and experiences. Six Flags was actively making the park better, and they had more improvements planned for the coming years. Long John Silvers where your money goes along Long John Silver's way! This fall, make your visit to AstroWorld go even Now through November 29th, save $4.00 on your AstroWorld ticket with discount coupons from Long John Silver's. where your money goes along Long John Silver's way! [Music] In the mid-1980s, a dance club named Because it seems that no theme park was safe from the '80s. A Houston MTV style dance show This is also the year that Halloween festivities would begin. In 1987, a new attraction called Looping Starship would debut. A year later, the water ride, Tidal Wave, which had been rethemed to the wetlands a few years prior. This marked an end to the attraction's 20-year run. In 1989, a new steel coaster, Viper, The coaster was 80 feet tall, had a small tunnel on The next year, another new coaster, This unique ride was a pipeline roller coaster and had previously operated at Six Flags Great Adventure before being moved to the Houston park. This was the only ride of its kind in the United States In 1993, AstroWorld opened a major new attraction. The ride was named Batman: The Escape. This stand-up coaster had been a resident at two previous Six Flags parks before making its way to AstroWorld. Here, it would be themed to the DC Comics superhero. The main villain of the ride was The Penguin, who was pursuing guests throughout the queue and the ride. The queue featured areas themed to The coaster itself had little theming apart from The attraction was quite rough, but it was extremely popular despite this. Next to Batman: the Escape, Six Flags finally found a use for the abandoned mountain structure leftover from the Alpine Sleigh ride. This show building would become home to the Batcave. Guests on their way to Batman: the Escape and see some of his gadgets, The same year that Batman: the Escape opened, Time Warner would complete its takeover Little change for the Six Flags parks as they've been using Warner Brothers' properties The parks had nothing to worry about for the time being. However, this moment of peace would not last long. In 1995, in Indoor coaster, the Mayan Mindbender, This was a fairly tame ride, but the dark added an extra thrill to the experience A few years later in 1998, an even more detailed attraction, This ride was themed after a castle This year also saw the addition of Taz's Texas Tornado, But this was all minor news compared to Time Warner had been approached The corporation, which had only begun operation in 1982, was purchasing as many regional amusement parks as corporately possible. After going public in 1996, they now had the funds necessary to purchase the Six Flags parks off of Time Warner's hands. Time Warner, which had recently begun Premier took control of all the Six Flags parks, bringing the total number of amusement parks Kieran Burke, the chairman and CEO of Premier Parks, celebrated that, &quot;This is a transforming transaction for Premier, Premier began rebranding their eventually dropping the name, Premier, altogether AstroWorld continued operation as usual, hoping that the changes in the company would have only positive effects on the 30-year-old park. [Dramatic Guitar] Years after the acquisition by Premier, The last major ride the park had received was 1999's Apart from a couple of new carnival rides and a few repainted attractions, AstroWorld was stagnant. The park had undergone a lot of change in the past 37 years. Many fan favorite attractions were removed such as Still, the majority of the parks signature attractions remained, including Dungeon Drop, Looping Starship, Bamboo Shoot, The Antique Taxis, The 610 Limited, Mayan Mindbender, Greezed Lightnin', Viper, Serpent, and the Texas Cyclone. The park had entertained many guests While the park had been receiving less attention it was still beloved by the citizens of Houston And none of them could have expected [News reporter 1] Turn out the lights, the party's over, [News reporter 2] Six Flags AstroWorld shut down While they said it would happen about 6:00, it took longer because some fans just didn't want to say goodbye. [News reporter 1] 11 News reporter Jeremy Desel was there tonight for the final ride. He joins us now to tell us about the end. Jeremy? [Jeremy Desel] Well, that's right. It took about two extra hours to get folks out of the lines for those rides and out of the park. Certainly, AstroWorld over the years has been known for all of its thrills and its screams and on closing day, you can add tears to the list. On September 12, 2005, CEO Kieran Burke announced that AstroWorld would not reopen for the 2006 season. Many reasons were cited for its closure, including decreased quality of staff, increasingly rude guests, decreased attendance, and an unfortunate circumstance. Since AstroWorld was separated from the the park had been leasing parking from the complex. Unfortunately, when the Houston Texans a new stadium was built next to the existing Astrodome. This would not only be used for football games, including the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo. This caused parking disputes between All these issues led Six Flags to decide ...or maybe it was something else. Perhaps all of the aforementioned issues were not just a series of misfortunes Six Flags had to endure; It was quite the opposite really. While Six Flags was quick to point out they did not mention that their company Premier had not stopped purchasing parks The company continued its acquisitions, both in the US and abroad, at a rate that was unsustainable. The tipping point came in the early 2000s, with the company's debt becoming so massive that shareholders began to take notice. In an attempt to avoid bankruptcy, Six Flags began and looked within the US to see AstroWorld, which had been long neglected, despite the issues being their own fault. Poor management could be attributed weak attendance was because there was little to no investments made in the park for nearly a decade, and the rude behavior by guests could be due turning the park into a cheap babysitting service Also, there were many potential solutions now possessed by a company with an itchy trigger finger Since AstroWorld was directly next door to Houston's brand-new sports and events complex. The company believed that this was a perfect time to sell, as the property value for the surrounding area They expected to receive $150 million for the land, and planned to send many of which would potentially increase revenue at those locations. AstroWorld would see its final guests on October 30, 2005, Some of the rides, such as Dungeon Drop, Tidal Wave, Serial Thriller, Batman: The Escape, Others were not so lucky. Casualties included Thunder River, Serpent, and even the Texas Cyclone. Many of the relocated rides never reopened, Many of those that did resume operation have since closed. The demolition of AstroWorld cost around $20 million, and the land was sold to nearly half of what Six Flags expected. This prompted the firing of Kieran Burke, The following years would be difficult for Six Flags, with many of the parks being closed but AstroWorld's story was already over. As of 2018, the lot formerly occupied by the park is empty, and is rarely utilized apart from infrequent special events. It is used occasionally, and ironically, The neighboring Astrodome saw a similar fate, leaving nearly the entire Astrodomain abandoned. AstroWorld is a rare instance of and it is especially shocking given its size. Not only were numerous rides and attractions lost, but the world that they inhabited was lost as well. It is not ruined. It is not abandoned. It is just... gone. The loss of the park has left a hole especially as they celebrate While AstroWorld may have been physically destroyed, it lives on in the memories and those that yearn to go back Let your troubles slide away, Let's get happy for a day. AstroWorld is waiting for you, anytime you say, hey. Dancing in the moonlight, playing in the sunshine. We make people happy. AstroWorld. AstroWorld. [Answering Machine] Please leave a message after the tone. (beep) [Message] It's time. It's time to sell out... ...again.