chat GPT, and if that's true, &quot;If I send you a voice message, &quot;I actually got goosebumps!&quot; try it right now straight against chat GPT. By the end of this video, your English-speaking skills. We're going to and for each question, we're going So, let's begin with the first one, If something is easy to use, you don't First of all, we want to go over Just go to the search bar, and go and if you have an account Now, to make it extremely easy, and find &quot;add to home screen&quot;. and at that point, we should be having the chat thing with Pi. Once again, you go over Google, slash talk, and here we have it. You can see and this is because I've let's do the same thing, so the three add, and here you go, now you I'd give a point each, they can yeah, 1 point each. Next Let's get into chat gpt, you only press the three dots down there, At this point, you get a prompt to know about you to provide better responses?&quot; you want to tap on the screen, and then which if you have an Android device you're gonna if you have an Apple device you're You press that, &quot;I am learning English and I want Now, if you don't know what else to say, &quot;Where are you based?&quot; you from?&quot; &quot;What do you do for work? &quot;I am based in Spain but I have Italian origins. &quot;How would you like Chat GPT to to have opinions, and to please teach me English. the same thing with Pi. So, let's go over next, can you talk with it? Let's go back to &quot;If I send you a voice message, can you answer me to text-based messages. However, English language questions, and provide Feel free to ask any questions you have about I can speak with chat GPT but it can actually &quot;If I send you a voice message, &quot;I'm not able to talk to you with my voice just still happy to chat about anything you'd like. I'm here, what if I press it? &quot;I'm not able to talk with you via text but I'm still happy to chat ready to chat!&quot; All right, that sounded &quot;We can talk about literally anything and let's talk about your interests, hobbies, current events, movies, music, or anything else so to speak.&quot; This is awesome! Apparently, &quot;Well, my favorite hobby is &quot;Oh, that's awesome! Music rewarding hobby. Do you make music as a And what kind of music do you make?&quot; but it actually asks you questions I think that this time the point goes to Pi. that's a great way to practice my English-speaking gonna find a lot of very interesting content All right, next question, is it I'm referring to the ability to ask more We can easily see how Pi could be the winner here, gonna continue the conversation about hobbies &quot;That's great to hear that you Music is a fantastic way to express creativity. terms or want to discuss your music in English, It didn't really continue the conversation. We already have a question to answer here, so I'm &quot;I produce relaxing music tracks that are perfect for meditation.&quot; you're a music producer, focusing sounds like such a great contribution and de-stress. How long have you No way, I can really have a &quot;I picked up this hobby of mine as I was learning Music 2000, and I started playing just for fun.&quot; &quot;Ah, Music 2000. That was a classic game for the in a game-like environment. So that's where a great origin story. Did you go on to produce music like Ableton or FL Studio?&quot; it's a software to make music with PlayStation. The fact that Pi is also and to bring the conversation ahead is &quot;Yes, I did. After a few years, I got &quot;That's awesome. FL Studio is a and a great way to get started. It's for creating all kinds of music. How and do you feel like you've This is simply incredible. You can So, of course, one point for Pi, and How much does it remember? Of because we should be waiting a week to understand how much the app remembers. &quot;My name is Albert, I was born in Italy, and it's nice to meet you! Since you mentioned I'd be happy to help you with English learning and or specific areas you'd like to focus on, feel Okay, that's fair. &quot;Can you &quot;Certainly Albert, you mentioned earlier that in Spain, so you have Italian origins my friend, we already know that and right here we can see that that's &quot;Before we go on with the conversation, I want to born in Italy.&quot; - &quot;It's great to meet you, Albert! each with their own unique culture, history, had the chance to live in both places. Do you I love how Pi is always &quot;Before we go on, can you remind me where I live at the moment?&quot; can remember our whole conversation. But I I'm just a chatbot for now but I can certainly and that you live in Spain.&quot; Alright, so, I So, we're going to give points But now that I think about it, if Pi the more you speak with it the because it'll know more and more details about say that, yes, you can personalize Pi. Now, this is pretty easy to check. &quot;This are some wonderful day. Can you &quot;Certainly, the correct phrase is, this is &quot;Can you also explain to me why, please?&quot; this is a wonderful day, we use 'is' about a single day, which is a singular noun. is used with plural nouns. So when describing one Oh that was great, perfect. Let's &quot;This are some wonderful &quot;You're very close. I think you meant Don't worry, learning a new language can be It's great that you're practicing. Can I It's amazing because it corrects you, and then it pays you some compliments &quot;Can you please explain to me why I was wrong?&quot; mixes up the verb and the subject. In English, 'day' is a singular noun, you need to use the So it should be, 'this is a wonderful day', not sense?&quot; Yes, it does actually! I'd say that clearer with Chat GPT, but here we also have the possibility to see how this and these actually GPT does a better job in actually explaining the pronunciation? Unfortunately, here we can't try we can actually speak with them, but they won't be because that'd be, uh, really a game changer. they did, I'd be out of work, basically! So for So, it's time to see who is the winner! That's right, that's right, my friend. and I think it's the clear you can really engage in a lot of interesting it'll probably keep you on the phone for hours things about Pi, we've also learned that it cannot really listen to you as you speak. your English-speaking game, right pronunciation on your own and from home, I where in less than 10 minutes, I to practice your English-speaking and explode your vocabulary.