Last week we left you in suspense as Philippe kicked off the big excavation works with two small machines, the dumper and the excavator. With the family visiting. It's a nice change of pace, not having to tackle everything on our own for once. So while we're still getting plenty of work done this week, We're also excited to step away from the property a bit and explore what the region has to offer. But first work, then play. Most of you already know what we're up to here, but for anyone thinking What in the world are they doing? Let me break it down. We're excavating the hill behind the barn and moving all that soil further down to create a dam for a future pond. Okay. I took my laser, which, Ruben just brought from Belgium second hand. Got it for a really good price. I, I took it out. I did some measurements because I want to know the height of the parking and all the digging I'm doing at the back of the barns and at the front as well. I want to be able to drive around. If you go on the driveway behind the barns, go all the way behind and make a circle and be able to leave through the gate over there. So I need to be able to get all the correct height. Not easy here because everything was built on different levels. They didn't have a laser back then. Doesn't matter. I found the equilibrium. I'm going to call it. If I take the height, floor level from the barn. From the big gate over here. And I place it towards our front door over there. Those two are almost the same. And it means I can raise the level at the front door a little bit by ten centimeters, which is very good. I can make it even then we can make a terrace over there and the New Barn has to come lower. But that's something I wanted to do anyways. The concrete has to go and I want to make it lower because then I have more headroom. So that's perfect. The only thing that is too low is this where the cows used to go in. So this will go higher. So I have to look for, A new stepping stone, I'm going to call it and place it up higher and then see if I still have room to enter, because this was raised already one time. By 15cm. So it was already originally lower the already raised at one time, and they put a concrete beam on top. So I think if we raise it here I think it has to go up 15cm. We'll have to raise it once again, which maybe not a bad thing because then we can take the concrete beam out and we can put the natural yellow stone in its place, making it more beautiful. So all in all, it's quite okay with the levels. So what I'm going to do now is take the laser to the side of the barn where I have been digging and removing the soil, and I'm going to start getting everything flattened, to the floor level -15 centimeter, so I can put the hard core and then put, the finishing stones on top. And after that's done, I'm going to continue digging at the back. Okay. So here is where I'm going to put the level, finished ground level that I want. And then I'm going to adjust the laser to go -15. And I have a laser attachment that goes onto the boom of my excavator. And that way I will be able to make everything, smooth and level without someone being there and checking if my levels are fine. I read this blog. Okay. It's jam making time. A few videos ago, I picked a bunch of blackberries, but I didn't have time to process them, so I washed them and froze them to be able to use it later. But now, with some extra help, will finally be able to make some delicious jam. Last time I didn't strain the jam of the seeds. And now I want this jelly like consistency. So I'm going to strain it. And then I look for recipes. And most recipes, suggest a one on one ratio of fruit to sugar. But for me, I feel that it's quite a lot especially with the blackberries, because I like the tartness that the berries bring. So this time I'm going to use half the amount of sugar. Let's get to it! Okay. Yesterday evening, I set up the laser. I set up the laser on the excavator so I can do it by myself to get the right depth it is a little bit deeper than the start of the foundation of the new barn. But if I want to get everything on one level, then, I have to do it this way. So, where I'm standing now is the level where I want to put the hard core on, and then the finishing. And that will be around 15cm. That will be ground level. So I'll have to remove a little bit of the hill there as well, and then go towards our front gate. Why do I want to do it this way? It's because now in this newer barn, if I go inside with the concrete and everything they did the beams, or maybe this high. So if I lower now, I think it's 30cm. It will be a usable space, even for something else. If I move everything to the old barn and I want to create something else in this, you have a living space. If you have a ceiling that's two meters 40 or something. So it is a good choice. It is more work, but you only get to do it once. it's going to be better in the end. And we still got to live here another 40, 50 years. I don't know. And the people afterwards, they'll be happy as well if it's just one level and it's done correctly. Because that's now the trouble with this new barn and the old barn and the house. Everything was built on different levels. Let's try to correct it to make one nice level, make all the doors and everything, all the heights the same. And then it's going to be easy afterwards. And to be honest, I wanted to scrape off in front of the old and the new barn anyways, because you know how it goes here. Glass and plastic is in between, so I wanted to clean it. Anyways. Everything's greased up, takes a little bit of time. But, I saw a saying, grease is cheaper than buying the parts. And that is very true. I changed one pin and I think it was EUR300. And this is only a small machine. Well, a bottle of grease doesn't cost you EUR300. So I tried to do it at least every day. If I'm working a full day or every tank of, diesel, I put in. Day four We're starting to get there. Well, at least this part. I still have to go behind the barn, but it is, going pretty well. It's not full. Full days because the family is here. So it's not, like I'm working from six till ten in the evening, but, we're getting there. The dumper will need new brakes. I'm going to show you guys when I go down the hill, fully loaded. And I have to brake because I have to go to first gear. Because it's not steep. Steep. But you can't go in second gear. Downhill. They grind a lot. Even though they're in oil, immersed in the axle. You can, hear them grinding. So I think, we'll need to change those. But like I said in the previous video, that means I have to take, the axle from underneath the machine and then open it up. So for now, I'm just going to keep using it. They're busted anyways. I can still brake. So, First, I scooped the majority of the soil away, and then I'm, going to put on the laser together with this laser attachment on the excavator. And then I get it, as accurate as I can. Sometimes it's hard to imagine. where I'm standing now. I know it was somewhere around here. So there's been a lot that's been excavated away. And the more I go over there, the higher it goes. Of course. Still lots to do, but there's already a big part done. It goes 12m that way, so we're getting there. I just check my levels once again with this one to make sure I'm still, doing the right thing. You don't want to be mistaken and taken off, 10 or 20cm too much, because that's going to cost me in refilling it. And when you take off too much, you could put the same material on it. But then I need to, how do you call it? Whack it again? So it's one solid underground. So if I take off too much and just throw some, soil on top of it, it's not going to work that well. And I'm going to have, bumps and everything in my driveway. the digging has really taken off and we've made it past the new barn. While Philip pushed forward, one task our family was eager to tackle was clearing out the overgrown bread oven. blackberry vines. Holly and ivy had taken over, co-existing in what seemed like perfect harmony. we're not exactly sure when this traditional oven was built, but conversations with neighbors suggests it's quite old. A bit of research led me to an article on La Depeche, a regional newspaper about the restoration of a bread oven from the late 17th century. In a town south of us. The dry stone dome of their oven looks a lot like ours, except that ours has caved in. if you know anything about these old bread ovens, please share your thoughts in the comments. we'd love to restore ours and hopefully use it again one day. The next morning Of. it was already fully booked as we hadn't phoned in advance. as we hadn't phoned in advance. So we switch things up and decided to visit the chateau. The artwork, It's considered the jewel of the Peacock, historic region that roughly corresponds to today's Dordogne. You. this fairytale like chateau is a stunning example You kicked out. think he can't come with us. It's also been a popular backdrop for films including Ever After with Drew Berrymore and the French movie Le pacte des loups. I'd love to take you along with us as we tour the castle, exploring its magnificent courtyard, grand staircases and elegant hallways. Later, we'll step into the exceptional gardens. Though our footage hardly does justice to how intricate and breathtaking they truly are. If you ever find yourself in this part of France, Don't hesitate to visit, It's absolutely worth it. On the last day before our family left, we spent time cleaning, hanging out, and making the most of our time together. We hadn't let the robot mower run, because we would have needed to remap the area with the tent up. so Reuben was excited to test out the big steel mower. Anyways, everyone kept busy with their own tasks, taking breaks to chat, sip iced coffee and enjoy the day.