Hello everyone! Thank you for watching my video every time!! How are you doing? My head is tired from all the work I've been doing. So today, I'm gonna cook a Japanese-style meal, and take a Japanese-style bath to have a relaxing day Let's gooo First I'll go to the supermarket to buy the ingredients. And I want to buy alcohol to drink while I am in the bath. Do you know Sukiyaki? Today, I'm gonna make Sukiyaki. It is a traditional Japanese dish flavoured with soy sauce. I'm gonna buy chinese cabbage, carrots and white onions to cook it. Are prices in Japan high compared to your location? Are they cheap? I will announce these prices when I get home! I usually buy beef at $1.6 per 100g, but this time I also bought beef at $2 per 100g. In the case of beef, the cheaper the meat, the more fatty it seems. I wanna also buy 'Papico', my favourite ice cream!! Finally, Let's get sake and beer :) I feel that alcohol is delicious, but I still don't know the difference between each. I bought them! In Japan, plastic bags are basically charged for, so we put the goods in our own bag. I'm home. It's too hot outside! Chinese cabbage, carrots, I also bought milk and thread konnyaku. I haven't had a cup of coffee today, so I'll get caffeine first from the coffee with the milk I just bought &gt;_&lt; I always put more milk lol Now let's make sukiyaki!! First, peel the carrots and cut them into bite-size pieces. The key is to cut them thinly, not in cubes. One of my hobbies is cooking and I used to work in a wagyu restaurant in Kyoto. I also cooked sukiyaki there, so I'm quite confident in my cooking. I want you to try this dish when you come to Japan and if you have the sauces introduced here, I would like you to try making it!! I also wanna know about the traditional cuisine of your region! If you have any, please let me know in the comments :) Now, cut the Chinese cabbage into pieces that are also easy to eat. Cut the hard parts a little finer and the leafy parts larger. Wash it just in case there might be insects. I am very bad with insects, so if I see an insect, the video ends at that point. Cut the green onions differently in the white and green parts. This is because different parts of the green onion taste very different. The white part should be cut diagonally to enhance the sweetness. The green part, on the other hand, is spicy and should be cut into small pieces and used as a condiment. Does everyone know this? I don't know if it is familiar worldwide or only used in Japan, but here it is called ito konnyaku. This is very long, so cut it into bite-size pieces before use. The materials are now ready. The next step is to make the broth for the sukiyaki. This is called warishita. It is very simple, using only soy sauce, sake, mirin and water. The key here is to add the same amount of all three souces. The intensity of the flavour can be adjusted with water. Here I added 3 tbsp of every sauces and about 2 tbsp of water. Put on fire. Bring to the boil once, taking care not to burn. once put Warishita aside. And use another pan. I was not sure which beef to use, but I would still prefer to eat the more expensive one! &gt;_&lt; For me, it is super premium!! Let's do my best to eat this expensive beef in the most delicious way. But I noticed I forgot to get beef tallow from the supermarket. So I have to use regular vegetable oil... There is one thing I take very seriously when I cook meat. The meat should be spread out so that it has as much area exposed to the fire as possible and not moved too much from there. This is because grilling well will cause a Maillard reaction and, conversely, moving the meat too much will cause the tasty oils to escape. But sometimes the meat is moved well with the intention of adding meaty flavour to other ingredients the meat has been grilled, remove it to a plate once. This isn't because there aren't enough frying pans lol There are many reasons for this, but the main one is to add meat flavour to vegetables by using the same pan. When cooking, the intensity of the fire and the cooking procedure often caused the food to burn before it was cooked. Cooking is surprisingly difficult but very enjoyable Is there a demand for this cooking story for you all? I talk too much because I like cooking lol. Once the meat is on top of the vegetables, turn up the heat again. When it sounds tasty, add the Warishita before the vegetables burn. This sound is amazing! I feel like I live to hear this sound! Finally, sugar is added. About 1.5 tablespoons is good I think. Adjust the position of the vegetables so that the flavour of the Warishita is absorbed throughout. Does it look tasty? Even as I was editing this video I had a craving for this. I hope you can imagine what this tastes like... No white rice... One life was saved. There was white rice that had been frozen... White rice is a must when eating this dish. Defrost this in the microwave. Hot!! (*Struggling with the burning target) I think it tastes good so I want to serve it beautifully. Only one chance, I'm worried about serving it well... How many points out of 10 do you think this is? I couldn't wait to eat it, so I ran! lol Itadakimasu!! We eat Sukiyaki dipped in raw egg. But if you don't like to eat raw eggs, no need to use them just enjoy the taste! I will start with the beef, which I was most looking forward to! Yummyyyyy (A satisfied look) The mild saltiness of the soy sauce and the sweetness of the meat are a... perfect match! Let's taste the vegetables too! Uma (delicious) Ito konnyaku is the most flavorful and excited to eat!! I'm gonna eat sukiyaki while watching Chiikawa anime, which I have recently become addicted to! Do you know Chiikawa? It is extremely popular in Japan, Korea and Taiwan. I like this blue character Hachiware. I bought this when I visited Yamanashi Prefecture. This is a hot spring version lol Gochisosamadeshita Now let's get ready to take a bath! In my house we wash the bathtub before filling the bath. I have seen this bathroom cleaner called Bath Magic Lynn in the Philippines too. Is it famous? Wash thoroughly. Well done Mr.Haru The lid of the bath is broken, so we use a lid purchased separately. My father likes hot water, so it is always set at 41 or 42 (107). but I don't like it hot, so I change it to 39 (102). This button fills the bathtub with hot water. I soak in the bathtub to relieve my tired body, but I get quite tired to prepare this lol Wait here for about 15 minutes. (Announcement that all preparations are complete) Let's take a bath! I will drink the sake I just bought in the bath. This is a Korean cup, but this size looks match Put my phone in a Ziploc to use it in the bath. Ready to go! Feels great. Let's drink a glass of chilled sake in the hot bath! Itadakimasu!! I feel the best in my life right now! I'm gonna watch comedy shows on my phone. In Japan, there is a service called Tver that offers rebroadcasts of commercial TV stations. I often use it to watch late night comedy shows whenever I want. I already drank about half of it. feels great. Finally, I'm gonna use the mist sauna. it will clear my head. I remember when I was a kid, my father and I would take this mist sauna until we reached our limits because of the heat. Finish by washing my body clean with soap and shampoo. Refreshed! After getting out of the bath, take care of my skin with lotion and milky lotion. We Japanese now use TV, ipads, and smartphones in the bath, but in the past we used to read books and listen to music! Often women take baths for more than 2 hours. I am too busy to do it now, but I used to do it back then. The drinks I had in the bath and hot tub were great. I'm no longer tired from yesterday. Now I'm going to eat the ice cream I just bought. I once had a discussion between Japanese and foreign friends living in Japan about what is the first thing we eat when we come back to Japan. After returning to Japan, unconsciously I always bought and ate this ice cream right away. not sushi or ramen, Delicious :) Sushi and ramen are available in other countries, but the texture of this ice cream is surprisingly not available abroad. I watch TV shows that are not that interesting. My mind doesn't think about anything. Here is the last thing to do : drink beer! My favorite beer in Japan, Asahi Super Dry :) As the name suggests, it is dry, refreshing and delicious. It has been cooler recently and I would like to have a beer while enjoying the view outside. Enjoy a relaxing time until the sun sets. I finished all! It was a good time! I finished all! It was a good time! I'm tired ...tired? After all, sleeping on the bed is the most relaxing. Thank you for watching the video to the end! If anyone supports this channel, please subscribe and hit the like buttons. Good night!!