Hey everybody! Don Georgevich here. If you were fired from your last job and now a new job and you're wondering how you're to show you how to do it today. There's three simple steps I'm going to walk to explain why you were fired and why it's for them. So, the first thing you want to do is Accept Most people, when they go into an interview they're always placing blame on the employer. They're like, Oh, they didn't like me were mean to me I was bullied and But you know what? From an employer standpoint of view, it sounds complaining and that's not the kind of person So, it's so important that you accept responsibility. This might be hard for you to swallow, because But if you look at it from your employer's why they fired you. So, you have to come to terms with that. You have to accept that you have to admit Otherwise, you're never going to be able to an issue for a new employer; whether you were violation, whatever it was. You need to accept responsibility for your When you do this, this shows courage. This shows a prospective employer that you were wrong and you paid the price for it with new job. When you take responsibility for what happened, And it also shows that you're not trying to When you admit that you were wrong and you or whatever it was, its hard for them to that. I mean, Okay, he admits he was wrong. There's nothing to press you on further. When you tell employers something else, when it, then theyll start digging and pressing believe what you're saying. Number two, Be Brief. Remember, you're not there to defend why you That's between you and your past employer. You're there to talk about what you can do their company. They just want to make sure that you weren't or whatever. I don't know, something really bad. But I'm sure you werent let go for something That's a completely different story. But the key here is brevity. You want to be brief. You want to admit as many of the messy details Dont tell your story. Dont make it a long story about how you Just go in there and say, You know what? I was let go because I didn't beat performance It's my fault. I could have done better, but I just didn't. And if you have to, you can tie in a personal But if you talk and you talk and talk about open up a can of worms and it's going to invite And then when you get to this point, they're if it is the truth. So, take responsibility for being terminated, That's the key. Which brings me the next one. If they're not happy with what you say, they're So, after you tell them why you were let go, any kind of questions, that means they're And this should be a red flag to you. That means they're not buying what you're So, you need to figure out how you want to So, that's why I urge you to just tell the Remember, spare them the details; just say, I didn't meet performance expectations. I violated a policy. Whatever it was, tell them that; straight Skip the details and be brief and that should on in the interview and talk about why you're not explaining why you were fired. You're not on trial. You were already let go. There's no reason that they need to keep pressing think you're hiding something. Lastly, you want to show them that why you that's what they're digging for. So, let's say for example, let's say you were late every day and you tell them that. You're like, Well, I was coming home late Imagine that from that perspective. So, here's somebody who likes to come in They were fired because they kept coming in Well, if we hire them, they're probably going So, this is where you might want to tie in For example, and this happens all the time. Somebody in that person's family gets sick a lot of extra time. And sometimes, they are late or they have for a sick loved one and this explains why And when you tell an employer that you were you had to care for a sick loved one. But, you know what? That person is not sick anymore. They're better and because my mom is doing I won't be late anymore for my job. Something like that. Show them that it's not a concern. Now, if you were let go for a policy violation; And I just worked with the guy who violated He accidentally used his company credit card and he went and he explained to the company. He said, You know what? I'm so sorry. I was at Best Buy over the weekend and I went I just pulled out the wrong credit card. I'm really sorry. You know what they told him? They said, I'm sorry Bob. We have a zero tolerance policy. You misused a corporate credit card for personal I'm sorry we have to let you go. Now, that seems extreme, but that really happened. So, now Bob is out there trying to explain used his company card. So, in his case, what he's going to do is inside of his wallet, so that he doesn't accidentally And that's how he's going to show prospective concern because he's not going to use his And it was just a onetime accident. So, in another example, I worked with a guy He violated a safety protocol. And again they have a zero tolerance policy fired. So, how do you explain that to a prospective So, in his case, he's just going to tell prospective He was just having a bad day, his kids weren't day, they were sick and he was just overwhelmed his head and he forgot a step at a safety And that will never happen again. It's never happened before; he'd been working safety violation and the minute he gets one, So, he's got a nice way to soften the blow and that that shouldn't be a concern for them. So, let me give you another example. I was working with a woman who was let go What actually happened was she was going to And this took a lot of extra time and energy went down. I think that she was in sales and she didn't she was let go for that. So, her excuse to prospective employers is, and I was let go because I didn't meet performance But at that time, I was going to school for it did impact my performance at work and they But since then, I've received my MBA and I'm 100% of my time to you, if you hire me. So when you're present it like that, you're So, from the top, remember; take responsibility Have the courage to show an employer that to you and that it's your fault. Be brief. Be very brief when you explain what happened that means they're not buying what you're approach. And then third, show them that it's not a And when you do all of this, you can explain And when you take this approach, this is going from almost any situation and allow you to the stigma. I hope you got a lot on this video. I hope it helps explain why you were fired. I know that being fired from a job is embarrassing. And you know what? I've been fired too; that's right. Somebody actually fired me. It hurts; it really does. It hurt me a lot. I was fired a few times in my career and sometimes Can you imagine that? Other times, I didn't meet certain performance But more commonly, I was let go because my I was in the I.T. industry and I worked for they went out of business. They had to reduce staff. It was a very difficult time for I.T. when a lot of people or they were firing a lot that. And for me, I just explained that you know or they closed their doors. And some of the companies I worked for, it I wasn't happy to be there. And I would explain to an employer why I wasn't that I was unhappy at this job would be different So, the reasons that made me unhappy at the doing was completely different at the new So, I wouldn't be doing the same thing, it So, I showed them it wasn't a concern. And that's all there is to it. And you can do this too. But you need to have that courage to stand to you; just own it. Even if you're wrong, even if it wasn't your You have to go in and take responsibility It's all there is to it. So, thanks again for watching this video. I hope you found it helpful. If you like it, make sure you send me a comment