Only 12 people have ever walked on the Moon and Then, for the last 50 years, no one has gone back. return to the Moon to prepare for people to send the first humans to another planet. But to outside in space and work for hours in one of the face. The problem is our spacesuits for the to make this next chapter in space possible, new suits will give astronauts the superpower civilians to put one on. In this video, we're they're designing, building, and testing NASA's this suit to the test to give you a sneak peek how it might change what &quot;Ignition sequence starts....&quot; &quot;Liftoff! We have a liftoff!&quot; &quot;Altitude: 1600.&quot; &quot;The eagle has landed...&quot; &quot;That's one small step for man...&quot; ... one giant step for Huge If True! JUSTIN: Are you ready to go see a spacesuit? whole life. Like this is the episode that desperately wanted to be doing now. The stuff we we're at Axiom Space, the company that NASA Hi! So nice meet you! This is a big deal. It's the production of their suits, to replace the they have. That's where Axiom comes in. These for NASA's upcoming Artemis III mission. Here's Earth on one of the most powerful rockets ever Moon. When they arrive, two of them will descend which is twice as long as anyone has ever spent have been back since 1972. And they'll be the south pole, where they hope to find resources living on the moon and getting to Mars. To be able to stay outside on the lunar surface protection against extreme heat and extreme that never get any sunlight. They need more to do their job, and they need suits that fit mission and for the future of space travel, RUSSELL: &quot;So this is our prototype space suit that suit test lab. So this is the lab where we do but they're still testing and updating this the people, technology, and work being done in this yeah we want to go into space, we want orbit or the surface of the Moon, and the spacesuit its job.&quot; One of my big questions that I've instantaneously be in space, in the vacuum of space, the in the community actually...&quot; Amazing. Basically there controversy is what order they're going to kill wouldn't immediately freeze or explode. If you now, your first problem is going to be there's no pressure keeping you together like on Earth. outside of your body would immediately cause all balloon... but don't hold your breath because then brain would stop getting the leftover oxygen in good because your body would be swelling up since boiling point of the water inside of your blood you, though you likely wouldn't explode because is temperature. Because there's no atmosphere, if you were in the Sun, the light would make 150deg C while simultaneously the other side of your if somehow you survive that you'd be getting so you and give you cancer, and you might eventually than bullets. But if you got rescued before about though... So... spacesuits are really important. The basically sign your life away and get a bunch of that I'm fit to be inside a spacesuit. Probably. going to fully pressurize the suit around me, have dangerous consequences if you have certain your eyes really tight and don't let me open them. me pull up. Perfect.&quot; One thing I realized as I was stop thinking about spacesuits as clothing. These This is a one-person human-shaped spacecraft. But big buckets you should know: &quot;One is what's called would call EVA suits or extravehicular activity here. Launch and entry are those orange orange black suits that SpaceX uses, they're essentially experiences a problem and loses its ability to become an atmosphere for you and allow you to at began in this launch and entry bucket. &quot;So really what they were dealing with is these high your cabin lost pressure or something like that. you like, hey your mask will come down oxygen. The difference with space flight is you're a suit to keep the pressure on your body, right.&quot; suits that could do more too. The kind of the &quot;'Extravehicular Mobility Unit,' or the EMU. Those right - you're on the surface of the Moon or you're ones that let you go out and explore into space.&quot; like this, and some are just for zero gravity been basically impossible to fix in space which was originally designed for these 14-day missions up, coming down, being refurbished. This is different up from the very beginning to be maintained on terms of helping space flight costs come down The goal is to bring down the cost of getting suits themselves. The NASA suits from the 1970s today's dollars. NASA gave Axiom 228 million for to reduce the cost per suit as they make more of are cheaper to make and cheaper to use. It sounds the way that we're thinking about humans in suit is so &quot;huge if true.&quot; It's part of this big that astronauts wear look like this. They're wear these under the suit and water runs through hot. So this is the answer to the question They use a diaper! And they don't call absorbency garment. And then this and Let's do this thing. Put me to work. I'm hat! I wanted to say I've never been more ready nervous. &quot;And hey Cleo, scratch your face you deal with being itchy? &quot;Use the neck ring and the get to it!&quot; Those were two of my big questions: How the answer is... &quot;You deal with it.&quot; All right boss. &quot;Let's the steps.&quot; &quot;If you're uncomfortable at any point &quot;Are you reading me?&quot; I read you. &quot;Can you give me my cooling. I'm starting to feel it cooling my it in my top as well. Huh wow I feel cooler. &quot;So at This suit is just a marvel of of achievements, not just in space flight but textile science and thermodynamics and so much Now it's the big moment... As the helmet went on, there was this calm. I closed my eyes and This feels as cool as I thought it would right now and it's everything that I ever testing. I don't know I know how to describe this. fabric, it doesn't feel like a big coat. It's spacesuit! It feels like you imagine a spacesuit it. The thing that's becoming really clear to me is much more like a humans shaped spacecraft. &quot;Yes Your life depends on this. It has that reliability from all these things that could harm you.&quot; from dying in space. &quot;First and foremost, the suit you oxygen that you can breathe and pressure that I'm breathing right now comes from tubes the final suit all of the oxygen and carbon processed inside a big backpack, the primary life suit with this machine, the pressure inside pressure will be contained by the inner bladder you can think of them in three major sections. of them being made. &quot;So what we have here is that glove that actually holds the pressure.&quot; If find a pair of dishwashing gloves it's basically material. Then on top of the bladder layer, there's inflating like a balloon because of the pressure. suit can move. Astronauts need to practice how &quot;This is what we call our 1G analog suit or you can is what the astronauts will wear when they're desert somewhere. We use this to train them on and so we have a variety of different joints If you think about how your shoulder moves, it doesn't your arm. So astronauts have to learn, lift your arm that inside the suit. Oh that's very interesting, specific ways. I feel like I could do anything I specific path to get there. That's the motion that they would on the Moon, it gets harder to move and now is they're very very slowly pressurizing the my ears. &quot;Just notice how the resistance changes as to 4.3 PSI or pounds per square inch. The pressure so getting pressurized an extra 4.3 PSI feels where you need to pop your ears. You can experience by holding your nose and blowing through it. right now. The way that I clear my ears since I Works great! I'm at 2.5 right now, my hands are getting stiffer. The suit itself is can still do some things. I can... I am feeling okay! you're sitting right there is, on a real EVA day, about 13 hours. So you're in there for the next 13 a diaper and I can't scratch my face. So together the atmosphere that you need and define how you you from all of these. That's the black outer is it black and not the iconic white? The answer it'll be white like this. And you might have heard design but the color isn't just stylistic. They as much light as possible to keep cool. This outer of dangerous radiation and against cuts and testing exactly what fabric to use to do all of that process. &quot;So here we've got one of our cutting realize is that you know this this space suit is as a two-dimensional shape.&quot; And how much of this machine? &quot;It's mostly handmade. There's there through machines. The cutting process is is these machines by hand very slowly because of the inspection, a lot of quality control on it so that to be safe.&quot; I'm a little bit surprised that it's so opposed to computer precision. &quot;That's right yeah make millions of space suits so you would a high production environment but for us you so it's not really necessary right now.&quot; I got these prototype suits. &quot;Sewing a spacesuit is a It's highly technical, very precise. So this crew of sure this suit can keep someone alive basically!&quot; As I that they put into it. It's an incredible piece bottom. One new aspect of this suit is how well have some unique proprietary features in them the surface in the moon because the surface will regions of the Moon that haven't seen sun, it's these suits is that they're designed to fit a sending more people to space. They're supposed to This is unlike previous Apollo suits that were very expensive and also limiting.&quot; To fix this, Axiom then they swap out and tailor additional pieces this shoot I had to and my measurements. Not just and my inter wrist measurement and my crotch kind of modular suit design will open the suit is incredible. Every little bit is pushing made as small and flexible and human-shaped as and do research and traverse the lunar surface. And some of those tasks... if I can. It's tricky! Ooh I They're about to put me through four challenges to astronaut. I'm doing this on Earth which has six the moon. Axiom wouldn't share exactly how much this stand in it for maybe 5 minutes without help and I would guess that it's somewhere between 150 to lighter though it'll be way harder to use for of its Moon weight they're using pulleys to help one of the greatest honors of my life. I also feel collect a sample. &quot;This is going to be a challenge very clear, this is not indicative of what an because I'm going to stink at this and partly large. The first tools that they had me use were can do it, I can do it. The goal here is to simulate rock samples. Okay so now I've broken off a piece... my sample using only the tools. This was a lot harder than it looked! I got it! So I would swing my arm... Aha! I got it. I got it. I feel like an extremely technologically One small step for mankind, my nose is running and I can't do anything about accomplished. Challenge number 2: Run. And by about to get on is built for horses. Let's Alright. Work me out! It's not that it feels heavy. It's that it my legs straight like you would normally walk. It's that's how I'm walking. So it's sort of like, more graceful way. I could go faster. How fast Ok 2.5! I mean I couldn't do this for very long! Yeah I mean, I'm definitely warmer but I'm mean it's a relative term. Listen, not to the fastest they'd ever seen a guest go on I don't think I've ever been so happy. squat in full Earth gravity. I would love of the weight of the suit by myself which at heavier than it will be on the moon or on Mars. Thanks guys. Challenge 3? Check! and get back up. So the goal ground. I feel like I'm planting a flag. This is an do in the current EVA suits, being able to be in now for extra credit: Do the moonwalk. &quot;Yeah you yeah okay, how do you do the moonwalk? I can't even like [WOMP WOMP]. You let a YouTuber inside a spacesuit. have ever dawned a spacesuit. But I was just so spacecraft that not only protects you from the and flex and work with our human bodies. The will help us reach beyond our planet and unlock our species has ever even attempted. Getting to lifetime. It's what I dreamed about when I was prototypes like it will be in museums for other and the equipment that prepared humanity to go only one thing you take away from this video like this. Every time you see an astronaut do take a space walk or set foot on the moon again astronaut. Think about all of the people that uses all the way down to the intricate This is so cool! Wait can you say that again into my mic? [LAUGHTER] that has gone up to 2.5 on the treadmill so very Thank you for giving me the opportunity. I wanted to first creators that they've let into their the amazing people on their team. Also while we that they're building which was insane so is not the last episode that we'll be making optimistic stories about space and our future,