- My mom won a shopping spree from a grocery store and they said she had two minutes to run around and grab everything she could for free. She went straight for the cash register. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) I told her go for the butter. In this economy, in Alabama we can not afford name brand butter. We cannot even afford regular generic butter. (audience laughing) We have to buy generic, generic butter, it's called, I can't believe, I can't afford, I can't believe it's not butter. (audience laughing) (screaming loudly) (audience laughing) I'm just trying to communicate with you Utah people. (audience laughing) Sometimes I'll buy generic hand sanitizer. It's called soapy water. (audience laughing) I don't know about germs, but it kills 99.9% of dirt. (audience laughing) Our yard is all dirt back in Alabama. We can not afford grass or sod. My mama told me that old saying, the grass is always on the other side. (audience laughing) One time I was out there in that old dusty yard and I got bit by a big old fat ant, it was aunt Peggy. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) Aunt Peggy used to teach me all those old Alabama sayings. Like, an apple day will not keep the doctor away but a restraining order will. (audience laughing) She said, don't count your chickens 'cause those chickens are not even your chickens. (audience laughing) If you're illiterate, you have to judge a book by its cover. (audience laughing) Do we have any musicians in here? (audience laughing) Well that's awkward. (audience laughing) Stupidest song I've probably ever heard, is twinkle, twinkle little star, how I wonder what you are. It's a star, like you just said that. (audience laughing) I started a hotline for people who struggle with incompletion, just dial 1-800. (audience laughing) I see you shaking your head at me, I see this, this ain't on Facebook yet, buddy. I see you, I'm looking right at you and you've made me real mad. You really crossed the line now. My day job is I'm a school teacher and I will write you up so fast, it would be very fast. (audience laughing) What is your name, sir? I don't really care. (audience laughing) Let me tell you something buddy, so when I was growing up in Alabama I would teach at a wonderful high school. Now it's Auburn High School, it's a college town, very smart kids we're doing great, but when I was growing up in Alabama we used to rank 49th in education, did y'all know that? Ranked 49th in education and I told my school teacher and she said, &quot;Who got 40 10th?&quot; (audience laughing) I told that joke in Mississippi, they didn't get it. (audience laughing) I used to just sit in the back of the classroom and suck on sunflower seeds. I was pretty disappointed when somebody else in my class got voted most likely to succeed. (audience laughing) There's like two of y'all that are cacklers. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) Y'all remember that old commercial for Sure deodorant? You remember that, raise your hand if you're sure? My mom used to buy me perhaps deodorant. (audience laughing) Their slogan was, perhaps you should keep your arms down. (audience laughing) Trust me, the expiration date at the bottom of the deodorant is there for a reason. If you eat it after that, you will get sick. (audience laughing) I lost eight pounds one time with a generic weight loss program, it's called food poisoning. (audience laughing) On a good day my boss goes around saying that she feels like a million bucks. That's good for you but I can not afford that. On a good day, I feel like a coupon. (audience laughing) You laughed like a woman just now. (audience laughing) What is your name, sir? (audience laughing) Logan, I'm gonna be honest with you Logan. I started talking when my ears heard it and by the time I saw you, it was too late. I was too deep in, you're a big boy Logan, so . . . (audience laughing) I formally apologize to you sir, (audience laughing) but you do, that's what makes it so weird. You're a big boy laughing like that. I don't know, it didn't . . . (audience laughing) Like, please don't hurt me and all, but that's ridiculous. (audience laughing) Y'all didn't realize that y'all were the ones gonna get heckled, did you? You didn't see that coming, did you Logan? (audience laughing) And sir, I never did catch your name. What was your name over here? - [Charlie] Charlie. - Charlie, all right. Well, don't take this personally, but I hate you. (audience laughing) I'm just teasing, I'm just teasing. You seem like a very nice man, so Charlie, have you ever heard of those, in Alabama they have these like, artificial tans in a bottle. Do you know what I'm talking about? Have you heard of these? Does anybody know what I'm talking about? So my uncle used to use one of those and I wrote him a little poem. Roses are red, violets are blue, but you are orange, (audience laughing) I never said it was a good poem, I never said that. My wife, I should've pointed her out sooner. I'm sorry that I didn't. My wife's actually right back there could y'all give a big hand for my wife right back there, thank you. (audience cheering) She's actually about 800 miles back, she's still in Alabama. (audience laughing) Where's the camera man, she's watching this live right now. I did want to give her like a longing glare. Which is the up close camera, this one? (audience laughing) That was supposed to be like, a personal moment between my wife and I. It was really rude when y'all hollered like that and I do not appreciate that, Logan. (audience laughing) (cackling loudly) (audience laughing) So ladies and gentlemen, here's the thing, I'm an artist. Do we have any artists in here? What do you draw? - [Alison] Realistic art. - Realistic art, that was a reasonable answer that you gave. One woman just hollered, like she's being murdered back there. (audience laughing) Try that in a job, the answer was yes. I asked, &quot;Do we have any artists in here?&quot; And you said quote. (screaming loudly) (audience laughing) Yes, your resume looks good. Do you think you'd be a good fit here? (screaming loudly) (audience laughing) Any chance Logan beats this guy up after the show. (screaming loudly) (audience laughing) So realistic art, what's your name? - [Alison] Alison. - Alison, nice to meet you. Let me ask you a question, when people find out you're an artist, I'm guessing, they say, oh, you're an artist, I can not even draw a, what? A stick man, that's it, everybody says that. If you tell that joke, just know it's not funny and we're not gonna laugh at it, right? Everybody tells that all the time, so I started wondering what do people say when they meet somebody with a different profession or hobby? Hello, sir, what's your name here? - [Brock] Brock. - Brock, it's nice to meet you and you're a professional accountant, great. I cannot even count a stick man. (audience laughing) Hello, sir, what's your name here? - [Mark] Mark. - Mark, nice to meet you and you're an acupuncturist, wow. I cannot even stick a stick man. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) To be clear, this is for my wife. This is not directed at you camera man. (audience laughing) Sir, what's your name here? - [John] John. - John, it's nice to meet you and you're a truck driver. I cannot even drive a stick, man. (audience laughing) Sir, what's your name here? - [Robert] Robert. - Robert, oh and you're a male model. You look like a stick man. (audience laughing) I cannot even draw you. (audience laughing) Hello sir, what's your name here? - [Chad] Chad. - Chad, nice to meet you and you're a congressman, I could do that. (audience laughing) (audience clapping) I actually have a healthy respect, I just like that joke. I have a healthy respect for people in authority and things like that and I know it's a difficult job but one time you come to expect in these shows a certain amount of laughter per joke and one night I was in Iowa and the room when I told that joke, they went bananas. I had never heard before or since any joke I've ever told so after like five minutes, finally, somebody goes he ran for Congress, he didn't get it. (audience laughing) You didn't, did you? All right, so let's see here. Ladies basically two types of men in the world. There are the men who start to go bald and they embrace it, they just let it fly like Michael Jordan and I think he got it right. The other type of men will spend all his time, money and resources to make it look like he's not going bald when we all know he's going bald, so I knew a guy, a roommate back at Auburn University, he did not have much hair and he got gel and he spiked the few hairs that he did have looked liked Gideon's army. There's only about 300 of them up there but they got a lot of attention. (audience laughing) My cousin uses Rogaine, true story. He woke up in the middle of the night with a sore throat and he reached in the dark for his throat spray. Just let me get to it. (audience laughing) He grabbed the Rogaine. He's still bald, (audience laughing) but his throat looks like Chewbacca. (audience laughing) If you ever open a balcony look down and see if you can find somebody from above with a comb-over, from above his head will look like a big shiny barcode, (audience laughing) so if you have a comb-over and you're in Target you better not bend over in the self-checkout isle. (audience laughing) Screen says half off. (audience cheering) Back at Auburn, the first time I ever had to have roommates there were three of us gentlemen and there were two roommates. So two of us had to share the same bathroom and this boy, well, let's see. What is your name sir again? - [Josh] Josh. - Josh, all right, well I'm not super interested anymore. However, his name was Nathan and you look a little similar. You look a little, I don't know a little more spry than he did, but he was a nice guy. Just follow me, Josh, don't look at me so condescendingly, how dare you, sir, so don't take this personally, but I hate you, (audience laughing) so are you listening Josh? So dear Josh, well, Nathan, he put his toothbrush in my toothbrush cup and he had his own toothbrush cup. He didn't need to put it in, so his toothbrush cup is empty and my toothbrush cup has two toothbrushes my toothbrush and his toothbrush. Do you see what I'm tracking? Okay, so just respond, so I'll know that . . . (audience laughing) No, don't talk back Josh, just . . . (audience laughing) So Josh, whenever he was going, I got a post-it note and I wrote, dear sir, please kindly remove your toothbrush from my toothbrush cup and I put it up on the mirror and I thought that would be the end of it, right, right? No, it wasn't, 'cause guess what he did? He took down the post-it note and he drew a picture of a little muscular, like flexing arms and he taped him to his toothbrush and then he laid my toothbrush out flat, so it looked like his toothbrush had knocked out my toothbrush. (audience laughing) Oh no you don't, (audience laughing) so whenever he was going, I'd took off the little flexing arms and I taped on two little scrawny Q-tip arms and then I snapped one of the Q-tips homeboy, so he got dental floss and he hung my toothbrush from the towel rack. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) So whenever he was going in I gave my toothbrush a sharp kitchen utensil and I laid his toothbrush in a pool of ketchup, so . . . (audience laughing) He stopped up the water in the sink and he put my toothbrush face down in the water and his toothbrushes just peering over the ledge, so then I start up a Facebook page for my toothbrush and I did not put his toothbrush on any form of social media, so it looked like his toothbrush didn't even have a life. (audience laughing) I have fuzzy arms. Mark, just nod your head so you can see, I don't have like large arms like Logan but I got furry man arms, so one time my mother-in-law bought me one of those little metal expandable bracket watches, do you know what I'm talking about? Like, the little kind that does this. It pinched my arm hair like crazy and I didn't know what to do, so the only thing I could think of, I went to the restroom when they weren't looking and I shaved a three inch bald band around my left arm. When my wife noticed she said it looked like a Sasquatch had wrist surgery, (audience laughing) so I did the only logical thing, I shaved my entire left arm so I wouldn't look stupid. (audience laughing) Whenever I crossed my arms, it looked like an albino snake was suffocating and fuzzy caterpillar. (audience laughing) When I went to work, we had a vote, I raised both of my hands, everybody thought it was two different people. (audience laughing) I have three little girls now, one is sweet, one is quiet, another one is Kayla. (audience laughing) I told them the story about David and Goliath and they didn't say much for like an hour and I was about to walk out the door to go do a show and when I told them the story about David and Goliath I picked up their little blankie and I twirled it around just so they could get a visual of what the slingshots looked like, you know? So I was about to walk out the door to go do a show. One of my little girls comes up and she said, &quot;Daddy, please don't go.&quot; I said, Sweetheart, I gotta go. I gotta go do a show. That girl picked up the blankie, walked up to me and said, &quot;I will kill you.&quot; (audience laughing) I was two steps from an airplane. I was about to fly from Atlanta to Boston and my phone rang and I picked it up. I wouldn't have answered for anybody else, but it was my wife and I said, Sweetheart, I can't talk right now, I'm two steps from the airplane. She said, &quot;Let me just tell you. &quot;I asked our sweet little girl, &quot;do you wanna pray for daddy &quot;to have a safe trip to Boston?&quot; She said, No, let's pray Daddy has a safe trip to heaven. (audience laughing) I understand my sweet daughter was trying to be innocent and sweet, but why did my wife call and tell me that? (audience laughing) This is the part where I make a chastising look at my wife. (audience laughing) I love you. (audience laughing) So I live in Auburn. We don't get to make too many basketball games but we're doing pretty well now and so we got free tickets to go to the game, to a basketball game and the only thing that's better than watching the actual game is the funnel cake. Have you had funnel cake at a sporting event? It's amazing, so the reason why we take free tickets is we're on a budget 'cause I'm a school teacher and so I go up to the concession stand and I was so disappointed it said it was $7 for a funnel cake, $7. I knew my wife would kill me if I spent $7 on a funnel cake, so I was very disappointed and I said, you know what, I'll just take two Cokes and so the guy, when he's handing me the Cokes he slides them too near the edge and one of them spills on my lap, true story, so now I look like a grown man who can't control himself. I don't know scientifically when you're supposed to be potty trained but it's before you have a beard, I can tell you that, (audience laughing) so I'm standing there looking like I have no self-control and he feels terrible, but it is his phone and he's like, &quot;Sir, &quot;I'm so sorry, tell you what &quot;how about I'll give you &quot;two free Cokes.&quot; I said, I want a funnel cake. (audience laughing) He did it, he did it. (audience laughing) Here's a little song I like to sing to my daughters and then I'm gonna get out of here. You guys have been so much fun. Let me get my little guitar and we're gonna do a little thing and we're gonna get to it. (audience laughing) What did you just say heckler? (audience laughing) I'll tell you what he said, it's little. He's from Alabama, he don't know big and little yet. (audience laughing) Old MacDonald had a farm E-I-E-I-O and on that farm he had a random conglomeration of arbitrary vowels, E-I-E-I-O. (audience laughing) With an E here and I there another E another I then comes a random O. Old MacDonald had a phonics problem, E-I-E-I-O. (audience laughing) He probably went to the university of Alabama (audience laughing) and on that farm, he had a bird, E-I-E-I-O. With a here and a there, here, there, must've been a penguin (audience laughing) and on that farm, this time it was a regular bird. It wasn't like a flightless bird. It was a feathered bird, like maybe a pigeon or dove or one of those little blue, E-I-E-I-O. (audience laughing) With a here and a there, here, there, it was a dead bird. (audience laughing) This part of the show has been brought to you by Chick-fil-A (audience cheering) and on that farm he had a comedian who had roughly 22 seconds left to fulfill his contract with Dry Bar Comedy, E-I-E-I-O. (audience laughing) With a blah blah here and a blah blah there. Here blah, there blah, everywhere, blah, blah. Blah, blah, here and a blah, blah there. Here a blah, there a blah, everywhere, blah, blah. Blah blah here and a blah, blah there. Here a blah, there a blah, everywhere blah, blah. Old MacDonald had a farm, E-I-E-I-O. Thank you guys very much. (audience cheering)