When you think about the greatest inventors mind. Henry Ford. The Wright brothers. Thomas Edison. When you plug your phone in, turn on the Nikola Tesla to thank. This is the story of the On January 7, 1943 a maid working at the New found the body of an 86--year-old man who Tesla died alone and broke. He lived off a diet feeding the pigeons outside. One of the greatest died penniless. There is a reason why this of this story. Tesla was born in the town of He was born during a lightning storm. According to birth: this child will be a child of darkness to of light. Little did she know how prophetic those his older brother fall from a horse and later As a child, he began seeing visions accompanied by was imaginary. This never went away. The vision his head in such detail that he didn't even need were perfected in his mind in an article in 1919. it should and the experiment comes out exactly a single exception.&quot; Tesla credits his mom for his household appliances in her spare time. She had an memory with high precision and she passed this on him to become one too but Tesla was interested in and nearly died, his father promised to send miraculously, he did. He went to study in Austria said to have worked from 3 am until 11 pm would die from exhaustion. Tesla had a beautiful spoke eight languages. He was a good student He dropped out after becoming addicted to gambling out. His friends didn't know what happened to Tesla moved around Europe and eventually ended telephone company. While walking around a park developing a new way of generating electricity invention that would change the world. I'll he settled in Paris to work for the French branch installing indoor lighting but the managers complicated work, designing and building dynamos fixing problems at other Edison branches. Two a job at Edison Machine Works in New York City. cents in his pocket because his money was stolen impression of Edison. Edison was also impressed by assistants but you take the cake.&quot; This mutual rivals. The two men disagreed over how electricity direct current which is a system where the Tesla was a fan of alternating current in which Changing directions is crucial to maintaining a overpower outlets. This means it can provide distances. It's the reason AC powers our homes smaller items like flashlights. But Edison didn't sales of direct current since he owned all the Edison's company offered him a $50,000 bonus if When he did, the manager refused to pay up. Another &quot;You don't understand our American humor.&quot; Regardless form his own electric company the following year and decided to take the company and all of Tesla had assigned the patents to the company in losing his company, Tesla had to take a job digging his fortunes would change. In 1887, Tesla invented The motor was the most efficient way to convert powers Tesla's vehicles which took its name from off the following year at the American Institute of George Westinghouse, a major player in the might just be what he needed to complete his Edison's DC system. So Tesla licensed the $60,000 and also received stock and for $2,000 a month which is the today. The war of the currents began. Edison tried He secretly financed the electric chair that used Edison's company also publicly tortured animals circus elephant named Topsy and produced a film Edison's schemes, good things were happening for his newly formed company General Electric to in Chicago in 1893. The first all-electric fair Columbus's discovery of America. It was clear to power the future. Their success continued when build the world's first alternating current power station was a massive success and helped light up meant Tesla became a pioneer in renewable energy. Westinghouse and Tesla won the war of the But there were problems. Westinghouse's company million into debt. In 1897, he went to Tesla in a desperate attempt to save the company. Tesla that he ripped up his contract. He was grateful to would. Tesla willingly walked away from $12 million would be worth over $300 million. Had he held on become the wealthiest person on the planet and the act of compassion for his friend of tearing up his paid Tesla $216,000 for the rights to use as ac patents forever. This is the equivalent of about $60 million independent and set up a series of laboratories in the rich and famous, including his close friend and Mark Twain. This was his period of many inventions. He created an early version of neon lighting, the He pioneered x-ray technology by experimenting Another stand-out invention was one of the first boat at Madison Square Garden in New York. It was he was using magic to make it move. That would be One of his most well-known inventions is the Tesla high voltage electricity. Because of the coils, radio signals when they resonated at the same his first radio signal but disaster struck. A of research and equipment. Tesla didn't apply for fire would be the turning point in his life that he was working on radio, an Italian entrepreneur, in England. He tried to acquire patent rights in the to Tesla's. However, things changed when Marconi was message in 1901 using 17 of Tesla's patents. Edison Tesla had no problem with Marconi's achievements its mind and awarded Marconi a patent for been a reason given for this decision but the could explain it. Marconi went on to win the Nobel due to Tesla's work. Tesla was furious and sued was only settled in Tesla's favor after his death. of Tesla's career. For example, Tesla was obsessed and built a huge wireless transmission station in imagined a world where we could send and receive time. But financial backers did not have enough on Marconi's radio invention instead. This left abandon his dream project in 1905 and eventually mental health deteriorated. He lived his last Westinghouse Corporation hired him as a consultant in debt. So why did one of the greatest inventors You could say T esla was unlucky at times like But the main reason is because Tesla was not more business acumen would not have made such as concerned about money. He was concerned about the He wanted to change the world and he did. Thanks to learn more about the man who inspired power our entire planet. It's because of Tesla Tesla's mother called him a child of light Thanks for watching the story of Nikola Tesla, I hope you I'm Cindy Pom. If you like what you, saw subscribe to my new channel. I also started a Patreon where you can make a monthly contribution and this will go a really long way toward helping this channel grow. See you soon.