&gt;&gt;Thomas Sharon: Hi everyone. Thanks for coming. here. And without further ado, I would like to introduce Startup movement. And thank you for coming. [applause] &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: See, I don't know. It's hard know. It's hard to know what to say. So, some of you maybe know the blog, Startup OK, good. We have true new people. So, thank So my name is Eric Ries. I don't really want on. That's fine. And in fact, if everyone your pockets. I mean, I'm sorry. I know I'm not supposed No, I'm not joking around. Out of the pockets, might get bored and you might wanna tweet Or I don't know, whatever special internal feel free. All I ask is that you use the Lean Okay. Is that fair? I won't tell anybody. I'm in New York because I'm writing a book. a book is you have to go to tell as many people It'll come out in the fall. I thank you in at lean.st. That's my life now is as a professional expert I started, which is as a programmer writing So I'm one of those people that grew up writing is a job I knew really well and understood. And then, I started doing startups and I started a living. I knew that slightly less well. And then I was managing people who managed And now, I am this professional expert. And people who write code. So I've become very development. But that journey has taken me from just writing the way that we organize new product development that we are investing into what is called a garage, or 'disruptive innovation' or something company, is wasting a lot of people's time. So that's what I wanted to talk to you guys So anyway, and this book, of course, will So, if you read the book, you will learn five go through them today. And I wanna invite you to ask questions either or interrupt me at any time or we'll have So, entrepreneurs are everywhere. The first I wanna be clear, that entrepreneurship is Ramen noodles. In fact, what makes you an eat, but the context in which you operate. And as I've been travelling around talking that there are entrepreneurs in all kinds And we have a lot more in common than people But not the kind of general management we're the last hundred years, something fundamentally that is measured by validated learning, rather We accelerate that learning through something And then we measure and hold entrepreneurs called 'innovation accounting'. Now, I apologize. You came to a very, I'm an exciting talk about entrepreneurship and did you get? You got management and accounting, which are So if anybody wants to leave now, I won't Because the truth is, what do people know saw 'The Social Network'? OK. Right. I feel of the entrepreneurship story we're all used And you see this in magazines and you see night that the story, 'Ghostbusters' -- remember story. They start a business. They, Dave, plot structure as 'The Social Network', believe Man, which is awesome. In these entrepreneurship stories, what happens? Act One: The plucky protagonist, his character, his amazing idea. Act Two: What I call the photo montage. It's &quot;they finally get the thing to work&quot;. Then some beer, pounding on some keyboards. And that's pretty much it. No dialogue or anything And then Act Three: Now that we're on the spoils? And who's in charge? And who's in and all that stuff? For fans of 'Ghostbusters'. What I think is really interesting about these percent of the time of the movie is spent real life, all of the important work of entrepreneurship problem is, for a story-telling point of view, and only lasts two minutes, is it's unspeakably What do we do as entrepreneurs that actually to figure out which customers to listen to product features. I mean you guys, how many product prioritization stuff of movies. It's unbelievably boring. And how do we hold people accountable? How making progress or building something that like they don't have anxiety that their vision that's what most entrepreneurs do. And so, we're gonna have to talk about stuff time to go inside the photo montage and try work of entrepreneurship more effective. So, My goal, my mission in doing this whole Lean of entrepreneurship on a more rigorous footing. mine: What is a startup? &quot;A human institution of extreme uncertainty.&quot; So I think the most important part of this very important part of our discussion is what what the size of your company is. It could doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what sector of the economy what industry you're in. If you fundamentally are operating with extreme product do they actually want, and how do are an entrepreneur. And when I work with been trying to do, is to get them to adopt Entrepreneurship is a career. When you become You are no longer a marketer. You are no longer do, all of a sudden now, you have a different path. But unfortunately, we don't get the memo that confusing. That's all a fancy way of saying a startup is not just like let's ship it and see what put some compounds in a beaker and heat it But unless you have a hypothesis that you're which experiments are gonna help you and then you're not conducting an experiment. And we mean, in a Lean Startup model, &quot;experiment&quot; a science of entrepreneurship that will help what we're doing on an industrial scale. And you guys know. Anyone's who's worked on to failure. And when you get at the end of having over and over again the experience sitting on a shelf or worse, that fundamentally and more technical solutions to that problem. development methodology, if we just had the or the right that, then we could stop that But the biggest waste that product development but building things very efficiently that We all know that most startups fail. Who remembers cool? At the height of Web 2.0, 2006, a graphic seen this before? This was the like the logos were gonna change the world. And in just three years, in 2009, a different set of emotions when they put together this 2.0. I mean, the blood red Xs, these are all our purposes today though, a much more important circles. I won't point at any of them in particular, to be the success stories of Web 2.0. But companies that were acquired by a larger company, And listen, I'm all for people making money. So when a company gets acquired by another make some money and that's all good. But my success stories? Success stories by the higher But rather, which of these companies succeeded talent, and energy of the founders and their See, look, we all know that when big companies die afterwards. So we buy something for hundreds selling it three years later for tens of millions That's not supposed to happen. In general buy an asset, it depreciates in a predictable it doesn't happen exactly like it's supposed And I think the problems that corp-dev departments which startups to buy and then how to integrate same problems that internal innovators who big companies have. And they're the exact have with their investors. All of us lack a theory of entrepreneurship back on tools and methods that are not appropriate I don't think it has to be this way. See, it's one thing if startups were failing one of these companies was working on teleportation couldn't quite get the technology for quantum kind of failure; that happens. But I chose Web 2.0 for my demonstration, not a single company on this chart where you Right? &quot;Geez, I wonder if that new social all know. Software companies, we can build for a second. The dominant question of our time is not can issue is can we build a sustainable business of our society, our economic growth in the in the future is going to be dependent on imaginations, which I think is a very strange That is really different than the kinds of was designed to solve in the 20th Century. know that's not how you're supposed start expert and I have had more failures than successes. my advice.&quot; So, I'm sorry about that. But those of you know the truth that where there's startups, somebody's fault in a talk like this and obviously And preferably, it should be the fault of So I chose this guy. [laughter] This is Frederick Winslow Taylor. He died of this talk because it means he can't talk Fred Taylor invented something called &quot;scientific today, we call &quot;management&quot;. See, people don't And those who've studied scientific management his outdated and really ridiculous ideas, a worker is basically just an automaton and give Fred Taylor the credit he deserves is so obvious, we can't imagine them ever having Like, everybody knows that work should be that we should treat work like a system and system. That's just plain common sense. And my favorite, Fred Taylor, invented something we just call &quot;tasks&quot;. The idea was if you to do is decompose that project into a series functional specialists. And everyone just does their part well and everybody else does like the manager said. And here's the best part. If you do your task should be paid a bonus rather than being penalized. 19th Century, the way work was organized is you were penalized. [pause] Why? Because that showed a lack of integrity. But you didn't. So that proves that you're It gets worse. Not only are you a liar, but who do the same task the old, slow way? They're whole time and you should all be penalized. Imagine working in a factory where if you job, not only would you be penalized, so would that would grow up around such a thing? That that nobody ever does anything in any way That phenomenon was so widespread in the 19th it &quot;soldiering&quot;. That all the workers were work as slow as possible so that nobody would about that kind of thing happening in a factory. products, and just all regular general management, Fred Taylor's day. But they also believed something else that They had this idea that what basically was the job of managers was to select the best 20th Century. So a great man of upstanding character with them in the job and fundamentally leave them to figure out what needs to get done, they Does that sound familiar? We still manage same way. We still believe in the great man it especially about the great man software And yet, when we look back on this time, decades kinds of things that we do when we need to to our future selves as Fred Taylor feels is management. It's just a different kind that has been practiced since Fred Taylor's So, we need to create a different paradigm management. It's not worse than. It's simply And so, here's my attempt. The first concept in the entrepreneurial management Who's tired of hearing about pivots already? everybody's hand is up, by the way. This word it or not, I saw this just the other day in caption? &quot;I'm not leaving you. I'm pivoting [laughter] So this word started in Lean Startup and then concept. Typical for Silicon Valley. We went tired of hearing it and claiming that it's intervening stage of ever learning how to we operate with the hype-cycle in Silicon didn't intend. But you can't understand anything about entrepreneurship it is the universal constant of all successful what actually happened in the early stages startup founders do not, do not, have better you see in the movies, most startup founders ideas at the beginning. And what's amazing about the successful startup indefinitely, but that they had this funny it's not just that they gave up ship and went straight into the ground. They do this thing we call the &quot;pivot&quot;. By in what we've learned, changing one other premise of the Lean Startup is as follows: we can increase our odds of success before See, the way you think about startup runway, It's fundamentally how many opportunities extend the runway by raising more money. But we can also extend the runway by figuring shave off that time is a magical extension that make sense? OK, I'm getting at least So, to increase the odds of success, we need need to bring our focus to a validated learning. of software development. It's traditional up on methodologies to call one the &quot;waterfall This is just Fred Taylor's idea as applied as an engineer in Silicon Valley, I was taught development. You can imagine, incidentally, they don't use this in manufacturing anymore. So it's not clear to me what our excuse is model of manufacturing. But I understand why The idea is that since software is so intangible, an assembly line, a virtual assembly line, does their part and trusts everybody else It's entertaining to beat up on the waterfall record. But it's important to understand and the problem are both relatively well understood. similar as things we have built in the past, If you're building a video game sequel, amen. product that zillions of people already use, deal with those circumstances. So it's basically Now, when you do waterfall, you have this successfully build the wrong thing and you My question is, if you go to a startup board most new products, what do we talk about? building features we said we were gonna build. we have this many customers just like we said. I remember being in a company once that was have this nice hockey stick-shaped growth. everything's going according to plan. Sounds And you're going to court like, the plan is as expected, as expected. But next week, it And how do you know if you were on the long, on the hockey stick and you're gonna just answer those questions quantitatively. We'll So, to me, we are bragging about how we're we're doing it on time and on budget. As if, a car off a cliff and while they're driving right off the cliff. That's what startup failures And I think that's true in big companies, you. But in other companies I've seen, for that linear way of working. That's why we These are two other unfortunately deceased for having said, &quot;The customer is the most which he meant everything that we do should cares that we do it. So if the thing is of high quality in the doing a lot of internal transport, with the the customer doesn't care about any of that it. When these ideas were handed down to me as this. There's our very own guru of extreme very well, so I won't bother getting into Suffice to say that all Agile methodologies of big companies. Every single one. And there's where it is the problem that's known, but something that is well-understood iteratively, will be successful. So, the classic -- Chrysler Corporation needs But this isn't the world that we live in as important part of the assembly line, what is? That in whose eyes should we judge our should we sit down next to the engineers to The assumption of Agile and all previous management give us an authoritative, definitive answer that assumption breaks down. We are working on products where nobody knows a theory, a hypothesis, a plan, a hope. And Now, at Lean Startup we have our own guru, in sepia tones just to be consistent. [laughter] Steve invented something called &quot;customer of trying to figure out who your customer development to this company-wide feedback the unit of progress from making stuff to Let me try to illustrate what I mean. I created avatar instant messaging technology. And at when that was still cool. And we wanted to IM. We really thought that was the wave of Whoops. And here was our plan. See, everybody effects business, right? So, therefore, if IM network to yours, it's kind of a pain 'cause them. So there's high switching costs. And therefore, IM isn't an industry characterized analysis of the instant messaging market. at the whiteboard. And we said, &quot;Ah, we need a strategy. A strategy We'll create an instant messaging add-on that and can bring 3-D avatar technology to your make it 3-D. Wow.&quot; This is before 'Avatar' and the current 3-D trend. And so, here's the reason we got so viral. Because when you would decide you wanna somebody and they would automatically get that they could just one-click, pick-up boom, Doesn't this seem like a good idea? Well, part of it, they're like, &quot;That does sound to MBAs now, I get a lot of nods, like &quot;That this guy's been talking about until now, but And the strategy actually is very good, except that every single thing I just said is false. costs for IM. Their network effects are way their friends. It was a total deal breaker. We'd have customers come in an in-person usability be like, &quot;OK, download our instant messaging is that?&quot; &quot;An instant messaging add-on. It picture of a 16- year old like, &quot;What? Is You won't have to run a whole other IM client.&quot; be so complicated to download.&quot; They're like, the big deal?&quot; And we're like, &quot;There are [laughter] So that was problem number one. We're like, &quot;Listen, we are paying you to OK?&quot; &quot;All right. Fine.&quot; &quot;Download the thing.&quot; part. &quot;Like, ooh, that's really cool, interactive your avatar. Invite one of your friends.&quot; thing is cool, yet and I'm not gonna invite be lame.&quot; See, I know people who are selling like business critical&quot;. We didn't understand that in our commandments of mission critical software, teenager look lame in front of their friends.&quot; They wouldn't do it. We were like, &quot;We're And it's just like, &quot;I'm not doing it. You worth it to me.&quot; And they kept saying things out first. And if it's cool, then I'll invite OK.&quot; We're from the video game industry. So we knew what that meant. That meant single-player single-player mode. Allowed you to -- we had &quot;Hey, download this instant messaging add-on.&quot; do it.&quot; &quot;OK.&quot; &quot;Customize your avatar.&quot; &quot;Oh, And they could check out the avatar, dress how to use the chat bubbles. And then we're Teenager, &quot;No way.&quot; &quot;Why not?&quot; &quot;This thing it was gonna be so lame.&quot; I mean, we're supposed to be listening to they want. And they told us to build this you invite some of your friends.&quot; And they're [laughter] And we were really devastated. Okay. So anyway, long story short, this was a total flawed in every respect because it's based Now, we wound up having to pivot the company and it all turned out fine. But I'd like you, with me personally. OK? Because I was the It was my job to write the software to do I don't know, 25 thousand lines of code or really elegantly structured if I do say so shebang. And all of my code got thrown out. [pause] The good code got thrown out and the bad code thrown out. The stuff I was proud to show anyone to see at all was equally thrown out. Because a [ ] of quality is if you don't know quality means. So failure is a great equalizer And I was really depressed. Because you gotta ourselves to build this product. And we had that I can never get back arguing with each we absolutely, positively have to fix. And Which features just had to be in version one postpone to a different release? That's what And yet, we had this problem, which was that Like, this product sucked. It was really buggy. embarrassed to have shipped it. And we almost But then, I was actually relieved cause nobody use it. And I was like, &quot;Wait, something is using the product? That doesn't seem right.&quot; And long story short, my cofounders dragged it was time to pivot. We had to throw that network and we were much more successful, But here's the thing. I had to make myself Would the company have been just as well off somewhere, having nice drinks and doing nothing?&quot; And I was, &quot;Did I even need to be here given Anyone feel like that's true? Anyone know feel better? You can shout it out. It's OK. I guess, yeah. &gt;&gt;audience 1: You built a team. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: What's that? &gt;&gt;audience 1: You built the team. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: We had the team at the beginning. having done this exercise in the first place? [audience 2]: You learned something. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Because I learned something. you've utterly failed to execute, you can At least you learned something. I mean, I In general management, you claim to have learned manager who learned something -- one of two very good plan, in which case, definitely a really good plan and failed to execute it. So, I think it's natural that we have a that we learned anything because that is very is, not only is failure an option, it's practically intervenes with our plans. &gt;&gt;audience 2: So, what did you learn? &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: So here's what we learned specifically. not wanna use our product to connect with it to make new friends. That doesn't seem like a very big deal. I But from a code and product point of view, required a very different experience. And we had to throw out a lot. The pivot was quite dramatic. And I made myself until I asked myself the following question. had this question asked to me. Which was, &quot;Wait a minute. If my goal of the thing about customers, why did it take six coming up now after we failed and we need not one time during those six months. All And then I was like, &quot;But would we have had different first product?&quot; Like, for example, What if we'd supported only three? Would the won't download, so who cares? What if we'd the same. Now, that's a lot of code between code that needed to be written. But this is the thought that literally made What if we had just created a single web page of what the product was going to look like instant messaging add-on.' And had a big download second page where we admit that we didn't adequate?&quot; Come on, it's the 404, obviously. It was a deal breaker. Nobody wanted it. That And that was really upsetting to me, personally. what did it say? It said a lot of things, job is to make features. So if I went home at the end of the day and but if my goal is to learn this thing about that my job? Is it possible that something I could do in that requires 25,000 lines of code? It didn't But I think that's actually true. Fundamentally, business. We call it &quot;validated learning&quot; Any old idiot can tell a good story. But we need a system for rigorously assessing, business?&quot; And everything else is a complete code. Now, in the lean manufacturing revolution, to ask was &quot;what is the difference between And in a factory, this is actually relatively make. The customers want. And waste is everything be learning, then our unit of value has become is -- OK, we can eliminate all the stuff that So, we have this concept in Lean Startup called needs to be in that first version? And now to learn whether our plan is correct or not. But that's still a little bit vague. And so focus on cycle time. And so what that looks is the flux capacitor of Lean Startup. All we are as a software startup is a catalyst interact with that code, they create data and qualitatively. And then if we want, we This, we can use to put the concept of the A pivot is one major turn through this feedback advice that anyone wants to give you is really this loop? So I don't know about you, I go to a lot of All the advice is like this. &quot;You know, it's always wins. Except craigslist didn't have sometimes it's fine to have no design. But want to be the next Friendster. Except that So make sure you have good design and design scalable.&quot; It's not very helpful advice and if you go plenty of money, but not too much money. Make not those other kind of people, but actually, And we focus on all this contradictory stuff I can find you somebody who followed that also find you somebody who didn't follow that you people who followed that advice and made advice. I can find you all four quadrants So, how do we know what advice to take and wanna use. If it gets us through this feedback good idea. And if not, not. There's a lot more, of course, to Lean Startup. can read them all on my blog, Startup Lessons book. I've heard it's coming out in the fall. All of these techniques, like continuous deployment, 50 times a day on average. So, 20 minutes Things like net promoter score where we can what customers really think about our product. five whys, which is drawn from the Toyota Each of these techniques has -- they operate have the net effect of minimizing total time. But I wanna mention one more really boring we've forgotten what accounting was designed thing that the really boring people do to That's pretty much what it is. It's just a go?&quot; But accounting was invented for a very different across departments. Because if you wanna have you have to be able to hold the managers of so that you know that they did a good job. modern management paraphernalia, had this When I first read this concept, I literally was called the Standard Volume. It was the sell, division by division, in an ideal year. the macroeconomic staff to figure out, given to translate the standard year into our coming So they could go division by division and recession, or the economy is booming, you therefore, if you sell more than the standard And it's not fair if you didn't have that managers seem like they're doing well. And doing badly. You can't tell which manager Now when I read that concept, I laughed out you telling me there was a time when people to happen in the future, and then it actually I don't know about you. I have never in my turned out to be remotely accurate. No startup turned out to be remotely true. I have never would have in the future and then deliver. So to me, the idea of the standard volume a sufficiently large company and you have can do this. Maybe this sounds a little bit So, if we're using accounting to drive accountability, a long operating history and a lot of customers, no customers yet? If the CFO of a company, hypothetically speaking, sends them off to some remote location to And then they hang out in Australia or whatever. your results?&quot; And the team says, &quot;They're How is the manager who gave them all that on the brink of a success or they're just they've just been goofing off for a year? a bad plan. And at what kind of milestone should we hold accountable to the gross numbers of customers? focusing on the gross numbers, incidentally, and PR and be like, &quot;This thing is gonna be But we all know if you happen to find yourself is fundamentally lethal. But it's not fair and hope for the best.&quot; You guys know exactly I think we can answer that question now with Here it is. Instead of focusing on product milestones milestones we can focus on. We have to take Vanity metrics are the numbers you put in bad. Like the total number of pages on the like that one a lot. There was a time when we had a big index, like, &quot;We have four billion and you only have tell you about the quality of somebody's business? They could be four billion really dumb pages. excited about the number four billion. Or, one crappy website. If you read &quot;TechCrunch&quot;, you're gonna see sent 400 messages through their platform.&quot; about to turn out, or one very excited customer? We used to have a competitor in IMVU that of their whole user to user economy. And my &quot;These guys have a four hundred million dollar that even mean in our context? If two users of the GDP? I don't know.&quot; It's a completely bad. I'm all for vanity metrics and press releases. feel bad. But what happens when we use those numbers numbers go up, it's always because of what this feature last week and now the numbers the people in marketing feel like it's 'cause when the numbers go down? Anyone ever been in that meeting? Oh, it's effects used to describe numbers going up? going up, it's features. If it's down, it's marketing. And over time, each us lives in our own private go up and the stuff that those guys do make we think each other are idiots? Now, expand that organization larger and larger silos, speaking their own language, living wonder that they have trouble working together? Maybe that sounds a little bit familiar. Okay. use actionable metrics, which are about per at microscale. And the first thing we're gonna do is establish of the minimum viable product on a much more plan, there is a model that says, &quot;Hey, if have zillions of them over time.&quot; And we can't models. Of course, there's a great book coming In the meantime, what we wanna do is just of those inputs at microscale? That's what there's some number, some spreadsheet somewhere, who come to our website should register for in our office somewhere that's like, &quot;We must then, we each have a minimum viable product number is today. And most likely, when you do that experiment, only be one percent and it's supposed to be management, that provokes a crisis cause now the &quot;audacity of zero&quot;, which is how much excited when you have no results. Or having great time to raise money. Having one dollar it's like, &quot;Well, why is it zero?&quot; &quot;'Cause be zero. Everyone's like, &quot;Oh, that makes God forbid you have one dollar of revenue, dollar? I thought this thing was gonna be to me that it isn't.&quot; So with zero you can number you're screwed. But we need to change that. We need to say, now is progress. It's a milestone that we which is we tune the engine. We make product to drive huge gross numbers, but to make those to the ideal in our business plan. And whenever I've done this with teams, I've to be one percent. It's one percent but it's in, it's one percent, three percent, six percent, Now, it's not ten percent yet. So the model we gonna get there?&quot; Yeah, probably. Each up a little bit. We seem to be heading in make sure that the changes we're making are Here's situation number two. It's one percent, percent, 3.8 percent, 3.81 percent. Now, the like the numbers are going down. It's not a question four, five, six months into hitting percent? I think it's safe to conclude the Of course, theoretically, it is possible. more feature that gets you to ten percent. When the team gets to the point where hitting you're not gonna make it and you enter the we do three. We schedule the meeting in advance. it is, we're gonna have a meeting to decide And by that meeting, we will have the data are working or hitting diminishing returns. like product market fit, that are very vague. on a much more quantitative basis. We can't I can't tell you what to do. I still rely But if we make specific predictions, if we model, then we can be training our judgment So, don't do product development astrology. of questions unanswered 'cause we only have specifically when to pivot? What's the relationship between our vision, should we measure in each of the engines of do we know if we're on that hockey stick, we test if we're creating value? What specific features should be in the MVP? and so many more are in the new book coming You can, of course, preorder it at lean.st. Thank you very, very much for doing so. I'll be in touch if I can be helpful in any way. a minimum viable product about theleanstartup.com. And you are all officially invited to the is gonna be May 23rd in San Francisco, but cities. So presumably we'll be in New York, too. I a line. And if this proves in any way helpful, Thank you all very much. [applause] So we have time for a few questions? OK, let be pretty proud of myself. That's going right [pause] Sweet. [pause] &gt;&gt;Female Audience Member #1: So, I just wanted reviewed too many times; the pivot. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Uh-huh. &gt;&gt;Female Audience Member #1: I have trouble in for the first pivot. I think the second OK, maybe not. [laughs] But just starting put in for that first pivot? &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: There's no way to answer that You have to put yourself into a position where working. And the problem is that most teams and see what happens. And the problem with ship it and see what agile, but you're guaranteed to succeed at always feel like it was worth doing and you'll what. The only way to get yourself into a position concrete predictions ahead of time that if your theory into doubt. And the issue is that we all know that most BS. You have to tell the CFO, or whoever, customers in year five. Otherwise you won't But we know that we just made those projections we're like, &quot;Well, that doesn't prove that took longer than we expected.&quot; So, yeah, the taking longer. If we do innovation accounting and we make -- like one thing we'll often have people on a landing page somewhere. And it's like, don't even say what the product, it gives you and see if you can get people magic, they're certainly not going to sign better. And if magic isn't even good enough, if the you already know that you have a problem. go home. It just means there isn't already And so you're gonna be in a different kind help? So the minimum viable product truly to get that first information. It's not, &quot;Oh, we give up.&quot; And if you release that pressure to get it lot of us feel like we have to do this circus the future. Like, one of those brilliant visionary, as good as Steve Jobs. That's a story that And every company I've worked with internally, to be able to get it right on the first try when you meet the hero, you're like, &quot;How you, they're like, &quot;I actually don't know.&quot; Or, &quot;Actually that's not how it happened and I feel incredible pressure to replicate that negotiation that happens with the superstar to be in a position where they do something and go to convince some other company they're I hear that happened recently. Anyway. Is &gt;&gt;Female Audience Member #1: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: OK. Any other questions? [pause] &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #4: So most of the to be very applicable to consumer applications amount of time it takes to try something is Twitter or Facebook or whatever the next thing &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #4: How does it apply sale or if it's a bigger commitment, do you the time scale is longer because the commitment &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Yes. I mean, that's the short in consumer internet. So I talk that way just tests. Just the way that I, I can't help it. What's funny is that Steve Blank, who I mentioned Steps to the Epiphany&quot;, that I hope you all enterprise software. He gets this question question, people say, &quot;Well, of course, this will it work on consumer internet?&quot; Because we just assume that the tactics that another. So the answer is truly, it's the And so, the principle of the build-measure-learn in consumer internet, because we're used to this analytic stuff as a crutch. It's actually, than the enterprise people. When you have a lot of customers, you can't In fact, you just have, you have to rely on When you have a small number of customers, of them extremely well and the experiments So like, physicists don't get to ask electrons not available for comment. But when you're studying something that can whole different ballgame. Question over here? &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #5: What product should &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: What? What product should Google never presume to tell Google anything about &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #5: You were invited. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: What's that? &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #5: You were invited. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: I was invited. But look, but know anything. You guys know your business need to be pivoted. You know. You don't need The better question is, how on Earth are we in a management and accountability framework for example, a certain Google product that with something that I was working on at the One of our cofounders at IMVU went to work people. You can talk about this. So they had were doing available to them. And at first, we were gonna face competition from Google. Here's what happened. Google spent two years how much money developing it. And when it big bang, put the Google brand right on it. and it turned out to be an embarrassment, And the whole time, we were like, &quot;What is and changing constantly over that whole two product, we felt like they'd launched a product And by giving it the big launch hype, putting the same problems we had had when we launched, pathetically small number of customers and That's a huge asset. It's actually a relief. Nobody cares. Obscurity is a benefit. By putting the next big thing, Google put that team, way for them to pivot. It became an embarrassment pulled. Now, [pause] that product could have pivoted. of really good things about it. There was But two million dollars, two years and millions and the Google name, I can't imagine the pressure So, the right question is, what could Google it in a position where it could have pivoted? economy means creating platforms for experimentation I borrow that phrase from Scott Cooks, founder Startup. So if you want to be a general manager in to be more entrepreneurial, my point of view give them a safe sandbox for experimentation. So for a risky new product, do not, I would shame. And I would never talk to the press about try to have it have as small a number of customers innovation accounting. Then, teams will pivot just fine. Nothing In my humble opinion. Yes. &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: So let me follow &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: OK. &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: Let's say you write the-- &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Hypothetically speaking. &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: Yeah, yeah. The Google, with the Google name in a blog post, matter what it is. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: It can be almost that, you are now, when people browse to categories, &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: You'll be number one. &gt;&gt;Male Audience member #6: you will be up will lead to clicks and you will be featured. And you will jump start in a way that you app out there. You may very well just be in no matter how great the product is. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Right. &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: So, I mean having &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Entrepreneurs never ask hypothetical &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: Yeah. Yeah. So I know the successes that I've had are in to it. And that initial jumpfrog, the initial leapfrog bought. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Yeah, look, you get free marketing, less than we think. Like, yes, that accelerated you had the right product and it worked for So putting rocket fuel into a rocket that You accelerate too fast. The thing blows up. you actually do have the right product. But marketing, marketing dollars are not as great products today have an engine of growth So, yes. Google has huge advantages of putting of downloads. But also, there's a huge liability &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: Well, that's a Google to fail? Why not take risks and just &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Listen. &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: and admit it quickly &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: If it was me, I would be celebrating If it was up to me, but that's the culture But see, failure is not what we want to celebrate. from failure. And that's challenging because If you're charismatic, you can get resources people to use it and then you can engage in try to make it seem like you're a big success. whether they actually add any value or not. in my opinion. But what do we do instead? We don't want to celebrate people who fail because they accomplished which failures were actually instructive and what the learning turned into in the next So yeah, if Google corporate was fine with be associated with nasty stuff, that'd be I mean, I wouldn't be that comfortable. If I was Google, I would be launching those I wouldn't tell anybody that they're made be viable. How do you think Apple does it. The stuff we're the first people -- the first person first person to have used the iPad? Come on. &gt;&gt;Male Audience Member #6: I didn't follow &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Then maybe I shouldn't have [laughter] Cancel that. I do think giving teams a platform for testing whether they're making progress Whatever Apple does, who knows? &gt;&gt;Thomas Sharon: All right. Last question. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Make it count. &gt;&gt;Thomas Sharon: Or this was the last question. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Too much pressure? It's a Google-branded [pause] &gt;&gt;Thomas Sharon: All right then. &gt;&gt;Eric Ries: Ok, thank you all very much. [applause]