(audience murmuring) - [Ann] Okay, why don't Come and take your seats. Good afternoon everybody. My name's Ann Harrison. I'm the dean of the Welcome to today's Dean Speaker Series. It is co-sponsored with the Center for otherwise known as CSSL. Nora here who runs it I am absolutely thrilled to introduce our guest Blake's story is a really powerful one. He was on a trip in Argentina in 2006 and while he was there, he saw many children who had no shoes and he was deeply affected by how difficult their lives were. And so he decided to create Toms Shoes. And in doing so, he created And that's a model where a helps someone else in And that was a complete revolution in the way to do for profit business. Amazingly, over its lifetime, Toms has provided over for children around the world. (audience applauding) Since then, Tom's expanded into for example, eyewear and safe water. Now, Blake didn't stop there. He published a book, &quot;Start And every time that book sells one copy, he donates a child's book to a child. So that's really amazing. His current ventures include co-founding a wellness program Made For, and his philanthropic endeavors include working in the area hopefully we'll hear a little We're incredibly fortunate today to have such a trailblazer here working in the area of and area that Haas excels in and that we're passionate about. Blake, our students have I just wanna thank you once to give your insights to our community. So just some quick you might have noticed a If a question occurs to while you're listening to the Q&amp;A and then you can hand it my colleagues, they'll be collecting them and then there'll be for some Q&amp;A. So now I'm going to turn to two students who will be doing the Q&amp;A, Eli Bresler and Yvonne Mondragon and they will moderate today's discussion. Take it away! - [Yvonne] Thank you, So Blake, thank you for being here. As we've mentioned before here at Haas, we care a lot about social so everybody here is very To start us off, why don't about your journey starting Toms, kind of from your perspective, what influenced the one for one model and how that helped drive - [Blake] Okay, great, well and there's kind of a funny How many people have &quot;The Amazing Race?&quot; Oh, a lot of people. Okay, did anyone see it 20 (audience laughing) Two people, yes! So my sister and I were on this and for those who haven't seen it, you're racing around the world for 30 days and there's a million And interestingly enough, the last leg of the race and unfortunately at a very &quot;We're almost there to Let's stop and ask for directions to make sure we know where we're going.&quot; And as it's such a cliche, as a man, I said, &quot;No, I We don't need to stop and ask.&quot; And next thing I know, we were lost and we lost the million (audience exclaiming) And after we lost a million about a month later, I got a and it was this like And I thought, that's weird. And I thought, well, maybe she kind of and that's what came through on the text. So I didn't respond or anything. And then the next month I and it's a different And so I called her and I said, &quot;Paige, what's with these text messages?&quot; And she goes, &quot;That's the interest you owe me on my half million dollars.&quot; (audience laughing) And so that was a great experience, but what, &quot;The Amazing Race,&quot; did was it really took me I had never been to and And so I decided I wanted to go back to a lot of the countries and so in January of 2006, I was there for about a month and I experienced a bunch And one of the things and it was the first time was just really intense poverty. Just outside of Bueno Aires and not wearing shoes and sniffing glue and just some really horrible And at the same time, I noticed that a lot of the young people were wearing these slip-on And I grew up wearing Converse and Vans and kind of these thick bulkier, slip-ons, but these were like really different. And so I asked my friend at and he said, &quot;Yeah, the farmers wear them, the polo players wear them.&quot; And I thought they were In a very serendipitous way, I met a woman that was running a nonprofit and they were specifically helping kids get shoes for school. The shoes was part of the uniform and so many of these kids the reason they were in the was 'cause their families which included a pair of shoes. And so, I had this kind of morning ritual where I drink my coffee and write in my journal about the day and have some of the and goals for the day and when I was sitting on this farm that I was staying at in Argentina, I was writing in my journal and this idea came to me and It was just, what if I took these shoes that I see all these people wearing that I've never seen before and sell them back in Venice, and every time I sell a pair, we give a pair to these kids for their school uniform and we'll call it shoes for tomorrow. The idea is that if you buy a pair today, we give a pair tomorrow and most people think my (audience laughing) But that's where the name Toms came from was Tomorrow's Shoes. And we wanted to put the whole word, &quot;Tomorrow's,&quot; on the tag, but it wouldn't fit, so and that's how we got the name, yeah. - [Eli] That's really incredible and as someone with two I can only imagine that costing us all a million you're probably catching so I empathize with that. we are on an NBA campus and that we're really curious and the one for one model signals a lot how you can have a profitable, and also have it do good, So I think one of the is how you layer in social responsibility and what complexity that adds. what challenges have you faced in maintaining Todd's while ensuring the company's What sacrifices do you have to make on both sides of that coin to make sure that both can succeed, financially and your social goals? - [Blake] Okay, well, I think maybe start in answering the question, just thinking about the financial aspects of the Tom's business model, there's really kind of a magic formula that Tom's, kind of created and that other businesses have followed and it's not necessarily It's this idea that our giving and our commitment to our impact had a greater influence on the customer than any type of marketing And so, while many companies of their margin on marketing, And instead we took that money and we used it to pay for which was oftentimes less And so that's why like when we which was a kind of a surprise to me because when I started the, we didn't even call it a we started the Tom's project, we priced the shoes based to make them in a guy's So you can imagine when and all of a sudden we were the cost went down so much that our profit went up a lot. And so, we really had to focus on, to be successful as a business, we actually need to focus on our giving as much as anything else and telling that story of the giving. And I really learned that lesson in a really kind of funny way. I was in the JFK airport, and I was probably two, three months in and the only people we really sold Toms to was like my parents, their and I was living in Venice, California. And so, I was in New York and I decided to go for a run right before I had to get to my flight and so I went to the JFK which was unique for me, at And so I had my running shoes on and I go to the American I'll never forget this, it was kinda one of the the early days of Tom's for me, and I went to do the kind and next to me there was this woman wearing a red pair of Toms and I had never seen a I mean, it was so cool! It was such a cool moment and so I'm kind of looking at her and I'm thinking, gosh, And so I decide to say, &quot;Hey, I really love these shoes And she says, &quot;Tom's, Tom's Shoes.&quot; And so I'm doing the check-in. I'm like, &quot;Oh, that's cool.&quot; And she literally physically and said, &quot;No, you don't understand! This is the most amazing (audience laughing) She goes, &quot;When I bought they gave a pair to a child in Argentina and there's this guy who started, I heard he lives on a boat...&quot; And she just went on and on. So I was feeling bad and so I And I'm like, &quot;Excuse me, I am Blake, I live on a And she goes to me, she looks at me like, like deer in headlights, And she goes, &quot;Why'd you cut your hair?&quot; (audience laughing) And I was like, &quot;How did And I realized that she she was just totally invested in this and she'd watched all of us giving the shoes away. And so, that's how she But then as I said thanks and started thinking I realized that this woman at an airport to tell So how many people has she I mean, definitely all and people on Facebook and of just one customer was gonna have such a magnitude effect on how many shoes we would And so that's when we really decided that as a business model, we were not necessarily gonna be focused on the things that a but really focused on and that's why our model works so well. - [Yvonne] Yeah, that's awesome to hear, to see that something you believe in, others also believe in and it grew into what Toms is today. Going off of that, large scale innovation is There's some products that we think this large What are some of the with scaling up Toms and how - [Blake] Well, the biggest challenge was making the dang shoes. I mean, I had never made shoes before. My Argentine polo playing partner, Alejo, had never made shoes before and we met this guy who said he could make them in his garage, which he could do somewhat sufficiently. So really scaling the production once the business took off what I found was the key to that was finding people who and had done it for And so, we very early a really senior executive from to come and start working I think he was employee and the first two were (audience laughing) But Sean came to us and I I went on a factory tour with him in Asia and we were drinking beers one night and I said to him, I said, &quot;Sean, you know, why did you come to Toms?&quot; Because I mean, we're paying as you as you made at this, I I forget where he was at before and he's very senior in his role, he'd worked in the industry And I said, &quot;'Cause we're paying you probably half or two and you're having to do the And it was so cool, he's told me, he said, and this goes back to the giving being our key differentiator is he said, &quot;Because now and my daughter thinks it's so amazing that I'm helping kids get shoes. And so that's a big part of why I'm here.&quot; And that's also, I realized, and staying authentic to because without Sean, we never would've been - [Eli] That's really interesting. It feels like people are attracted to it because it's solving two problems. It's putting stylish that's actually a fun problem to solve, it's also putting shoes on and that's an even more I think when we think about the most successful products, like that's what they fundamentally do. They solve problems that Like, Velcro allows me to fasten my shoes, Advil allows me to reduce all that kind of stuff. How do you go about figuring out what problems people need to solve and how you can solve that problem? And even one step further, if you know how to solve the problem, how do you turn that into a for a lot of people? What does problem solving and filling need look like for you? - [Blake] Okay, so I'm gonna tell a story from a different company. So I've started, I think and most of them were before Tom's and one of them was an online Now, how I got into that business is really by listening I was at a barbecue for that I'd also helped start and my head of programming's son was there and he was 15 years old. And I asked him, &quot;What are And he kind of said, &quot;Uh, And I was like, huh, I mean, I would think that if that'd be exciting for a 15-year-old. And I said, &quot;Well, why not that exciting?&quot; And he said, &quot;Oh, I'm in this classroom and it's stinky and it's dark and I got this old lady teacher and I can barely understand and the cars are just crap.&quot; And I mean, he was just super negative. And I was thinking, well, this is not good for our safety on our California highways. (audience laughing) If this is how engaged or like, we are in a lot of trouble. And so I went home that night, and this is right when MySpace was out and there was no Facebook yet and some of you probably don't even know what MySpace is, I'm realizing, and it was also when to do things online that traditionally had been And so I thought, well, one of these classrooms that are they're usually in like is to see if we could And so that could be more they could do it at their own pace. And so that was one idea and I worked really hard to get that changed in California And so, that was step one. And step two was, we like these cars have Now, this was right when and so they had this huge desire to get people to know what And starting with young people who might be more environmentally inclined was a big part of their thing and so I cold-called and got a meeting and they at like, basically at the cost. But the third thing was the teacher and that was something that was gonna be a because people who were were pretty, a very specific type. They're usually retired, I mean, I think everyone can remember the driver's ed teacher. unless you went to our school, 'cause I'll tell you why ours was special and you'd really remember, because what we decided was these teenagers were to their teachers at all. And so we thought about, okay, how can we get Now we were lucky, 'cause so we had a lot of actors and models. (audience laughing) And so, we went and basically and hired a bunch of Abercrombie and Fitch models and actors that had all this free time and we knew that teenagers and it worked. And so we had them as our driver teachers and they would post pictures on MySpace of them and their teacher and so we solved all (audience laughing) - [Eli] That's beautiful. I distinctly remember self branded himself as Tupac Dave and he was far too old to be trying to educate 15 year olds about Tupac and not teaching them about driving. (audience laughing) So I understand not learning anything and also trying to make sure kids actually learn how Pivoting a little bit, you're mentioning a lot of partnerships, like you're talking about Toyota, you're talking about these you've been talking about who was working at Nike and I think partnerships are key and I know you often as being key to success. I'm curious, what are the green flags that you look for in of what you think would make a good faith partner, someone who you wanna do business with, whether it's an individual or an entity, kind of what's your criteria? What are the green flags? - [Blake] I mean, I think in a partnership is, is the as something that's The best partnership we It was truly one of the in our business and I because what happened was, I and I did an interview how many people worked at there were like 40 of us and we were selling all over the world. And they were like, &quot;How in the world do you run your business, when you're in places or Cambodia or Guatemala and there's only 40 of you and you're competing against And I pulled out my, it was funny, I had a Do you guys remember Blackberry? Okay, good! I'm not as old as I think! And so I pulled out my and I said, &quot;This is how I do it.&quot; And basically, I can run the business and do everything from my And so this ad exec was in and they saw this interview on CNN and they thought, &quot;Oh my gosh, if he uses AT&amp;T, this is perfect.&quot; And so they called me and luckily they asked me if And that was one of the great, because they said, &quot;We wanna and Tom's and your story and we don't want to like and we wanna actually go with you on a giving trip to Argentina and just film you and And so they made this commercial and it was like lightning in a bottle. They loved it, they they premiered it on the which if you know that tournament, they only allow three for the entire term. And then they played it at the NBA final playoff They ended up spending $30 million on a commercial to basically But it was completely And so it worked really well for them, our business grew 500% that And so literally, I mean it and that was really the But that partnership was so important and the reason it is because it was completely authentic. - [Eli] Thank you. - [Yvonne] Yeah, that's a Moving a little bit away and transitioning into leadership, I strongly believe every great venture has a strong leader behind it. You often talk about one that aims to serve others. You talk openly about your How do you think sharing have shaped you into the - [Blake] Hmm, thank you. Well, I think when you hear I think it's a really important term and it goes back to the your employees that are on the front line are serving customers, And in order for them to they need to be served from their managers and I think that's really the job of a manager or an executive, is not just to lead the but to really serve those so that they feel empowered I think also, leaders and I think talking about you really, I believe, where it's okay to fail. I always say &quot;If I'm gonna So I don't waste a lot of but I learn from it and I move on. And so, I think it's really that you show that failures If anything, they're gonna be celebrated because what did we And I think that's a really - [Eli] I love hearing that. And I think one other thing we hear a lot of successful So learn quick from your failures, but also you have to Some say they create their own luck and that they earned it and if they didn't work as hard and put themselves in those situations, that luck would've happened, others say, &quot;A beautiful and I got lucky that my idea worked.&quot; So I'm curious what you think about luck and how much luck has - [Blake] I mean I'm a lucky guy for sure. (all laughing) So I think there is that the harder you work, But I also think that, I mean, how do we have an idea? Start there, like, I'm and this idea is somewhat downloaded or that then goes to my journal, that then goes to starting a business that then goes to kind of changing the face of business across the world, like, I can't take I mean, from a spiritual perspective, I don't really understand but I feel really lucky that I was the one that got to do it. And so I do think that and you have to work hard, but I also think that or certain ideas that come and really have a huge effect on culture, that idea was just, its time was to come and the person that got is pretty lucky, so I feel lucky. - [Yvonne] Yeah, that's great. I think we're all hoping for out here to go on to our next endeavor. So your ventures have given us shoes, provided safe drinking water and restored vision of at a global scale. Going forward, where do you and what new business models outside of the one for one model have you been excited about - [Blake] Well, I think starting out today, I would be spending a lot of I think that one of the biggest problems facing our species right And I think there's gonna there already have been so many fortunes built, focusing on how we can live But, it's something that I don't have a lot of but I think that's where 'cause I think that there's just gonna be, I mean, technology and And so when there's a necessity, there's usually great - [Eli] I think half of my classmates here who are going into green just got really excited, so thank you for that. The future is bright, my friends. I do also want to ask about in something that you've pledged which is the legalization of psychedelics. And I just wanna know, what inspired you to and where do you think the opportunity is for that to succeed? Or just any general which is kind of new and upcoming? - [Blake] Sure, I mean, I'm I feel like this is of a new frontier in how we help address so I've struggled myself with depression, I know many people that have and I know many people that of pharmaceuticals and talk therapy and have not had success. I had the opportunity, gosh, a friend of mine, famous many of you probably know, that I had worked with psychedelics myself and had found them very beneficial and we had shared that with and he said the John Hopkins is thinking about creating the first ever center for psychedelic research in the country and they're looking for to kind of step up and help in Dallas. And at that point, most of my giving had been through Toms and then also a supporter like Charity Water that I'm a big fan of, and so this was, kind of, and helping endow a department this was really kind but I realized, and Tim really helped that there was gonna be as a philanthropist to have because if this worked and John Hopkins could show the effects of psilocybin or MDMA or LSD on different mental health challenges, that this could be the and really our society accepting that these are not necessarily drugs, but they're actually medicines. And so I made that donation and it was the largest to date at that time, and then about two years later, there's an organization called Maps that's been working really hard mainly for helping with PTSD. And they were at a critical kind of path, and they needed to raise, I think, $10 million. And so, interestingly enough, (audience laughing) And Tim and a guy named Joe Green were putting together this round and trying to raise this for the nonprofit and they explained the benefit, especially to many of our veterans. The statistic that haunts me every day when we think about our veteran community is that 17 veterans a day commit suicide. I mean, that's more people than dying combat now and that to me is just inexcusable. And so seeing how MDMA can in helping with the PTSD and depression that many of them experience was really an amazing opportunity for me. And so I made that investment and then I just kind of sat for about four or five years and then a couple years ago, I decided to get more I made an investment here in the Berkeley Center I continued to help John Hopkins. I've worked with the VA And what I'm finding is, is I think as an entrepreneur, that's kind of one of our characteristics. This is gonna be a long process. I mean, this is something the rest of my life to, because that's how long it's gonna take for things to really become legal, to have regulated access. We're working on a bill through the legislature to create regulated access for PTSD, for MDMA and psilocybin, that'll go to the governor's desk, next year around September. So there's a chance that it gets passed, which will then really across the country. But this to me is the most exciting, kind that we could have that on what really is a health with mental health issues. So I feel really, really lucky, it's kind of like when and I got to be part of a change in the way that business is done, I feel really lucky that of a way that hopefully we help millions if not billions of people around the world with - [Eli] Thank you so much. I do wanna thank you for all that. I'm very passionate about Do I wish I had my own Tim Ferriss? Absolutely. But otherwise just interfacing with those. - [Blake] Oh, be careful. Tim Ferriss has been - [Eli] Okay! That's true, that's true, that's true. But no, it's a huge need. And I think I could ask about that, but I want We have a lot of questions So the last question you're sitting in front of entrepreneurs, people who or teaching at this program so that they can make a real difference. And so just for the aspiring whatever capacity that is, do you have any last words of advice, parting pieces of wisdom - [Blake] Oh man, that's because like, do I really I mean, I'm not that much older than most of you guys in the room. (audience laughing) I mean, I think, we were and so I would say if you then this is advice that I and that is that I really that to found a successful company, it really has to come from from something that that you're frustrated with or there's a product you wish I really believe that that's where the I think it's very dangerous learn about entrepreneurship and be like, okay, I I'm just gonna go start a business, without the passion behind it, just 'cause you think I've seen most of those And so, if you make you're getting into entrepreneurship, I think it's dangerous. I think if you make the or the product you want to create or the service you wanna provide because you deeply care about it, the reason you're then the money will follow. And so that is what I would say is kind of one of the I have for entrepreneurs. The second piece of advice, I'm gonna give two now, I just realized there's another one, and this is gonna be super I can tell already. 'Cause you're spending so much And so as soon as you graduate, you're gonna have a ton your student loans, your parents perhaps, to go out and get a job that will pay the most amount of money for a job that you can get. And that makes sense, initially, but the truth is, is no working at a bank or a it's not gonna actually on how much money you make in your life. And I'm not saying making money is the only reason that we work, but it is one of the reasons. And so, what I tell people and just chasing the think about what you're and invest your time, at without the pressure to pay or to make as much money as possible. Because what usually happens and you do something that you're versus just trying to make money, you become really good at it. And when you become usually you make money at it. And so, that I know is probably but that's fine. And you think I'm naive and idealistic and it's easy for me to say, but I really have seen, I've given that advice over, probably, 15 years of speaking now and I've had people come up to me or write me emails or letters years later and say, &quot;That really made an impact.&quot; because they ended up that they deeply cared about and they got really great at it and then they made the - [Eli] That's brilliant, Turn it over to Nora! - [Nora] So first I wanna thank Blake for starting off with a loss, we don't do that very and I wanna really who came up with the questions don't you think? - [Blake] Yes, absolutely. - [Nora] So my name's Nora for the Center for Social And I'm an adjunct professor here and Ann was kind enough to share this Dean Speaker Series with us. Before we open it up for your questions, which I do have here, thank you very much. I have a few for you. How many of you are Okay, how many of you came here in order to make a difference or create social impact How many came here for that? Okay, about half. Do we have any alumni here? Welcome back. Do we have any friends and Yay, Ella! Okay, so I wanna take a minute with the students in particular, If you are curious about the kind of or the kind of career path that he took, I want you to know, do you know that you can And I wanna point out a couple things. Gloria, would you stand up? Gloria is right now teaching a course called Reinventing Capitalism for a Sustainable, Humane It's offered this spring, it as well, stay there. In the fall, Gloria taught Business Models for Social Impact. She teaches that with Both of them are serial who can introduce you to different models, such as that Blake described thank you Gloria. For those of you who wanna found something with social impact, we do It's an intensive week that will walk you through those initial, kind of, scary steps. And lastly, I'm going to a course on social movements. I'm exploring teaching that, if that's what you're interested in. We have a lot of experiential programs and one I wanna point out to you, 'cause it's coming up, if in trying exploring a Social we have a program that will if that's what you're worried about. So look for the HIIA with net impact and we'll let you know about that. And we have career advising, so I and CSSL's executive director are serial social entrepreneurs. We have faculty, 20 plus, would I see you, come on! That teach on things and know because they're professional faculty, so they're out there at the same time that things like climate tech and global health and food and education So whatever is stirred up in doesn't need to stop here. There are many more resources at Berkeley and at Haas available to you, depending on your interests and I just wanna make sure you know where you can So there are people here to with your thinking, with no matter what that will be. But now we still have some So Blake, back to you, ready? - [Blake] Sure. - [Nora] Alright, you may but we'll try. - [Blake] Oh no. - [Nora] &quot;Have you paid your (audience laughing) - [Blake] So how many people called Aviator Nation? Raise your hand. Enough, okay, so my sister and I think Forbes last said so I think she's doing fine. (audience laughing) - [Nora] Maybe she should pay you back? No, I'm kidding. All right, alright, so &quot;Toms was a pioneering business model and I think received disproportionate scrutiny and criticism. How did you navigate it and what would you have done - [Blake] Hmm, yeah, I mean for me because, hey, you hear this adage that the media loves to build you up so then they can kind of tear you down. And we got a lot of flack for on communities by just going And that was really hard, because all we were I mean, I was in Argentina, saw kids that didn't have shoes, Like I didn't come with a and so we really at first were like, angry and frustrated and scared by this and then we decided we And so ultimately what we who did have that background, who really understood the in these communities, how it and that really led us to So we did a manufacturing plant in Haiti after the earthquake, which We moved manufacturing also to Ethiopia, which created a lot of jobs in Ethiopia. And then the other thing we did is we realized that just that we had to be part of And so there's a lot of health programs for worms that kids get in and so they want them to that would keep them from getting worms. But the incentive, a lot of they started saying, &quot;If you come, you get a free pair of shoes.&quot; And so that was a big incentive, we worked with the Gates And so yeah, so we just had and more sophisticated - [Nora] Great, thanks. So, &quot;How have your previous ventures, you mentioned four or five before Toms, allowed you to be successful What did you bring forward from those?&quot; - I mean, just lots of learning. A couple of them were and a couple of them were huge disasters. (all laughing) One disaster was after what I but it was a failed business I guess, is after I was on, &quot;The that there was this in reality stars and but there wasn't really a market for really kind of capitalizing on that. And so I decided to start at, I think at the age of I decided to start a television network and it was an all reality cable channel in which I went around and bought the rerun because once you kind of knew who won, they really had no But what I realized is about the reality stars that you could pair the and they could kind of where they gave commentary when they did that move on, &quot;Survivor,&quot; or how they got that person or something like that. And so we were able to get the content for basically next to nothing, but we knew that advertisers really wanted to reach this audience, it was which was the key audience that All these components showed that we were gonna have incredible The one thing we did not think about, which was the most important was there were only in our country at that time and including DirecTV, satellite provider. And so the cable operators and then DirecTV basically had a monopoly as to what content we see. It's not like today where or you can see it on a number of different obviously YouTube being one So we basically had an amazing product, people wanted it and we had advertisers but our only way we were gonna was through these cable operators. And they had no need for another network. I mean, they had 400 channels already, getting one more was not gonna have anyone all of a sudden decide to They were paying for cable television for many other reasons already. And so they basically said, And so, we ended up going outta business. It was incredibly painful, I had to lay off like 40 people, it was a really challenging, And what I learned from that was, is I never wanted to where so few people had the power to make it work or not work. And so when I started Tom's, the great thing was is in America that sell shoes and so, I didn't have to go out and get this one big fish customer, I could go and focus on one after another, after another, after another. And so, that was one of the from an earlier business that failed, that really helped me - [Nora] Great, thank you. So, &quot;The buy one give has longstanding been however, there have been and all of that. Here's the big question, Is it truly possible to And how should incoming I'll read it as it says, &quot;Corporate philanthropy - Absolutely, my mic, hello? I can just talk loud too. - [Nora] We're trying to - [Blake] I could juggle. - Hello, great, I don't I would love to learn though. So yeah, I mean I think that of businesses for good out there now, Tom's being one of them. I think the key is to really and you hear this a lot of the three, Ps, people, By doing that you can where all those stakeholders I think, I will say the is that, and because and other companies like Toms, it's not as novel to as it was when we started. When we started, there I mean there was Ben and there was the Body Shop that had been giving, Anita Roddick, but neither of them built like we did with Tom's. And so, we really kind of pioneered this and several other businesses as well. But now, today, if you I was talking to an and they were saying, &quot;Okay, well we're gonna incorporate helping people get And they're gonna invest And I said to them, and coming from me, I said, &quot;I I was like, &quot;I don't think on your social investment to make it work, like I talked about from because so many other companies So I think now what I that really want to do it's really important to incorporate it into the business model itself. So to do it as an add-on or I think can be more difficult, but if the actual business itself, and that's why I use the if the business itself is making the planet a then it is a business that's doing good, but it's also not necessarily a percentage of its margin to do so. - [Nora] Okay and the final is, &quot;You talk a lot about and for-profit business and or celebrate nonprofits and many people draw divisions Can you talk a little bit about why you don't or how you see that?&quot; - [Blake] Well, what I tried which is a long time ago now, and I'm trying to remember (audience laughing) but I tried to really highlight businesses that were innovative and they're giving and but then also some of these new nonprofits that were being created that were operating more like businesses. And so I'll use Charity How many people know Charity Water? Raise your hand. Oh wow, okay, you should Not a lot of people here know. but they've been incredibly innovative. My friend Scott Harrison started it the same year I started Tom's and his idea was to bring in the world that need it as possible. And if you look at the it's as innovative and as slick as any new Silicon Valley I mean the branding is unbelievable. The storytelling is unbelievable. It competes with any business but it's a non-profit. They also do really, really like asking people, people who are 15, 16, 17 years old to give up their birthday in And they found this to especially with social media, 'cause they can message like, &quot;This year instead of having a party or bringing a present, I'm for every year I've And they've raised, I mean literally they've in the last couple years So I also try to talk in the book as well. 'Cause I think at the end of the day, there's a lot of big problems in the world that we wanna solve and sometimes the right like in the psychedelic space for instance and then sometimes it is And so I don't really see a as long as the organization is being used to address a major problem in the world. - [Nora] Great, thank you Blake. We're hitting our time and I'm gonna take a and go off script here. Alan Ross, would you come up here? (audience applauding) Alan does not know I so bear with us. Alan is doing something I as a philanthropist and he sent out an email just So Alan, I wanna relinquish to make a pitch to the group. - [Allan] Well thank you It's very surprising. I started something a couple years ago called the Chris Kindness Award I'm Alan. I named it after my kids' just the sweetest guy I ever met and I give a thousand dollars every month to someone in Berkeley random acts of kindness. We've had a gas station attendant, someone who volunteers, this month was a who's from Afghanistan, just who helps newcoming kids acclimate to Berkeley High, sweet, sweet stories and we just announced our three finalists for this month on Monday, one of whom is a Haas person, former student of mine of Anyone know Olive? Wonderful woman who was Young Entrepreneurs at Haas, and now she started giving back to the community, bringing in youngsters to educate them about business, so they'll go on to college and all. Wonderful person, anyone can vote. ChrisKindnessAward.org, If you want to vote for Olive, And we need nominations, we're seeking nominations all the time. Go on our website, works, or goes to school in Berkeley and we're raising money now. We now give second and and we're trying to grow and beyond Berkeley as well. So ChrisKindnessAward.org, Thank you, Dean, appreciate it, thank you. (audience applauding) - [Nora] So we know that many of you are doing for your local communities, for your friends, for your family, we want to thank you for all of that, for Blake, Yvonne, Eli, Ann, thank you for coming, We hope you are inspired to go out and try something that you're passionate about in the world, and Haas is here to help (audience applauding) (audience murmuring)