[slow soft music] [deep riveting music] - [Man 1] This is the Go ahead. [radio static crackles] information on President, over. [thunder claps] - [Man 1] All available [gun bangs] He and Governor Connally in the car in which they were riding. We do not know how We have no information. - [Man 2] Keep us advised on here. This plane, on which Secretary of State, other cabinet ministers headed for Japan, turning around, but we'll whether some parties should - [Man 1] The Associated with a bulletin to the effect that they believe the [gun bangs] [somber haunting music] [somber haunting music continues] - This country was changed by, in all kinds of harmful ways, both domestically and internationally, by the loss of John F. Kennedy. And without inviting a lot more questions, because I won't answer them, we're all gonna learn more this year about why he was killed. [dramatic bang] - [Interviewer] Can I - [Ted] Briefly, but it's so I don't like to talk about it too much. - [Interviewer] Understood, sir. You wrote something quite ominous. I'll paraphrase. Basically, upon reflection, that perhaps some of Kennedy's enemies were not behind the assassination. Have I got that correct? - [Ted] Well, something like nobody really knows. And I try to avoid reading most of these so-called conspiracy books. The fact is that Kennedy had particularly because of civil rights and because his American University speech indicated that he was taking toward the Soviet Union. He also had enemies among organized crime, as did his brother, Bobby. He also supposedly had in both the Soviet Union and Cuba, though I don't think either one of them would've thought that they All I meant to say in the book was, considering the number in the military and intelligence circles in the United States, Lord knows they had they had opportunities to reach out to the kinds of who can be recruited I don't make any accusations because I don't believe in [static swooshes] - [Hallett] WAYSIDE, WAYSIDE, I read from the AP bulletin. &quot;Kennedy apparently shot in head. He fell face down in back seat of his car. Blood was on his head. Mrs. Kennedy cried, &quot;Oh no,&quot; Connally remained half-seated, There was blood on his face and forehead. The president and governor were rushed to Parkland Hospital.&quot; [wind whips] [slow somber strings music] - It's still like yesterday to me. It doesn't seem 48 years ago. [crying] - [Reporter] President's car - [Interviewer] Do you - Yes. a matter of minutes before - [Reporter] The breakfast of Mrs. Kennedy. [fanfare band music] [audience applauds] [fanfare band music] Mrs. Kennedy's entrance from the president. - Two years ago, I said that, by saying that I was the man who had accompanied Mrs. Kennedy to Paris. I'm getting that somewhat, as I travel around Texas. [audience laughs] [audience applauds] Nobody wonders what [audience laughs] [audience applauding] - [Reporter] I was on and even the freeway was waiting their chance to see the president as he made his way towards the Trade Mart. It a, it a... It appears as though in the motorcade route! Something, I repeat, has There's numerous people alongside Elm Street, there Several police officers at this time, standby! [deep tense music] - Brent, I was close enough that I heard what she said, and told them way back in '69. I said, she said, &quot;Oh my God, he's been,&quot; and I couldn't tell if And the reason why I couldn't, is because now seeing this Zapruder film, and I know that her She pulled him down, pushed him down, and crawled out of the back off the back of the car. It was horrendous. She, literally, according to Clint Hill, pieced his head back together on the way to Parkland Hospital and tried to hold his head together. - [Reporter] The presidential I can see Mrs. Kennedy's pink suit. There's a Secret Service man spread eagle over the top of the car. - I still have nightmares about it. When I got down to the plaza, Unless you were there, But have you ever been in a situation where the hair stood up That's the way it was that day. The air was just full of excitement and static electricity. And I got my camera out to I took pictures of the just to make sure it was working order, 'cause I did not want to miss And you could tell as he got closer, because the crowd got louder and louder. And he turned onto Houston Street and the crowd just went crazy. And then they turned, and as soon as they started left onto Elm Street, I started filming. And shortly after the car got there was a noise that went bang, bang, bang. [crowd screams] I thought that was those when we were children that and they popped, you didn't And I remember thinking, why would somebody let their children bring something like that And just no more got that thought out, and I'm filming the motorcade, no more than got that out ba-ba-boom. [haunting music] And when the ba-boom happened, it looked like the whole back It looked like a bucket of blood was thrown out the back of It was the most horrific thing There's no amount of movies, there's nothing that could ever portray what really happened down there that day, and the awfulness of it. - [Reporter] Put me on, Phil, put me on! Phil, am I on? There has been a shooting. I repeat, a shooting in the [gentle haunting music] - [James] The reason I in Dallas that day was with a cute redhead. We'd made the date the day before. I had just turned 27. [gentle somber music] I got stopped in traffic the Triple Underpass. I got outta the car to I thought maybe there'd been And I walked four, five steps to the front of the Triple Underpass where I could see what was going on. I saw this car come through the crowd with flags on the that I had read about the The more I stood, I could not because the glare of the All I had was a frontal [crowd chatters loudly] Well, I heard what I thought [gunshot blasts] And the thought went through my mind, what kind of idiot would with the president going by. And then it was delayed and then the crack crack [gunshots blast] - [Reporter] Police say Both President Kennedy and Texas Governor John Connally were hit. [daunting music] - [James] I did not realize they were shooting at the president. Being a very brave person, I of the cement there of after the third shot. And I'm standing there A man in a suit comes running up to me, I later learned was Deputy And he asked me, he said, &quot;What happened?&quot; I says, &quot;I do not know.&quot; And together we walked across, We crossed Main and Elm to where he motorcycle policeman and there's a man there sobbing, &quot;His head exploded, his head exploded,&quot; and the motorcycle And he says, &quot;The president's.&quot; And that was the first that - [Reporter] The president was within the past hour in an open car when the shots were fired. - [James] Buddy Walthers &quot;Well, you got blood on your face.&quot; And I reached up and there was a couple, I was sprayed by concrete In the right cheek is where I was hit. Just broke the skin, I took my handkerchief, wiped it off, and that was the end of that. - [Reporter] Parkland Hospital for a severe gunshot wound. [deep somber music] - I heard a knock on the and standing there was who was one of our And he said they just and said that President during the midst of and that they're bringing him, rushing him right now to our emergency room, and they want all of the faculty surgeons to come to the emergency room immediately. - [Reporter] The motorcade now... The motorcade now approaching the entrance now to Parkland Hospital, traveling at a high rate of speed. Ready police cars converging from every point. - [Reporter] President's wife, She walked into the hospital at her husband's stretcher side. - With that, the elevator door came open and there sitting on a folding chair outside of trauma room in her bloody clothing. - [Reporter] And just now here at Parkland, the president was hit in the head. That's an unconfirmed report that the president was hit in the head. - I went into trauma room the thing that struck me immediately was the terrible appearance who was lying underneath on a gurney in trauma room one, with his face toward the door and the light in his face, and his head was completely and he was attached to a respirator through an endotracheal tube that had been placed into his trachea immediately as he entered And also to an And so that's what I saw immediately. And I was horrified of course by that. But I was also simultaneously gratified in that I saw I was not by myself, that Dr. Perry and Dr. Baxter, my two associates on the faculty, had arrived in trauma room And they had just placed on the president's neck, where there was a small wound in the lower right-hand And they had just begun a straight across incision in his neck as I walked into the door. And as I walked by the gurney, on the left side of the gurney, Dr. Perry, who was starting dropped his scalpel and leaned over and picked up what's called off a surgical tray and handed it to me as I walked by. And he said, &quot;Bob, would you go and stand at the head of the gurney and lean over the president's head and hold the retractor in so we can see,&quot; as he and Dr. Baxter were doing that exploration of that wound. And so, that put me in a position immediately above the president's head, about probably 16 to 18 inches in the back of the head that I could look down into, and into the inside of his So that gave me the of the wound of anybody [dramatic somber music] - Seconds after JFK's motorcade had bolted from Dealy Plaza towards in order to get the president as quickly as possible to the hospital, Dallas police officer, Joe M. Smith, raced behind the picket fence There he encountered a quote, lurking just behind the fence where many witnesses believed the fatal shots originated from. Now Patrolman Smith, very important to remember that, trained police officer, pulled his sidearm from his holster and demanded to know what The man then took out and he told Smith to &quot;keep Interesting, right? Could be a Secret Service agent, whatever. Several other witnesses a Secret Service agent as well. The reason to focus on Smith is because he is a trained The same scenario played out moments later at the rear of the Texas Remember I just said that has Lee Harvey Oswald on the sixth floor, Texas School Book Depository. So, at the rear of this very same Texas Dallas Police Department also runs into several, as he describes them, &quot;well-dressed men.&quot; Police were sealing off the and that included, of course, the rear of the suspected of the Texas School Book Depository. It didn't seem suspicious then, when these quote, unquote simply told them they were Fair enough. Nothing out of the ordinary, right? Okay, here's the problem of these Secret Service in a nutshell. Are you ready? There were no Secret Service Let me repeat that for all the naysayers. There were no Secret in Dealy Plaza. I had interviewed NASA - I had a chance to talk who headed the '78 Committee, and he said he checked There was no federal agent of So someone was there who no one wants to someone who shouldn't have been there. [dramatic music swells] There was no federal agent of - [Hallett] WAYSIDE, this Over the TV we have the has been moved to the operating room. The president is still at Parkland Hospital. Do you read me so far? Over. - [Salinger] I read you - [Man] Considering the in the military and intelligence circles in the United States. Lord knows they had They had opportunities to reach out to the kinds of weird and confused individuals who can be recruited [dramatic drumming music] - [Interviewer] Did Kennedy trust the CIA? - Not after the Bay of Pigs. [suspenseful music] - [Interviewer] I know - Yes, who was very conservative, but truthful, straight as an arrow, and very solid in preventing rogue agents running off with the family jewelry. - [Interviewer] There was in your book as well, sir, as I read it. The CIA just prior to the had done its own study of or not, and they came to the conclusion that it wouldn't succeed, - [Ted] That's right. That was only long, long afterwards that we heard about that study. - [Interviewer] What do you Were they trying to - [Ted] Who knows? The CIA was testing the wanted to prove to him Cuba was not a threat but it was an irritant. And I suppose they wanted to show Kennedy they had an answer to this irritant. They weren't going to they were just going to let Cuban exiles who wanted to re-invade and let them go ahead. It may have sounded good to them on paper, but it was foolish from the beginning to think that this little band of exiles could defeat Castro's army. - [Interviewer] Many people that they were trying to into a all-out war against Cuba. Do you feel that they- - [Ted] Oh, I think the Cuban exiles were. Not so sure the CIA was, although the CIA was so they might've been. But yes, the Cuban exiles and take over the government, take over the country, get back their land that get back their business enterprises that Castro had taken from them. And they wanted Kennedy that the United States would win, forgetting that Cuba was backed the Soviet Union, and for Kennedy to start a war with the Soviet Union's ally, Cuba. [crowd applauds] [slow somber music] [deep somber music] [deep somber music continues] [deep somber music continues] [deep somber music continues] [deep somber music continues] [deep somber music continues] [deep somber music continues] [deep somber music continues] [tense suspenseful music] [tense suspenseful music continues] [tense suspenseful music continues] - [Hallett] I read you latest bulletin. &quot;President Kennedy has been today at Parkland Hospital in after he and Governor were shot in an assassination attempt.&quot; - [Interviewer] You knew General LeMay. - I met him. - He sat around the at least on one occasion. But contrary to the - [Interviewer] Yes, sir. - The Joint Chiefs did not Only the Chairman of the Joint And he was a scholar, He was not as hardheaded or hawkish or eager to go to war as LeMay and some of the others - [Interviewer] In the General LeMay is kind of portrayed as an excessive hawk, to put it mildly. Do you think that's pretty - Yes, I do. General LeMay thought we He thought, well, if we'll probably kill 300 million Russians and they'll only kill a So, the other Joint Chief, remember, was the Chief of Naval Operations, who wanted to take Kennedy's and have those destroyers, which were in the ring around Cuba, go out and look for Russian and board them. And when McNamara said Admiral Anderson's his name, complained and went to the White House that that's what should be done. And that's how ambassadors [interviewer laughs] - [Interviewer] Was there running through the administration that perhaps a coup could take - [Ted] It was no joke before that first week was over, demanded a session with Kennedy. When the Joint Chiefs met a man who believed in nuclear war, 'cause he thought even if we or millions of deaths, Russians would suffer even more, so that was, you know, Curtis LeMay, that's what he thought was victory in war. He lectured Kennedy on, well a combination of diplomacy was too weak a response, and the American people wouldn't like it. Can you imagine a military chief lecturing the president of the United States on what the American people think? [haunting music] - [LeMay] I think that a would be considered by a lot as being a pretty weak response to this. I'm sure a lot of our own In other words, you're in a pretty bad fix at the present time. - [JFK] What'd you say? - [LeMay] Said, you're - [JFK] You're in here with me. [man laughs] [deep daunting drumming music] [deep daunting drumming music continues] - [LeMay] I don't share your they're gonna knock off Berlin. If we don't do anything to Cuba, then they're gonna push on Because they got us on the run. If we take military action against Cuba- - [JFK] What do you think - [LeMay] I don't think if we tell 'em that the Berlin situation is just like it's always been. If they make a move, we're gonna fight. So, I see no other solution. This is almost as bad as But I just don't see any other solution except the direct military - [Ted] When Kennedy and went on into the hall, he ran into me and he was upset. And he said to me, bear in mind this is just Friday the 19th. He said to me, he pointed &quot;They're all getting and he said to me, &quot;You get this finished soon.&quot; But, turns out, that he left his tape recorder going when he left the room, and we have recorded for history, and what LeMay and the Marine and some others had to say was pretty close to And I'm told that when Khrushchev finally pulled the missiles out of Cuba without the United States firing a shot, not only was Castro upset but the Joint Chiefs were upset that they didn't have [somber drumming music] [heavy bang] - [Shoup] You pulled the rug - [LeMay] Jesus Christ, - [Shoup] He finally got If somebody can keep them from doing the goddamn thing You go in there friggin' you're screwed. You go in friggin' around you're screwed. - [LeMay] That's right. - [Shoup] You're screwed, Some goddamn thing, some way he could say, &quot;Either do the son of a and quit friggin' around.&quot; - [Interviewer] Sir, when - [Ted] I gave it to JFK, who approved it, and he and Secretary of to accompany delivery of the Number one, time is short. We're making this letter agreeing more or less So, this should end it because you never know President's in charge of government, but we don't want the hawks and evading by Tuesday, this is Saturday. The other message was, we can't, persuade NATO to, which we can't get that by Tuesday to pull out the missiles in Turkey. But because the President had previously decided to take we're not gonna do it or nobody'll have any Well Mr. Khrushchev, if can be assured that it will if we can just get this crisis finished. So Bobby went to Dobrynin with the letter and with those two messages, and I woke up the next morning and turned on my radio and Khrushchev was [deep foreboding music] [dramatic music] - I stood there while they of the wound that I had pointed out here in the right side of the neck. For about, took about 12 And as they were completing that and saw that there was no damage to the internal jugular which is what they were looking for, and had put a tracheostomy tube in to replace the endotracheal tube, Dr. Clark, our neurosurgeon had been standing by the and he looked at it just as they were and he said, &quot;Mack, you can stop now,&quot; to Dr. Perry, &quot;he gone,&quot; 'cause he had just flatlined on the electrocardiographic monitor. - [Reporter] Just a moment, just a moment. We have a bulletin coming in. We now switch you directly - [Reporter] The president - [Hallett] This is the Situation Room, relay following to WAYSIDE. We have report quoting that the President is dead, that he died about 35 minutes ago. Do you have that? Over. - [Salinger] The President - [Hallett] That is [wind whips] - [Ted] He also had enemies as did his brother, Bobby. - JFK and Bobby had gone after the mafia. They promised if they were elected they would continue going after the mafia, and they did go after them. [deep somber music] As it turns out, the FBI got to JFK's assassination back in 1985, years before the Oliver let alone made. And the FBI hid Marcello's to controlling and working, I mean, Ruby was working for Marcello. David Ferry even brought All these incredible details. The FBI had that much of all of it witnessed and they've settled. [dramatic music] Jack Van Landingham was an ordinary person who kind of briefly fell on hard times. Who was imprisoned with Marcelo admitted, yeah, I had the son of a bitch He was a thorn in my side. I wish I could have done it myself. [recording whirring] - [Reporter] A major during the past year and a half has been the thinning out and management hired union busters who have incorporated the union movement. - [JFK] You borrowed the and repaid the money in Now, when did your - [Hoffa] When did he make it? - [JFK] Yes, did he make - That's right. - [JFK] The last few days And you can't tell us who Mr. Hoffa, and the other gentleman? - [Hoffa] Well, you'll - [JFK] Your accountant? I'm asking you. You're the one who made about what your accountant found. And now we find that there are no records! - [Lamar] Many people don't or they never knew that JFK and Bobby made their reputations in the 1950s. They went after the head of Hoffa was very corrupt and took a lot of money essentially let the huge pension fund as its piggy bank and that financed a lot and casinos in Las Vegas. - Only Jimmy Hoffa can rejoice Honest union members can only regard it as a tragedy. Constructive labor legislation, however, for the reform of this general area, will be brought again to In the meantime, those who defeated this bill will bear a heavy responsibility for the racketeering that will - [Lamar] As soon as JFK became president, a very short time afterwards and as Bobby, and his brother Bobby was appointed Attorney general, INS needed to make up for the immigration service. And so with Bobby's blessing, when Marcelo went for his monthly meeting as green card alien, he was then arrested, taken, not dumped in the Marcelo lived in style in Guatemala. He had a fake birth certificate, but then the publicity in And so he had to be So he was escorted to the border. The other countries And so Marcelo did wind up trudging through the jungle only with his attorney. And if you can imagine the most powerful godfather in America reduced to trudging through the jungle, fearing for his life and swearing all the time, maternal vengeance against the Kennedy's that had done this to him. And that's what would [heavy rain pattering] The assassination wasn't a Dallas thing. They were gonna kill JFK in Chicago three weeks before Dallas. - [Lamar] Entire trip They were gonna kill him in Tampa, Florida four days before Dallas when JFK was there with the motorcade. Same plan, same people, different patsies, each city, Chicago, Tampa, Dallas. So, it wasn't like a Dallas [curious music] - [Reporter] Senator Kennedy vote in his native town, Photographers and reporters for this is the man who may become president of the United States and she, First Lady of the land. [gentle piano music] - [Lamar] Any Democratic whether it's JFK or Barack Obama, needs mafia help to carry Chicago, is just pretty ludicrous. And more than that, historians have actually including the precincts in question and have just showed for other candidates and other races that there was no fixing of the vote in Chicago. Now it was a very close election. Richard Nixon could have if Nixon had spoken out on the arrest of Martin Luther King. - Dr. King, that's right. where he had been arrested was being sent to a prison which was a very racist Black people at the time had a very tough time in Georgia prisons. In fact, the chain gang era had really not completely You would still see the road crews working and sometimes, they would be And prisoners would die all the time, especially if they were Black or considered troublemakers like King was. So there was a lot of thought Nixon would speak out King's wife was certain king JFK called Coretta Scott He did have Bobby contact the but Bobby was not Attorney General then. This is during the campaign. And so, you know, they took to be sure that Martin Luther King wasn't sent to that South There were several states that that if Nixon had only spoken out and had only gotten the same that he had gotten four years that his ticket had gotten, he would've been decisively - [Ted] The fact is in the right wing. [thunder booming] - [Lamar] Joseph Milteer a professional racist, a very sharp guy who liked to Apparently Milteer was because since he had he could be trusted to carry money. Milteer was caught on Miami almost two weeks before JFK's murder. [suspenseful music] [ominous music] [ominous music continues] [ominous music continues] - [Somersett] Kennedy is coming here, I think on the 18th or to make some kind of speech. - [Milteer] The more bodygaurds he has, the more easier it is to get him. - [Somersett] Well, how would be the best way to get him? - [Milteer] From an office building, with a high-powered rifle. - [Somersett] You think he - [Milteer] Sure he does, sure he does. - [Somersett] And they're going to really try to kill him in that place? - [Milteer] It's in the works. - [Somersett] Hitting this Kennedy, I'll tell ya, it's going The Secret Service, they never cover all the office buildings. - [Milteer] Wouldn't have take it up there in pieces. Disassemble, take it up in pieces. All those guns come well - [Somersett] Hell, within an hour of that, just [heavy bang] [deep daunting music] - [Man] The FBI got a copy of the tape before the assassination. I've talked to the FBI who was sent to investigate Milteer and they didn't tell Hoover, apparently himself, So the FBI agent said he wasn't told about the Tampa threat. He wasn't told about the tape and he doesn't try to interview Milteer 'cause that would've tipped him up. But he actually kind of - [Somersett] Well how would be the best way to get him? - [Milteer] From an office building, with a high-powered rifle. [cymbal reverberates] - [Man] Of course, then when with a high-powered rifle and someone is picked up within the hour, J. Edgar Hoover can never let it be known that he knew about that ahead of time and personally botched the investigation by withholding information So what you had shortly you had J. Edgar Hoover about Joseph Milteer. [daunting suspenseful music] [daunting suspenseful music continues] - We got the information when he was the head of the JFK Presidential Library in Boston. We arranged for Tom to have Tom went into the office and Powers pointed to a rocking chair. And Tom sat down in with a presidential emblem. And Dave Powers said, &quot;That's one of JFK's rocking But Tom was just stunned when about seeing the shots from the Knoll. Tom was also stunned when Powers said, he and Kenny O'Donnell were told they had to change their stories for the good of the country. And Powers said he did not know but it was made clear to him it was for the good of the country. And it was really not until Tom sat down to talk with Dave Powers I believe it was 1990, that Powers finally realized why it was for the good of the country and to prevent World War III, just one year after the he had to basically lie about what he saw. Now again, if people should wonder, well, why should we believe on Powers and O'Donnell, we've got pretty good backup there. The head of our lower House was Tip O'Neill from Boston, most powerful congressman And he was close to JFK, as were Powers and O'Donnell and Powers and O'Donnell Tip O'Neill put it in his that they saw the shots from the Knoll and were told they had You're starting to get reports that there were some sort of official Castro Cuban And you know that if or the conservative hawkish they're gonna call for You've got one ready. But hey, if you invade Cuba you're triggering World War III. And so, if you're Lyndon What Lyndon Johnson did is, hey, we've gotta cut off any real public or thorough investigation or it's gonna lead to World War III. People should know too, Lyndon Johnson did not J. Edgar Hoover did not Hoover and LBJ were friends. They wanted to do the You know who wanted the Warren Commission? Bobby Kennedy's associates. They're the ones who wanted - Dick. - [Lyndon] I wanted you to know it. I made that announcement. May I read it to you? - [Lyndon] The President announced that he is appointing a and report upon all the relating to the assassination of the late president, John F. Kennedy. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is making a complete The Special Commission will have before it all evidence uncovered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. You are my man on that Commission I can't arrest ya and I'm not gonna put the FBI on ya, but are you goddamn sure gonna [pensive piano music] - It's really important that there were several locations that shots were being fired from. [pensive piano music] I believe that there were shots from the back of the President. I believe that there were I believe that there were One was the Grassy Knoll. And the other, the location that the which is not the Grass Knoll. [radio static drowns out conversation] I received over 3,600 realtime in just the field of forensics and was awarded the certification of senior crime scene analyst. I definitely could take the training that I had on working homicides, which was almost exclusively what I did and translate that information I think it was in maybe, it had a picture of frame 3-13 that has the blood spatter. I walked over and just &quot;Oh, okay, that's back spatter.&quot; That's blood that goes as projected back towards the direction the force was traveling from. In other words, it goes Like most people, when from the right and from the Where is the front? The front is not the Grassy Knoll. So if you don't know where the front is, then you don't know Normally, when you do trajectory analysis to determine where the shot came from, you would start with the entry point because you're at an here's a hole, there's a hole. You line the two holes up or the pathologist puts a dowel They can measure that exact angle as it's traveling through the head and that gives them a trajectory. The problem is we don't We don't have an autopsy measuring the angle of impact. What we have is a big area in the front and a big area in the back. I start out by drawing what would be an overhead of a skull, if you were looking down on a head. And I just draw an oval. And you just take that oval and you divide it into four parts by drawing across, and then And that gives you four quadrants. And so what I did is I made that entire and the entire rear quadrant, the exit. So imagine that it's coming in just to the side on the forehead as you're looking down right here, okay? And that it's traveling back to come out right behind the ear. That would give you one trajectory line. Now as you move from in front and then you moved across, every one of those locations is gonna be another trajectory line until you finally are over here where it would just come and exit at midline, in the back. What you've created is a large area called a trajectory cone and the shooter is somewhere in that cone. The next step is that you as he's in the limousine. You would place him in the limousine. Now in Dealey Plaza, they had Canning who was a NASA scientist. The Warren Commission asked on the location of And he did so. There's another person that's done that. His name is Dale Myers. And Dale Myers has done this. Now these two men are very close, very close in their computations. So they measured how much how much is the head tilted to the side, and how much is the as reference to Zapruder. So if Zapruder is at a 90 degree angle, he is turned beyond the 90 degree angle, a certain degree. Now both of these men So if you take a compass, a protractor, you can put this down on you can measure that angle at 90 degrees plus another 26 degrees. And you have now indicated on your graphic the direction the president is facing. He's looking down and his body is tilted. He's over 26 degrees. If you were to straighten him up, he would be looking 26 degrees Now 26 degrees beyond Zapruder makes him looking at the south corner of the triple over path. That trajectory cone can then to determine where the shooter could be. Now beyond that, you're gonna have injury to the So we know that we're that angle, those trajectories. So you limit yourself mathematically to a certain range that And if you step outside of it, then you're gonna injury to So I did that and the Grassy Knoll was not within that area. That eliminates the Grassy Knoll as being the originator But here's why a shot from the front is going to create a back into the left. It doesn't have to be straight Have you ever played pool? Do you know anyone that plays snooker? All right. Ever hit a ball and made Because when you have a round surface and you strike that round surface, it creates a momentum that is angular. And so it goes forward or with the force, but it also angles away from the direction that the force is traveling from. So if you've ever played pool, then you already know why although the shot is straight on from the front. [suspenseful music] I think that we definitely to show that there's a conspiracy and that there were probably in the plaza that day firing shots. This is just like going to trial. My job, when I'm at a trial and I'm on the witness stand as an expert, is to educate the jury, give them the information that I have and let them come to a conclusion. I tell them my expert conclusion. They can disagree or they can agree. It is up to them. And if I want them to agree, then I need to give them with a clear understanding So that is all I can hope to do. It's okay if people disagree with me. I have no problem with that. I'm happy that anyone brings because I think that the people that hear the contradictory information are gonna wanna find out for themselves. Why are these two experts not agreeing and look into it a little more? Well, absolutely the magic I mean, bullets do not behave the way that they're saying And of course, the person had no forensic training, had absolutely no idea how bullets react and hope that the general public that also had no training Of course, we know that it didn't fly. And I think people are a lot smarter sometimes than politicians The Dallas Police Department I think in some places they I think that in some places to their own written standards. I think when it was taken away from them and the FBI did it, the FBI had the mindset And that was, we already have The minimal work has to There's not any question Everything looked like The Warren Commission had an answer and they wanted validation, They wanted things that And I think that's what they looked at and that they didn't look at things that would cloud the issue for them. If Oswald had lived and things may be a little different because I do believe that at trial, whoever was running that trial would have wanted the loose ends tied up and that would've meant more information would've come to the forefront. I think when he was killed, and the way they were looking at that particular investigation. My husband had made friends who was retired as a military sniper and he was at our home one evening and had no idea what my background was. As far as he was concerned, So he started talking because that was his life work. So I told him, what if I but I wanna blame it on somebody else. I don't want for them to be I wanna make sure somebody He said, well, if you're and you wanna blame it on someone else, you're gonna have to make some plans about when is the person accessible. And I said, I can do it outside 'cause I have a place where and they'll be outside. So he said, well, you would Think of it as a triangle. You put one person at each point. One point would be you Then one point would be And then another point Because when you are a sniper, there are four really important things that you have to remember. &quot;You have to do one shot, one kill.&quot; That's what he said. He said, you need to know You need to know that there's concealment or some way that you are that people are not gonna see you. You have to be able to get away. And the way that you can do that is you have someone that everybody looks that way and then you shoot and they don't see you. In the midst of explaining he suddenly stops and &quot;You're talking about the aren't you?&quot; - [Sherry] And suddenly how did you know? &quot;We talk. We talk.&quot; That's the only thing he said. Well, years later, I had an opportunity to speak with Craig Roberts. Craig Roberts wrote &quot;One He was also a sniper. So he came to me and says, would you like to go to So we go to Dealey Plaza. He walks on the other side. He walks around and he stops Craig Robert stops at the exact same spot, turns and says, &quot;If I were going to do it, this is where I would've been.&quot; It was just so nice to have Well, if it was the best place for him, then it was probably the best [progressive piano chords] [drumming music] - You're a sniper. - [Interviewer] Could Oswald have done the shooter's job he did? [deep foreboding music] - You know, we get asked that, or I get asked that question a lot. - Sure. Let's put it this way. I would not put myself, if I was the lone, if I was by myself gonna shoot anybody, I would not put myself in that position up 60, 70 feet up in the The hardest shot for a sniper or anybody or a hunter is to shoot from high to low. There's too many variables. The easiest shot would've is coming down Houston Street, right towards where you That's where I would've taken the shot. Why did Oswald or whoever wait until the car was A moving target inside a moving vehicle, you know, 187 feet away? That's just... The superior shooters of I mean, I would never But you know, I think there was no shots taken because it would've I think they waited and whoever the other shooters were, they waited until they were in a position where they could all I mean, that's a typical is you put people in front, people on the side and people behind so the target can't go anywhere. It can't stop, it can't back And wherever it goes, it's gonna run into, the field of fire is gonna - [Interviewer] Where would you have, if you were in charge of where would you have placed them? - I would put, I would put a shooter, low flat trajectory somewhere in front to the side of the target, behind the Grassy Knoll by the fence. You've got concealment. You've got, nobody can see you. I mean, you're behind a fence. I certainly would wear like a police uniform or a suit and have some type of identification. I would put another shooter which is adjacent to the on the second floor, perhaps. The target makes the turn You simply point the barrel, the rifle towards the lane of traffic and just wait for him to and you pull the trigger. I would put a shooter and you've talked to Sherry Fiester and I am in complete agreements where she puts the fatal No, that's a great spot. You've got great cover and concealment. And then the final place I if I had multiple people at my disposal, I would put somebody at the Again, you've got two people in front, you've got two people on the back and you've got one You can't put anybody on the left side. There's too far of a shot. But I'm gonna put six people in there. I'm gonna put six people, one or two with a spotter probably the guy on the picket fence is gonna have a security in case he's focusing in on the target. Somebody doesn't walk up behind him. So I think you've got six and not everybody had to take a shot. - [Interviewer] Would to coordinate the shot so and around the same time? - [Interviewer] How - [Brian] Absolutely. The first shot that's fired is your signal for everyone else to fire. A perfect example, a good analogy is, I'm sure you've been to a where they have seven shooters, seven military officers How many sounds do you hear? You hear one, but you hear it three times. You hear three shots, three It sounds like one shot. And I think the people that were highly trained military people who had done this before. And yeah, this wasn't This was well planned out. These are professional [haunting suspenseful music] Just it didn't make any sense why one guy who suddenly went from since the Marine Corps and suddenly, was able to pull off world-class in the history of the world. And since 1964, nobody's ever been able to produce the same kind of results That right there sells the The single bullet theory is the most laughable thing since the Snow White and Chief Curry, the Dallas police chief, he knew Oswald was in town. He was given information that James Hosty, who was eventually and said, we knew he was in town and we just didn't think he was capable of doing something like this. And they didn't transfer that information to the Secret Service. So there's a lot of culpability between the Dallas police and the FBI. Well, I don't know if you know it or not, but Bill Decker, the told his men the morning that his men, that anybody was not to participate in any way, shape or form with security. Well, it's standard when Hillary Clinton came or before, whatever it was, before they got in the White House, we supplemented our security with every law enforcement I mean, here's the president in a known hostile environment they already had information that there was threats on his life and driving right past and they're all out standing and not able to participate I mean, you would've We've interviewed Jim Leavelle many times and I mean, he is a great I asked him in front of at one of the assassination And I said, we understand that you didn't keep records of anybody, nobody kept records of And he said, point blank, he said, &quot;That's right, What do you mean you Now here's the most important prisoner you've ever had in your entire career. And you didn't take notes of what he said? And Jim Leavelle looked at and says, &quot;Well, it it wouldn't have changed We know what he said.&quot; Because they didn't care what he said. They had their man and that was it. And anybody else that throws up and says, Hey, I'm a suspect in the well, if you're not Oswald, you're not it. If you didn't see Oswald do And that was their mentality. And that's the sad part is that from the word, from the I think that's when the and everything suffered as a result. I mean, they didn't care If Oswald wasn't involved, then we don't wanna know about it. I mean there's countless, in the Warren Commission It's really sad. - The magic bullet theory is a totally absurd bit of nonsense. [dramatic riveting music] The bullet then entering his back, exiting from the front of his neck and then turning in midair about 18, 20 inches going to turn and strike Connally right posterior axillary area, as it is called in medical terms, moving downward through the right lung, piercing the right lung, destroying four inches exiting from below nipple level, coming out and then to go into the back of the proximal portion of the wrist, exiting from the wrist a large bone and a six foot - [Interviewer] Connally, yeah. - [Cyril} And then Only to fall out quite fortuitously from that wound that had onto a stretcher. And then on the stretcher, below the stretcher, on I can't be sure. Darrell Tomlinson, I believe was his name, Donna, is that right? - The maintenance man at the hospital, tried finding the corridors block, moved the stretchers and lo and behold, there was the bullet, nobody had seen it before, that Conley was operated on. Conley was moved on a stretcher and so on. And there was the bullet. So the single bullet theory, which is the sine qua non of And we, Canadians and Americans, Sine qua non, means, baby, if you don't have that, you There's no ands, ifs, possibilities, rarities or so on. You have a single bullet theory and you can argue for one, the shooter. There's still a lot to But if you don't have then you don't have to go any further insofar as whether or not But just getting back for a moment to the single bullet theory we've talked about its trajectory. Let's talk about its weight. In his pristine state, as found to weigh 158.6 grains. Do the math. 2.4 grains is exactly And yet we're told that bullet, which left pieces of itself all of those little fragments amounted to no more than of the original weight. And then let's talk about its condition. That bullet broke two bones. And remember, Connally is not a female. We're talking about a 6'4&quot; big bone Texan, destroying four inches of a rib and producing a comminuted one of the two bones from And by the way, the radius to meet the eight little You know how you remember those? Never lower Tilly's pants? Mother might come home. That's way you remember those. That radius broadens, broadens. You're talking about a big bone. So this bullet emerges pristine. And they did an experiment. Someone had the decency to So they shot that same ammunition and we'll get to that weapon next. Shot that ammunition, and the cotton wadding striking nothing. Shot through a goat carcass, breaking a rib to simulate shot through Kennedy's forearm to simulate Kennedy's radial fracture. And you should see that picture. The bullet at the far right is The second bullet from the right is the bullet that broke a rib of a goat. And then the two bullets together toward the left a little bit went into the cotton wadding. And then over at the far left in its pristine grandeur of the hero of the Warren Commission report, Commission exhibit 399, the magic bullet. The shot that really was the I believe from behind the picket That's the shot that entered in the right parietal temporal And studies have been done. They've shown radiologically how the deposition of the fragments, the tiny fragments of the bullet become more dense as that and move backwards. And so you have that, and then you do have that struck him in the back. And I think there was another shot that hit him in the back of the head. So I think that three [ominous music] I called and spoke with Audrey Bell, who was the head nurse. - And she was very nice. And she told me that had been given by the operating surgeons to her to convey to the FBI. And she did that. And she didn't measure or weigh then. But you know, there It certainly would've exceeded one and a half percent of that bullet. Incredible. And while we're on the whole talk about the alleged murder considered by every long gun expert that I've ever spoken to and there are a lot of them around here in our country, as you know. And it's a joke. It's considered to be of its genre developed And nowhere is it a the country where it was developed. It was called an instrument You have these 18 surgeons in the Parkland Hospital OR. And these are guys, you know, They had no dog in the race as Walter Matthau says in Oliver Stone's, the &quot;JFK,&quot; the movie. And they called it as they saw it, including the chairman of the who described torn lacerated, destroyed portions of the right cerebellum and fractures in that part of the skull. The cerebellum is located, put your hand behind on the right side. Feel the bony prominence. If you could go in on a straight line, that's where you would And yet in the autopsy Humes and Boswell, we The cerebellum is intact and the skull in the occipital Now, whom do you believe? You believe those Texas surgeons? Or do you believe Humes and Boswell, two military pathologists and who are there with four in the autopsy room and who had never done a in their entire professional careers? Americans, everybody has That has to be pounded into their skulls! If you believe the then you believe the You believe in Humes and Boswell. You believe in the Mannlicher-Carcano. This is your burden, baby. You gotta carry those big That's your burden. Unbelievable. I went in, in 1972, as the non-government sponsored to examine the autopsy materials. And I pointed out something but no one had ever said anything about. Page one story. August 24th, 1972, New President's brain missing and it remains missing to this day. And of course, the brain They did go back two weeks later, which is the proper thing to do. They gotta get the consistency to harden to that of a hard boiled egg so you can slice it like to make a salad. You can't examine it It's like a thick viscous. It'll kind of flow a especially when it has been traumatized as Kennedy's brain was. And they went back two weeks later and you'll see and look Serial coronal section are not made in order to Preserve the specimen? For Jackie Kennedy's mantle piece? For his grandchildren? For whom? You're gonna preserve the Unbelievable. And then the wait, thank you, Your brain as an adult male, mine, eh, 1350, 1400. But the brain, which had brain splattered, splattered. So the brain in its fixed You don't have a 1500 gram brain, when you have an intact brain that has swollen and is edematous. Somebody is living for a not getting enough oxygen. Yes, it can reach that weight. But when you have a or is not edematous, and has lost portions of itself, 1500? Unbelievable! - We asked one of the Secret why they had happened to come to Parkland because we had not had any And they said that generally, when they went on a they would find out where the nearest hospital was, particularly looking for that was associated with a medical school. That's why they had identified Parkland, which was associated with [somber reflective music] After he was pronounced dead by Dr. Clark, everybody in the room left and there had been a number of people other than Dr. Perry and Dr. Baxter and I, who had accumulated in trauma room one during this procedure. And they all left immediately after the president was pronounced dead, except Dr. Baxter and I. As the crowd was leaving the room, they pushed the gurney so that Dr. Baxter and I were pushed against the wall by the gurney and had to wait for And then after everybody had left, and just as we were about to then move around the head of the gurney and leave ourselves, the door to trauma room one came open and a priest came in. whom we later found to administer the last rights. And we would've had to almost in order to leave the room. So we simply froze against the We felt inappropriate, but we couldn't get out without So we didn't try to do that. And we had to stand there and And all I could hear Father Huber say when he anointed the president's forehead, he uncovered his head, which was covered with and anointed his forehead And the only words I &quot;If thou livest,&quot; into And then I couldn't hear anything else that was said after that. And after he completed that, immediately after Mrs. Kennedy and stood by the side of the gurney as Father Huber was that he had back into his little bag, he had used to perform the last rights. And I couldn't hear what Mrs. Kennedy said because she spoke in such a low voice. But from the context of she apparently asked him if Father Huber said, &quot;Yes, I have given him And with that Mrs. Kennedy grimaced. She didn't say anything, but she clearly was not that sort of statement by Father Huber. But she didn't say anything. And with that, she stood and exchanged rings from and back and forth She stood there for a moment more, didn't say anything, and then walked to the end of the gurney where the president's right foot was protruding out from that had covered him. She stood by his foot for a moment, then leaned over and kissed his foot, and then walked out of trauma room one. And that was the last saw of either President because we promptly left - [Man] I have just talked of the Holy Trinity Catholic Church. He and another priest tell have just administered the last rights of the Catholic church [pensive riveting music] - When I entered the room, he had been cut out of his clothing by the nurses immediately. That's a standard practice so that you can see the entire body and be certain that you see So that's standard practice, to cut any patient who's been using bandage scissors. You just rip up the So he was unclothed when I saw him as all trauma patients would be. When I entered the room, Dr. Baxter was on the standing just above the wound in his neck. And Dr. Perry, who was was on the president's right side and had just placed this surgical drape on the president's neck and they had begun the incision, so they were on each side of And Dr. Perry handed me a retractor and asked me to go stand immediately above the president's lean over and hold a retractor in the upper edge of the womb that they were making to Put us all in a little group of three right around the president's Jenkins, our anesthesiology professor, was sitting on a stool right beside me at the head of the journey. And I was standing up next to Dr. Jenkins and he was working an anesthesia machine and squeezing the bag to So that was moving his chest up and down. But he had excellent cardiac activity on the electrocardiographic monitor. So he was, as you said, he was alive even though he had sustained an absolutely fatal brain injury. A train of other things that have led me to think both on the sixth floor book depository, and whether it was Oswald or someone else, I think fired a bullet from that point that hit him in the back And then on the Zapruder film, as you see a good many seconds later after he's already been hit, you can see on the film that when that first and comes out his neck, that the president's arms and hands move up to his neck like that. And it's obvious that something And then several seconds later, he disappears behind a sign along the edge of Elm And two or three seconds he comes out from behind the sign. And a second or two later, Mrs. Kennedy at this point He still has his arms up to his neck and she's concerned that And just as she is doing that, all of a sudden the president's and he's thrown violently So that was clearly an from a different position. Somewhere probably around the hairline, although we didn't see anything there because his head was covered in blood and we didn't see anything. But we saw this huge hole where I'm pointing in the back of his head that blew out probably a circular hole that was something like maybe blew out most of the so that I could look down into the empty part of his skull there. There was nothing. I could look into the empty skull there, there was nothing there. And as I stood there, in fact, the right half of his cerebellum fell out through the wound onto the gurney in front of me there. And there was some argument later between me and Dr. Jenkins as to whether this was That's a significant point, I think, because if it's cerebellum, it means that the wound was farther back than who have indicated that maybe it was in the back of the head, but in sort of the front whereby it would be unlikely Well, the cerebrum was gone, that is the front part of the brain, but the cerebellum was the And that's what I saw Although Dr. Jenkins changed in which he said it was or cerebrum, and later said, well, It probably was cerebrum He had initially said cerebellum. [haunting piano chords] Only one kind of a discrepancy. The pictures that we saw of the autopsy photos showed a large wound in but in one of the photos, they were what I thought, pulling a flap of scalp in order to show a wound which we had not seen any other wound except this large gaping wound. I was later told by someone that, well, this was not a flap of scalp being pulled up on the back of the head. This was just the way the And I said to whoever I was talking to, well, that's not the way it looked, because there was a huge hole, what I thought was a flap of scalp being pulled up over that hole. So that was the only sort in that regard. We first of all did not in his back in trauma room one. The next day, I was in we had an office together About 10 o'clock Saturday morning. Dr. Perry got a call from Dr. Boswell, one of the pathologists at who had done the post-mortem And he wanted to ask about the exploration wound in the neck. And then he also asked Dr. Perry and I could see what was being said or hear what was being said, not by hearing Dr. Boswell, but by hearing Dr. Perry's response and answer to his question. But Dr. Boswell apparently &quot;Did we know that there was a wound in the President's back?&quot; And I heard Dr. Perry because we didn't think it was appropriate to do any further after he had been pronounced dead so we didn't turn him over Well, there was a wound in his, and he said it was high in the back, sort of in the middle, But he didn't specify exactly to us or to Dr. Perry where as far as the height of the bullet. I do know where this bullet from what Dr. Perry told me. It was right here. And then I do also know that the president put and that was when the most likely from the from the book depository window or from one of the windows in one of the buildings around there. Just before I came into the room, and after Dr. Jenkins by the anesthesia machine, Mrs. Kennedy came in, she said, and Dr. Jenkins told me this right after we had in trauma room one. And he said she was holding a large portion of the president's brain and again it was cerebrum, and handed it to Dr. Jenkins. And just walked out after that, after she had handed that of the President to Dr. Jenkins. [haunting somber music] And I thought, well, I'll and see what news is going on now. And as I turned the TV on and before the picture began to form, I could hear voices and &quot;He's been shot, he's been shot.&quot; And I thought to myself, &quot;Now what?&quot; And the picture formed and I saw what everybody probably in various venues. The famous tableau of and he was slumping to the ground. And so having just seen that, I walked through the foot and called up to my wife. I said, &quot;I'm gonna have to skip lunch because I've gotta go to Parkland. They've just shot Oswald.&quot; She said, &quot;Who is Oswald?&quot; And I said, &quot;He's the man they Got in my car and drove as rapidly as And on my way there I saw Dr. in the opposite direction from Parkland. And we stopped along the side of the road and we both found out the same piece of And he turned his car around and we both then sped out the parking. We got there probably about, oh, 30 minutes after Oswald had been shot. We stopped, parked our cars ran into the emergency right across the hall had been treated and looked inside. And that was a beehive of activity with all the residents and working on the Oswald, getting him transfused A fatal wound, but nevertheless, it was potentially, and I underline potentially, salvageable. Unfortunately, what happened is that when he was walking toward Ruby, he saw him approaching with the pistol. And of course, there's also some evidence that he knew Mr. Ruby and He saw him approaching with his gun and as anybody would, he But that cost him his life in essence, because when he turned, instead of the bullet from the front of his abdomen to the back where it would've caused it instead coursed across having come in sort of toward the upper It went across the back the so-called retroperitoneum and it injured his vena the two main blood vessels in the body that carry blood to the upper and lower portions of the body, to and from, the vein, vena cava, and the artery, the aorta. And that is really, say, a fatal wound. In the great majority of cases, people bleed out on But as luck would have that is the blood clot he did not bleed out as they usually do. So we were able to open his abdomen and Dr. Shiers, who was with Dr. Perry and I being the was able to get clamps on those vessels after a period of from the time we got into his abdomen. And we worked down through so that we could have controlled it. But at that time, he had so much blood loss and so much injury to his heart muscle that he had a cardiac And Dr. Perry and I dropped and Dr. Perry opened his chest and we took turns massaging Oswald's heart for probably about 30 minutes or so. And initially, it looked like maybe it was going to come But it stopped again and flabbier until finally we gave up and he was pronounced dead. The deputy sheriff who was as he was being led out of the jail and was standing beside him And he told us as we came out after Oswald was pronounced dead, he was sitting out and waiting to hear what was going on in the operating room. And so we came out and and he then told us, he said, &quot;You know, when he was shot I got down on all fours over his body and straddled him and And I said, 'Son, you're hurt real bad.' Would you like to say anything to me now?&quot; And he said, Oswald opened his eyes and looked up at him like he was thinking about whether he was or was not going to say anything. And after those few moments, he said Oswald shook his from side to side. Like, no, he definitely did And with that, he closed Mr. Level said, I will that he was about to about everything to me at that time. But then he thought better - [Reporter] We have another of the body of the President. He's expected to arrive at six 5:00 PM. That would put the president's body on a different plane than that who has taken the oath of office, and Mrs. Johnson and The three of them are in of the plane Air Force So apparently two planes are being used and the President Johnson and Mrs. Johnson and Mrs. ahead of the President's body. And as we have been told, the Pentagon, the military officials have taken charge of funeral plans and mourning period for the President in the District of Columbia. And it has already been determined that the body will lie and state in the rotunda of the Capitol where so many prominent [car engine humming] [dramatic looming music] - I was dating a man who managed the Kodak store He actually came down to manage the Kodak And he went back up to Rochester, New York in like September. I'm thinking it was September, And he brought me an It was a Yashika experimental camera, and it was a prototype and he brought me 12 magazines. It was a magazine loaded camera. He gave me 12 things of film. He said, that should last me till the camera comes out in two years. He told me be out in two years. And I had envelopes that and mail 'em to Rochester. You couldn't even get Kids don't understand because all they understand But we couldn't even drop it off like at the corner drugstore I had to send it to Rochester and that was my first cassette so I hadn't sent anything off yet. [curious music] It was a burlesque show, but all burlesque shows, like I didn't take my clothes off either. I tried it once, but the men started so I figured that wasn't my [pensive piano music] But it was a strip club. But back then, when you they were burlesque shows, which is different than You see more on the beach now than you saw on the stage And they all had an act and It was entertainment. When I was working at the Colony Club, which was separated only by a parking lot from Jack Ruby's Club, the Carousel Club. And I started working down there at a very young age, very underage. And of course I lied I would catch the bus from Garland, Texas and ride it in by myself work at the Colony Club, go back home on the 12:30 bus. And one night I was which is no longer a street if you've been to Dallas recently. And the Baker Hotel Drugstore And this man stepped out of the doorway and scared the mud outta me. And it was Jack Ruby and he introduced himself to me. And of course he could to be out that time of night by myself. And from that day forward, Jack Ruby walked me to the and Saturday night. He was a rough guy when it came to men, in handling arguments amongst But I never, ever knew Jack to Not ever. I mean, he would be foolish. I've heard people say That would be stupid. They got up at night and Are you gonna pay to see a bruised up, battered up woman on stage? Of course not. He didn't beat his women. A couple of three weeks I had gone over to the club. All three of the clubs staggered our shows so the clientele could And the Carousel had and I was supposed to go to a like called the Alibaba And I went over, which was And I went over to tell and I wasn't gonna go. When I walked in the club, I saw Jata, there was a table at and I saw Jata sitting There was a chair and then, Jack Ruby, and then a dark-haired man. And I made my way up to the table. And when I got there, Jack stood up and pulled my And just as I was being seated, &quot;Hey, Bev, this is my friend Lee Oswald.&quot; He's with the CIA, pointing to the man on Well, I didn't know. At 17, I didn't know what the CIA was. At 65, I'm still not sure what they are. I looked at this he didn't seemed to have a personality, he wasn't dressed very well, he wasn't poorly dressed, but he wasn't dressed in a suit and a tie. He didn't look like he had any money so I didn't have anything to say to him. I directed my conversation to Jata. And that wasn't the only time Just a couple of three nights after that, and when I say a couple of three nights, don't pin me down because I I walked in, just in time that I had been in introduced to stand up and call Wally Weston but he used a word before that. And Wally said, &quot;Excuse He said, &quot;I think you're And Wally just laid the mic down, hopped off the runway, and walked over there and cold cocked him, right in the mouth. And Jack Ruby came forward, came and grabbed him by &quot;I told you not to come and pushed him out the door. And I did not realize that Wally had ever told anybody about that until I did the Geraldo And he played that segment when he had interviewed Wally and Wally told him about Jack didn't want me to film The biggest fight we ever got And he... Okay, I went to a party with It was, I think Pepsi Cola. - And we were just there And he knew that I was going not the Seller Club, but it was another private And he said, &quot;Well, what are you wearing? You're going to see the But he didn't call him the president. I said, &quot;Yes, I am.&quot; And he said, &quot;What are you wearing?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, Jack, I'm gonna He said, &quot;You're not wearing to see that- - And we got- Yes, sorta. [chuckles] And so we got into it. And that's what I found so absurd about the news reports after that he did it because Now he did admire and He thought she was a lady his exact words, I can't say but he hated JFK, he hated his brother, Bobby, and he hated that so-and-so You have to understand Dallas, in '63, everybody was in the mob. You know? And we, the showgirls, I mean, we just thought it let me rephrase that. I just thought these It's just not real life because we lived in our own little world that wasn't the real world. It was not the real world. And so I just never gave I mean, there was always men coming in, both clubs, all three clubs, the Theater lounge, the Colony Club, and the Carousel Club with and guns were always being when the vice squad came in. [deep foreboding music] I walked in from the ladies' and into the middle of a conversation and it was about the assassination. Now, I don't recall any except that I made some statement like, &quot;I was there when it happened, dude.&quot; And George McGann, my husband, who was later murdered pulled me outta the chair, and took me home and told me, I would never, ever again of the assassination of President Kennedy or he didn't call him president. He said, Kennedy. Unless I didn't wanna live till the next day to talk about it. [gun bangs] The last threats that I received was in 1993 after I went on the Geraldo Show and said that I was going in the process of writing my book. And they were both I still have them. And one of them said, I don't remember which came first, but one of 'em said, it just had death in black And then the next one said, - [Reporter] The shots apparently overlooking apparently the parade roof probably from an automatic weapon. - [James] I just drove and told him that I'd been Detective Rose came in, to start taking my statement... [pensive piano music] As we're standing there and I'm about to hint there was a little commotion and two policemen brought a Detective Gus Rose says, &quot;Who's this?&quot; He said, &quot;Well, this is the man that killed that policeman in Oak Clear.&quot; - [Reporter] [indistinct] have arrested a young man in But so far, of course, or evidence that he is the guilty party in the assassination attempt. - [James] Later that I could see it was Lee Harvey Oswald is the one they brought into the homicide and put in the office next to me. I remember Sunday morning, I knew there was a news stand downtown and I had my radio on. I went down to get a paper. I wanted to see what was thinking about Dallas. I wanted to get a New And as I was nearing downtown, I was listening to them transfer Oswald and that's when Ruby shot him. [gun bangs] I knew Jack Ruby. He was one of these guys on the drop of a hat. Later in talking to Jim Leavelle, who was handcuffed to him at the time, verified my thoughts, that he really thought he'd He thought that's something that the whole world would that he was a hero. [haunting reflective music] On the 15th of December, that's in '63. And this interview was to the Warren Commission. [gentle piano music] Then on June the fifth of 1964, I read where the Warren and sending people home. Their conclusion was going to and the second one, Connally. And the first one, Kennedy. I was talking to man at work. He says, &quot;You know, we got a new cub He says, &quot;I'm gonna call and he needs to talk to you.&quot; His name is Jim Lehrer. Jim put the story on the wire services. [suspenseful music] The FBI was in Jim Jim Lehrer's [suspenseful music] J. Lee Rankin, who was chief counsel for Rankin asked J. Edgar Hoover and the FBI to go find where that And Hoover reported back two &quot;Could not find it,&quot; but we have, or he had sent a memo to the Dallas office on the fifth, that same day, to go get the pictures that So they knew, but he was denying it to So I testified on the 23rd, Buddy Walthers testified, a couple others, and Sure enough, it was a missed shot. Then the next day, the 24th, the FBI says, &quot;Oh, we found [pensive piano music] Matter of fact, they had to redo the Warren [tense piano music] [tense piano music continues] [tense piano music continues] [pensive piano music] [pensive piano music continues] [recording static whirring] - [Russell] Hello? - [Woman] Senator Russell - Okay. Hello? Well, you always leaving town. You must not like it up here. - [Russell] No, that dang has whooped me down so - [Lyndon] Well, I'm just worn out fighting over that damn report. - [Russell] Well, they that the same bullet that was the one that hit John Connally. Went through him and threw his hand and his bone and into his leg. And of course, if a to hit Kennedy right and knock his head off in the next, and when he was leaned up and not even wounded her, with that third shot, he not only missed the whole automobile, but he'd missed the street. Well, a man that's good right in the Kennedy, he didn't miss that old automobile. But the Commission believed that hit Kennedy hit Connally. Well, I don't believe it! - [Lyndon] I don't either. - [Russell] But the Commission believe that the same bullet that Well, I don't believe it! - [Lyndon] I don't either. [tense dramatic music] [tense dramatic music continues] [tense dramatic music continues] [tense dramatic music continues] [tense dramatic music continues] [bell chimes] - He contacted me about and asked me to work and we met at the Stoney and he asked me if I had I don't do movies. And I said, &quot;No, I haven't. Have you ever seen any of mine?&quot; [laughs] - [Interviewer] Oh my God. And so did Oliver Stone. - [James] The reason I was going down to the town in Dallas that day was I had a luncheon We made the date the day before. Matter of fact, they had to redo the Warren [pensive music] - Dr. Perry would never talk about it under any circumstances, And I never really My own thoughts about it are that this is a pertinent point of history that should belong to the public. So that when somebody asks me about it, it's sort of my duty, if you will, to say what I know rather than to say, well this is my private information. Because it's certainly It belongs to everybody. - JFK and Bobby had gone after the mafia. They promised that if they were elected, they would continue going after the mafia and they did go after them! - It's really important that there were several locations that shots were being fired from. [slow pensive music] - For all intents and purposes, the motorcade security of the at the intersection of Elm and Houston. That was it. There was no police except two officers standing on the triple overpass. And that's one of my, you'll see the testimony of Foster. He was supposed to keep everybody over the top of the president - [Interviewer] Unbelievable. - [Brian] And when he testified, he said, &quot;Well, I kept everybody off [interviewer laughing] So he didn't do his job. - [Interviewer] All he had to do was drop a brick on Kennedy. - [Brian] Exactly, exactly. I mean, he would've been one I would've fired for not doing his duty. - They're so stupid in covering up, so oblivious, so arrogant, so cocky. They didn't even know enough a more reasonable measure. Unbelievable. Thank you for mentioning it. - Something went out of America when John F. Kennedy was killed. And then to think that his brother would be killed six years later? That Dr. King would be killed Even in a country, with 200 hundred and plus million people, you can't take three and go on in the same way because leaders like I gave a speech during the Obama campaign quoting a Shamus Heaney, an Irish poet, who said, &quot;Once in a lifetime, there's a surge in justice and history and hope merge.&quot; Something like that. And I said, I'm old enough, but twice in my lifetime, with Kennedy and Obama, we've seen that merger But that hasn't come very often. And I think this country, as I said in the big forum, this country was changed by, in all kinds of harmful ways, both domestically and internationally, by the loss of John F. Kennedy. And without inviting the new questions, because I won't answer them, we're all gonna learn more this year about why he was killed. [no audio] [no audio] - [Interviewer] Is there any that bring that to the forefront? [no audio] Oh, that's a long I'll let it slide at that. [dramatic riveting music] [dramatic riveting music continues] [dramatic riveting music continues] [dramatic riveting music fades] [no audio]