[music] Citroen has a long history of large flagship through the futuristic DS in the 1950s and the The C6 was the last in a long line of although it had its fair share of that, but style all of its own, something to set it apart But given it was the last large luxury Citroen you Just why was that, and what relationship does it have This is the Citroen C6 story. [music] Before we get started, just a gentle reminder I've a podcast with audio versions of old car also talk a little bit more about the car and as in the case of the new 5th generation I've put links in the description, Citroen's flagship, the XM launched in 1989. the millennium thoughts naturally turned to a but work on it started late, no doubt because on rejuvenating their mainstream By 1998 the rumour went around that or if it was it would be a stretched version ditch Citroen magic carpet-like hydropneumatic Some of those rumours were true. Yes, it would use but it wasn't going to be dull. Citroen suitably avant-garde shape befitting the historic Bertone, Heuiliez, Design Research Associates, All designs were pretty out there for a luxury saloon. who were wowing the press and public with their and in February 1999 would show off their Citroen fought back, showing their XM successor Motor Show, which was a version of one of their but customers of large luxury cars had roundly Like many concept reveals, Citroen were at pains they didn't plan on producing it, whilst secretly had a hit car on their hands. Thankfully the shape would have been bland like some of Citroen's with a stunning interior that for some reason had The Citroen XM Multimedia a year earlier and Internet on the go with a Windows 95 PC taking C6 concept, but in my experience 2G speeds at the highway speeds, so this idea was a non-starter. ride and elegant luxury, but for some point and women were able to travel in comfort perfect for men, but a living hell for women! This wasn't In 1929 a 6-cylinder version of the C4 hoped would take the fight to Renault. It offered It's not really clear. The C6 name fell in for some reason missing out the C7 and calling surprising that Citroen decided to call their car only lasting three years in production. the new C6 were the clamshell doors, a and something only recently reintroduced by the SC two years earlier. Doors that opened of their tendency for the wind to blow them open why they were given the name "suicide doors". if the public liked it enough they would cars per year. That seemed a ridiculously low but regardless, the public was keen and Citroen hoped it would hit showrooms by 2003. production in 2000 and that meant Citroen would be The new C6 would use a stretched version a platform also used for the new Peugeot 407. It took until 2001 for Citroen to chose a The car would be offered with just two engines - and a new 2.7L turbodiesel developed Citroen also decided to retain their signature this luxury car a smooth, luxurious ride that Inside Citroen borrowed as much as their just the stalks, audio system, heating, window meant to be something to take on the best the owner touched had to be premium quality, Standard dials were swapped out for an front and centre with the raft of controls below. It would take until spring 2005 until the final car its official launch. At that press event Citroen luxury brands like BMW, Mercedes and Audi, but sister brand, Peugeot. The big differentiator radical concept 6 years earlier, and the C6 was people of Citroen's lineage and also which car the the main difference between the concept and clamshell doors, but that feature wasn't missed. with rear lights that were visible from the back concave glass, like its predecessor, the CX. pedestrian safety - the bonnet popped up using hit a person, and it was the first car to get a The press loved the smooth ride on the highway like the car was flying through the air. But around it was really just Citroen clinging on to this fans of the road noise either, despite Citroen star features. And the twin exhaust pipes wrote the speed sensitive rear spoiler this wasn't a Inside Citroen retained the two rear seat adjusted - this wasn't a car for a gaggle of useful feature where they could automatically themselves more legroom. But two features had been connectivity, and the centre console tree! The curves on the outside extended The first time on a French car, Citroen offered warning system, a navigation system and Bluetooth Back in 1999 when the concept appeared Citroen cars per year. Upon launch that had increased would ensure the car at least made a profit. Citroen XM customers had moved on to other cars In the UK the C6 fell in the top 35% only 30%. And the BMW got better mileage and On the BMW it was a known quantity, but Citroen Yes, the C6 came in cheaper than similarly specced value in a year or two. Better to stay safe and shelling out for the car, you could still enjoy C6 on display as an example of great design. smaller 2.2L 4 cylinder diesel, shared with Land Rover and maybe realising just how outclassed being replaced by a more powerful 3.0L 240hp economy of diesels, this seemed like a smart move. running lights and apparently larger mirrors, The original C6 in 1929 was a sales flop, but like a hit compared to the new car which sold towel in 2012. The previous car, the XM had sold over a million. It was a bitter disappointment its takeover by Peugeot in the mid-1970s. marketing document telling the press about the There were two types of customer - those who bought The German buyers were younger. The non-German buyers the C6 appealed to both customers. I'd argue car crowd wanted excitement, performance and a Older non-German buyers wanted a more made them run for more traditional fare. for this type of car was 158,000 cars. C6's had been sold just in the UK, which they have only taken just over 2% of the market. Or maybe not. The same year C6 production ended pitched as a future four door luxury It would be a plug-in hybrid, offering an EV range of This car wasn't destined for Europe though - that customers who were more interested in a large But despite being another stunning China would get a large Citroen though, and it would that played-up the exotic French styling. It that was shared with cars like the C4 Picasso and larger Peugeot 508 which used an evolution relationship with the slightly longer Dongfeng The new C6 was might be a more conventional and dashboard, with rear seats that could Chinese C6 production ended in 2023 after luxury saloon from Peugeot Citroen, but not using mass market, but the new DS brand was meant to be was in the brand's tagline, so in 2020 the DS 9 space station. It was again produced and sold in The shape was much more conventional than both earlier, looking like an Audi A6 with a version of the same platform as the Peugeot I'm sure Peugeot and Citroen thought DS after all the fit and finish of a Citroen and a quality materials inside, what's the difference? didn't stack up, and so far sales have been on Peugeot Citroen acquired Vauxhall and Opel in to form Stellantis. This has created a large There's little in their line-up that goes up against just a handful of platforms to make a profit There's the occasional foray into the semi-luxury Stellantis doesn't have what it takes to compete. C6 was one of a long line of luxury cars from I've made videos about the Citroen CX charted a different luxury course, and both links to both videos on the right. Thanks for