rest assured I will be responsible for you 300,000 You sleep with the people inside. This money is yours. Jiang Nuan Just make it through this night Mom has money for surgery. Why so long? Didn't he find out? rest assured He didn't see my face Things tonight You have to keep your mouth shut If you let me know Don't worry I swear I won't let anyone know Just you know If you weren't a virgin You even replace I don't even have the right to sleep with Mu Yuan. Take the money and get out I'll arrange for someone to take you away. Don't let me see you again in this life roll Doctor Doctor I raised the money. Please perform surgery on my mother. Ms. Jiang Your money came too late. Ms. Jiang passed away last night You take it. Miss Jiang Miss Jiang The dead cannot be resurrected Please accept my condolences. Ms. Jiang Miss Cheng asked me to take you abroad What did you say Jiang Nuan is pregnant I am pregnant Doctor, could this be a mistake? Won't The baby is three months old and is healthy. Jiang Nuan, this bitch How dare you get pregnant? This child is Qin Muyuan's. Miss, shall we? Need not I still have use for this child. After that, Mu Yuan never touched me again Jiang Nuan, this child It's time to come Will Muyuan come back tonight? I have good news for you. Use force Use force Coming out soon. Coming out soon. Muyuan Look quickly This is our baby child Doctor, where is my child? child The child is long gone. Your child was born. It's a stillbirth. doctor How is it possible? I just I clearly heard the child crying. How could it be a stillbirth? I don't care I'm going to see my child What crying Are you hallucinating? They said it was a stillbirth. Want to see the children Go look in the trash can downstairs. child Mom is useless. I'm back home The address of the villa you chose Just send it to me rest assured I'm a top fashion designer. Just a small interview No problem This man is so handsome This feels so familiar Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Thank you Jiang Nuan, you are so embarrassing This woman Gives me a very familiar feeling Investigate this woman. Haicheng, I'm finally back Tell me who you are Why are you in my house? lie There's a bad woman trying to catch me Can't let her know I'm here. Bad Woman Is it a human trafficker? Don't worry, kid. My sister will never let a bad woman Take your Is there anyone here? What's up It is like this Our little kid got lost. I want to ask No I don't have any children here. Sorry to bother you. Where did the little bastard go? Gone Do you have your parents' contact information? I'll ask your parents to pick you up. Hello What's your father's name? My father's name is Qin Muyuan Mr. Qin, right? It is like this Your child is in my hands now. Please come over here Turn around and go to Villa No. 8 A bunch of trash Can't even take care of the kids. What use do I have for you? Muyuan Xiaomang, he is not The first time I ran out Nothing will happen. Don't worry too much. Okay, come right over. Why are you still standing there? Go find someone. Eat it Beautiful sister The food you cook is delicious It smells like mommy Nagging sweetness But this word You can't say that in front of your mom. She'll be sad if she hears it. She's not mommy. She is a bad woman Okay, you eat first. Eat fast Xiaoyan misses mommy so much If my child were still alive Probably as big as him. He fell asleep Xiaoyan has always been very defensive. This is the first time Beside a stranger Sleeping so soundly It's you Sorry for bothering you today Taking care of him for so long It's okay What do you adults usually do? Take care of the kids more. Such a small child It's dangerous to run away Muyuan Xiaoyan, he is not The first time I ran out Nothing will happen. Don't worry too much. Mr. Qin Qin Mr. Qin Okay, I'll pay attention. Then I'll take him back first. Um I should take a break too. President Found out Her name is Jiang Nuan Kaijo people 5 years ago, I went abroad to study Just returned home recently 5 years ago yes 5 years ago After Miss Jiang's mother passed away She went abroad and explain This Miss Jiang has another identity Top designers ask water It happens that she will Will come to our company for an interview just First, I met you by chance. Then there is Xiaoyan Finally, Qin I'm afraid the purpose is not simple. Xiao Xiaolin All meetings tomorrow are cancelled. This interview I want to meet her in person Qin Xiaoyan I won't bother with you about what happened last time. If you dare to run around again You wait for me I'll tell your dad in a minute. You missed him. That's why I brought you to the company to find him. Did you hear that? Did you hear that? Qin Xiaoyan Jiang Nuan How is she here? And he has such a good relationship with this little bastard. no I absolutely cannot let her enter Qin's Contact with Qin Muyuan What if Qin Muyuan knew She is Qin Xiaoyan's biological mother All my hard work over the past five years has been at my own expense. Ms. Cheng I said today Mr. Qin Why did you cancel the meeting? It's you who came Today I brought Xiaoyan to see Muyuan Is that the new person who came for the interview today? right What's it called? Jiang Nuan That's her Why doesn't Miss Cheng like her? I think that new guy has some tricks up his sleeve The deceived Xiaoyan obeyed her every word I'm afraid it's not that simple Ms. Cheng, don't worry. Our Qin I definitely wouldn't want to hire Employees who only want to get promoted Miss Cheng, don't worry. Walk slowly. It seems like a long time I've never been so close to anyone. Little Master I seem to like this Miss Jiang very much. Kobayashi Do you feel This Jiang Nuan's profile Like Xiaoyan Scolding If you run around like this Your father will worry about you. good Go find your dad first. My sister has things to do. OK Um Sorry, Miss Jiang. You didn't pass the interview. I Can you tell me about my interview? Is there a reason why you didn't pass? What's wrong with this design? reason good I think You have a character problem Is this reason enough? Besides Your design A bit like a top international designer Master Wenshui's works Is this design yours? And also I've seen a lot of people like you. Young and not learning well Trying to sneak into our Qin family Seduce our CEO How many pounds do you weigh? People like you We in the Qin family can't afford it. This design draft It's mine Say I stole someone else's work Do you have any evidence? Is it your Qin's corporate culture? It's just slander without any evidence. What color are you? ah I want evidence I tell you You failed the interview Please leave Don't disrupt other people's interviews good Since your Qin's corporate culture That's it That kind of company I don't have to wait ah Mr. Qin How come I don't know I am Qin You can slander the interviewer like this Director Sun Mr. Qin Why did you come here in person? how What I value most is Designer recruitment I can't come Coco, you can come, you can come If I'm not mistaken This is the designer Master Wenshui's works I said Why does this work look so familiar? Hey you little bitch Even Master Wenshui's work dares to plagiarize fine Our President Qin has a keen eye If you are such a person Recruit us into the Qin family Qin's Design Department You'll destroy it all. Director Sun, right? I'm afraid that your quick glance just now You didn't even read my resume. Past Experience International Competitions First Prize Ask Water you You just ask the water master Qin Muyuan I waited for 5 years and you refused to touch me I'll see how you can hold on this time. Tell me about it What's going on? Director Sun Yes, Miss Cheng Her Hands It's getting longer and longer. Ms. Jiang I apologize to you on behalf of the Qin Group. Director Sun You will be demoted to an ordinary designer in the future. Ms. Jiang Nuan will start work next week Directly appointed as Director of Design Department She will be your boss from now on. yes Ms. Jiang You see Are you satisfied with this handling method? All I want is fairness. Mr. Qin is very observant As expected, he is the president of Qin Corporation. Scolding Didn't you find your dad? Your father just Sister, help me What's wrong Scolding Speak slowly, don't be in a hurry Scolding Tell your sister what happened first. Sister, hurry in and save dad. He helped me anyway. I'll go in and check the situation. It should be alright. Why Scolding Qin Xiaoyan You're killing me Mr. Qin Yes, it's a small statement Let me come and see yours Scolding Mr. Qin, are you okay? Otherwise, I'll help you over there. The smell of you How come it looks so familiar? The smell of you How come it looks so familiar? Mr. Qin Mr. Qin, you misunderstood. I You got the wrong person. Muyuan Are you in there? Mr. Qin Someone Muyuan Muyuan Hasn't he come back yet? Muyuan Muyuan Is that you? Lock the door in broad daylight Could it be that a thief broke in? Assistant Lin You put Muyuan's office Send me the keys. I suspect a thief broke into his office. hurry up Damn thief Not coming early, not coming late Why do you come to ruin my good thing at this time? what to do Someone else will come in soon. How should I explain I see you Ms. Cheng Muyuan Get out Muyuan who is she Why are you doing this to me? The Voice Why does it sound so familiar? What is your identity? Come and question me I said Get out Xiao Xiaolin I'll pay you a salary Did you come to watch the show? Ms. Cheng, please I first Miss Qin Cheng has I didn't see anything So scared. So scared. open Sorry, sorry. I was plotted against once 5 years ago So the antidote Always by my side Miss Jiang, we Have you seen Never seen it Mr. Qin People like you are the best If you have seen How could I not remember? Right Never seen But how do I feel about you So familiar Mr. Qin What did you say? I mean Xiaoyan seems to like you very much may be How much time do you usually spend with Xiaoyan? Too little Mr. Qin I read Xiaoyan I don't really like talking. Although you are usually busy with work But the growth of children Still can't be ignored Thank you Xiaoyan has been bothering you recently. I'll have time later. No trouble, no trouble Jiang Nuan Why do you care how other people raise their children? I will There will be time for him. Send a set of women's clothes Come to my office immediately Mr. Qin What's wrong You are about to start work, so go out like this It's not good to be seen by others Xiao Lin sent Ms. Jiang home If this time Any more accidents? You don't have to come. Miss Jiang, please By the way, Mr. Qin I will wash the clothes and return them to you. I'd like to see Which vixen is it? Even my Cheng Wanrou's man dared to snatch Bitch Jiang Nuan, what are you thinking about? Is Qin Muyuan someone you can imagine? Wake up! Oh, sit. If she really has an agenda Today she should obey me. Could it be I think too much. Dad, you smile like a nympho Brat How dare you say that about your father? Yes or no So brave Okay, lie down. Ready to sleep Scolding Do you really like it? Today, the sister Um She smells like mommy. dad I want to change my mommy, okay? This kid I seem I really ignored too many small words. Sir, you I am usually busy with work It's rare to have time to have breakfast with Xiaoyan I'll do it myself Qin Scolding Good morning Muyuan You are going to talk to me and Xiaoyan today Want to have breakfast together? I mainly accompany Xiaoyan Xiaoyan is not small now My parents She has been urging us to get married. Can't just let Xiaoyan Stop using small talk as an excuse. Cheng Wanrou You really treat Xiaoyan as your own Biological children? Did Qin Muyuan know something? Muyuan, what are you talking about? Small Blind But I was born after ten months of pregnancy. I am his biological mother. You'd better remember You are his biological mother. Muyuan Scolding You tell mom Is there anyone in front of Dad? Speak badly of my mother ah Qin Xiaoyan I'm talking to you. How can you be so uneducated? What a waste Where did you die yesterday? Even your dad can't watch What unknown woman? Taking advantage of the opportunity Get up for me Don't want to eat today I have to teach you a lesson. come over Go inside Qin Xiaoyan I must teach you a lesson today Stay well What to say What not to say Don't need me to teach you. I understand, I understand Mother teaches her disobedient child It's only natural. You are the one I picked specially Help me do things The benefits are indispensable to you Why I'm so hungry I really want to eat the food cooked by my beautiful sister I'm going to find my beautiful sister. Scolding What's wrong with you? Eat slowly Your father doesn't give you food? Bad woman bullies me Did I understand it wrong last time? This bad woman is not a human trafficker Actually, she is the Qin family's nanny. Scolding The bad aunt bullied you. Do your dad and mom know? She's not my mom. I don't have a mommy It turns out that Xiaoyan is from a single-parent family fine If a bad aunt bullies you in the future Come to my sister. Sister protects you Where are the people? Why are you still standing there? Don't let me find it. Oh oh yes Little Master Little Master Qin Xiaoyan Little Master Who lives in this villa? It is said to be a woman Just moved in a few days ago Haven't seen it yet woman Is there anyone here? What's up It is like this Our little kid got lost. I want to ask you Didn't see I don't see any children here. You lose You promised I should read a book now. What This little thing can't be done well How did you become a director? Mu Yuan couldn't possibly like her. It must be that bitch. What kind of foxy tricks did you use? What if I enter Qin's fork? I have a way to make her go away on her own. Jiang Nuan You wait for me elder sister Can you be my mommy? Scolding I can't be your mommy Even though your mommy is gone But you can't Random Mom Let your mom know She will be very sad. I know you don't like me Why Scolding Scolding What happened to Xiaoyan? Don't mind him. He'll be fine in a bit. today Thanks for taking care of him. fine It's just a piece of cake Mr. Qin I heard your nanny Don't give him food The child is still young I dare not speak out when I am bullied But you are his father Or strictly screen The one who takes care of him nanny Isn't it Wanrou who is taking care of Xiaoyan today? Thanks for your reminder I will pay attention to it later Then I'll go first Scolding Qin Xiaoyan Qin Xiaoyan opens the door The Bad Guys You are all bad people I hate you guys Go to my room Bring me the spare key. What's wrong today At Aunt Jiang Nuan's place Are you not having fun? That must be unhappy. It doesn't matter Dad makes people Buy the villa next door Kicked her out so She can no longer My son is unhappy. You are not allowed to bully her Tell me about it What happened today? She doesn't want to be my mommy You like Aunt Jiang Nuan so much She's like mommy You have a mommy She doesn't want to be my mommy She doesn't like me at all Aunt Jiang Nuan said My mommy should be your wife But she doesn't want to be my mommy I just want to be your wife Mr. Qin I heard your nanny Don't give him food The child is still young I dare not speak out when I am bullied But you are his father Or strictly screen Take care of his people. Do you really like Aunt Jiang Nuan so much? Um Then I'll think about it. Your location is here If you have any questions, you can always contact me Xia Ling Vice President Liu asked you to go to the office What are you standing there for? Could it be that Vice President Liu Do you come in person? Hey, Liu Neng, this old pervert How many people are there? Alas, Xia Ling is finished this time. No matter how many times I try to hide, I can't escape Her mother is sick I can't resign This working time Not working well Talking about the leader behind his back, right? ah I don't want to do it anymore Besides If Xia Ling disagrees Vice President Liu Can't force her? This slap doesn't make a sound. In my opinion This might be her, Xia Ling Deliberately seducing Vice President Liu 300,000 You sleep with the people inside. This money is yours. Jiang Nuan Just make it through this night Mom has money for surgery. baby I've been thinking about you for a long time. Come Let me smell it first Mr. Liu, I beg you Don't you let me go don't want I'll make you beg me for it in a moment You wouldn't think Can those people outside help you? Tell you Unless they don't want to do it anymore. I heard that your mother is still in the hospital. You just listen to me I can help with your mother's medical expenses. That's right Don't you know to knock before coming in? Who are you? How come I don't know When is our company Here comes such a beautiful lady Hello, Mr. Liu I am the new chief designer Jiang Nuan Jiang Nuan, right? What can I do for you? That's right, Mr. Liu Mr. Qin has a document that needs to be signed. I'm going to be very anxious soon Please take a look Coming soon Thank you Mr. Liu Jiang Nuan This figure Not much more interesting than Xia Ling Such a stunner If you can feel the feeling under me That must be very ecstatic. Hello It's me, Cheng Wanrou Scolding A little word Why is Xiaoyan hiding from her sister? Xiaoyan didn't want to pay attention to her sister's words That sister is still elder sister Can you be my mommy? Why does Xiaoyan want her sister When your mommy Other kids said Xiaoyan has no mommy Wild Child No one likes small talk How come? Our little words are so kind So good, right? Ms. Jiang Let's Talk Miss Jiang, this contract Take a look first Every 1 million per month Ms. Jiang If you feel it is not enough You can also add Xiaoyan, he likes you very much He just wants you to be his mommy What you said last time I thought about it carefully. I am to Xiaoyan Really neglected to care You are besides me The only one Xiaoyan, the person he is willing to get close to He likes you very much So Miss Jiang I want to hire you to be Xiaoyan's mommy You just need to accompany him. Is it ok? Um I'll think about it. From the time of birth People around you Trying every possible way to please him He is also very good In fact, he knows Those people like him Just because He is my son, Qin Muyuan But you are different Only you are sincere Like him and care about him Okay, I promise you. But first, I am only responsible for being Xiaoyan's mother Don't even think about the rest. You just need to be his mommy. That's it We are just a contractual relationship It will not be made public Um elder sister You are my father's wife now Can I Call you mommy wife The contract doesn't say this. ah To Xiaoyan From now on, I will be your mommy Yeah, I have a mommy's baby too. Okay Mommy still has to go to work You are here Listen to your father. Is it good? I will definitely be obedient. Please save my number. Contact us anytime in the future Oh, that's right. Wait for me at night Let's go home together Um knew Jiang Nuan, ah Jiang Nuan Do you think this counts? Sold myself You said it was Jiang Nuan Just get her out of Qin's company. It can be But doing this What's in it for me? Why should I help you? Miss Cheng Liu Neng, you dare to put forward conditions to me? Cheng's Enterprise's Order I can give you And Jiang Nuan I just want her to leave Qin's The rest is up to you. Miss Cheng is still generous rest assured I can handle this little thing. I can't believe it, Jiang Nuan I'll get you so soon. Thank you today If you hadn't arrived in time I will It's okay Today, anyone I'll help all the same. That's right Vice President Liu So to you Why don't you report him? Sister Sun said it all That's the vice president. We are all small employees of the company It's okay to be bullied. But if things get out of hand The company will definitely not help us and My mother is seriously ill now. Still need money Jiang Nuan, right? Um There's a big order tonight. After get off work You go with me But Mr. Liu, tonight Everything is postponed. This big list If you lose it to me I will make sure you don't get into trouble. Oh no Nuannuan, are you okay? I'm the one who caused you trouble. So what do you do at night? Is there anything I can help you with? fine You don't have to worry Today, just be me, Jiang Nuan Make a friend of yours I looked at the contract. A big order indeed. There should be quite a few people entertaining at night. He can't always In front of so many people What to do to me If you have any problem, you must find me. Although I can't do anything But I can call the police. I will never let you down Miss Cheng has arranged everything. I'll take someone there at night. I'm sorry. The road is a bit congested Jiang Nuan Why don't you give them a toast to apologize? I'm sorry. I toast to everyone So many people are waiting for you Miss Jiang just drink a cup This is a bit unreasonable. Three cups of wine as punishment Not too much. If it's because you affected the list I will make sure you don't get into trouble. I'm sorry. Three cups of wine as punishment Is that enough? Miss Jiang has a really good alcohol tolerance We won't make it difficult for you. Waiter Give Miss Jiang a glass of juice Where is Miss Jiang Nuan? Mr. Qin wants to see her. Nuan Nuan was taken away by Vice President Liu Lin Tezhu Can you save her? Don't rush. I'm going to see Mr. Qin The cooperation between Qin and Cheng Thanks to your mediation Xiao Jiang Another toast to everyone strangeness Why does it feel so hot? Could it be There's no need to toast. We have signed the contract Miss Jiang is also drunk Mr. Liu took Miss Jiang Go back and rest first We'll go ahead. OK OK Xiao Jiang You are drunk No Mr. Liu Excuse me I'm going to the bathroom. what Why are you calling secretly? how Are you afraid of me? No Mr. Liu, you misunderstood. I just feel a little uncomfortable I want my husband to pick me up. husband Who are you fooling? Your resume It clearly says unmarried Now this Just the two of us rest assured I will make you happy Please let me go, Mr. Liu Please show some respect I really have a husband. My husband is Qin Muyuan Mr. Qin Maybe Miss Jiang Just a normal work event hurry up Your husband is Qin Muyuan right My husband is Qin Muyuan If you dare to touch me He will never let you go Little girl You lied to people without asking clearly. Qin Muyuan Who in the company doesn't know that he has a fiancee? Just obey me obediently Mr. Qin It's not what you can imagine What's so good about Qin Muyuan? It's just two stinky coins. You followed me Still let you eat delicious and drink spicy Let me go Let me go You're violent. I will definitely call the police Put you in jail You bitch If you don't accept my toast, I'll have to drink for you, right? I'm so happy today that I can't kill you Baby brother is here Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Mr. Qin, I was wrong. I won't dare to do that again, Mr. Qin You dare to touch my people? Liu Neng, you are quite courageous. Jiang Nuan is Didn't Jiang Nuan lie to me? No wonder Cheng Wanrou This woman wants to move her It seems that I was used as a gun Mr. Qin I didn't know Jiang Nuan was yours. All of this is Miss Cheng asked me to do it She arranged everything. It has nothing to do with me. Cheng Wanrou Since you dare to use me as a gun Then don't blame me for exposing you. Ms. Cheng You mean Cheng Wanrou? Yes, Miss Cheng She made me do this. She said she wanted to ruin the lady's reputation Being kicked out of Qin's family Why Cheng Wanrou Targeting you again and again Between you What is the secret? Investigate Liu Neng From tomorrow I don't want this person Show up in the company again yes Where is Miss Jiang Nuan? Mr. Qin wants to see her. Nuan Nuan was taken away by Vice President Liu Lin Tezhu, can you save her? Very hot hurry up dad Mommy, I want to sleep with you. Very hot Little Words Mommy is asleep, you go out first Don't wake up Mommy. OK Xiaoyan is very well behaved Won't wake up mommy I want to sleep with my mother Scolding Do you want a little sister? Dad and Mom I'm going to give you a little sister. If Xiaoyan sleeps with Mommy But I can't give birth to a little sister. Then I'll give my mommy to you. Do I have a little sister? When did your father lie to you? Retractor Whoever cheats is a puppy Yeah, I have a sister. Help me, I feel so bad. Jiang Nuan You have to think it through. Are you sure I can help you? Such a familiar feeling You asked for this. Jiang Nuan What did you do last night? Where are you going? I Where are you going? I Mr. Qin What happened last night was an accident I didn't expect it either Liu Neng, that old pervert, will drug me You know he's a pervert. You dare to go with him alone? Jiang Nuan You are quite courageous. I didn't expect he was from Cheng's family. Cheng Jiang Nuan Do you know Cheng Wanrou? Cheng Wanrou Unknown Unknown What are you nervous about? My mom Scolding Good morning. Dad said You want to give me a little sister When will my sister come out? Scolding That sister was born. It's going to be a long, long time Be good Mommy will make breakfast for you. Is it good? That Mr. Qin What happened last night was an accident Don't worry We signed a contract I will keep my promise I won't imagine anything else Actually you can I'll give it to you first. Xiaoyan went to make breakfast Jiang Nuan How much do you have left? Secrets I don't know You don't have to worry about Liu Neng's affairs I asked Assistant Lin Already collected a lot Evidence that he molested his subordinates in the company It's been sent to the police station. Thank you But he also confessed The person behind this is Cheng Wanrou Jiang Nuan I have a question for you 5 years ago on the evening of June 18th Have you been to the Emperor Hotel? No If Qin Muyuan knew I'm the kind of person who can do it for money A woman who betrays herself He won't let me Then contact with Xiaoyan No one knows about us If my colleagues knew we were together It's gonna be bad. I'm getting off first. Um Xiaolin investigates The relationship between Jiang Nuan and Cheng Wanrou Xiaoyan Can't pay attention to people with deep thoughts Good President in addition Tell Cheng for me My engagement with Cheng Wanrou is cancelled If Cheng Dare to touch the people around me again What about Qin and Cheng? There is no need for cooperation Warm Did anything happen to you last night? Nothing happened What can happen to me? I'm fine. I heard that Liu Neng I was taken away for questioning this morning. And they said There must be something behind you. Warm What's wrong with you nothing Work What Breaking off an engagement Not just breaking off the engagement Qin Muyuan has already spoken He said you touched him again. Our cooperation is voided. I see Qin Muyuan I didn't expect you to be so ruthless. Jiang Nuan Jiang Nuan must have said something. Jiang Nuan, wait for me. I am Cheng Wanrou's man Not so easy to grab haven't seen you for a long time I didn't expect you to come back Miss Cheng doesn't need to act anymore You last night Didn't you just plot against me? I just want to know Why do you do this? presumably You've seen Xiaoyan, right? He's cute, isn't he? Don't even think about doing anything to Xiaoyan Hands-on How could I possibly do something to Xiaoyan? He was my baby for ten months. The child born That's right Qin Xiaoyan This is the child of Qin Muyuan and I. But because of you Qin Muyuan wants to break up the engagement with me You said why I would attack you? You and Qin Muyuan That's right He is the father of my child. Mommy, are you there? Mom, I'm so hungry. I really want to eat the noodles you cook. 300,000 You sleep with the people inside. This money is yours. don't want If you weren't a virgin You even replaced me and Mu Yuan No right to sleep Miss Jiang, your money came too late Ms. Jiang passed away last night child The child is long gone. Your child Born a stillborn baby child Qin Muyuan It turns out that the man that night It's you Ms. Jiang Nuan Mr. Qin asked you to New Season Time Series Take the clothing design drawing He needs to review it again. good I see Xia Ling You put the new season's clothing design Send it to Mr. Qin good Jiang Nuan You must stay away from Qin Muyuan and his son If Qin Xiaoyan knew You separated his biological parents. Why What do you mean Mr. Qin I I don't understand what you are saying Why No phone calls No reply to message Even let others deliver the documents for you Did You Know Xiaoyan is worried Didn't sleep all night This matter I will explain it clearly to Xiaoyan. Mr. Qin Our Agreement Let's dissolve it. I think I'm not suitable to be Xiaoyan's mother Qin Muyuan if It wasn't the beginning between us. How nice would that be? Tell me why you terminated the contract? that Mr. Qin I thought about it. Although the salary you give Very impressive But I will I want to fall in love and get married I can't Always wasting time on Your son You mean You want to fall in love I am not I don't You want everyone in the company to know Just move If this is what you want I can satisfy you Mr. Qin We can't President I checked the lady's information. really I have no connection with Miss Cheng. But two days ago Miss Cheng met with the lady alone Cheng Wanrou looked for her No wonder She hasn't been feeling right these days. 5 years ago After the death of my mother She left the country overnight. The date is June 19th The night of the 18th The night of the 18th It's you and Miss Cheng I see you Continued investigation I need to know Her relationship with Cheng Wanrou President Since Miss Jiang came The smiles of you and the young master There are more Yeah Isn't it just picking up the kids? This is the last time Hello, teacher. I am Miss Cheng is here to pick up Xiaoyan. Today's words How are you doing in school? Jiang Nuan Are you here to pick up Xiaoyan? I'm sorry I didn't know you would come today. This is This is she She is Xiaoyan's new mother Jiang Nuan You don't have children so you may not understand We mothers feel I just want to see the child again. It turns out she is a mistress in a high position. I even want other people's children. Shameless Maybe it's my usual The requirements for Xiaoyan are too strict He likes it so much This new mother On the contrary She doesn't recognize me as her mother anymore Mommy Scolding I miss you so much Scolding How can Xiaoyan Calling someone mommy Your mom is here to pick you up. Xiao Xiaoyan, you can't talk like this. She is your biological mother. Your mom is here to pick you up today. You go back with Mommy. OK I don't want mommy You don't want me anymore? Mommy no Mommy said You just don't want me anymore Send me to the bad woman You are a bad guy too Scolding Xiaoyan, wait a minute, mommy Scolding Qin Xiaoyan Scolding Qin Xiaoyan Qin Muyuan What should I do if Xiaoyan is missing? I have been looking for a long time Can't find him What's going on? Let you pick someone up You lost someone. sorry I didn't expect He is so reluctant to go with his mother His mother You mean Cheng Wanrou? She is Xiaoyan's biological mother I just so That day was Cheng Wanrou What did I tell you? Did You Know What did she do to Xiaoyan? Isn't she Xiaoyan's biological mother? Why do you treat Xiaoyan like this? Xiaoyan, he is so small Oh Biological mother Small talk is just She just wants to marry into the Qin family. Let Xiaoyan soak in cold water Force him to eat food he is allergic to Try every possible way to make Xiaoyan sick But to force me to go home Just seeing her sorry I have no idea The reason why I kept her I don't want others to say that A child without a mother I've asked everyone to find him. Let's go home first What if Xiaoyan goes home by herself? Did you find Xiaoyan? It's raining so hard outside He has a child outside Scolding Xiaoyan, he hasn't Jiang Nuan If something happens to Xiaoyan I won't let you go Cheng Wanrou Have you had enough of the trouble? Qin Muyuan You also help her How did she lose our son? You're still holding this woman. Enough I'm going to find Xiaoyan now Scolding Scolding It's all my fault Such heavy rain A little word Where are you? Mommy Scolding Where have you been? You scared mommy to death Did You Know Mommy Is it everyone? Don't like me Don't want to see me If I listen later Could you please not abandon me? Silly Kid What are you talking about? How could mommy not want you? Really, Mommy? You're going to give me to a bad woman. You're a bad mom too Mommy is wrong Mommy shouldn't I don't know anything I'll hand you over to the bad woman. Mommy's shoulder Never do this again Mommy I don't like that bad woman. She's not nice to me at all. Good good good Listen to our little words But you will I can't run around like I did today. Did You Know Dad and Mom will be very worried about you sorry Mommy Sorry Mommy Mommy forgives you. Look at you My body is so wet I don't know how to change clothes. I'm not afraid of catching a cold anymore Walk Mommy will take you to take a bath Scolding Scolding Why is it so hot? I have to hurry up and write Xiaoyan Send to hospital What is going on? Xiaoyan got caught in the rain Hiding in my house I just found out Jiang Nuan Although we signed an agreement But there is no mother like you. It's all my fault If it weren't for me Xiaoyan will not get wet in the rain Not even Scolding Body Bad since childhood Once Cheng Wanrou took advantage of my absence Punished him to kneel in the rain all night That time high fever Almost turned Xiaoyan into a fool Kogonkomuri There is also a big shadow Body Also left the root of the disease sorry I will definitely Take good care of Xiaoyan Xiaoyan, he cares about you very much I hope you'll do what you say Their profiles So similar Fortunately, Xiaoyan sent it in time. If this is delayed The consequences will be disastrous I spoke a little harshly yesterday Don't worry about it Are you Xiaoyan's father? Understand Jiang Nuan It's really you I thought I had the wrong person. Doctor Lee haven't seen you for a long time How have you been lately? Your mother You left too suddenly. You finally raised the money for the surgery. pity Doctor Lee that I'm fine I have something else to do now. We'll talk about it next time. You seem nervous What do I have to be nervous about? That's all in the past. What's there to say? I'll go check on Xiaoyan first. Mr. Qin, please take a seat. Doctor Lee I am Jiang Nuan's husband I have some About Jiang Nuan's situation I want to ask you Do you have time? Jiang Nuan This child is suffering. She is so smart and capable Academic performance In school, it is also one of the best But since her mother fell ill To raise money for her mother's surgery She dropped out of school. Working four or five jobs a day To earn surgery fees Unfortunately, it's still a step too late. Jiang Nuan's family situation It's really that bad Don't you know She has no father since she was a child. Her mother worked odd jobs. Raise her up Since you are her husband Then be nice to her. Jiang Nuan, this child I've suffered too much. I see Doctor Lee thank you You are such a good doctor. Based on Jiang Nuan's conditions I can't even afford the surgery. So where did she get the money? Studying Abroad Little Words You wait here, Mommy. Mommy will get you some medicine. Is it good? good Scolding Scolding What's your attitude towards your mother? How did your mother teach you? Long time no see Do you miss your mother? You are a bad woman You are not mommy Qin Xiaoyan I am your biological mother. The Woman Just a shameless mistress I tell you She'll be here soon. You rejected all her advances. Get her out Did you hear that? Xiaoyan won't chase Mommy away Why is this child so disobedient? What are you doing Cheng Wanrou He is just a child How could you do this? Scolding Are you okay? fine Jiang Nuan Please clarify. Qin Xiaoyan is my biological son What does it have to do with you? I teach my own son Do you care? Cheng Wanrou What if you are his mother? Are you worthy of being a mother? I tell you Today anyway I won't let you anymore Just a little talk What are you doing? Muyuan As soon as I came in, I saw Jiang Nuan is making small talk I just said a few words She started to attack me dad This bad woman is cheating She bullies mommy Scolding I am your biological mother How could you help others to harm me? Muyuan You saw it with your own eyes It was Jiang Nuan who pushed me down You saw it with your own eyes Cheng Wanrou This is my last warning to you. No more without my permission You are not allowed to get close to Xiaoyan Muyuan How can you do this to me? I am Xiaoyan's biological mother I was pregnant for 10 months before I gave birth to him Same words I don't want to say it a second time Get out Scolding It's all Mommy's fault for not protecting you. Does it still hurt? Mommy, I'm not hurt. Our little words are really sensible Mommy really wishes you were my son That kind of person Not worthy of it at all You're such a good son I will always be my mommy's child From now on, you are my only mommy I need to know Jiang Nuan All things abroad immediately dad That bad woman wants to drive mommy away I didn't agree Am I awesome? Our little words are so powerful This time it was Xiaoyan who protected Mommy Xiaoyan is awesome Xiaoyan did a great job I'll see a bad woman again. Tell Dad As long as dad is there That bad woman I can't hurt you anymore good But you can't let bad women Bullying Mommy Such a good child How could she do that? Not good for Xiaoyan This so-called biological mother There is no need for it to exist anymore. During this period I will send more people Take good care of Xiaoyan What else can she do? I will never let her go No wonder it was that woman's bastard. Just as ignorant as his mother. But before Mu Yuan Even if you don't want to see me anymore I won't be chased away in front of the children. It must be that bitch Jiang Nuan What was said behind the scenes? Jiang Nuan I won't let you go Hello Help me catch someone The photos will be sent to you This bastard doesn't like it. Is Jiang Nuan the mother? I'd like to see If Jiang Nuan was in my hands Qin Xiaoyan still dares to disobey me Do you need me to pick you up? No, you're busy with work. You don't have to come pick us up. I and Xiaoyan We have already booked a car. I'll be home soon. good Call if you have anything Um Scolding Dad was busy at work and couldn't come to pick us up. So I can only let you stay here I took a taxi with my mom. It's okay As long as I'm with mommy I can do anything Big Brother This is the woman We seize the time Get the job done quickly The employer said that as long as this woman is tied up Why is there another child? Oh well, let's tie them together Who are you? What to do Don't mess around. Our host wants to invite you to be his guest. Don't bully my mom Little Ghost Since you like your mother so much Let's be a companion. Watch me kill you take away Scolding Isn't this Jiang Nuan? This is a warm phone. What to do now ah Call the police now Nagging Master The young master hasn't come back yet It shouldn't be At their speed they should have returned long ago. Where is Jiang Nuan? Have you called? The lady didn't call back. She and the young master Hasn't come back yet. What's going on? When did Jiang Nuan get married? Hello Who are you Are you Jiang Nuan's husband? I am her colleague My name is Xia Ling I just saw it at the hospital entrance She and a little friend Kidnapped I found her phone. Can you see the face clearly? No They all wear sunglasses I can't see anything But But what I took a picture of their license plate number. Please send me the photo. Don't move where you are. I'll have someone pick you up. Yeah This person's voice Why so familiar? You go to the hospital to pick someone up. Jiang Nuan's colleague Xia Ling It's her You know her I'll go over right away if I see you once. Help me find a license plate number I want all the owner's information immediately Who are you? What do you want to do by arresting us? What can we do for Of course it's for money. go Tie her up for me. Why so much nonsense? Don't bully my mom Yo The boy has a bad temper. We're not only going to move your mother I'm gonna sell you. Such a pretty chick Too bad I can't move yet How do you think this employer should deal with her? If you want to kill her Let the brothers Have some fun first What do you have? Come at me Don't hurt my child. No more talking I sold the child immediately The little boy should be worth a lot of money. Mr. Qin The things you asked me to check before There are results Miss Jiang went abroad in a hurry I didn't bring anything. But Miss Jiang It seems like she gave birth to a child abroad. Father unknown But the child seems to be stillborn. How can the child be so lucky? Have you found it? Specific production time The hospital has archived records Ms. Jiang and Ms. Cheng The children were born on the same day They are in the same hospital. How could such a coincidence happen? At the beginning, Wanrou also said Going abroad for pregnancy Worried about accidents happening to children Choose to produce abroad Mr. Qin, our people Miss Jiang has been found And the location of the young master Go rescue immediately Hello Miss We have already tied up the person But there is a child How to deal with it What You stupid idiots Can't you tell the difference between a woman and a child? This child Always by the woman's side We can't start Can only be tied together I still have some use for this child. As for that woman I'll give it to you. As long as you don't die Play however you want I saw she was dirty. How can you steal my man? brother This time we are lucky. Scolding Mommy will lead the bad guys away later. Run away while they're not paying attention. No, I don't want to leave mommy. Xiaoyan is obedient You will find your dad after you go out. Let them rescue Mommy. Otherwise you won't leave here. Who will save Mommy? I'm going to find my dad Then I'll come save you good Little Words Mommy loves you Mommy, you must wait for me The bitch wants to run Hold her and stop Mommy, I will definitely find someone to rescue you. Let me go Bitch I wonder where you can run to. What about the children? How dare the bitch plot against us? I'll let you know today. Count my cost Brother, let's make it clear One person comes But you better hurry up What are you in a hurry for? Employers have said Leave this woman to us for fun. We have plenty of time Besides Didn't say when. If you like Take this woman Let's keep it for later. What do you want to do? What to do Of course I'm fucking you. Let me go Let me go You are breaking the law by doing this. There will be retribution retribution I'm afraid you won't have the chance to repay us. Come on, beauty Brother, I love you well. Shameless I wonder who dares to touch her. Bro, what's going on? Are you okay, Nuannuan? Qin Muyuan, why did you come just now? I'm here, it's okay now I am Qin Muyuan's wife You dare to move I am tired of living Mr. Qin Mr. Qin, please let us go. We also want to make a living It's that woman. That woman was the one who ordered it. I kidnapped your wife It has nothing to do with us. woman Yes, that woman. She gave us a lot of money. Otherwise, lend us 100 courages. I dare not do that. We haven't met the employer. I only know she's a woman. Yes, yes, it's a female. Although we don't know What does it look like? But I recognize her voice. Mr. Qin As long as you let us go We will find that woman. Are you sure you can find it? I'm sure I'll find her We recognize her voice I can do this myself. But you two Must act for today Paying the price Mr. Qin What happened to mommy? Were you bullied? don't worry Mommy is just tired She needs a break Xiaoyan, be obedient. Don't wake up Mommy Dad takes Mom to the hospital first OK Xiaolin drives Mr. Qin Miss Jiang was hit on the head Some mild concussions The rest are just skin injuries. Just take some medicine Take a break during this time Fortunately, you are okay Otherwise I Found out Mr. Qin We checked Accounts in the kidnapper's name Discover This account some time ago A large sum of money was deposited A large sum of money was deposited Let's check the remittance account. Discover It belongs to a distant relative of Cheng. Overseas accounts Cheng It's her again It seems that I am My subordinates are too lenient. so She can again and again Breaking my bottom line again and again Kidnapper I heard It turns out that the only person he wanted to kidnap was Mrs. I didn't expect to catch the young master by mistake. False arrest I see She wanted to use Jiang Nuan to contain Xiao Yan Notify Cancel Qin's financial support to Cheng From now on Qin and Cheng Never cooperate Jiang Nuan If that year That woman is you How nice it would be Xiaoyan is so similar to her. Help her with Xiaoyan Do a paternity test I just don't believe it There are so many in the world It just happened to be a coincidence You mean Let's wait until the identification results come out. yes Ms. Jiang Nuan If I and the young master are biological mother and son That's not Nagging Is Xiaoyan okay? Don't worry Xiaoyan, he's fine. He just fell while running. Just finished treating the wound I'm fine. I'm fine. Jiang Nuan Why are you so nice to Xiaoyan? For him I don't even need my life I doctor Where are my children? child The child is long gone. Your child Born a stillborn baby I just don't want anything to happen to him. Mommy Scolding Scolding Don't disturb Mommy's rest This porridge is still hot. You were unconscious for a day. Pad it first I'll do it. You are a patient You you guys That You guys chat I'm leaving first What's your situation? This child is Nothing The President Came to visit the employees No This is Xiaoyan Mommy That's Xiaoyan's father. Stop pretending. Your son admitted it. I'll just talk about the sound of the phone call I gave you that day Why so familiar? Warm You can Lian Qin, the flower of Gaoling You took them all. Hey, don't talk nonsense. Nothing Okay, let's get back to the topic. Why did you come here suddenly? I heard you were in the hospital. I came here specially to see you actually Warm I'm here to thank you. If it wasn't you that day I've long been stalked by that old scoundrel Liu Neng Give it to Huo Huo fine and You also paid for my mother's hospital bills Wait a minute Who paid for your hospital bills? Could it be Isn't it you? My mother's surgery fee Suddenly, someone paid for it. The surgery is done. Is that you? I don't have any. ah Not me Maybe it's one of your admirers. I hate that you work so hard. Why Okay, okay. Don't talk about me Tell me about yourself. How did you get to know Mr. Qin? I'm with him President Miss Jiang and the young master DNA results are out The match is 99.8 Identification results Confirmed as mother-child relationship It's just as I expected. Cheng Wanrou You really played a big game. President In fact, Master It's your and your wife's child. That night 5 years ago That night 5 years ago From beginning to end It's not Cheng Wanrou at all But Jiang Nuan That day I went to the hospital to see my mother I just happened to run into those people kidnapping you. I was scared to death When I found your phone It just so happens that President Qin called you. You don't know His reaction after hearing that you were kidnapped Now think about it I really ate a mouthful of dog food he Are you really that worried about me? Um Mommy When you faint Dad is worried about you. I haven't seen He looks so nervous. Jiang Nuan You're a jinx. You are outside Even if you seduce a man You also brought Xiaoyan with you You simply You woman What is the madness of the Great Self? You dare to push me Do you know who I am? I don't care who you are. You come in and start It's your fault I tell you I'm here today Don't even think about touching Jiang Nuan. Birds of a feather flock together I don't have time to argue with you today. Hand over my son. I want to take Xiaoyan away Qin Xiaoyan went with her mother Bad Aunt I won't go with you. Qin Xiaoyan How long has it been? You are the woman Jiang Nuan It's broken. How can you talk to your mother like this? Jiang Nuan Just play by yourself. You are harming my son now. I can't let my son I'm troubled by you Small talk Follow me Cheng Wanrou Are you sick? What do you have? Come to me. You let you Why bully children? Jiang Nuan No matter how I treat him He's my son. This is an indelible fact I advise you to have some shame Stay away from my son. Mother How can you be a mother? You can sleep for money. What qualifications do you have to say me Let go of Xiaoyan's hand first. You're hurting him. Xiaoyan's hand hurts, I will take him to the hospital for treatment What does it have to do with you? What you need to do now Just get out of my way As long as Xiao Yan is by my side Qin Muyuan Even if you hate me You can't do anything to me. I am here today Don't think about taking Xiaoyan away Jiang Nuan You asked for this. Cheng Wanrou Cheng Wanrou Cheng Wanrou This is the hospital What nerves are going on? Are you okay? It's ok, Muyuan Mu Yuan, how could you do this to me? She almost killed our son. Why are you still protecting her? Why were Jiang Nuan and the others kidnapped? I think You should know better than me. Cheng Wanrou I'll ask you again Is Qin Xiaoyan really your biological child? Muyuan, what are you talking about? Muyuan, what are you talking about? Xiaoyan was born after ten months of pregnancy. Yeah Well, look what this is Cheng Wanrou Open it and take a good look. I hope Ms. Cheng Can you give me a reasonable explanation? Mommy's hand hurts Little Words Mommy blows you Qin Xiaoyan is my son He really is my son. Cheng Wanrou What nerves are going on? This paternity test report Written clearly Qin Xiaoyan's biological mother It's Jiang Nuan What did you say Xiaoyan is my son What is going on? So what? You bitch What are the qualifications? Born Muyuan's son Qin Xiaoyan It's the son of Mu Yuan and I. Mommy, I'm scared so The doctor said My baby was stillborn It's you It's me, what can you do to me? If it weren't for me You even got pregnant This kid has no chance. If you had married me I'll take that dead fetus To exchange for her child? Qin Muyuan You obviously already thought Xiaoyan is your son Why don't you marry me? because You don't deserve it Visitors Take her away from me I don't want to see her anymore Don't let me go Everything I do It's all for you, Qin Muyuan take away Let me go Qin Muyuan Scolding You are Mommy's child You are my child Mommy then My mother's condition worsened I really can't help it I know It's all over Warm Mr. Qin, you are here too. Doctor Lee Xiao Nuan I was in a hurry last time Forgot to tell you You left in a hurry. My mother left some things I never had the chance to give it to you. This is what your mother left for you. Thank you, Dr. Li And helped me keep my mother's belongings It was a hospital Responsible for disposing of your mother's body Responsible for disposing of your mother's body So this jade pendant I have kept it It's a pity that your mother You left too suddenly. It was fine at night. It was fine at night. Why suddenly The night was fine. Yes, Ms. Jiang's condition Always stable But I don't know that night Why did it suddenly become serious? I just couldn't make it through. So sudden That night Did it happen? What's so special? Special things To say something special It seems that a woman came to visit Ms. Jiang has been hospitalized here for so long. This is the first time someone came to visit. Do you mean Muyuan you mean My mother was murdered. There must be something wrong when things are abnormal Disappeared Don't you know? doctor Do you remember that person that day? What does it look like? The woman is wearing a mask and a hat I didn't see her face clearly. but I remember the corner of her eyes There is a red mole Is it her? how so My mother raised me alone She is in this world There are no enemies Who wants to harm her? Muyuan Don't think so much. I'll have someone investigate this matter. How do you get out of the hospital? He is weird. Jiang Nuan Bitch It's all your fault. Why do you want to return home? Why did you want to snatch Mu Yuan from me? Baby Girl Who made our young lady angry? Tell Mom To avenge you mom Mu Yuan for a vixen He broke off the engagement with me. What I waited for him for 5 years. What kind of vixen How dare you steal my daughter's man? I think she is tired of living. Everything today I fought hard to get these. Now let me let go I am not willing I'm not willing Baby Girl Qin Muyuan must be I was bewitched by that vixen. What's her name? Mom will help you solve it. Her name is Jiang Nuan I found it for Mu Yuan. Say it again What's her name? What happened to mom? It was her Mom, do you know this woman? Oh no Unknown This lowly woman How can I know that is A lowly bitch like Jiang Nuan How could I possibly be worthy of Brother Mu Yuan? Brother Muyuan I must have been bewildered by her for a while. That's why you can't see me As long as she's not here Muyuan will definitely like me Good baby girl Don't worry I won't let you suffer any injustice Jiang Rong, you stole my man back then Now your daughter The man who wants to steal my daughter again Sure enough, you mother and daughter It's all a despicable behavior I can handle you I can deal with your daughter again. Warm How's your recovery going? I'm much better now I was looking for you. that is The thing about my marriage Don't tell anyone how Is it that Mr. Qin doesn't want to make you public? I'm telling you No, no Because I'm not a small designer. I don't want Because I am in the company This thing between us Affects my work Okay, I understand Mrs. Qin's identity It will indeed have a huge impact But I'm sure you wouldn't expect We actually talked to the president's wife Working in an office Just thinking about it makes me excited Don't talk about me Tell me about you You and Assistant Lin You two have a situation. Don't talk nonsense What can happen between me and him? It was last night. President Qin ordered him He sent me home. last night I didn't say last night What happened to you two? Tell the truth It was last night We went out for a midnight snack together Then I drank too much We will You won't be Jiang Nuan is looking for someone good Bitch Seduce my husband And framed my husband and put him in jail. Look at me today I won't deal with you well. Are you sick? I don't even know who your husband is. My husband Your company's vice president Liu Neng Liu Neng You are his wife He was arrested, he deserved it. He is in our company Molested multiple female employees You don't go to him, you come to me instead You bah For my mother Why doesn't he go here and bully others? Just bully you I see Or are you women shameless? Seduce him I'm going to teach you a lesson today. Let you remember How do you hit someone? Xia Ling, are you okay? I'm fine, warm She looks like a bitch Don't pay attention to her Let's go The stinky hoof still wants to run Look, I'm not going to punish you today. stop The company supports you for one day Are you guys here to watch the show? Let me go My husband But your company's vice president How dare you treat me like this? Waiting for my husband to come back He will never let you go. Take it down Let me go Let me go Let me go Ms. Jiang Miss Xia Xia Are you all right? We are fine Assistant Lin Thanks to you for arriving on time today. Small things As long as you're all right I also need to send documents to the president I'm leaving first Don't look at it. People have gone far away Who watched him? Kobayashi What's going on? So noisy It's Mrs. Liu I don't know where she's from Ask for news about Miss Jiang Come to the company to cause trouble Liu Neng's story Didn't you handle it yourself? How would she know? I handled it cleanly. Absolutely no leaks Go check it out I'd like to see Who is behind this? good Yo you are here Come inside please How could it be such a coincidence? Mr. Qin After Mrs. Liu left the company Went to a cafe and met someone Bai Feng It's her again That What should we do now? The Death of Bai Feng and Jiang Nuan's Mother Can't get rid of the relationship I'll pick up Xiaoyan from the hospital in a bit. Go check it out Jiang Rong Cheng Tian Cheng Bai Feng Their relationship The sooner the better Mom and Dad What's wrong with you? Children should not interfere in adult matters. That's right Don't you always want mommy Send you to school? Then tomorrow Let mommy Can I take you up there? good Hello Are you Qin Xiaoyan's parent? I am Can I help you? Xiaoyan got into a fight at school Injured the kid I hope you come over soon. good I'll be right there Does it hurt? Mommy, I'm sorry. I got you in trouble. You are Qin Xiaoyan's parent, right? Um Children fighting at school And injured the kid. See how you solve this problem. teacher Our little Yan is usually very well behaved. Why did he suddenly hit someone? What do you mean you mean Am I slandering Xiaoyan? No wonder she's a mistress You can only teach children like this Teacher, please speak. Watch your words Am I wrong? Ms. Cheng is right. A shameless woman like you It will only harm the children. Ms. Cheng Cheng Wanrou teacher Please don't rely on Other people's words To define my human crystal Rumors stop at the wise and This is not because you don't ask why The reason why I blame Xiaoyan What could be the reason? Uneducated child After all, it was taught by Xiao San. Scolding Why did you hit other kids? They say you are Shameless mistress If I said no, they would beat me. Teacher, did you hear that? Our little words are The one who was bullied Mommy I won't fight anymore. OK Don't be angry anymore Where are Qin Xiaoyan's parents? Get out of here! I am Qin Xiaoyan's parent You are my son The mistress you mentioned She is quite pretty. How to clean it up Shameless thing. Your son beat my son. You have to give me an explanation today. Can you make some sense? It's your son who speaks without restraint. The first hand Why should we apologize? You figure it out This school It was invested by our Zhang family. I can ask the headmaster Fire your son Your son will It's hard to go to school. This lady Can you make some sense? Qin Xiaoyan's parents If you don't want your son No books to read Apologize to this parent immediately. You are abusing your power. If this kindergarten This is the atmosphere Then let's just keep quiet. etc. Want to go You have to apologize to my son even if you leave. I today You and your son Kneel down in front of my son and apologize I wonder who dares to let me Qin Muyuan's son kneels down to apologize Who are you Mr. Qin from Qin Group I'm from the Zhang family Our Home We have cooperation with your company What Zhang family I haven't heard of it I'm coming today I'm here to deal with my son's affairs. I heard You want me, Qin Muyuan's wife Kneel down and apologize to your son Mr. Qin There's a misunderstanding about this. It was Qin Xiaoyan who hit someone first You insulted my wife. I will sue you for defamation. Just right My Qin's lawyer is very busy recently. You just wait to receive the court summons. Mr. Qin I was wrong You are a generous person, please don't mind it. As for your Zhang family It won't exist after today. No, no, it can't be like this Little Words This kindergarten is not good. Dad will change you a new one good Are you okay? I'm fine Xiaoyan bravely protected Mommy today Xiaoyan is awesome Mommy night Make a big meal for Xiaoyan Is it good? Yeah, I had a big meal. President This is your itinerary for today You have a meeting at 3 o'clock this afternoon You said if I propose to her now Will Jiang Nuan agree? Should it be more formal? At least get the wedding dress decided first Kobayashi Kobayashi Please help me contact Top Italian Designers I want to give Jiang Nuan a A unique wedding President Is this too fast? You and Miss Jiang We haven't officially been together yet. Also correct Then first express yourself Don't girls like flowers? Please help me order a bunch good Could it be that the president is a love-brained person? Hello I'm getting ready to go home now. Bought some food That's fine. If you're on the way Just come and pick me up Hey, I've seen it. I will take action once the deposit is received Jiang Nuan Jiang Nuan, hold on Doctor, get well soon Family members please stay How is Nuan Nuan? How could a car accident happen suddenly? Who did Nuan Nuan offend? No matter how bad things happen, she will not be spared. Xiaolin contacted the traffic police team I just don't believe it This is a simple hit and run. If I knew who it was I will make him live a life worse than death The rescue was timely. But currently Miss Jiang Not out of danger yet 24-hour supervision required for the next week When will she wake up? This needs to be based on Each person's physical condition But if you don't wake up in 7 days Miss Jiang is likely to become a vegetable I see Have you found out? The driver who caused the accident It's like he's evaporated from the face of the earth. Our people couldn't find him. And from the monitoring point of view More like a drunk driving accident If it is a normal drunk driving accident Why hide the driver? Jiang Nuan has been back in China for less than a year. Want her life Only those few Cheng Shi is really not treating me like Qin Muyuan Keep it in mind It seems The lesson I taught you before It's not enough Notify Within a week I want to see Cheng's bankruptcy The clothes mom bought today are really nice You two still know how to come back Cheng Tiancheng, what are you crazy about? What am I crazy about? Why don't you ask What did your good daughter do? dad What's wrong with me? You're still pretending to be confused If not You provoked Qin Muyuan Cheng's will be Qin's Specifically targeted? Now the Cheng family's funding chain is broken. Customers who have cooperated with Chengjia before All of them canceled their orders Say what you did Made Qin Muyuan so angry dad I haven't done anything recently. Or I'll call and ask Assistant Lin, I'm looking for Qin Muyuan Miss Cheng wants to ask about the company, right? What happened specifically I suggest you ask your mother. What she did My mom Yes Now that you have done You Cheng family Be prepared to bear Qin's wrath. mom Assistant Lin said It's because of you I did it, so what? How dare she steal my daughter's man? She deserves to die You haven't always Don't care about Wanrou and Muyuan? mom You killed Jiang Nuan Not dead Isn't this still dead? Besides What's wrong with me helping my daughter? I am her mother I should help her. You helped well Now Cheng is going to be forced into bankruptcy. You are satisfied I You two Come with me to the hospital What to give to that person in person Jiang Nuan apologizes You go if you want I won't go Want me to apologize to that bitch No door Besides This Cheng family is over. Isn't there my mother's home? We won't starve to death. good good Walk gently You go with dad. Dad, I'm not going either. Walk He probably wouldn't recognize Jiang Nuan. I must not recognize it. So many years He can't Still in love with that woman Mr. Qin I brought Wanrou with me today Specially for you Warm and warm this Apologize in person These things My wife did it all by herself. I'll take her place To you and Nuannuan This is an apology I hope you can raise your hand Let our Cheng family go Mr. Cheng If I remember correctly This Cheng Group You started from scratch. Created by myself For your company Abandoning his pregnant wife Turn your head He married Bai's daughter I'm right, right? Then you Remember this? This jade pendant is This jade pendant It is a relic left by Jiang Nuan's mother. Rongrong Jiang Nuan's Mother Died 5 years ago Dad Muyuan What are you talking about? Why can't I understand? How did she die? Sick No money for hospitalization But that year Jiang Nuan's mother's condition It's getting better only She met someone No wonder she refused to come. Mr. Qin Can you let me see this jade pendant? Dad, what are you talking about? This jade pendant It is our Cheng family's heirloom. There is a pair When we got married Already said Wait until the children grow up and pass it on Mr. Cheng You don't have to act here. If you really miss You won't Just staring at this jade pendant Even your own daughter in the hospital bed You don't even want to take a look and Don't make up any more stories. This jade pendant It's nothing at all Cheng Family Heirloom What seems to be going on? I can't hide it from Mr. Qin this Nuannuan is my daughter We are a family I believe You are here If you are warm, you won't be wronged. Can you please release the process? Dad, what are you talking about? Jiang Nuan, that bitch, she is She's your sister after all. She is now married to Mr. Qin Then the Qin family and our Cheng family But we are a family. snort This Mr. Cheng You can really use anything. How is this possible? How could she be Wanrou Mr. Qin that This child is ignorant. Look how warm it is. Since I'm already with you Then we are a family Everything that happened before That's all misunderstanding Can you see if this You said so, right? Humph, Mr. Chen is really generous. How does it feel to be warm? doctor I'm fine, doctor. I don't know Mr. Cheng How big is the face? Can you still recognize me as your daughter? Warm It was always Dad's fault. Besides I am also your biological father Father Then I want to ask you When my mother died Where are you When your daughter forced me to sleep with you Where are you again With your power It's not hard to find me and my mother. But after so many years You never showed up You should still recognize Cheng Wanrou as your daughter. My only relative is my mother. Warm I know you will Unacceptable I also know Wanrou has many things She's forcing you. But You're doing well now. Qin Muyuan I'm tired Mr. Cheng, please go back first. The meaning of warm It is already clear Why don't you put on a show for both of us? You'd better think about it carefully. How to save your company Kobayashi Mr. Cheng please Warm Dad left first The situation has stabilized. Miss Jiang is resting for a month. You can be discharged from the hospital Muyuan I want to see that jade pendant May I good Is this jade pendant really a pair? Why did my mother leave it to me? Only one This jade pendant is indeed a pair But this is not what Cheng Family Heirloom Qin Muyuan How do I feel like you Know everything What about the other one? secret I'll tell you later Jiang Nuan Um I wanted to wait until you recovered. Propose to you again But I can't wait Jiang Nuan During this time I discovered I already like you I don't want you to just be Mother of the child on the agreement I want you to be my Qin Muyuan Real wife Mommy, just promise daddy. Xiaoyan wants to be with mommy Together Forever good I accept The child is still there It's okay I can't see According to our reporter An anonymous report from the public Cheng's enterprise evaded taxes Chairman of Cheng Group Cheng Tiancheng is currently under investigation President You're right. We detained Mrs. Cheng for 5 days Finally found the driver and We also found the patient from 5 years ago He saw it with his own eyes Mrs. Cheng deliberately pulled out Madam Mother's Oxygen This matter Don't tell Jiang Nuan Reveal the evidence to Chen Tiancheng You mean It's too easy for her to just go to jail now that She loves Cheng Tiancheng so much For him Killed Jiang Nuan's mother Now I want to kill Jiang Nuan again Then let her Favorite man Send her to jail yourself Mr. Cheng Won't He is a person who only cares about profit. For the company he will I'll do it right away mom Why did you arrest my mother? Your mother is suspected of murder. Your mother is suspected of murder. Need to go with us Accept the survey You said I killed someone What evidence do you have? No evidence Why are you arresting me? that is You killed Ms. Jiang Rong 5 years ago The evidence is conclusive. You can't escape. Thank you for the evidence Let's bring the murderer to justice dad Cheng Tiancheng you So many years You can't let go of that bitch. dad How could you do this to your mother? Why Why do you say She did so much Harmful things should be punished by law Just being a law-abiding citizen Obligations When you killed Rongrong I should have thought that this day would come If you hadn't forced me to marry you Rongrong and I And our daughter Nuan Nuan What a happy family now. I'm not Cheng Tiancheng, do you have any shame? Initially If you are not For our Bai family's financial support You took the initiative to hook me up Do you think I can see you? You think I'm forcing you now? Initially When you abandoned your ex-wife You didn't hesitate at all Shut up You forced me to do this. If it weren't for you Can Nuan Nuan not recognize me as her father? Qin Muyuan He can do our Cheng family Are you competing against each other? You speak Cheng Tiancheng I tell you You have to blame yourself for everything. Police Comrade I hope you guys take good care of her. Don't let this murderer Come out to harm society you You are a hypocrite I am really blind. I like scum like you. You'll die a miserable death mom dad Mom did all this for you. How could you do this to her? Wanrou Our Cheng family is in danger. If it weren't for her Qin Muyuan will not attack our Cheng family We only have justice to kill relatives Qin Muyuan might let us go. Only sacrifice her Only then can we protect our whole family. Jiang Nuan It's all because of you You destroyed my home Don't think too much about it Is everything done? The young master drank the medicine Already asleep Ms. Cheng Are you sure you won't hurt the young master? Won't Hand him over to me right away. There is 3 million in this card Enough for the rest of your life You pack up now and leave the country When Qin Muyuan found out None of us can escape It was Qin Muyuan who forced me into this state. Don't blame me either. say what Where is the nanny who takes care of him? Okay, come right over. What's wrong Xiaoyan is gone I'll go find it with you No You are in good health Don't worry I will never let Xiaoyan Suffer any harm 23 Want to save the child A person came to the hospital rooftop Hello The phone number you called No one is answering the call Cheng Wanrou took Xiaoyan away I'm going to the rooftop to meet her now Cheng Wanrou What do you want to do? Calm down. What do you say I want to do? Jiang Nuan You destroyed my family. What do you say I want to do? Mommy, save me Save you No one can save you now. Jiang Nuan You said you were doing well abroad. Why come back If you don't come back Qin Xiaoyan will also grow up well Qin Muyuan will also marry me You calm down first Cheng Wanrou Have you ever thought about 5 years Why is Qin Muyuan unwilling to marry you? It's all because of this little devil Not because of him Because you don't love Qin Muyuan at all Is it right Nonsense I love Qin Muyuan I love him If you love him You wouldn't let me replace you. Go to that room If you really love him You will take good care of Xiaoyan for him. He trusts you so much I'll give you the little words What you want But it's Mrs. Qin's position Even if I just want the position of Mrs. Qin So what? If it weren't for you, Jiang Nuan I almost succeeded And him You mother and son My natural enemy. Mommy, save me Nagging Cheng Wanrou Right? Calm down. what would you like I can give you anything you want. You let him go, okay? I feel so sorry for him Okay, you beg me. good I beg you Mommy Jiang Nuan, you have come to this day too I didn't expect it But what a pity He must die today. Hurt my family I will make you suffer as I did. don't want don't want Hold on tight and I'll pull you up Muyuan, you are here Your mother did something wrong. Being punished You have your own life Hold me tight Pull you up Qin Muyuan Actually, Jiang Nuan is right. All I want is Mrs. Qin's position Stop talking I'll pull you up Qin Muyuan I know you did all this I am Cheng Wanrou I don't need your help. It's her choice. Nuannuan, we are here to pick you up from the hospital. You are us I'm with Lin Xin Oh, that's right I came here today to ask for your help. Is it okay? The beauty is finally home Tell me what's going on OK no problem Lingling Are you sure you chose this for me? Bridesmaid dresses Yes My bridesmaids must be pretty. But Oh no, no How can I steal your thunder? Oops, that's it. It's too late Let's go President, please stop taking pictures. Your temperament Guaranteed to overwhelm the whole audience Is she ready? She won't not come. Miss Jiang is already in the car You should prepare time to go out Xia Ling, what are you doing? So many people are walking forward. Don't embarrass me. What the hell are you doing? Mr. Qin I brought the person to you. surprise Warm We've been through so many ups and downs together. Although according to the agreement We already got the certificate But I owe you one Your grand wedding Here today You Jiang Nuan Will become my wife, Qin Muyuan I, Qin Muyuan, swear I will love you Protect you lifetime Would you like to Mommy, please agree to it Promise now I do Don't you keep asking me Where is the other half of this jade pendant? The Other Half Here I am What does this mean? Qin Muyuan How many things are you hiding from me? Want to know? tonight I have a whole night to talk to you. Our Story Warm You haven't told me yet What happened to that jade pendant? In fact, when you were not yet born I have seen your mother Save me, save me Your mother saved me. Doctor Doctor Help, doctor! At that time Your mother is newly pregnant Your father I haven't attached myself to the Bai family yet. What about this pair of jade pendants? My parents gave it to my aunt. At that time Auntie refused to take any money. So my mother I gave this jade pendant to my aunt. If your aunt gave birth to a boy She can bring this jade pendant to the Qin family We became brothers If it's a girl That's my wife, Qin Muyuan. No wonder No wonder when he saw the jade pendant It will be like that So You are my wife In fact, it was already destined I don't care I don't care I want daddy and mommy Hello Lingling, come here soon I really can't control this little ancestor Xiao Yan You want to find mommy so badly What do you want mommy and daddy to do? Together forever? think Where are Mommy and Daddy? I'm giving birth to a little sister for you What if you went? The little sister didn't dare to come out Oh, that's it. Then I'll wait. Wait for the little sister to come out Then we now Can I continue? Our wedding night tonight No one will bother us anymore. Wife Have I ever told you I love you husband I love you too