Nagano is getting colder and colder. But even though the temperature drops below freezing, there is not much snow around my home. So I will travel to Niigata in search of snow. Even in Nagano, when I get to Hakuba, there is a solid accumulation of snow. I would like to come back to Hakuba on another trip. When I reach Otari, it is a different world! The snow is gradually getting stronger as the scenery changes rapidly from snow to rain and rain to snow again. It's amazing. It's all white. That's Niigata. I would like to visit many places in Niigata. There seems to be a lot of good sake. I'm sure there will be a lot of good food, too.That's right.There is no sea in Nagano,I would like to eat fresh seafood in Niigata.That sounds great. Crab too, of course.Yes, crab.Crab, yeah. I want to eat crab.I've brought the ingredients for a hot pot, thinking I'll make a hot pot for dinner tonight.It's just right.Do you want to put crab in?Let's make a crab hot pot.Do you want to buy crab? Let's do it. Crabs should be a little cheaper this year.Really? Let's go, let's go buy crabs.Let's do that. My heart is pounding with excitement in the pure white world! Driving becomes more cautious and tiring, so we proceed with breaks. Just a little outside, there's snow on his head. Fun.... We came to Teradomari Fish Market Street. Here we will have lunch and buy crabs. For lunch we will have the famous banya soup, which is a combination of seasonal vegetables and seafood, and fresh sushi. Yuri likes grilled fish, so I bought a grilled red fish. It's cold, so the warm soup sinks in. The nodoguro sushi is so good! The fish is just so fresh and good and not too expensive! I am full and very satisfied! Now that I have bought some crabs, I move on to the next purpose. After an hour's drive from here, we will head to Oguni Town. Here we will experience making small paper lantern using Washi (japanese traditional handmade paper). First, we choose the type of Washi we want to use. There are so many different types, and they are all so beautiful, it is hard to decide which one to choose. After deciding on the type, choose the shape. Fold lines are made. Stamp a pattern on the Washi. Fold along the crease lines and fasten with adhesive. Since we have to wait for the bond to dry, we will have to wait until we get home to light it up. The store staff showed us a special technique of cutting out the paper with scissors. The rabbit that Yuri requested was made in no time. She cut out another one for us. A dragon. Amazing.... Finally, we listened to an explanation of Washi making and took a tour of the factory. The labels of sake bottles are also made of Washi. I was surprised to know that it is made through many processes. Oguni Washi is said to be characterized by its production method using snow, such as &quot;yukisarashi&quot; and &quot;kangure&quot;. I would like to see the &quot;yukisarashi&quot; process, which is said to start around February or March. Washi made from strong fibers can be sewn, so they can make bags and dresses. Strong and beautiful handmade Washi is made in Oguni Town, deep in snow, using traditional methods. I was glad to experience this tradition that has a history of more than 300 years. I'm glad to have the pleasure of decorating an alcove with a paper lantern. It's almost sunset,so let's take a bath and then move to a sleeping place.Let's do that. Let's go to a hot spring.Yeah, let's go to a hot spring.I want to go to a place with an open-air bath.I wonder if there is. It would be nice if there were. The snow is getting stronger and deeper. The first floor of the houses are made of concrete and the windows are boarded up. The houses are built in a way that can only be found in an area with heavy snowfall. When the sun goes down, it is pitch black. The snow piled up on the road, making it difficult to drive. We arrive at a roadside station with a hot spring. We will go to a hot spring to warm up. Dinner is a crab hot pot! Yuri, it's done! Great.A purple butterfly. Did I draw it well?Yeah. I think this might be the best picture I've ever drawn.Let me see. Oh, I see... You drew it while looking at the book, right?Oh... You mean it's not that good at drawing? Here we go, the beginning of the story of a little butterfly.There was a small cute butterfly flying in a certain place.Then, next. I'm a little confused.I don't know, I don't know.You're a little confused?I don't know how to continue the picture-story show. Let's eat! The hot pot became luxurious with the purchase of crab. Eating Osechi and crab hot pot makes me feel like a year has begun. Akashiyaki is a good way to end the crab hot pot, but this time, I'll settle for none. The snow continues to fall. Tomorrow we plan to play in the snow at a ski resort. I wanted to play in a lot of snow. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow. I can't wait until morning because I'm really anxious to get outside, so we go for a walk! It's been very snowy just a few hours since we got here! Yuri seems happy too. It's too much fun to run around on the fluffy fresh snow at night when no one is around! The trees look as if they are covered with white leaves. Her pajamas are soaked from all the fun she had. We clean up and go to sleep for tomorrow. I wonder what the view will be like tomorrow morning. I go to sleep with a sense of excitement. Wow, what a view! It's still snowing in the morning. I can't wait to wake them up and go play! There's a lot of snow on the ground. Can't we just play here without going to the ski resort?Yes, we can. There is a suspension bridge over there.It's very beautiful.Would you like to go there?Let's go there. There is enough snow on the ground to cover Yuri's knees. There seems to be a walnut swing. I wonder if we can go up there... Unfortunately, the swing is not available. Let's go to the forest! It's the best snow I've ever seen! It feels really good to feel the snow with my whole body! Too much fun! On the way back, let's take advantage of this slope to slide! It looks like it's fluffy and hard to slide. Shin-chan pressurized the snow, so Yuri and I are going to slide on it! Snow is fun! I'm tired.I think we've been playing too much.It's been a while since I've been tired of playing. Look, the snow is getting stronger again.It was so much fun.It was fun.I didn't think there was a big open space up there.But I was tired of walking.It was tiring, wasn't it?Even I was completely buried up to my knees.Yuri was buried up to here. That must have been tiring. What should we do now?Do you want to go skiing?Well...That's enough, isn't it?You don't have the energy to play more, do you?Let's go skiing another time.That's better. It's almost noon. What's the name of the facility there? Bon Jovi Village?We'll have lunch there...&quot;Jon-nobi&quot; village. Well, I don't care if it's Bon Jovi.Really? Wasn't it Bon Jovi Village? Didn't it say so?Maybe there's lunch there?I think so.Let's check out the souvenir shop too.And finally, I want to go home after taking a hot spring.Yeah, that's a good idea.Let's warm up a little.Let's do that. Niigata has a lot of snow.It's awesome.Isn't it the most snow we've ever experienced?I think so.I've never seen so much snow. I can't move right away.Let's relax a little more before going out for lunch. We relax in the car while drying our wet clothes. We go to &quot;Jon-nobi village&quot;, a facility that is also a roadside station, to have lunch. I found a cute one! It has pictures of wild vegetables on it. Kogome (Japanese mugwort), fukinoto (edible pea), myoga (Japanese ginger).... I like myoga. I give up on the hoodie and decide on a tote bag! Yuri found a cute mirror too. Now that we are hungry, let's have lunch. I love the Washi lighting at the entrance of the facility! Yuri has become a soba noodles lover since a trip to Nagano a year ago. I'm glad you can have good soba noodles anytime you want. Before we leave, we remove the snow from the car. This is the first time we have had this much snow on the car. The car is also buried in snow, so he shovels snow. It was a lot of fun! Thanks, Bon... Jon-nobi Village. Finally, we will go to a hot spring. There is a private open-air bath a short drive away, so I made a reservation. I wonder if I can take a snow bath. Wow, the dam is frozen. Visibility is getting worse with the snow falling even harder than yesterday. We arrived safely. Now, we will take a hot spring bath! This is what a snow bath is all about. Our trip to Niigata in the snow was the most fun ever! Thank you for subscribing to our channel!