What is the function of the law? When asked this question, most of us would order and promote justice, and as members But what happens when those laws promote and In this episode of Origin of Everything we'll US law, tracing its origins in colonialism In order to deconstruct this troubling history of US law: First we'll look at the foundation of legal Next we'll examine the system of chattel translated into ongoing legal subjugation Third we'll explore how Jim Crow laws extended And finally we'll discuss how the concepts half of the 20th and early 21st century allowed laws under the umbrella of mass incarceration. By tracing this timeline we'll be looking have always disproportionately impacted black and laws continue to have adverse effects But before we get into the heart of how laws we should clarify a few key terms. Namely: crime and punishment. And no I'm not talking about the Dostoevsky I'm talking about crime (or the breaking you pay as a result of being found guilty Although we often think of these things as "if you do the crime you've got to do relationship between how much crime is committed In his book Thinking about Crime: Sense and Michael Tonry notes that nations with remarkably sentencing and punishment standards. He determines that crime rates and punishment "decide how much punishment they want." He writes: "This can be seen by comparing crime and the United States between 1960 and 1990. The trends are close to identical. Violent crime rates in all three countries more than doubled. Yet the U.S. imprisonment rate quadrupled percent, and the German rate was broadly stable." So in this example we see three countries starkly different ideas of punishment. Therefore when we analyze how laws are broken at why societies change their stances on crime Tonry attributes this to a few factors, two the sensibilities of a society. "Moral panics" as he describes them occur and overreacts as a result, which usually more severe punishment for offenders. Another cause is that societal "sensibilities" often change, which in turn changes the types things we consider as just punishment. So although we're often taught to look at there's actually an argument to be made of each other. Which brings us to our first stop in the history colonialism and slavery. After colonies were established in North America, of England. In their essay "Situating Colonialism, Race, and Mark Beeman explain how the development (and later in the early United States) became laws that specifically targeted people of They detail how, although the concept of discrimination to antiquity, the idea that race was based evolved alongside the emergence of chattel Then the idea was solidified with the emergence century. Chowdhry and Beeman go on to note that although who entered the English colonies came as indentured to English indentured servants) this quickly as a source of consistent, exploited, and They write: in part, as a punishment reserved for Africans English indentured servants, presumably protected shared with their masters, avoided such punishment. From the 1640s through the 1660s, with the established for Africans in colonial America, declaring "negroes" sent to the colonies, In short, slavery in British colonial America With this important distinction, colonial that sentenced black people to perpetual servitude. Slavery created an explicit relationship between of American society. And this new legal category meant that new to accomodate this shift in who could be considered Soon laws and colonial codes were written the enslaved. Although slavery was not the first instance The colonization of land in North America did not have rights to the land they had inhabited America as "uninhabited." Therefore laws that allowed white settlers also established an early relationship between While most punishment was left up to slave rape and other inhuman cruelties, more serious left up to the discretion of judges for supposed But whether it was being dealt by overseers a system of exploitation and legally supported entirely outside of the protections of the This system remained firmly in place in parts ratification of the 13th, 14th and 15th amendments. But even these newly won freedoms could not legal methods of racial and social control. Following the close of the Civil War in 1865, which lasted until the 1870s. Although there were some legal and societal they were swiftly overturned and replaced Jim Crow introduced a set of laws that systematically also relegating them to inferior "separate washrooms, and sections of the bus (among Black citizens were denied access to basic under the weight of racial terror imposed who organized lynchings and other forms of Jim Crow laws effectively relegated black on a racialized caste system where white citizens This system of disenfranchisement was also like sharecropping, which effectively reinstated unfair practices. And systems like convict leasing guaranteed almost identical to slavery in everything With "convict leasing" private businesses complete tasks. The businesses would pay the state and the for free. As a result, Southern states started incarcerating rate, for anything from petty theft to vagrancy This practice lasted from the late 19th c For more on the convict leasing system, check prisons?" right here on our channel. The story of Jim Crow finally came to an official Rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s, when to have these decades long practices rolled But that only led to new ways of racialized In her book The New Jim Crow legal scholar, Alexander details the relationship between the form of mass incarceration. In the 1960s the prison population of the But by the early 2000s that number had exploded hundreds of thousands in other penal facilities detention centers). And much of that increase can be attributed (although the "war on drugs" was first the 1970s). Popular wisdom connects these policies to However according to Alexander, the official on drugs" actually predates the rise of to address. She writes: crack began to spread rapidly in the poor emerged in cities across the country. The Reagan administration hired staff to publicize part of a strategic effort to build public The media campaign was an extraordinary success...The drug" helped to catapult the War on Drugs war." Because of its cheaper price, crack cocaine than its more expensive counterpart powder After the "war on drugs" picked up popularity of minorities (oftentimes for non-violent And those arrested for crack cocaine related to other drug offenses. For example, it was common practice to follow An op-ed in the NYTimes explains: federal law mandates a 10-year sentence for the weight of a candy bar. To get a comparable sentence, a dealer selling 5,000 grams, enough to fill a briefcase." This wasn't rolled back until 2010 when The Act reduced the disparities between sentencing to 18 to 1. But despite the partial reversal of "war more people per capita and overall than any And although African Americans made up only Census, in many areas they are the majority are not necessarily committing crime at a As a result, Alexander writes: social control purports to be colorblind, much as earlier systems of control did. Like Jim Crow (and slavery), mass incarceration laws, policies, customs, and institutions status of a group defined largely by race." In her book, she details the ways that those as felons and thus systematically barred from processes like employment discrimination, from jury duty, although some activist groups So, this episode just scratches the surface unequal life outcomes for different citizens We haven't even begun to cover other forms occur on the basis of gender, immigration other minority groups that have been exposed as a result of legal discrimination. It also raises fundamental questions about and at whose expense are some of these policies My hope is that this serves as a productive to serve certain groups over others and will and standing against injustice wherever it arises.