today, we are making crepes. i am sharing sharing all the crucial points, all the tips and first, add all the dried ingredients. okay, so sugar goes in. and salt. give them a quick ingredients. so i usually like to add all the and these eggs are a perfect amount to eliminate it feels very thick at the beginning if you don't mix enough at this point, you might so this is not done. i see that make sure to scrape off all the sides and the didn't miss any flour. by mixing well, glutens not going to get teared up easily or break and mix right away. it shouldn't be extremely hot just to eggs, but it's very warm, so it's not and we're gonna add milk. add at the very beginning, do not mix really and again scrape off the side and and once it looks nice and smooth, you can add the uh you can finish right here but i like to add so delicious. by adding this, it tastes more so this amount is from one batch. but i just made another batch. so you can see me cooking so this is the pan i'm gonna use today. you can not stick. in the past, i tried with a pan which so it is very important. also, prepare some a thin layer of melted butter, it helps to create crepes from sticking to the pan. i like to heat a pan with medium heat. just on the middle between 3 to 6 with this stove. when i try higher tend to burn the surface a little bit because okay, so the once the paint is heated enough, we i like to pour a little less than 1/3 cup. like very thin crepes and still covers all around a measuring cup. lift up your pan right before you fast before you spread the batter evenly. now, when you will not get enough caramelization on the or lift it up. so the easy way to see if it's once you start seeing nice golden color on the caramelization all around the surface. then, and i tried so many ways, but the way i or any long sticks. first place one closer to the the edge. and using the outer chopstick, hang the roll it like this. you can take it and cook the other side for about 5 to 15 place your stick, hang the edge, and when you feel you heated to cool it down. so when you spread your batter, how shake your pan really well so that as you pour, shake well. and once you see that and coat the very edge using the rest of the batter. or twice while i am heating to make sure when you flip, i do not recommend inserting your stick or drapes and they tend to stick together. the top to flip by hand, you can also use gloves that are food when the batter went beyond the circle like gets cooked through. once it gets cooked through and get case, you can just trim later. and mix your batter is not sunk on the bottom and everything is rest your batter before you cook because some also, flours tend to sink on the bottom now, this is when your pan was not heated as much. you can spread the batter a lot easier of course but it doesn't look as fine as the ones with stronger heat. and this is when you heat your pan a little bit too much. you'll have a harder time spreading the batter fill the hole. so when that happens, pour just a you'll also see small holes like this. this means so that's a sign that your pan was very hot. but once you flip it it still looks nice. you to take out a crepe from a pan, simply flip a you cannot touch right away, you can do this i recommend you using them right away for the room temperature a little bit, wrap the surface now that i got lots of crepes, i could open a we enjoyed it with whipped cream, strawberries, biscuits, i think it was a lot better with chocolate sauce instead of diced chocolate. enjoy it in any way you like, as crepe cakes, crepe suzette, crepe roll... i bet it'll be a my crepe is too thick. if you want to make it pour is very important. and do not pour too much. your pain right after and as you pour move around less amount of liquids, less amount of milk... and that case, i think it's also a little bit difficult sometimes when you cook with low heat, by the time little bit dried. which doesn't happen tons of your crepe doesn't contain any sugar... if you want sugar, of course it gets sweeter. but also sugar try that. i just let them pile all the way and that dried. and if i don't use it right away, i usually okay so i'm going to stop right here. i spilled if you have any other questions, please let me this video, please let me know. and subscribe if you me know about how it turned out and how you that's it for today. thank you so much for watching