By 1984, there were over 100,000 Unix systems to mainframes. Through organic growth and a strange quirk itself into the computer industry. But the result of that un-curated organic OS'es. A Babel of Unixes. Then suddenly its creator AT&amp;T decided to make their way into the computer business. Those efforts were chaotic ... to say the we call the Unix Wars. ## The Breakup In 1983, Ma Bell broke up. Nearly a decade earlier, the United States production of telephone equipment for its proposed that it relinquish that monopoly The breakup would end the 1956 Consent Decree had long wanted to offer what are known as beyond just the simple transmission of data. content. As this breakup plan percolated, AT&amp;T started venture. In 1975, Bell Labs produced the Version crafted with an eye for outside sale. AT&amp;T started to sell commercial licenses for They charged about $20,000 to run Unix on each additional one. The price apparently came about because the to do and so chose a number that he thought it. But people paid it, because Unix had found ## Fragmentation Two major trends drove this commercial market First, you had programmers using the BSD Unix They enjoyed it and wanted to keep on using was in the engineering/scientific/technical Second, you had this market trend of cheap the market. Systems like those from Sun Microsystems, systems. The first wave of companies servicing this simply changed Unix to run on another piece Cruz Operation, and so on. But over time, larger companies joined in. IBM started offering versions of Unix for for their own differentiation. With Unix's creator AT&amp;T largely out of sharing up to 90% of the code, applications all the others. The community did not have a leader. Many Unix - because AT&amp;T owned the trademark - but confused users and the marketplace. ## System V A year before the AT&amp;T breakup, Ma Bell had a single system which they called Unix System A few additional features - including a number V. This Unix product received its own division Unix System Laboratories or USL. System V was announced as a commercial product San Diego. The licensing terms were a bit source code costing $43,000. More if you wanted AT&amp;T wanted to make their version of Unix system to be adopted by everyone. ## The First Clash So in 1983, System V made up one major branch AT&amp;T. The other branch was BSD Unix, which was then and the foundation for many commercial systems. That same year, the Computer Systems Research which included popular extensions like TCP/IP This struggle between System V and BSD makes like hardware makers had to decide which of Some like IBM and Hewlett-Packard decided Sun chose to extend BSD - namely the 4.2 variant OS. And they were different. System V at the start Nor did it have BSD's Berkeley Fast File System, file system. Or the virtual memory system minicomputers. The struggle also pitted two different cultures. the Berkeley people as the ragtag group of reflected this culture. But since BSD Unix was ultimately just a few people needed to first get a very pricey AT&amp;T This became a big obstacle for BSD's commercial vendors and users switched over as System if they had to get an AT&amp;T license anyway. The license requirements - along with AT&amp;T's repercussions. University professors previously tool&quot; for operating systems. This content Textbooks too were under AT&amp;T's control since such textbook was the &quot;Lions Commentary on line, AT&amp;T's grip will squeeze too tightly. ## AT&amp;T's Computer Business On March 27th 1984, AT&amp;T formally entered They hit the market with a range of computers - targeting customers producing their own that push would be Unix. An article at the &gt; AT&amp;T for the past year has been pushing and today it claimed that it has been &quot;very But AT&amp;T's line of Unix computers struggled found AT&amp;T's Unix PCs hard to use compared And application developers found it hard to variants and the slight differences between more consistent and larger ecosystem? By 1985, MS-DOS had five times the number customers and users were shy to adopt AT&amp;T's In 1986, AT&amp;T took a $1.2 billion loss - losses half of that. They laid off over 24,000 people, closed plants, and shifted their strategy to selling computer If AT&amp;T wanted Unix to turn around their computer mess of a family tree. But how to do that? ## AT&amp;T and Sun In 1987, AT&amp;T and Sun joined forces. Sun Microsystems was the largest Unix vendor and AT&amp;T felt that by combining their forces, into a formidable challenger. By October of that year, they had a deal. and a seat on the board. And the two would with Microsoft's Xenix system - to create So Sun would issue a new version of SunOS Sun in turn would receive preferential treatment Sun and AT&amp;T envisioned this new Unix as an the computing industry can use. AT&amp;T apparently heft to complement their technical chops. ## The Hamilton Group But Hardware vendors like DEC, IBM and Hewlett-Packard Rival hardware makers used Unix as a foundation - making Unix a public utility essentially. like they were going to wipe away all those Not to mention that Sun was their direct competitor. Sun had just announced their own homegrown a market standard and Unix was optimized to leg up on everyone. In January 1988, representatives of independent Bull and Hewlett-Packard began to talk about At first, they called themselves the Hamilton Laboratory on Hamilton Ave in Palo Alto, California. computer efforts - Vittorio Cassoni - with to pound sand. So in May 1988, they invited IBM and together OSF would pool its members' Unix variants AT&amp;T-free Unix. On a more amusing note, OSF put together two a Wall Street Journal reporter said that he DEC cofounder Ken Olsen ever sharing a stage When Unix originator Ken Thompson heard about to Dennis Ritchie and said, &quot;Just think, IBM ## OSF versus Unix International Sun's CEO Scott McNealy did not appreciate Forever Foundation&quot;. Soon after this, Sun and AT&amp;T founded Unix Intel, Toshiba, Unisys, and Motorola. They of Unix. Over the next few years, OSF and Unix International up over 200 various members to their coalition. appealing to themes of liberty and justice But OSF's realities struggled to meet their excepted - were in the mainframe market and cats, bogged down in politics. For instance, OSF had to start with IBM's of IBM's conditions for joining the coalition. product-by-committee process. Two years later in 1989, OSF had an interesting And worsening economic conditions destabilized The mainframe market was shrinking. HP ended DEC, IBM and others were losing money in computers. By 1992, OSF had abandoned the big idealistic the sponsors struggling to keep afloat, the shriveled away. At least Sun managed to get SunOS out during a pretty good product. And they adopted Motif ## BSD Splits from AT&amp;T By the late 1980s, BSD Unix no longer had But BSD still had value. AT&amp;T was raising a commercial license cost $20,000. By the to a staggering $100,000. In 1993 they would Users wanting to build standalone TCP/IP products code. So they asked to split out BSD's networking This was completed in 1989 as Networking Release Keith Bostic at CRSG then pushed for a total later in 1991, work on what was called Networking completed. The team tried to identify everything they what was called the &quot;Clean Room&quot; method. And of six files in the kernel judged too difficult ## The Lawsuit Aware that they had something interesting, In 1992, they founded a commercial entity With the university's permission, they started 386BSD but with those six files added back BSDi sold 386 BSD at a 99% discount on USL product that did substantially the same thing. AT&amp;T obviously did not like that. They asked But AT&amp;T - through its USL subsidiary - sued As is always the case, the trial dragged on on them, but the other 16,000 or so files What's the deal? The judge agreed and asked AT&amp;T realized that six measly files would the lawsuit but now they added the University distribution as well. Near the end of 1992, a judge heard the arguments. but two of the complaints. The University that AT&amp;T had incorporated Berkeley's code The lawsuit was highly covered in its time. ## The Wars End In December 1992, AT&amp;T sold the Unix subsidiary Novell had pioneered the local area network Unix into their NetWare network operating Ray Noorda, Novell's co-founder and CEO, said rather than the courtroom. USL and the University Though a settlement wouldn't come until 1994, AT&amp;T selling Unix to Novell put the first massive repercussions. I mentioned in an earlier Windows NT to invade Unix's turf in workstations Released in late July 1993, Windows NT 3.1 - more high powered than its traditional desktop Unix - 32-bit, networking, file-sharing for Microsoft recognized that what businesses truly wanted was a consistent experience with produced for them. NT combined with Microsoft's formidable marketing ending the Unix Wars. In March 1993, members from both OSF and Unix Common Open Software Environment, or COSE. COSE's goal was to finally build a common Novell handed the Unix brand name to the organization OS variants can receive the brand. ## GNU/Linux Another beneficiary of the Unix Wars was Linux I know there is a naming controversy here In the early 1980s in response to AT&amp;T's attempts Stallman started working on an operating system The goal was to create a package of truly set up by the Institute of Electrical and group. POSIX was a set of US government approved systems&quot; needed to be able to support. Anyway, over time a lot of software for GNU is at the core of the operating system. It more - so it is quite important. This kernel eventually came about through Linus Torvalds. He had been inspired by an what eventually ended up being an operating In 1991, he posted about it in the Minix newsgroup, from that ecosystem. A year later, we have The Linux community's approach took some parts around the world working on a common code But Linux has a natural leader - its founder fragmenting like Unix's did. With the founder was able to ship updates and fixes at a very Furthermore, Linux's source code was from public utility. So you avoid another situation and started aggressively monetizing the software. Thus over time, Linux overtook Unix as the for scientific and technical applications. years when BDSi and AT&amp;T had been embroiled ## Conclusion The Unix Wars were wars of Conquest. That I feel for AT&amp;T's position here. They must thing that they thought they owned had turned part of the computer industry. But their attempts to monetize Unix in these reportedly said to Chamath back during their &gt; A platform is when the economic value of of the company that creates it. Then it's Unix the platform made a lot of value for - felt entitled to a larger share of that But in doing so, they would have to centralize Those users had viable alternatives. When greener grass. Unix is still around of course. The branches HP-UX, FreeBSD, and OpenBSD are notables. And I should also mention, the very popular via NeXTSTEP - which was an offshoot of 4.3BSD If you want to see it that way, Unix's family story of the Unix Wars leave many to wonder,