Cars are getting more but there's one that is trying to push against it, and that is here of the Dacia Duster, starting below 20,000 euros or below 20,000 pounds. In the base version, though, we're going to find and how does it perform on the German Autobahn, even at maximum speed? This we have to find with Thomas on full screen, full length. Let's go with the new, I feel. Yeah, here this DC Comics logo, new Dacia logo here Also, the daytime running light, so more modern look, and the very rugged look here. Look at that. This is also the Extreme trim, the most off-road We also have the 4x4 version, which has a lifted ground clearance of a centimeter over 22 centimeters or like eight and a half inches. The approaching angle in the front, 31 degrees, so this has ground clearance and approaching angle of a Toyota Land That is funny, isn't it? But a really cool striking look on the outside. Cedar Green is our And in the side, we start with 16-inch steel wheels, 17-inch aluminum, and these are the biggest ones, 18-inch aluminum wheels, here then with the winter tires. And once again, this really rugged look here, this is a Starkle material, a recycled material. You also see these sparkles on the inside there. So I really like the also being like an Here also the bronze the contrast in This also looks pretty fancy. And the thing is that Dacia started off with the Duster, that people went for it because it was just cheap. And now people go because they just at least already The length here is 4 meters 34 or 171 inches. It is a tiny vehicle. Lately, there also came out new, the Dacia Bigster. We had it in the static presentation already. That is, so to speak, the bigger brother of the Duster. And we can also drive Already right here, showing you that the rear doors, actually here opened, have this hidden mechanism. That's also quite So different versions available. Usually, it's front-wheel drive. Here today, the Soon more to the engines. To the rear, more also with the light signature. And once again, this really cool, rugged look. So this one speaks off-road on the exterior And as I said, it has some serious off-road capabilities, also from ground clearance, descending angle, and also departure angle. The departure angle than the one of the That's funny, isn't it? And top speed, which on the German Autobahn, I can promise that to you, 180 kilometers an hour Here with this petrol version, the inbuilt hybrid would be a little bit slower. Then about the turning indicators in the front. Nice LED. Replace a part here of the daytime running light. That's cool. And in the rear, Yeah, this is the standard light bulb design. Under the hood, three-cylinder, 130 horsepower. This is the petrol engine. Yeah, kind of small indeed. Acceleration figure, 10 seconds or 11 seconds, then with the all-wheel drive. So this is the only all-wheel drive possibility you have. All-wheel drive plus manual. As an alternative, you would also have the 1.6 liter 4-cylinder hybrid. However, the kilowatt hour capacity of the battery, here with the mild hybrid system of the petrol engine, is not so much smaller than the one of the hybrid. Hmm. And then there's Gotta see about what makes more sense to you. Clear is that there's no, like, really powerful And we're also going to check out on the German Autobahn if it's actually sufficient here to accelerate onto Starting with the interior and this Renault keycard, which they took over. Yeah, at least it's slim and fits in the pocket. Then door closing sound. It's not too bad. And here, once again, the door is open like that. The door closing sound is actually quite nice. Then interior. All hard pack here and here. What can we expect? And then what's actually quite cool that they carry out this, you know, like this That's actually quite cool. And also with the Then also an entry sill badge. And in the Extreme trim, we also have the Everything set to off-roading and also the seats. Look at that. This is a Microcloud material. It's more like a So if you want to wipe for example, for off-road use or for kids use, then this would be your choice. However, I gotta say they tend to be more So I would prefer the jeans look style in the Journey trim. That is also more Or if you go base base, and you have normal So these ones, I would for this rugged use. For all other uses, I would really tend to go to the fabric seats. Then with 189, 6'2&quot;, still a lot of headroom left. So you have good And the seating position itself is actually quite comfortable. Cockpit overview. I think styling-wise, pretty cool. Here also with these materials. The structure here Also the air vents are actually quite nice, I feel. All hard-pack plastic, of course, to save some money. Then the glove box, No. It's not dampened. That's also... You might think, yeah, it's just a couple of cents, but it all adds up, of course. That's the thing. Then here, the armrest. Could be a little bit softer. Underneath, more space Cup holders are And then here, you also have different driving modes. Yeah, this button here also had some history already. You see it here on And then you can also put in like a snow driving mode and so on for the offer. There's even a hill descent control available. This one here being Long stick here, definitely. In the front, you can get an inductive charging pad, if you like. It's not ventilated though. Two USB-C chargers. And what's find it A real manual climate unit with clicking sounds. So that's actually decent. Easy to control. And then you either have no infotainment system or optional this 10-inch infotainment system. So the first alternative would be you have your smartphone. There's also this YouClip system where you can just put a smartphone holder right here. And then you just look at your smartphone here. Or you go for this 10-inch infotainment system. We have it here also So these two And why not? And then here, it's let's say a basic infotainment system. But you can also do the with Apple CarPlay The steering wheel, by the way, up and down, in and out. It's also an And it's actually quite decent. Real buttons also on And then you also have some choice with the instruments. Here, once again, the DC Comics steering wheel. Here are the real buttons. For example, there's but there's no extensive level 2 assistance systems Very interesting, To deactivate the speed limit chime in the EU and also the lane keeping assist, press 1, press 2. Then you can deactivate it with the My Safety Personal mode. And this one, you can then configure yourself in the infotainment Here, the instruments. These are the 7-inch Base would be just Main infotainment screen here. The temperature is being shown in the lower left. You either have this or you can also use Apple CarPlay, Android Auto. You also have some visualizations, for But you see, yeah, it's not the quickest one. Gotta say, though, I mean, no matter about savings, but the quality of shouldn't be anywhere in a modern vehicle nowadays. Rear seats here, all hard-pack plastic. What else could we have expected in this case? But I think, yeah, maybe it's more okay than with other vehicles. And then here, And they are here hidden with a zipper, actually. Oh, and then here, stuff already falls apart inside. Well, about the space So when I'm sitting as a adult and I'm driving, it still somewhat fits, but barely. But the seat here is very... Yeah, you know these kids who tend to push from behind, or like push here like this. This, you will definitely feel when you're And here, 189, 6'&quot;2, so headroom is no problem at all. And the seating position itself is actually quite decent. So it's just about that you don't have too much legroom, but you have to think about it's a short vehicle. And for that very short length, the usage of space here is actually really good. Here in the middle we have another You can put that in here, additional cup holder. Then you have here or then here, this And you can also put these individual elements out and just put the hanger So I think it's a nice and clever solution to And you can also get two USB-C chargers The trunk today is at 460 liters. A little bit more with the four-wheel drive version, a little bit less with the hybrid or with the LPG. And let's take a look here. Let's say it's Here, a meter or Normal length here at And underneath, but everything like has a very basic build quality. Take it that way. Here, we can also And there's this underneath. Yeah, and look at that. How this one is also So you cannot expect This is also where Then, to fold the so there we go. So one third, two thirds split. And then you have And total length, see 1.65 in meters or 65 inches. Every vehicle here, when we have it in Germany, has to face the And also, the Dacia Duster. And how do you say in Los geht's! Woo. 150. Yeah, and there we also fifth gear now, oh, we Yeah, I mean, the wind it's like an off-road From suspension, it's soft, off-road style pretty light, also feel also on the an off-road vehicle, of windy outside and or not doesn't feel more the wind noise, above 100 kilometers hour has no notable motorway, but other than that, it feels actually quite okay. The thing is what with is 11 seconds for this of the 1.2-liter we have here, petrol, that this acceleration notice it when going on at earlier situation with the truck is in lane, to squeeze in before it. This acceleration figure is actually a little bit say that, you know, and about, like, you know, but here it is indeed for most German Autobahn Yeah. That's the thing. Oh. Is the front hood Do you see that? Yeah, maybe a little bit. A little bit, right? Yeah. Okay. I mean, it is here on the bridge, the wind is really The seats are very good. Yeah. Oh, Lea likes the seats. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, they're nice, Yeah. Here with the yeah, the head That could be a little bit softer. Yeah. I prefer the, as I said earlier, the jeans fabric seats. They are, to me, even But here, these ones, of course, you can wipe easier. And then here, change at 130 Yeah. I feel the soft suspension, but it's actually fun. Yeah. So, it could be worse. I'm not sure. When I drove it the generation on the Spanish at that high speeds, it felt a little more wobbly. But maybe that had to pressure or something, tire choice. Here, actually, it's better today. So, again, from the moves and behaves, at some higher speeds I'm rather positively The only thing is really is really, really high an hour or above So, that is something could maybe invest But then again, their first intention is to So, yeah. And wind noise is where this car then So, in this case, it's windy outside that we very well. Then, let's take here Here we go. It's actually a fun ride. So, what's still true is at the car from the that's a fun car. And, yeah, it is not premium at all on the interior. And you feel a lot of elements that are just cheap. Also, like from the it's rather unpleasant But it is fun. You know, what it promises on the exterior, it is fun. And remember also, one has a ground angle of a Toyota Land Cruiser. So, we always have to take when we talk about the vehicle, that this capable of hard And then, of course, to make that one Although, for example, customers in Germany, Some are using it in the But, I mean, in Germany, any legal use cases Here, again, this I mean, it is fun. I love off-road I also come from a two-wheel off-road background. I used to drive motocross, mountain biking, of course. And I'm always to off-road vehicles, you know? And I like driving in the sand and stuff like that. So, they always give you some unique feeling. How are you feeling Good. It's not that bad, no. It's always a good sign as well. And I have to say, drove in Spain on the not feel as good as the manual pure petrol here, or the MHEV, I have to say, this better feeling for the Here, one more acceleration. And now, you love when Here we go. And now, let's see if we can reach, then, top Top speed here an hour, 112 miles power. Now, we would That would be the top And here now, 180, top speed. That's it. Everything that we can do, 112 miles per hour. Well, it doesn't feel too bad, though, at that speed. Yeah. Yeah, it's just the wind noise, but other than Oh, no. That BMW put a stone on our windshield there. Yeah. So, yeah, but other than a thing, then, when you that's standing that So, the high-speed behavior is not that bad, actually. Here, also, another It's somehow... I mean, you feel that bit, definitely, when because of the wide and so on, but it's And, indeed, it is you're getting sick or So, yeah, it is high-speed proof, I can say that. It gets the Autobahn get the noise insulation you probably also hear they have to speak The steering wheel actually good, because it It just has, like, and that is good Blind spot monitor is, mirror, but you've seen way too late. So, when the cars quickly, it almost So, the blind spot monitor, it would need to warn You can also set a speed limiter here, for example. Yeah, but that's it. There are no, like, driving systems and so on. Yeah, and then you you have this speed limit here with the personal mode, that you also don't assist and so on. You know, at, like, 90 everything is fine with So, you definitely feel at home in the city or and some off-road This is where this car is, like, mainly built for. It's just that I'm testing thoroughly because we can we had on the motorway car in Germany, Autobahn use cases because most of by Autobahn, Autobahns you would say, like, And even if you go you use, like, a short or something like crucial to know how Shifting here is actually fine and it's also fun. And the thing is, with has, like, more power a little bit bigger felt that, for example, on the motorway, that would be dying on you and So, I feel like when gear, you know what you So, I'm usually a the sense of you just But here, that combination, I think, is the one to go for. Of course, the all-way use, I think here the petrol than the hybrid also the mild-hybrid system is not that much lower than of the true inbuilt hybrid. Yeah, and I mean, the consumption when we drive a longer way, it's actually quite fine. It's also not a large MHEV system here does And here at these speeds, this vehicle feels really at home. It's now in this right turn. See how it reacts from There we go. I don't have the best say, but it has no dead actually fine. So, to me, the most you get this sense of there's also the sense of fun and I just love that, you know? So, yeah, it is sluggish It's also super loud still a lot of fun to and on-road, definitely. As for the fuel economy, one here, the petrol liters on 100 kilometers, so 39 mpg US, 47 mpg UK. That's fine. I mean, it's also a small vehicle, so it could This MHEV system more efficient and it than to the inbuilt hybrid. Yeah, this one here with hybrid you can get with only and this is However, I feel the more suitable to the in the gears and you it then didn't feel so as I was driving. And some of the customer received from the last confirmed that so we know, fine with the better to go with the petrol. Or, of course, if you LPG is especially cheap, be an option. Overall, the thing is, it looks stunning on the exterior. The interior looks nice but doesn't feel too good. In the interior, you feel they have done the cost savings. Also, of course, some crash safety and with You just have to know that. So you do have to deduct because the price is And talking about it starts below 20,000 Like 19,000 euros or pounds is the entry price. But then here, highest trim, everything, all the You can add some 10,000. So this one here is Then, of course, you minute, do I buy a 29,000 Or maybe a used Audi A6? Yeah, you can get a used Audi A6 for like 26,000 euros. A good one, a good used one here in Germany, for example. Yeah, it's always a trade-off no matter what you talk about. But I think it's still good that are still like below which is to today's new vehicle or like And that's, of course, a problem to many, many So it's still good offers also on the Now you should check out the hybrid from the Duster Dacia Bigster.