Alright, We're checking out the only game that they fold the earth It's City Smash. So, uh, yeah. We finished programming the rest of the reality-ruining powers of the game. You may remember something Before, it went up to 100 bombs. Sounds like a hundred reasons Obviously, you can see here, Before I move on to the really stupid stuff, I figure I would at least get crash the game with a completely you know, like 300. I love how despite there being 300 bombs, there's still the stubborn buildings You know what? The weather is really depressing. There we go. I feel like if you're going to get that you're literally removed from reality, it should at least be a nice day outside. 500. I think the thing that impresses [chuckles] Oh, God. That the 300 couldn't Now to be fair-- Oh, hold on. You know what? Get a better firework show at night. I was gonna say, to be fair, It's like dominos just waiting It found a shoulder to cry on. I hate the fact that this other building next to this one is such a good friend. It's like, &quot;I won't let you down.&quot; Yes, you will. Okay. 500's not good enough for you then. You know what? Fine. 5,000. How about that? I feel like we're getting into numbers now that probably shouldn't happen and-- Oh, God. Oh, no. Oh, anytime you see the frame I'm just waiting for the moment where this little dark sphere There it is. I was gonna say-- And the 5,000 bombs [chuckles] I just can't-- Like every 10 seconds or so, it just gets slightly bigger Okay. I'm not-- I didn't know the ball It is getting obtrusively large. Oh, my God. Oh, I created the sun. I have legitimately Wasn't there before, decided to fix it, I love that I finally figured and the answer was 5,000. Can I get it for 2,000? Would 2,000 work? All right, it's it's -. The-the-the bomb Well, the game hasn't crashed yet. That's a good sign. Now, if you-if you look this is what happens when you don't get I love how everyone still has power. To be fair, where I'm at in Florida, You can have a hurricane and somehow you're still shopping on Amazon. Here's something very patriotic. See that? It's a firework. That's all it does. But what if we could make Well, now we can. Explosive force, let's try 10. Go. Oh, okay. Starting to make the bridge sad. Sounds good? How about up here? What? What? What? Ho-- I love how people just and like every once in a while, one of the other motorists ends Look at that. [laughs]. I didn't do that. I want everyone to remember, that I wasn't the one who did this. Everyone's like, Okay. So, uh, how about, uh, 50? Happy New Year. Oh. Okay. That is a- Did you see this one car It's like the Spiderman of cars. Everyone else is pretty much disappointing me, but that one car was very impressive, so-- Oh, yeah. It blew the glass right off this building. Imagine being someone just walking down here, and you look up, and it looks like rain, but it's actually just Hold on. I'm just-just gotta shave I'm trying to keep it in one piece. Look at that, it's like Jenga. Hold on. Let me see one piece out without having Yay. Nope. Oh, no. [chuckles] You let me down. Explosive force: 200. They say in space, no one can hear you scream. We're about to put to the test. I feel like everyone in here We don't need gravity where we're going. Actually, 200 really wasn't that bad. Maybe 1,000. I feel like we're jumping but listen, it's for science. Okay, that's pretty bad. I love how it just keeps the background Like these rolling green hills, themselves over here to the moon. The whole moon colonization All right, let's see like, more gravity. Uh-huh. Mm. Can I do more than one? Can I do a lot of-- Oh, yeah. All right. Now, the game hasn't crashed yet, I feel like the populace here is like, Yes. Boom. Okay. One of the pieces of the building that that shard of building took Let me see if I can do that again. Yeah. It's just the debris that's causing all this. [laughs] Oh, wow. Look at tha, on 1/80th of the rest of the building. I don't know how it was staying up. If 5,000 is that good, Eventually, in as I can because I still have a lot Okay, now we're starting to move the buildings at lightspeed just from the damage. Boom. [laughs] Hold on, I just-- Just real quick, I just need to try something. All right, we got discount Godzilla. Now, hold on, Ready? Ready? and go. Boom. [laughs] Just wanted to see if I could stop I feel like I'm just giving him a pedicure. The only thing I did Oh, hold on. I mi-I missed a spot. 100,000. Might as well, right? Yeah. Look at the speed. All of the numbers. Dividing by zero in three, two, one. Oh, nothing happened. I think I divided-- Oh, that building vanished just then. Oh. The buildings are getting Thanos-snapped. This isn't just damage. They're just disintegrating. All right, maybe that number 500,000. Oh. Oh, yeah. And blast radius. [laughs] Go. Yeah. [laughs] It's that moment when you forgot The time has come to split the planet in half. You may remember the particle beam. I think the thing that impresses All right, I just want to get-I just Just like a little tiny bit. Oh. It's like when you try but your particle beam misses. [laughter] Okay, so if that is 1, It's kind of like it just takes It hits stuff so hard Hey, bridge is closed. I love how n-no one cares. Everyone's like, &quot;I can make it.&quot; Nope. Hit delay: one. What does that do? Go. Maybe it just took everyone longer to die. Hit delay: 1,000. I feel like I'm not getting Blast radius. So this should wipe out the whole city. I was correct. Oh, hold on. Missed a spot. So one of the things that I hadn't The nuke did so much on its own that I wasn't really sure how much worse I could make it, but you can actually make Let's bring it up to 100. Go. [laughs] That's actually probably more realistic to the true speed of a nuke coming down. All right, nuke: 1,000. I don't even know if you get to see it. Oh, it's actually so fast I feel like reality hasn't understood Maybe like 500. Huh? Look at it. The planet is surviving. Okay. So 100 about gets you here. It's like a very controlled nuke. All the buildings are still around, but it kind of looks like the apocalypse. This car is still trying Look at him. He's still going. You ca-- Come out, buddy. You-you can do it. You got this. All right, here, let me give you a boost. Oh, fuck, I accidentally All right, maybe two buildings on him. I'm gonna do explosion force: 1,000. Now we're talking. If I do a black hole, and then I hit the black hole All right, here's a black hole. Here's the nuke. Go. The black hole kind of holds Look at it. I may have time to hit it with one more nuke. Here we go. So, originally, you could put these little and you could put quite a few on. And then, they kind of blow up in sequence, but what if we were to make Actually, I'm just gonna go with 10. Oh, yeah. This is smart. Excellent. All right, do it. All right, 10 isn't too bad. Actually, all I did to this building was, It's still standing. Hold on. Can you fall, please? Yes. It's so satisfying and then it crumples from the outside in. Hey, I didn't say you could fall. What is this? Explosion force: 100. I'm just gonna do one right now. Woo. Okay, get that nighttime look. This way, you can see all of the red-glowing foreshadowing [chuckles] that's coming. Here we go. I love how it goes in the order Blast radius: 10. All right, let's see what one does. Okay, 10 is really bad. Just fixing the bridge. Just fixing the bridge. Well, there's not gonna but all right, here we go. Yeah, there's basically I'd like to take the opportunity to mention, I don't know if you could see it down here, but the one car that went flying off while I was blowing up that entire bri-- What would happen to that wire? I was gonna say it's still alive. All right, gravity, Gravity's like, &quot;Which-which time?&quot; I'm just gonna click Oh, yeah, this looks like a Christmas tree. This thing's gonna fall off just from the weight of the sticky bombs on it. Look at that, [chuckles] it's falling. I feel like NASA's like, For science. [laughs] It's just shock waves. It's just shock waves. There's nothing left. People from earth They'd be like, &quot;What kind of party are they having But we just abused reality so hard that I think the game's Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed Until next time. Stay foxy. Much love.