Become a sustaining member a month. Welcome to the Commonwealth Club. I'm George Hammond, I'd like to welcome our online audience audience here in San Francisco. This is one of over 900 programs at the Commonwealth Club as live streamed And we have a great author here again with us tonight. He's coming back after 18 months. 18 months ago, we sat down with him, But we were on stage and he was, you know, brought in by our live stream technology. And we'll talk a little bit Since that time, you know, form of information He thought he was going to retire but so much new information came in that So we have Mark Shaw here with us tonight and fighting for justice for Marilyn And welcome, Marshall. It's the Commonwealth Club Thank you. So much. You thought you were going retire? Well, yeah. Yeah, it's amazing. I was telling some of the people out here. My life's just been magic. I'm so blessed with so many things I have no idea how I ended up. This is the sixth book of Marilyn, Dorothy, And a lot of it, as George people who have watched my interviews, I think there's a seven and a half million and I was going to quit which was Collateral Damage, and Times of Marilyn, JFK But in February, I got a telephone call And I think it will change everything and all of the perspective that you ever So we'll come back to that But basically, we are going to expose alarming governmental corruption Yeah. Can we say it's about the Warren Yes. Okay. Okay. It's about the Warren Commission. One of those people who crowdsource to the Warren Commission. That's right. First time. Yeah. So Nicholas has a comment about it, about the book and through the eyes of, And this gentleman. Yes. Oh, this is the signing of the Warren We'll come back to that So we're going to start with a little bit Well, I'm the ultimate overachiever, I nearly you know, I'm I have no idea how except it's the Holy Spirit and also And so I felt a duty to present it And my books are stop and think books. And this is, I think, my 31st book. And I want people to stop And in this situation, people have asked You know, with nothing And so this particular book, I took people back to the early years why I feel like I've had the credentials what I believe is one of the most the killing of John F Kennedy, Marilyn Monroe and Dorothy Kilgallen, who So I went all the way back to the and as because that shows me in the front row and that's the independence You know, I've always never been afraid And I get criticized for my research And then this is my wonderful because the basic lesson if you're not smarter than other people, And that's what I've done. I've gone the extra mile. An awful lot of other people have researched these topics, And that's that's find this, my contributions to history, Now, it's hard for a parent Mark So. Everybody's amazed. I'm not kidding at what So we did that. And then I want to go back and just But this is where I I feel like John F Kennedy, Now, Marilyn Monroe died in 62, JFK 63. Dorothy 65. And then, of course, Bobby Kennedy in 68. They're my clients in some ways. And the reason I say that is and then a criminal defense lawyer, a gentleman had they were trying He was on the loose. And I am there on the left hand side in Indianapolis, trying to get him to to, And it didn't matter who it was or what just as I'm trying to be there This was It's kind of in jest, Petrocelli, the Indianapolis Star I wore an old used trench coat. My office was filled with pop bottles. People would pay me with bags, You only take cash So I would stuff them in these old books And when I left finally Indianapolis, I had a whole bunch of that cash So that that is kind of where I began As you may say, this was the biggest break of my life And you know who that is represented, and blew that case. And I can give you some information But he there was a case he was involved with a, uh, a DNR agent who was put in a doctor's office in a farmer's Okay. The headless torso case, He called Lee Bailey in Boston, by picking me among all the lawyers And that enhanced my reputation, first, first early in the morning But this made the big difference there. And always Lee when I end up with Good Morning America, And then this is a young man who supposedly shot a social worker And I tried that case and I had a winning And it so upset me as to that I when a reporter for the Star What are you going to do now? I said, I quit I gave up the law practice But I had It's awful. Whoever perpetrated the crime, And obviously the victim is as well. So that and That's where I learned to write. I never had any fancy classes, I learned how to write by talking and people are nice enough Well, they are I'm from a little town, Auburn, Indiana. I don't use big words at all, and that's what I try to do especially in this new book, So I moved to Colorado and here's another points, because you may remember a famous skier, was shot and killed Claudine Longe, of doing that. Definitely. Bailey was supposed to try that cover He couldn't do it direct amended me again. Here's one of those magic things Most people who end up on network You can possibly start I started at the top. All right. I covered that trial. Claudine trusted me. And I want to go back to that, too, trust me, who tells us all about the war, And that's what happened here. Claudine gave me her only statement I really felt like that They didn't find her guilty of murder. But that's how I got into And at that time, then for Good Morning America. That's where I covered the trial And I ended up in a small news station And on the on the table and Aspen, Colorado, where I was living. It didn't have a daily newspaper, so I came up with the idea and the Aspen It's still operating today. And that's was my first writing. I wrote columns for that newspaper. How many of you in the audience here A murder? Because that was pretty. Pretty? Oh, it's huge at the time. Yes. And Andy Williams, his wife, just. Absolutely. Yeah. All right. Okay. So we'll move ahead quickly. All right. Why do we put Angelo Bruno in here? Well, everything you're going to hear now, what will end up circling around My biggest contribution to history Angelo Bruno was a Philadelphia mobster, And Good Morning America set it up so But we were shocked, as you can imagine, because those people are supposed Right. So I went over there and he gave us information we couldn't And everything was on the show And so the producer said, Mark, stay there So I called this man's lawyer on the And there was when I talked And then finally I knew she was crying Show, I guess you don't know. When my boss started this And that'll come around. When we talk about the fact they play by their own rules. And that's the first time I learned that. Just quickly with these two cases, Simpson case. What I remember is a party in in Hollywood at one point going there brownness Nicole, Nicole Brown Simpson. I'm telling you what, she lit up the room. There was nobody in there. And it reminds me of when Marilyn was on the screen, And so when I I was actually on an ESPN show when O.J. was driving around in his Bronco, But all I remember is the horrid situation Kobe Bryant. I covered that case for ESPN as well. I went to Colorado And I will tell you right now, And every time I hear and everything else, I went to the early hearings in that case, the prosecution completely disregarded the matters of evidence Let the victim's name be known. And from that point, and she went away for sure. That's a guilty man I wrote about it in USA Today and I, I got But I listen to the evidence. All right. So here's the next changing time. I move back to Indiana And the judge in the case of Mike Tyson was charged with rape in 1992. And the judge in the case had been So I was living in southern Indiana. And I called her and I said, Can you get me a credential? She said, Well, Mark, you've Why don't you handle the media? And so I did that and I watched this man with the worst Don King, his promoter, decided that And Don So he said, well, if that lawyer is he had a tax evasion lawyer, Jack Ruby had Melvin Belli, Well, what happened to Tyson? I remember the time when the jury came guilty. He should have The evidence wasn't even close So I decided, hey, This was the first one, down to the count. And I remember just quickly, I remember waking up one morning review in the Indianapolis Star, by my literary career. Read it to me. And I said, Yeah, I'll read it. Mark Shaw's book on Tyson Worthless. Honest to goodness. That's how I started. You didn't I did not did that. All right. So here's Mr. Belli. I practiced law with Melvin Belli. And in the 1980s, that's why I've had such who's investigated the JFK assassination, and I worked in his office at one point tape some commercials and a little video Tort lawyer, as you as you probably know. KING of torts, But as I worked on that particular book, I came to find out there he is always, And that was the photograph that is Melvin Belli. And in the middle is a gangster Terrible, destructive, dangerous man. And I thought, wait a minute, And I said, Yeah, And so I looked into that in Melvin by king of the courtroom, representing Jack Ruby, And being a curious guy just like George What the hell is he doing? Representing Jack Ruby, And that really catapulted me somehow or another could have been Okay. So I've got all that in that particular You know, JFK is is assassinated. What do we have next then? Right there. That's that's Ruby shooting Oswald. There's Ruby and there's Melvin Belli And that will all play along when we get All right. So from there I thought, These clues just popped up in my life and try to see how I could expose I don't speculate. I used primary sources and all of that. And so the Poison Patriarch and I went back to the 1960 election, then. JFK was going to lose to Richard if they didn't win And what I found out was Joe Kennedy, is some of his colleagues, He used Frank Sinatra to get a hold of a of a mafioso in Chicago, Sam Giancana, a mafioso in New Orleans a bunch of them, promised, the new administration All right. And what's the first thing that happens? And I have an eyewitness who was right ordered Bobby Kennedy, attorney general. If you know anything about Bobby Kennedy, He wrote a book called The Enemy Within, at the McClellan hearings. He he talked about some of them He hated these guys and his father that he was a big shot. He went ahead and sent Carlos Marcello to Guatemala, Marcello comes back and But Marcello comes back and he says to himself, I want to kill that S.O.B.. But if I do good logic, with everything the government has. But if I kill Jack Kennedy, all right, And the proof there is what? That's exactly what happened. Bobby resigned as attorney general, and they never, So that was in the poisoned Patriot. All right, I'm done again. And this is Joe Kennedy. This is Bobby. There is Marcello who he deported. You know, Nick Pileggi gave me He told me long ago, the first thing they think about And that is true. And it goes back to Angelo Bruni. You can't mess around with those guys. And Bobby Kennedy did. And it cost him in my opinion, the life of his brother. Okay. So now we get to the the one that I love. I love this woman, Dorothy Kilgallen, a lot of people I didn't either. But I will tell you, I had a clue when I best friends, he said, Oh, you know I said, Dorothy Kilgallen, What's my line? How would he know her? Well, And you know what Mel said about that? He said, you know, Mark, Now they'll go after Jack Ruby. Now, this was after Dorothy had died as to what this woman was doing, The New York Post called her She was on What's My Line. She was a star performer there. She was like a prosecutor guessing the guessing the occupations of people. She had a newspaper column, across the country, a radio show She was a big shot. The New York Post called her the most powerful female voice in America And here she is. This is Dorothy. She's her ancestry is from from the west This is her in the eighth grade. And this is dear Dorothy So I learned a lot about her. And I then went back and I found In 1936, she competed in what they call the race around the world, She and two other reporters traveled Right. They didn't have jets or anything else so they took ships and railroad She set records for all of the This was a Larry King on CNN She was a gutsy woman. And as you'll see, it ended up costing her There she is on What's My Line. She not she got the queen talked into when the queen had a permanent There's a clipping of that that I have. There she is like that. And then the next one How's this for a compliment? Dorothy Kilgallen How's that? Pretty darn good. Okay, so there she is at the typewriter. And then she covered She covered the Charles She covered the Dr. Sam Shepard case, which you may remember Correct. All right. She covered that. This is my favorite photo of her in the middle of all these reporters Sam Shepard case. All right. To trial. And all the reporters are doing what? Admiring her. How many people around the world with the integrity of Dorothy Kilgallen Unfortunately, we don't. So Dorothy Kilgallen, why did she get Well, You know, of of JFK. He had been to her home and played all kinds of places. Pierre Salinger invited Kerry. Yeah. Where is Kerry? We got to meet the next client. One or two, anyway. All right, we'll show that anyway. So I went to the White House, and JFK in the third grade and the letters And it meant so much to you. Give her a one to give them a109 pin. So when JFK was killed, that what Dorothy wrote in one of her columns, and She wrote, What I remember is a tall man praising the letters This is the man who died. She took it personally. And where did she do? She marched right out of that room house of hers in New York Here is here Okay. She was right there here on the right hand That's her being frisked at the trial. And what did she start doing? She didn't buy any of this Oswald And her first column she wrote was Oswald File Must Not Close. And in there and in the book and I hope you'll take a look because it's that happened. But she basically said justice is a big rug. When you pull it out from under one man, And and she went on to say, how can this happen shoots the president and then a guy named It just didn't make sense to her at all. And right from the beginning, And that was J. Edgar Hoover, FBI director, Oswald alone. Oswald alone. Oswald alone. All right, there's Dorothy. With who? Melvin Belli and co-counsel Joe Tannehill. And she got to know him really well. And you can imagine she possibly could out of out of Dorothy, There's Jack Ruby. And then she became She became the only reporter to interview Out of 400 reporters, it's the favorite show was? Television show was at Jack Ruby's What's my line? These things are meant to be in many ways. So what happened And it was amazing because he told her things that we've never known, to hear that her investigative files But in the book, you will see she wrote a And then you just have to read her If I could write Kilgallen writes, instead of one, is so visual, you feel like you're there. As she talks about him, you know, his his his demeanor, and you can feel him there She did that in all of her columns. An amazing writer, for sure. And then, of course, what happened? Well, Bill, I came up with this defense. You know, get this. He wouldn't let Ruby testify by using a psycho motor Okay. When you're a criminal defense lawyer, I was appointed a public defender first degree murder And this guy had shot his his girlfriend with a shotgun And I told James when I first met him, we're going to defend this. But he said he was drunk and So I tried to do my best for him. Obviously he was convicted, but that was the first time that I did You know, Melvin Bell, a chance at all And obviously he was found guilty. Then Dorothy did it again. Okay. And you're going to see how this happens. She's in the front row of the Jack and she hears all this testimony And you can see it. There's another picture of her with a clipboard and she's got all these notes What she heard with regard And so what happens then to find out how all at once on the front Her newspaper is Ruby's own story, his testimony That was huge. That was like the Snowden and NSA exposure, the Pentagon Papers And who did she make an enemy Edgar Hoover, because he controlled about, and was furious in terms of That's a letter from Hoover to to this guy named Rankin, who was a counsel How in the world And from who and everything else? And what I love about this particular I like to think that they were Here's a little Dorothy, Okay. She didn't ask for a lawyer. And as you'll see, I'm going to tell you in a little while All right. So now Dorothy's in danger. And what we're going to find out because I never realized how much danger First of all, she had Jack Ruby told her, and look into LBJ She didn't go to Washington, D.C. and look into the military complex. She didn't go to Miami She went to New Orleans. And who was there? Carlos, Marcello. And I believe when she was there. And there's a whole account of that she had connected Marcello Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby. And I have new testimony in the book So now she's got who she got as enemies. Well, for one. Sure is Hoover, but also Marcello. And you can't make enemies like that. So what happens in November of 1968, 65, November eight, 1965, she's found dead in her New York wearing her eyelashes, She's dressed And basically the Mark Sinclair, who's the second person there He found her body. I think she had died. We've proven in the reporter that she did I proven she was murdered Three barbiturates in her system, not one, medical examiner comes along you'll love this because it coincides Overdose of drugs, circumstances How's that for a determination of some sort, it is ludicrous, theory is that you'll hear about it So, Mark Sinclair, what did they find out That's Charles Simpson, her He said if the wrong people knew it would cost me my life. Mark Sinclair And I bought a gun. And the night before she dies, Clarke's and in New York City. And then she meets a man named Ron Pataki, who was kind of using Dorothy to try I've proven in the book Edgar Hoover. He was in trouble himself, and let Hoover and maybe Marcello to put in and a tell all book And as you will see, they could never have So that's the danger she was in. But I'm going to add something to that. That is the telling blow to tell you, she was dead. So. And Catherine Stone. Catherine Stone. I'm sorry. Catherine Stone. Good. George Pataki saw a gentleman with with Dorothy out at a hotel We've proven that that was him. We proven that he, in all likelihood, And that's where he inserted these barbiturates into a drink, And that's what killed Dorothy. There's Mark Sinclair again. Dies of moderate You know, I'm Researcher Dorothy's autopsy. I couldn't get it. The New York District, New York medical examiner's office But National Archives, viable, credible documents. That's where you need to go. And don't Anybody can go in there, but go to the National Archives. And there was her autopsy. And it's you can't read it here, Three barbiturates, not one. And one of them, two of her, you know, two of these medical examiner guys looked into it they found a remnant of barbiturate, And one of the glasses, which meant and put them in the drink. And that was the tell. If you know who Dr. Cyril Wecht is, the greatest forensic science scientist He looked at all that and said, Dorothy Okay, 10,000 She should have never died, never died. 10,000 people. All the dignitaries at the In fact, one woman came who told a story. Nobody ever knew that Dorothy actually saw a burning building I mean, the accolades for her because she was this person With regard to Ron Pataki, All right. And if you look at it closely while I'm spilling vodka roulette, seen as relief possibility, while I'm Please fetches two drinks on the run and make one of them poison I interviewed Ron Pataki several times. When you're a criminal defense You're trying to find somebody who knows that the killer could know. That's how she died. You know what It was a humorous poem. I tried to get the New York district I tried to get the New York commissioner who I went back to New York both of them looked into it But 60, 60 years later, that's a priority in New York City, But I'll keep trying, especially with All right, next step. I'm done again. I've had it. That's it. Mark quit. But then again, lawyer in Fresno, Greg Mullinax, I said, What's that? He said, I feel like a dumb head that I didn't look into the Warren So Greg calls me and he says, And he sent me. Let's go the next page there. No, that's back there. Right. That's me reading the transcripts 2000 pages took me forever And the next slide is really important from the Ruby trial, And that was that Jack Ruby just didn't of the Dallas Police Department and shoot in the in in the trial, right before the day before he shot out, I'm going to make like a reporter. The police will help me The police were all friends of Ruby, So this was a big breakthrough Ruby was lying about all that. And we're going to connect him in again with Marcelo All right. So I'm done again. And then somebody well, not somebody, I've got probably almost 4000 and they give me tips And one of the main question was, between the deaths of Marilyn And I didn't think there was There's Marilyn, of course, And she should have never died either. Never. And there is Dorothy. Marilyn. And I think that's Yves Montand, Okay. So I don't know after finding Marilyn that she died Dr. Wecht told me he's done He's never seen probable suicide either Right. But that's how they looked at it. No investigation. No investigation of her death, Both cases closed. All right, so what I decide. Okay, let's go a little further with this, And so I find this column by by Dorothy M has Hollywood talking again. You know what it says in there? Marilyn Monroe's life is on the upswing. She has a romance with somebody first husband or second husband, She's got Broadway offers. She's got movie offers. She's doing all this. And of course, you know, it has a brain to figure out that's So I decided I need to what did I come upon, who's a bigger name, that guy right there So I first looked at Jack Kennedy. That's Marilyn Monroe singing on his 45th birthday, 45th birthday Hard to believe. I'm sorry for the photo of Marilyn. But there's no photo from the front left the back end of her Okay. Well, and what we have then on the right She's on a march to death right then on a march to death. Because what happens, But Joe says, oh, no, You can't be seen with her. So Jack Kennedy dumpster Robert F Kennedy still trying to show his dad and his brother You know, Joe Kennedy and I and I have a One of one of them is I quote Neurosis, written in 1973 the Kennedy men were sexual predators And the way they treated And one of the things that he did, Gloria Swanson, the the movie actress, At one point, Joe took his wife, rose to to Europe on a ship, And on the other in the ship No morals, none of the Kennedys. And I've got many incidents So Bobby Kennedy. Okay, maybe Bobby Kennedy Let's go again and this is the kicker. Every investigation ha, I find this first I thought was an FBI document, one day before Marilyn dies. And what is it? It basically shows first about Dorothy Kilgallen, JFK and Marilyn Monroe each being obsessed with UFOs. Okay. And in the new book, I've got a picture of because she was obsessed with UFOs and wrote about it It talks about the three of them of Bobby Kennedy and Marilyn And I solidified that Edgar Hoover, again. And then this is the It talks about that And later, Bobby Kennedy had dumped her, too, And she's going to the media But the worst one or fourth one, whichever one Marilyn Monroe is going to the media that the Kennedys have told her, his intention to assassinate Fidel Castro, assassinated. She could talk about the love affairs, you know, that's almost treason See, there were going to be big shots Joe Kennedy has his trophy But now Bobby And I've proven that Bobby was there not to go to the media and all that. And I have two fresh accounts in the book how he was complicit, her death, the reporter couldn't do it. Couldn't who knew too much? Marilyn And I spell all that out in the book next, I want to humanize Marilyn Monroe in here She's dismissed as a dumb blond to begin with. She read Ulysses. I can't read Okay. She And I quote that in the book, all of her poetry, all of her writings, Oh, yes. She had her flaws as well. But this was a very smart woman treated with distinction. And if we go back just one thing, Marilyn, Joe, Bobby with Marilyn Monroe And this one, Bobby Kennedy has promised Marilyn Monroe I have a visual of her The Kennedys won't answer her phone calls her cheeks. Dorothy wrote a column about her Quest for love in her life. And the other thing was going to happen. She was going to marry Joe DiMaggio Go ahead. But this is the real this is the real Marilyn. Okay. That's what Ella Fitzgerald, Ella Fitzgerald was refused to be allowed to be entertained on Sunset Boulevard. And Marilyn found out about it and told Ella That Ella performed. And she did that. And that was the only way to perform there. This is I need. Oh, that's her with she loved children. She wanted to have children And she and Joe DiMaggio And it's John Steinbeck now. Yes. I wish I had gotten a letter like this So he had a lot of respect the real Marilyn, the watch, the misfits. Okay. That that's Marilyn. She wanted to be acknowledged Go watch that film. She was a respected actress. Okay, George, are you are you worn out? Nope, not at all. All right. That was really a very impressive blitz through your work. You know that? Well, I hope I inspire people. You know, if I can do this, anybody can. I'm telling you, just have to. You know, it is serendipitous, You know, one of the things and George and I have talked about this, And you're going to see that They they took everything for granted And they weren't they never ask questions They never asked questions about Meredith, and they never ask questions And I feel like a dumb head People need to ask questions today. You can't take what or anybody says and just take it down You have to ask questions. I hope that's the relevancy of my So I'm done again. And what happened here? Let's go the next two. Okay. All right. The first thing that came up was that I had an interest in the Warren Again, I've always I always felt like there was And so as as it would happen, and looked up some material Well, One, both between J. Edgar Hoover and LBJ. I didn't get a pair, all right. And they were on two different dates. One's 1031, 64. And one 1129, 60. Three, seven, 29, 64, three. Three, two, six. Days. That is an important date the Warren Commission was formed And if you go in there and you read, let's put it up there. Okay. All right. All right. So It's a little bit harder for me, They've decided that in their mind. Everybody wants to investigate Okay. They want to do it in Texas. That's where he was killed. They want to do it. The Senate and Congress in the end, they want to do it. Well, these two decide. No, no, no. We we can't let that happen. We need to make sure And so you see. Yes, Edgar Hoover on extension, that they are trying to put together J. Edgar Hoover's report is Two from the House, two from the Senate, the couple of outsiders. No, I've seen the report of that. I want to just get by with your filing, J. Edgar Hoover. It would be very, Well, is probably appoint a high level You put someone that is pretty good on it out of the government to tell the House So, yes, because we get a bunch of television going J. Edgar Hoover says it'd be a three ring circus. Okay. Is this the second conversation? And what they do is they go through Jacob Javits from New York. Oh, no, no. He he'll he'll probably go to the media, this particular senator or or congressman. Oh, no, no. And then they go down One of them, for God's sakes, is Allen that Jack Kennedy had fired. Okay. He's on the list. They've got this. Anyway, So there's these these these guys Okay. And one of them, the one that's going to give it authenticity is no none other than the chief justice All of these gentlemen are conservative All of them are older. They're they're old white men. And they're all the J. Edgar Hoover and LBJ believe they can They can control the investigation And one of the most interesting things phone calls is the next thing there is this this one exchange, J. Edgar Hoover. And I think, of course, They think something bad There's going to be They get upset, everything. And I think the likelihood of this rumor and will not be able to prove unless, someone one of these dirty columnists is apt to carry something in her column. Her column. Her column. Not his call. Her column. We know who that was doing. Okay. Next. All right. So J. Edgar Hoover and and Lyndon I don't need to go through them They decided Jerry Ford would work pretty He's just a you know, he's just Jerry They don't want any. But, you know, by leaving a lieutenant in the Army as a criminal defense lawyer, You don't want anybody they're either going to say guilty And everybody's Well, these guys want no leaders on here So they they frankly they have including Earl Warren, Seven wimps. Okay. So the Warren Commission here's here's Okay. After whatever this investigation was, no evidence, Oswald in the planning, No evidence Oswald was employed, no direct relationship and no evidence Nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing. Okay. And that's what we were fed. And that's what I believed. I never gave it a second thought, and this was 1964, We trusted these public servants that they were going to do their job about what happened to the president All right. And then they just took off on this And I feel badly that I never Well, somebody did somebody at the time had a real problem And again, it's Dorothy. Dorothy shouting out the Oswald theory makes no sense in 1963 And then she had this reaction to column, a fascinating document, as well as fascinating for what as well as fascinating for what it says. Why can she say that? Because she heard the Jack Ruby testimony. Because she heard his testimony She knows this is a bunch of bull. Okay, but nobody listens to her. All right. She says, What's my line quiz show? You know, participant she's she's not If they had listened to her, Okay. Next, this. Oh, yeah. Okay. Here's Dorothy again on the job. Thank you, George. All right. So in that in the Warren Commission between Jack Ruby Well, Dorothy decides And you know where she gets her? Her information from ex singers, dancers, fun people who were at the Carousel Club All right. And they all see the police there. They're all being given drinks. You're all being set up And I have another account of that All that's left out, you know, it's a good example of with many of the authors of books If you don't have Dorothy Kilgallen But what they do is they decide and so they only have evidence and they take everything else out. Okay. And that's what we've been said It's just it's just hard. The worst example is the sixth floor Oswald Alone Shrine. No books are in there. Other than Oswald alone, I'm not allowed. There exhibits are five years old and it's not too long ago who had taken her two children And then she emailed me because she read. She watched one of my presentations And she she said, I was crying I'm trying to get that damn place closed Okay. Okay. Here's the here's the kicker. I don't know how it happens, I don't know how it happens. On the left, you got Bobby, J. Edgar Hoover. Maybe three of the. I know. I don't want to say that three of the worst I'm sorry. JFK did some good things. He saved us from a nuclear disaster with. With the missile crisis. Bobby was good with with civil rights. Just despicable human beings Any of the three. And this this guy then comes along Lou, I'll tell you, my wife, because I got an email from this who in an email said to me, at the Dow at a library near Dallas And I saw that I knew her. And that was amazing because I don't know, Who knew it? Knew her. Okay. And so I start talking with Maurice. And Maurice Morris's That's right. Yeah. And I started finding out about this guy, After what he told me. But I want to preface that As distinguished Yale lawyer, Okay? He would tell. He then ends up working for Bobby Kennedy. And my ears are just overflowing. I'm writing as fast as I can, Kennedy and I work for him when he gets And I knew him and I and I was there and Mr. Shaw, I was in the White House In fact, you know, it's kind of amazing. They trusted me to deal with exchanges between these two men, the president between the White House I rode my bicycle back and forth or I rode I walked back and forth with messages Edgar Hoover He said, you know, the Together they got along real well, was getting too much exposure I love that story, but it shows All right. And then he said, I have to tell you this. Bobby Kennedy recommended me. I don't know if it's the next file or not. Bobby Kennedy recommended me to a member almost two years with that member, and I was his legislative assistant Shaw, I rode with him in his Saab. He was a tall man. He could barely squeeze in. I rode with him to the Warren But time at times I would be able to wait on him and sit in the back And what I noticed what what they were really doing weren't even there. It was the staff members Well, Because they could control control some of these individuals And he said, Shaw, I have to tell you, here's what this this particular man told me. The commission members already know to Auburn organized crime, That's probably the most important one. It's more than Oswald. But Hoover and Chief Justice Earl Warren Our new president, Lyndon Baines Johnson, now wants to cover up They want to bury the truth And here's the rationalization why they came up with this ludicrous They, the members say that is for God and country, and I don't know why Now, the person who's making It's the Warren Commission member And Morris Wolfe worked for him, And I will tell you that when I have hearsay evidence like this, to confirm it. If I'm going to approach a judge and try to get him to admit it, so I'll get ahead of myself. Well, let's just wait a minute. I'll show you how I got my confirmation. Okay? Okay. Here's here. It was amazing. He said, listen, you know, of the Warren Commission To LBJ. Okay. So I did. Well, you can look through here to go through all the names but there is a Jerry Ford back there And I think that is Lee There's Warren this is Hale Boggs, He said, Mr. Shaw, go ahead and look at everybody there standing by themselves, except one man. He's almost hiding behind Hale Boggs. And look at the look on his face, and that is Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky. That is the Warren Commission member that Morris will work for and gave me this information about. That's the one. And what he said Go ahead. Next, Warren Commission member Cooper. I found all side He and his wife Lorraine were best friends They were the first couple They invited there There's a bunch of them in the book. But this is the one that made from Jacqueline Onassis. He was a man of great character, and it was an article written He was a man of great character. She even compared him to another beloved not in his ability to connect Kentucky communities abroad. It's a question of character, really. If the man senses similar themes to you wise, profound, compassionate, intelligent, well, well, And then he was also loved. Could help be loved. You just spend 15 minutes with him He was a man of the truth. Like Dorothy So now I got my two witnesses, don't I? Dorothy Kilgallen at the Ruby trial and everybody else that thinks they know They weren't there. I wasn't there. Dorothy was there. Okay. Jackie Onassis was there at the time, There he is with his buddy, Jack Kennedy. Very, very close friend. Mutual respect. So you can imagine when JFK died, and he was well-meaning. He really was. I don't have a bit of respect for any I hope you don't. And John but I'll tell you why I didn't go. Okay. What did I do with Cooper again? You know, common sense. I want to find out more about this guy and the way you can do I'm proud of the fact my alma mater, And we did an oral history there. That's where you can out information from from their mouth. So I went to his oral histories but also at the University of Georgia. And there were the comments that are indicative of what he told And here's why. He you know, it's all about his disgust in a minute will show that Because, you know what? They purposely didn't tell him They didn't want him there. They didn't want any of those people Let the staff members do it. So what did he ask for? He and Richard Russell, a senator demanded, or minority report in the Warren Commission report to the effect they did not believe They didn't believe it was Oswald alone And LBJ and Hoover promised that. And guess what happened It wasn't in there. If that dissent would have been in that They couldn't have gone ahead Oswald alone a lie, in history, in my opinion, and others They lied to us. They condescend. And one of the reasons is because so circle back to Dorothy Kilgallen having the Warren Commission, Where the hell did she get it? I always wondered. Right. All right. Morris Wolfe, I talked to him Would have for sure, right? Listen, they were close, friend. Oh, well, just. We'll get to that, okay? So who could have given it to them? Given it to her? Well, she printed on the front page and Worse, Wolf, I'm interviewing. So I started talking to him about it. Go ahead. This is the interview that J. Edgar Hoover did with with Dorothy kill she would identify the source who had a legal right to the transcript, the person on it and that. And then she goes down here more. She refused to answer this question it was a member of the Warren Commission, did she legally receive She refused to answer and so on, so forth. And the person who gave it to her a friendly gesture. And here is the one sentence that depicts that she had, she would rather die That's what she told him. She wouldn't give up her source. All right. So we've now got then. Is this the next one? Yeah, that was the Nixon. Okay. So I want to look also before about the Warren Commission testimony I want to look with the Warren Commission. Just awful. They use the attorney, to block any investigation of the Kennedy. Joe didn't want any investigation. Why? Because he thinks the 60 election, And Bobby Kennedy Because he was complicit And if he had been prosecuted in 1962, as he should have been based here's what would have happened. He would have had to have resigned He would have he would have never. Those people, Marcello and his gang wouldn't have had to do so because Bobby And also there would have been no one. Dorothy Kilgallen would have died assassination for who to investigate, to the members saying, Edgar Hoover said after JFK died. You are only two and you should only These guys. All right, then you got LBJ and. And self-protection for LBJ. Why does he want the Because he doesn't want anybody All the things going on in Texas I found a KGB document of all things that Lyndon Johnson was responsible Well, he doesn't want anybody Hoover certainly doesn't because he's And if there's any investigation Because you have to realize, Oswald alone There's So Hoover can't be held responsible. But if they go beyond that and find I use plot because if you use the C word, it lumps everything into what It's a plot. There was a plot to kill JFK. So he doesn't want anybody look like a fool. And that's Katzenbach And he's telling them And then I did nothing but Oswald alone. Here's, here's Cooper. Something strange is happening. Warren and Katzenbach and they are apparently and others Only one who considered this to me I must insist on outside counsel. But he didn't speak up and he should have. And if you're asking why Morris Wolfe I felt like it was the time. And I said, you know, And he said, just out of loyalty. Just out of loyalty, that's no excuse. This is a letter of resignation. Again, the documents, He didn't send the letter. Okay. This is where he said He's a member of the commission Can you imagine that? They don't want to They want all the wimps in the Senate. Okay. All the way through the years, but this is all the times they could have investigated the JFK assassination. And here's what CBS did in 1967, You can go watch it on YouTube. 150, 125,000 They went all of these people and you know what they came up with? Well, they got it right. The Warren Commission, Dan Rather, all those guys consequences. The Warren Commission, the lie has been But here's here's the consequence. Marcelo never got investigated. He walked away. And there's no question The Warren Commission is not a mystery, Death is not a mystery. Marilyn Monroe's death is not a mystery. Hopefully I've cleared that up with three, True crime, murder mysteries But Marcello, Dorothy had it right. Okay. And you know what the proof is? The Dorothy had it right. They killed her. They killed her. And then the morning she died, to her townhouse All her files and everything else? None other than J. Edgar Hoover. They've never been found. But Dorothy had it right, and how she had it right was just use Six Election. Six Double Cross. Bobby Kennedy appointed Marcello orchestrates that worked for him, a guy They set it all up for And, you know, some proof right there. Guess who the first person is that visited Carlos Marcello's chief Joe Campisi just makes sense. And then one more thing. I think Melvin, though I knew about I found a witness who was with Billy when Jack Ruby at the time when Jack And the witness told me the waiter came up and said, A guy named Jack Ruby just shot Oswald. And you know what Melvin Belli said? Now I have to represent Ruby. He was on call with his mafia buddies. Dirty as can be. I'm ashamed that I even knew the guy. Sorry. I want to humanize. Why don't you. Why don't you mince words You can see I get. Well, let me just tell you one other thing Just throw that away. That's the Warren Commission report. It's worthless, absolutely worth it. Filled with corruption. But JFK should have never died. His brother and his father killed him through their actions. And if you go look at a photograph of Joe when Ted Kennedy walked into his bedroom, Joe, he looks at the front page He goes like this. He knew he knew what happened. He knew. But JFK, I mean, you can look and you can see His children, Don't think he'll be on. She never got to know her Marilyn Monroe, never got to remarry have a child or or adopt Never got to know them at all. Just tragic There's Kerry This is Lenny Bruce. This is how courageous Dorothy was. You may know who that was. The commission comedian, the dirty language and Guess who testified for him? Dorothy Kilgallen said he may be obscene, language may be awful, That's how she was courageous and saying, Two chapters on him in the book. Just one of the worst Yes. Whenever I hear one of his song, my wife knows he he was he actually was enabler into Marilyn Monroe dying into the cesspool I think as George in your description of my talk introduced to the Kennedy, and beat up reporters, I have no, no, no good feeling for Sinatra. Okay. So I went through this before I guess these people and I do believe they should But all this just, you know, the most alarming And I do believe that that that's what we've shown here And I hope it does change history. And I hope people wake We almost had a treat for you tonight. Maurice Wolff was going to try to come by live stream to talk about his health deteriorated the last couple of weeks. As I said, he had his 86 birthday yesterday, but Yeah, if he had been up for it. So that's why I've tried to honor him, Nobody Else had ever come forward And you know, I should say, too, Whatever Happened to Raoul Wallenberg? If you know who that is, They say almost 100,000 individuals during the war, during the You know, went over time and time again and tried to get him out of prison. Maurice Wolff, bless him. Or anything else we can get up here. No, that's it. And I think we got the pictures The books. Oh, Books. Yes, well, that's not important. That's kidding. Usually we ask questions. If there's anybody All right. Here's a question online. You know, you got to get to it from Greg Hannah. I watched the Misfits movie It was done well in black and white. I did read later and showing up late to the set, wondering Those are the the the main way of doing of explaining her behavior But at the same time, there was Well, she she had her issues, She had some drug issues and all of that. You know, being the most famous star in the world But with The Misfits, rumor in terms of what happened. What's important is And if you watch that is a Clark Gable. It's in that film I write with her. Yes. And you see what he said about her? And he's there again, see an eyewitness the best testimony Yeah. Yeah. Any other questions? Clark Gable died right after that film, Right. And then some people say it's Oh, my gosh. It's pretty hard. You know, it's pretty You prove that, George. About. No, no, I can't prove anything. Proof, proof. Pythagorean theorem and proof. That's the kind of proof that I like. But but you have And what I really like is the kind of common sense conclusions You know, Dorothy seem to be a good common sense Too bad and I'm sure that the disappearance of it So any other questions or. Well, you wrap this up. There's one more question over here. We'll finish with that question. Here comes the guy. How do they. Get Oswald to pull the trigger I, I was. Where are you going to be surprised at this very very little that I've investigated Oswald There's so many dead ends there and what he was and who he was are whatever. And who was he involved with? Dorothy focused on Ruby. Ruby was the key to in her mind. All of her writings are focused on Ruby. So I don't know what happened Nobody knows where there are three or four But there's no question as as the as Senator He obviously had some individuals And I think Dorothy had it right. She had decided that this one man JFK, Carlos Marcello, was able to recruit Oswald as one of those people Well, I'm sorry you did all that research, I watched Jack Ruby shoot Lee My first thought was, She see, you were right on. You know, you're smart and you haven't. Read it ever since then. No. Anyway, thank you very much for coming. And Mark, thanks for sharing that. Thank you so much. Well, just get us to enjoy the rest of my That's what my button says. And that's my fraternity brother out there Another Purdue guy. Thanks so much. Thank you, George. You're a good man. Appreciate it.