This is a theme-park style miniature boat It's the greatest thing I've ever made. from the playful charm of Jungle Cruise, I want to build one of my own. well, there isn't a river in my garden. [musical montage] It's kinda hard to follow, The ride will begin here, another stretch of jungle into a grotto, and then some final jungle There's obviously gonna be more to it, there's gonna be an actual story to the ride. and after a little help from the river was finished. the pond-liner's all in and cut to size, together using Flex Tape and I've added these sort of pool It really looks like a river So next I had to figure out how and for that, We're at Disney! specifically to examine the On It's A Small World, out water to create a current, and underwater guard rails guide sort of like those barriers they put The Storybook Land Canal Boats however are attached to an underwater with the heavy lifting appearing to although it all looks far too Finally Pirates of the but whilst I was having a very important business it broke down and they turned the lights on. again basically a giant lazy river, clearly when I rode it again the next day. I'm gonna use pond pumps to generate a current, And then I kinda got overwhelmed by the scale of It's now Autumn, but I think it's time. It's now winter, Oh also, we'd gotten a puppy, who took great joy in going ice-skating. the ice was about two inches thick, Ok, so it's summer again, So a whole year later, The first step was to test the pond pumps, and it was more complicated than I thought. Although the pond pump is pushing the object away, against the current, there we go it's travelling backwards now. sucking the water in in the first place, but either way, The solution was this monstrous contraption. place at the end of the river, the jets of water from the pumps themselves. one end of the river shoots out water, And surprisingly, albeit slowly. an 18-year-old LEGO set that It's pretty basic, on or off without any steering or speed controls. it worked flawlessly. Also I don't know why I originally had those when it makes much more sense to Anyway, with the ride itself I could turn my attention to For this first corner, I cut polystyrene sheets to length, give this rockwork-like texture. first with a crude base layer, Put them in position, I did the same for the cave and after making some stalactites and stalagmites, Everything's in place including it does admittedly look awful, process there'll be loads of plants erm, so it is just an ugly shell, but for now it's time to move on to the grotto. I will just give you a quick sneak peak so see, it looks pretty cool. Now I'm calling it a grotto but although this time with fossils, I spray-painted the whole then added crystal fairy lights, This is exactly what I did for the and whilst I don't like to repeat myself, I also want to use dry ice So I've never used dry ice before, and it said to keep it refrigerated. Now if you have used dry ice before, I went to open it today, Yeah, it turns out dry ice and I've just been storing this giant empty Feel free to laugh at me, Anyway I ordered more for next-day delivery, Here we go. [laughs] a temple, Using a wood-burner I carved a crude brick spray-painted in all the crevices, I can't really show you much more of and I can only show you small glimpses of the but there's gonna be a big pile of treasure, as well as a highly-detailed miniature campsite, If you look from just the right angle, The last thing to do was to of After building planters I basically bought out my local garden centre. but I bought well over 20. we had a jungle. it looks like an actual miniature movie set! which the camera isn't gonna see, it's an actual jungle now. how amazing is that?! in wellies just to access anything. I swear I'm gonna fall over soon. pointed the camera I was met with But enough spoilers, the ride was complete. the water had turned a murky green And whilst this really helps I bet you wouldn't want to drink this! about 700 million people worldwide so I'm fundraising for charity:water Specifically the money you donate will go towards Much of the water there is even worse than this, arsenic contamination, Imagine having no choice but to drink or worse. to provide access to clean water for one person, So here's the deal, or the equivalent $40 US dollars, The link is in the description, Anyway, Please remain seated and keep your hands, arms, [ringing in ears] Can you hear me? Does anyone copy? I'm gonna remotely activate your lifeboat's motor. There we go, I'm talking to you through I'm afraid you've been in a plane crash, south of your location, to guide you there safely. and access to your boat's onboard cameras, I'm patching the image through now. You're in the Sarmentose River Basin, jungle on the planet. I can just about spot the Sarmentose They can grow up to 3 feet long and The water here's also teeming with life, scared everything away, Now according to the map, small waterfall to your left. whooaaa, I think that one was harmless, either poisonous or full on carnivorous, Ok you're nearly at the cave, but it shouldn't be for long. so be prepared. [static] ...cave is home to a from the civilisation that and paintings of a monster Legend has it that the monster and would lure unsuspecting victims to But I wouldn't worry, and besides, all the surrounding plants will wither and die, and luscious... [static] Right, you're almost out the cave, and thankfully the jungle's This river is renowned for its mist, this is extraordinary. one theory is underwater gas deposits, you should be fine. What was that?! are you hurt?! Like I said, this jungle is largely unchartered, Hopefully this grotto should keep you safe. as well enjoy the lights. exactly what causes these crystal to glow, they even glow underwater! known for its fossils and bones, all remarkably well preserved. I'd call you incredibly lucky to experience this. it's back into open jungle, you're over half-way to the camp, Wow this mist really is something else, sorry I probably should It is getting kinda high though, Thankfully it seems to be subsiding up ahead. they're quite thick here. but it's nothing the motor can't handle. I'm sure it's nothing, slightly, err... Maybe it's the camera feed, right? and out of the reed. that's not on the map?! please try and keep out the reeds. And great, I'm gonna shut the motor off and restart it. Err, maybe there is some cause for alarm, but the sonar readings are showing something big, I don't like this one bit, hang tight. Come on, start! Get inside as quickly as you can! but it's got to be safer than out here, If we lose signal just try and find a way through, whatever you do, [ominous growl] It must have something [motor slows and dies] What on earth is... [static] [monster thrashes] just try and... [static] The temple's collapsing! [ringing in ears] Are you there? I knew you could do it! the campsite is just around the corner. should get you the rest of the way. I don't know what happened, and the sun's even come out to welcome you. I highly recommend riding the space coaster next, Here we are then, If you could disembark to and please remember to take all [bee buzzing] So there we go. new and experimental video for me, A massive thanks to everyone including Danielle, Dan, Charles, Leah and my mum, and, an enormous thank you to everyone namely, James and his cat Cosmo, Luke &amp; Paul Kaper in honour Clementine, Oliver and Elliot Simon, Zach and Toastie the guinea pig, Freja, Osvald and Jonathon Thanks a million,