&quot;Feeling Is The Secret,&quot; Read by Adam Hammond. In this volume, Neville has succeeded in describing how through our we consciously or unconsciously in harmony with our inner nature. Here, he has given us a simple formula to realize our desires. Originally published by GMJ This recording is a production Copyright 2021 Master Key Society. &quot;Of making many books, there He that would perfect himself let him betake himself to and certain work upon For to read many books upon your art produceth confusion rather Foreword. This book is concerned with the art of realizing your desire. It gives you an account in the production of the visible world. It is a small book, but not slight. There is a treasure in it, a clearly defined road to the Were it possible to carry by means of reasoned arguments this book would be many times its size. It is seldom possible, however, to do so by means of written since to the suspended judgment it always seems plausible to say that the author was dishonest or diluted, and therefore his evidence was tainted. Consequently, I have purposely omitted all and simply challenge to practice the law of consciousness as revealed in this book. Personal success will than all the books that could Neville Chapter one. Law and Its Operation. The world and all within it, is man's conditioned Consciousness is the cause as well as the substance So it is to consciousness if we would discover Knowledge of the law of consciousness and the method of operating this law will enable you to accomplish Armed with a working you can build and maintain an ideal world. Consciousness is the one and only reality, not figuratively but actually. This reality may for the sake of clarity, be likened unto a stream, which the conscious and the subconscious. In order to intelligently it is necessary to between the conscious The conscious is personal and selective, the subconscious is The conscious is the realm of effect, the subconscious is the realm of cause. These two aspects are the male and female The conscious is male, the The conscious generates ideas and impresses these ideas The subconscious receives ideas and gives form and expression to them. By this law, first conceiving an idea and then impressing the idea all things evolve out of consciousness. And without this sequence that is made. The conscious impresses the subconscious while the subconscious expresses all that is impressed upon it. The subconscious does not originate ideas, but accepts as true those feels to be true and in a objectifies the accepted ideas. Therefore, through his and his freedom to choose man has control over creation. Control of the subconscious through control of your The mechanism of creation of the subconscious, the female The subconscious transcends reason and is independent of induction. It contemplates a feeling as and on this assumption proceeds The creative process begins with an idea and its cycle runs its course as a feeling and ends in a volition to act. Ideas are impressed on the subconscious through the medium of feeling. No idea can be impressed until it is felt, but once felt, be it good, bad or indifferent, Feeling is the one and only medium through which ideas are Therefore, the man who does may easily impress the subconscious By control of feeling is not meant restraint or but rather the disciplining of only such feeling as Control of your feeling is all important to a full and happy life. Never entertain an undesirable feeling nor think sympathetically about Do not dwell on the imperfection To do so is to impress the subconscious with these limitations. What you do not want done unto you do not feel that it is This is the whole law of Everything else is commentary. Every feeling makes a and unless it is counteracted by a more powerful feeling must be expressed. The dominant of two feelings I am healthy is a stronger To feel I will be is to confess I am not. I am is stronger than I am not. What you feel you are always dominates what you feel you would like to be, therefore to be realized the that is rather than a state that is not. Sensation proceeds manifestation and is the foundation upon Be careful of your moods and feelings, for there is an unbroken connection between your feelings Your body is an emotional filter and bears the unmistakable marks Emotional disturbances, are the causes of all disease. To feel intensely about a wrong without voicing or expressing that feeling is the beginning of disease, dis-ease in both body and environment. Do not entertain the for frustration or detachment in disease. Think feelingly only of the Feeling the reality of the state sought and living and acting on that conviction is the way of all seeming miracles. All changes of expression through a change of feeling. A change of feeling is All creation occurs in the What you must acquire then of the operation of the subconscious, that is control of your Chance or accident is not responsible for the things that happen to the author of your fortune or misfortune. Your subconscious impressions determine the conditions of your world. The subconscious is not selective, it is impersonal and no The subconscious is not concerned with the truth or falsity of your feeling. It always accepts as true Feeling is the ascent of the subconscious to the truth of that which Because of this quality there was nothing impossible to man. Whatever the mind of man can the subconscious can and must objectify. Your feelings create the pattern from which your world is fashioned and a change of feeling The subconscious never fails to express that which has been impressed upon it. The moment it receives an impression, it begins to work out the It accepts the feeling as a fact, existing within to produce in the outer or objective world the exact likeness of that feeling. The subconscious never alters it out-pictures them to the last detail whether or not they are beneficial. To impress the subconscious you must assume the had you already realized your wish. In defining your objective, you must be concerned only The manner of expression or are not to be considered by you. To think feelingly on any state impresses it on the subconscious. Therefore, if you dwell on the subconscious by its accepts the feeling of as your request and in your outer world. The subconscious is the womb of creation. It receives the idea unto itself through the feelings of man. It never changes the idea received, but always gives it form. Hence the subconscious and the image and likeness To feel a state as hopeless or impossible is to impress the subconscious Although the subconscious it must not be inferred that the relation is that of a servant to a master The ancient prophets called it St. Paul personified &quot;The woman should be subject The subconscious does serve man and faithfully gives form to his feelings. However, the subconscious for compulsion and responds to persuasion rather than to command. Consequently, it more than the servant. The husband is head of may not be true of man and woman in their earthly relationship, but it is true of the or the male and female The mystery to which Paul &quot;This is a great mystery. &quot;He that loveth his wife loveth himself &quot;and they two shall be one flesh,&quot; is simply the mystery of consciousness. Consciousness is really one and undivided but for creation's sake, it The conscious, objective or and dominates the subconscious, However, this leadership but of the lover. So by assuming the feeling were you already in the subconscious is moved to build the exact likeness of your assumption. Your desires are not until you assume the for only through feeling is an and only through this is it ever expressed. It is easier to ascribe your than to admit that the reflect your feeling. However, it is eternally true that the outside mirrors the inside, &quot;As within so without.&quot; A man can receive nothing, unless it is given him from heaven. And the kingdom of heaven is within you. Nothing comes from without, from the subconscious. It is impossible for you to see other than the contents Your world in its every detail is your consciousness objectified. Objective states bear witness A change of impression results The subconscious accepts as true that which you feel as true and because creation is the result of subconscious impressions, you by your feeling determine creation. You are already that which you want to be and your refusal to believe this is the only reason you do not see it. To seek on the outside for that which you do not feel you for we never find that which we want, we find only that which we are. In short, you express and have only that which you are conscious &quot;To him that hath it is given.&quot; Denying the evidence of the senses and appropriating the is the way to the Mastery of self control of is your highest achievement. However, until perfect so that in spite of appearances, you feel all that you want to aid you in realizing These are the two gateways Chapter two. Sleep. Sleep, the life that occupies is the natural door into the subconscious. So it is with sleep that The conscious two-thirds is measured by the degree Our understanding of and delight will cause us night after as though we were keeping &quot;In a dream, in a vision of the night, &quot;when deep sleep falleth upon men &quot;in slumbering upon the bed, &quot;then he openeth the ears of men &quot;and sealeth their instruction,&quot; Job 33. It is in sleep and in that man enters the subconscious and receive his instructions. In these states, the are creatively joined, the male Sleep is the time when turns from the world of or subconscious self. The subconscious, unlike who marries her husband to change him has no desire to change but loves it as it is and in the outer world of form. The conditions and events of your life are your children formed from the molds of your subconscious impressions in sleep. They are made in the image and likeness of your innermost feeling to yourself. As in heaven so on earth. As in the subconscious so on earth. Whatever you have in is the measure of your expression in the waking two thirds Nothing stops you from save your failure to feel which you wish to be or that you are already in Your subconscious gives only when you feel your wish fulfilled. The unconsciousness of sleep is the normal state of the subconscious because all things come and your conception of yourself You should always feel the wish fulfilled before you drop off to sleep. You never draw out of the deep of yourself that what you want, you and you are that which as well as that which you To be realized then, the into the feeling of being the state sought. This is accomplished by assuming the feeling of the wish fulfilled. The feeling which comes in &quot;How would I feel were my wish realized,&quot; is the feeling which should monopolize and immobilize your attention You must be in the that which you want to be or to have before you drop off to sleep. Once asleep, man has no freedom of choice. His entire slumber is dominated by his last waking concept of self. It follows therefore that the feeling of accomplishment before he retires in sleep. Come before me with Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. Your mood prior to sleep defines your state of consciousness as you enter into the presence the subconscious. She sees you exactly as If as you prepare for sleep, you assume and maintain the by feeling I am successful, Lie flat on your back with your head on a level with your body, feel as you would were you and quietly relax into unconsciousness. He that keepeth Israel shall Nevertheless, he giveth his beloved sleep. The subconscious never sleeps. Sleep is the door through passes to be creatively Sleep conceals the creative act while the objective world reveals it. In sleep, man impresses the subconscious with his conception of himself. What more beautiful description of this romance of the conscious than that told in the song of Solomon. &quot;By night on my bed, I sought &quot;I found him whom my soul loveth. &quot;I held him and I would not let him go &quot;until I had brought him &quot;and into the chamber of Preparing to sleep you feel yourself into the state of the answered wish and then relax into unconsciousness. Your realized wish is he whom you seek. By night on your bed you seek the feeling of the wish fulfilled that you may take it of her that conceived you, which gave you form that this wish also may be given expression. This is the way to discover into the subconscious. Feel yourself in the and quietly drop off to sleep. Night after night, you should having, and witnessing that and see manifested. Never go to sleep feeling Never sleep in the Your subconscious whose sees you as you believe yourself to be, and whether it be good, the subconscious will As you feel, so do you impress her. And she the perfect lover and out-pictures them as Thou art all fair, my love, there is no spot in thee. Is the attitude of mind to adopt before dropping off to sleep. Disregard appearances as you wish them to be that are not seen as though they were and the unseen becomes seen. To assume the feeling of satisfaction is to call conditions into being which will mirror satisfaction. Signs follow, they do not precede. Proof that you are will that you are, it will not precede it. You are an eternal dreamer Your dreams take form as you assume the Do not limit yourself to the past. Knowing that nothing is begin to imagine states beyond Whatever the mind of man can All objective visible invisible states, and you called them into visible by assuming the feeling of their reality. The creative process is first imagining and then believing the state imagined. Always imagine and expect the best. The world cannot change until you change your conception of it. As within so without. Nations as well as people are only what you believe them to be. No matter what the problem no matter whom it concerns you have no one to change but yourself and you have neither opponent nor helper in bringing about the You have nothing to do but of that which you desire As soon as you succeed of the reality of the state sought, results follow to confirm You never suggest to another to see him express. Instead, you convince that which you desire him to be. Realization of your wish is accomplished by assuming the feeling You cannot fail unless you of the reality of your wish. A change of belief is confirmed Every night as you drop off to sleep, feel satisfied and spotless for your subjective lover and the image and likeness the conception defined by your feeling. The waking two-thirds ever corroborates or bears witness to your subconscious impressions. The actions and events they are not causes. Free will is only freedom of choice. Choose ye this day whom ye shall serve is your freedom to choose but the expression of the mood is the secret of the subconscious. The subconscious receives impressions only through the feelings of man and in a way known only to itself gives these impressions The actions of man are determined by his subconscious impressions. His illusion of free will, his is but ignorance of the He thinks himself free because between himself and the event. Man awake is under compulsion to express his subconscious impressions. If in the past he unwisely then let him begin to change for only as he does so Do not waste one moment in regret for to think feelingly of is to reinfect yourself. Let the dead bury the dead. Turn from appearances and assume the feeling that would be yours were you already the one you wish to be. Feeling a state produces that state. The party you play on the world stage is determined by your By feeling your wish fulfilled and quietly relaxing into sleep, you cast yourself in a star role to be played on earth tomorrow. And while asleep, you are rehearsed and The acceptance of the end automatically wills the Make no mistake about this. If, as you prepare for sleep, you do not consciously feel yourself into the state of the answered wish, then you will take with of her who conceived you, the sum total of the of the waking day, and while asleep you will in which they will be expressed tomorrow. You will rise believing not realizing that every is predetermined by your concept Your only freedom then is You are free to choose how you feel and react to the day's drama, but the drama, the actions, events, and circumstances of the day Unless you consciously the attitude of mind with you unconsciously go to sleep of mind made up of all feelings Every reaction makes a and unless counteracted by an opposite and more dominant feeling is Ideas enveloped and feeling Use your divine right wisely. Through your ability to think and feel you have dominion over all creation. While you are awake, you are a gardener selecting but except a corn of wheat it abideth alone. But if it die it bringeth Your conception of is the seed you drop into the Dropping off to sleep compels conditions and events which confirm these attitudes of mind. Sleep is the door into heaven. What you take in as a feeling action, or object in space. So sleep in the feeling As in consciousness so on earth. Chapter three. Prayer. Prayer like sleep is also an When you pray, enter into your closet, and when you have shut your which is in secret and your shall reward you openly. Prayer is an illusion of sleep, which diminishes the and renders the mind more receptive to suggestion from within. The mind in prayer is and receptivity akin just before dropping off to sleep. Prayer is not so much what you ask for, as how you prepare for its reception. Whatsoever things ye desire when ye pray believe that you have received The only condition required is that you believe that your Your prayer must be answered if you assume the feeling were you already in The moment you accept the the subconscious finds To pray successfully then, you must yield to the wish that The perfectly disciplined man is always in tune with the He knows that consciousness that ideas and feelings and are as real as objects in space. Therefore he never entertains a feeling which does not contribute to his happiness for feelings are the causes of the actions and On the other hand, the undisciplined man finds it difficult to believe that which is denied by the senses and usually accepts or rejects solely on appearances of the senses. Because of this tendency to rely on the evidence of the senses, it is necessary to shut them before attempting to feel Whenever you are in this state of mind, &quot;I should like to, but I cannot,&quot; the harder you try the less you are able to yield to the wish. You never attract that which you want but always attract that which Prayer is the art of and having that which you want. When the senses confirm all conscious effort to counteract and tends to intensify the suggestion. Prayer is the art of yielding to the wish and not the forcing of the wish. Whenever your feeling is feeling will be the victor. The dominant feeling Prayer must be without effort. In attempting to fix an attitude of mind which is denied by the To yield successfully to the you must create a passive state, a kind of reverie or meditative reflection similar to the feeling In such a relaxed state, the mind is turned from and easily senses the reality It is a state in which you are conscious and quite able to move or open your eyes but have no desire to do so. An easy way to create this passive state is to relax in a comfortable If on a bed, lie flat on your back with your head on a level with your body, close the eyes and imagine Feel I am sleepy, so sleepy, so very sleepy. In a little while, a far away feeling accompanied by a general to move envelops you. You feel a pleasant comfortable rest and not inclined to alter your position, although under other circumstances you would not be at all comfortable. When this passive state is reached, imagine that you have realized your wish, not how it was realized, but Imagine in picture form what then feel yourself as Thoughts produce tiny which may be heard in the as pronouncements from without. However, this degree of passivity is not essential to the All that is necessary is and feel the wish fulfilled. All you can possibly need You need no helper to give it to you, it is yours now. Call your desires into being by imagining and feeling As the end is accepted, you become totally indifferent for acceptance of the end When you emerge from the moment of prayer, it is as though you were shown the happy and successful end of a play, although you were not shown However, having witnessed the end, regardless of any anticlimactic sequence you remain calm and secure in the knowledge that the end Chapter four. Spirit feeling. Not by might nor by saith the Lord of hosts. Get into the spirit of the state desired by assuming the feeling were you already the one you want to be. As you capture the feeling you are relieved of all for it is already so. There was a definite feeling associated with every idea in the mind of man. Capture the feeling associated by assuming the feeling were you already in possession and your wish will objectify itself. Faith is feeling. According to your faith, You never attract that which you want, but always that which you are. As a man is, so does he see. To him that hath it shall be given and to him that hath not That which you feel yourself to be you are and you are given that which you are. So assume the feeling that would be yours were you already in and your wish must be realized. So God created man in his own image in the image of God created he him. Let this mind be in you which who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery You are that which you Instead of believing in God or in Jesus, believe you are God or you are Jesus. He that believeth on me the should be, he that believes as shall he do also. Jesus found it not strange because he believed himself to be God. I and my Father are one. It is natural to do the works of the one you believe yourself to be. So live in the feeling of and that you shall be. When a man believes in the and applies it, he establishes within himself