(Still hunting for newbies like an old pro) (Tzuyang / Ultimate veteran of mukbang competitions) (Self-proclaimed pig / Mukbang competition newbie) My nickname is Pig I'm the one who ate 2.4 kg of pork I've eaten 3 kg of pork! We should have a competition (The ruthless veteran's battleground) (Ah... Manners...) (The result of the all-night battle: veteran vs. newbie?) (This place starts the day busy from 6 AM, before the sun rises) Hello everyone (Namdaemun Market, Jung-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea) It's a bit dark right now It's 6 in the morning (Ate, slept, and came to eat again...) (Across from Exit 5 of Hoehyeon Station) There are a lot of people here at lunch There's a line and it's crowded (Filming at 6 AM, when it's less crowded...!) They say it's incredibly good value for money Let's head inside (The time for dreaming) (Through the secret door lies) (a kalguksu alley filled with delicious aromas...!) (Today, we're heading to the cozy and welcoming &quot;Namhae Sikdang&quot;) (A great restaurant with lots of foreign customers too) - Oh hello! (Appetizing side dishes and bibimbap ingredients!) It's really cheap here (Best value for money) (Best value for money) (4 dishes with side dishes is also 9,000 won?) is also 9,000 won They did say it's small portions but does that even make sense? (Fresh kalguksu noodles made right before you...!) They make the noodles themselves - Then... Then, (Starting off with the special set!) - Yes It's 9,000 won... Barley rice + kalguksu + naengmyeon - Barley rice + kalguksu... Oh... Thank you...! (This is real fast food(?)) - This is the doenjangguk (This is half of the 9,000 won set...?) (Full of morning customers) so I'll eat quickly and leave before then Doenjangguk, it's radish greens doenjangguk! (Touched, shook) It's delicious! Wow, this is great Wow, this is so good It's good, huh? Haha - It's made with anchovy broth! Is it better when you come early? - What...? (Heard wrong...) (Alcohol?) and come eat this in the morning, it'll be a great hangover cure The soup is a work of art Wow, thank you! (Kalguksu is here) (Even the kid is amazed) Since it's 9,000 won, I thought it'd be served in small bowls but that's quite a lot (The brow of truth) Stir it - Stir the seasoning for the right flavor (Stir the minced seasoning into the clear broth...) (Stir the minced seasoning into the clear broth...) She said it's better this way Stirred or not, each has its own appeal but stirring it gives it a nice kick The noodles are the real deal (Rustic, handmade taste) The noodles are really chewy (The naengmyeon is here) (Naengmyeon is here) - Ask for more if it's not enough No, it's too cheap... (I can't stand bland food...) Amazing! Why are the noodles so chewy? - Wow, but Naengmyeon is good? I took out the cucumbers since you don't eat that Thank you! She took the cucumbers out since I don't like it It just looks delicious I actually prefer naengmyeon with broth (Can change to this one) Ah, this is the real deal! Oh, delicious Barley rice can't be bad (Barley bibimbap with a rich, sesame oil flavor...!) I love it when the sesame oil soaks in just a bit I can give you more if you want - No, I'll just order more! It's over If I have a bite of this and then have the kalguksu broth... Since it's 6 AM, I didn't really have an appetite (Appetite comeback) It's not even 7 AM, why are there so many people? Honestly, I thought it would be more nostalgic but it's just delicious (It's not an exceptional taste,) (but a comforting, warm flavor...) Of course, those who are very sensitive about hygiene might find it a bit difficult, but honestly, that's just how markets are (Unique) Oh nice Ma'am! - Can I get set 4 please? (Full of homemade touch) (Full of homemade touch) (The dough shows years of expertise...!) (Opened in 1989) (35 years of history...!) - Oh, ma'am? - I'll try it without the seasoning this time (Eat up) - Enjoy It's so nice The broth... The anchovy flavor is strong It just soothes you (Soft) How can she make sujebi like this? Sujebi usually has that floury, slightly torn texture Very thick, with a slightly undercooked center I like that also but this is different This is really chewy Thank you How many languages does the owner speak? (Heard English and Japanese) It's so delicious (Set naengmyeon) This naengmyeon is amazing You have to try this That savoriness... Oh, it's so good (Handmade vibe) (Just arrived at work) It's so delicious, ma'am hehe - Thank you, enjoy (Doenjangguk special set) Can I get barley rice and doenjangguk? - Barley rice and doenjangguk? You don't gain weight with these foods - It's so delicious It's diet food? You come here to diet(?) (The next diet dish is coming...) Gasp! This is the real deal - The producer should eat too (Seasoning base) (The barley rice's umami is from the rustic soybean paste!) - Oh, it has rich soybean paste! That's why it's so good Oh, so delicious (Similar to rich doenjang) (Immediate action) It's so good like this (The remaining set) (If you're that curious, give it a try!) - Eat the rice with seaweed Thank you, sir Goodbye, take care (Taste review on your behalf) My sister(?) (The kalguksu tradition passed down by the sisters...!) (The kalguksu tradition passed down by the sisters...!) (Forced family business) It's so delicious Ma'am! Can I get naengmyeon and doenjangguk - instead of naengmyeon and kalguksu? - There's a line for lunch, right? (During the busy lunch hour, it's said you can't eat without waiting...!) It's so busy from 11 AM to 3 PM A lot of Japanese people come in the morning How many languages can you speak? (Four languages with basic conversation skills!) Things like, &quot;Welcome&quot;, &quot;Hello&quot; (Most important) - I just need to do that much (The special doenjangguk set with stacked plates...) (Stacking them up) Wow, the sun is up now (Ended up greeting morning while eating...) (However, it's not over) (Younger sister showing off her Japanese skills...) The doenjangguk is so good (Again...?) (Hi) Where are you going, ma'am? (The boss heading to the hospital for a check-up) (Always stay healthy, thank you ma'am!) - Come back to eat Can I get the barley rice (Gonna run out of doenjangguk) Eat a lot before you go... I like people who eat a lot haha - Please give me a lot of red pepper paste Thank you - Thank you - A lot of doenjang (Full of umami flavors) Kalguksu comes out if you order rice Then, I'll eat rice, is there sujebi? I'll mix the sujebi and kalguksu Kaljebi with barley rice (Whatever I want) - The owner ran away(?) - Then, you should go get her (This is global market communication...!) (Spreading the word that I ate that much!) (Gasp) Since I eat well, my nickname is Pig but I don't even come close... (Should I return the nickname Pig?) (Instant ego scratch...) (Not even close) 3... (Returning the nickname) (Know when to join in and when to hold back) - Just don't say anything (So funny) (Quickly finishing up before it hits 9!) (Kalguksu alley CLEAR) Since it's the morning, (Huh?) Everything here was so delicious (It was such a warm and pleasant day) - You should eat more haha I ate a simple meal since it's the morning - (Digestion...?) (Are you a robot?) Next time... (Just you wait...!) I don't think you can win Ah... Ah... I don't know Once again, I enjoyed today's meal! (Couldn't resist, came back for the giant mandu) (At Namdaemun Market, you can't miss the freshly made giant mandu!) - You want 2, 5, 10? Thank you (Had a hearty breakfast, now off to lunch...) It's so delicious