Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Now, one of my favorite Gabriel's cake. It's a super solid make right at home, as long as your home first thing you want to do is bake a real beautiful cake. It's a little large, thing in a day if I tried. Am I right? half. Notice that while I cut this cake in half you don't add or create any new cake but increased. It used to be completely the inside that aren't covered. The next in half. Here we go. Again, the volume of cake on beginning but the surface area is going step is going to be to cut one of these It's getting pretty thin, but all you have to and half and half and half forever and there. When you finish cutting, stack the like this, to create a beautiful tiered number of thinner and thinner slices vertical height will be endless. mathematical property. Its volume, the different than the amount you started a cake you can eat but not frost. to cover the whole thing with a uniform infinite surface area doesn't need to bounded super solids, like this cube, smaller circular holes. comes with some obvious difficulties. required to complete the construction of is literally infinitely many. you eventually get to. another piece to slice in half again. has no last task. So you could never Or could you? Enter the Supertask. What if instead of taking the same accelerated as we worked and did each example, let's say you wanna make That's easy. First, cut the original before making the second cut. Wait half a minute before making the third, a quarter of a minute before the 4th and so on. before cutting again. Since you can keep always be another step. Infinite actions supertask. The strange thing, of course, how many steps you've already completed of steps ahead. But yet, when time's up, we've just described is similar to Zeno's the Greek hero Achilles runs a short race I mean, people finish races all the time, is a mystery. Because first Achilles must then half of what's left and half again always be another half way point to infinite, there is no final destination, finish line. But yet Achilles obviously can finish. fact that during his journey he always reach. Think about it this way. Achilles is required to hold up a flag. steps a red flag. Blue, red, blue, red, and faster. But when Achilles finishes up? To be holding up either flag would not only exists, but is either even or that the real problem here is that Achilles many things. A true supertask requires doing enough. But even if Achilles ran the half way point for half as long as he waited be sensical and logical and would has even been shown how a staccato velocities and accelerations. infinite distinct actions are at least amount of time, but only logically. Supertasks are obviously just products of our there must be some smallest amount of meaningfully divided in half again. the finish line, the only possible next position you can have is the finish line. That certainly seems fair. there is a smallest meaningful distance - the Planck length. Any interactions between or observations of particles sense within physics as we understand it travel a Planck length at the fastest Planck time. So these seem to be the known force in the universe could act force from Achilles' leg muscles. just a way of avoiding the problem because it won't be on the test?&quot; me unattractive to make the truth of contingencies of space-time structure. about motion and time and space and truth abilities to confuse ourselves. They're a contact point in uneasy in and the brains inside us. same. Some converge, like Zeno's dichotomy, expect and still others refuse to A great example of a supertask whose famous supertask devised by James F. Thomson. Imagine a lamp that can be turned on and happen if you turned such a lamp on and timer and turn the lamp on. Then wait minute turn it back on and then off again after an eighth of a minute and so on. Waiting half as long to flip the switch number of switching grows without bound, two minutes. The lamp will be turned on just two minutes. Well, by the definition of infinity, switching not followed by another. turned on, it is immediately turned off because whenever it's turned off it's answer? It's easy to say something about converge, but when they just oscillate back Zeno objects do this. Imagine building a meter construct at an accelerated pace. then a quarter metre tall slab that's then an orange 16th meter slab and so on, of alternating color. Now, when you look at the cube from above, what color will you see? Orange, green? Well, it can't be orange a green one. And it can't be green an orange one above it. What if we had a in order at a supertask pace? After its screen? Well, that's impossible, right? But how could it be anything else? A supertask allows us to exhaust an infinite sequence. Paul Benacerraf delivered what is often considered the Thomson's lamp on or off? Is the cube orange or green? The answer are incomplete. Thomson's lamp could be appear orange or green or something else. us figure out which. I may as well ask is on or off. It's definitely one or the other, to do anything but guess. Supertasks like tasks and then ask us about the end. although there may be an end to their no final member of their actions. assumptions in order to be solved. used on Thomson's lamp can only be all determine where it is after the supertask. bouncing ball that completes the circuit on a metal plate, an outcome can be and the ball bounces half as high and the previous balance, its sequence of off an infinite number of times in a bouncing ball has no penultimate state, ultimate state, a final one, resting on the plate. The circuit will be also describe a switch on Thomson's lamp that leaves it off. Sometimes, the next state after infinitely many isn't information, but because of a surprising, occurs there. The Ross-Littlewood paradox a giant urn that can hold an unlimited have an unlimited supply of balls, each it. All natural numbers, in fact, since have. Now, working at an accelerated Zenoian pace you move the balls to the urn 10 at a time, but in a weird way. At step one, you place remove number 1. At step two, a minute urn and remove ball number 2. At step three, and remove ball 3, and so on. Upon the completion of the supertask first the answer seems obvious. At each subtracting 1, so a net of nine balls 9 + 9 + 9 + 9 forever, the series grows without end. Infinite nine's means infinite balls at step, the ball with that step's number removed at step one, ball 2 was removed step twelve-googol. Since there are an number, there is a step number at which population grows without bound during number drops to 0. It gets weirder. Here's a second, seemingly identical 1 to 10 and then removing 1, begin with zero after the &quot;1&quot; on ball 1. For step two, add balls 11 to 19 and draw a zero on ball 2, making it say 20. For every finite step, both methods after infinitely many steps, the first leaves us with infinitely many balls numbers, each followed by an infinite at infinity, but dang, in very different ways. what? Who cares?&quot; You will never have an never have a large enough to urn to lamp that can turn on and off arbitrarily fast. We cannot investigate except when pretending, so what are supertasks, but recreational fictions, entertaining riddles? We can ask more Well, here's what. Neanderthals. Neanderthals and humans, us, for at least five thousand years. may have even intentionally buried their years, Neanderthals barely went anywhere. They pretty much just explored some other obstacle and then stopped. that. They did things that make no sense knowing what lay ahead. Svante Paabo has Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology technology alone didn't allow humans to go to built boats too. Instead, he says, there's must have sailed out and vanished on the mean, it's ridiculous. And why do you do For curiosity? And now we go to Mars. We But it was the Neanderthals who went fool who will perilously journey out to only a fool who will ask about supertasks, solve problems, you don't just solve the make more and go after the impossible problems is how you solve problems. Antoine de Saint-Exupery wasn't a fits nicely here. If you want to build a wood and don't assign them tasks and work, endless immensity of the sea. And as always, thanks for watching. Supertasks are cool, but super gifts are announce this year's Vsauce holiday exclusive Vsauce stuff and science gear, Alzheimer's research. I'm really proud of geekfuel.com/Vsauce, There's a limited amount available, so And as always, thanks for watching.