The universe is pretty big and very strange. Hundreds of billions of galaxies with sextillions it all there is earth, with you and us. But as enormous as the universe seems looking looking down. You are towering over worlds within worlds, yet hidden from your experience. Let's go on a journey - we'll start for a 15 minute walk. Every time we click this magic button, we'll Please slip into this magic science suit, Ready? Let's go. click The Miniature Realm You are the size of a grain of sand just 2 seems as tall as an eight storey building A square meter of lawn is now a dense metropolitan worth of grass towers. From your new tiny perspective, the park that now the size of France. Crossing it would take at least a week. Human sized humans loom over you, 4 times steps falling from horizon to horizon. A bee the size of a helicopter lands near carapace vibrates with each wingbeat. You try to escape but are barely able to move Before you clicked the button air resistance now a thousand times smaller, it is as if It feels like you are moving through honey. Flying insects like bees use this to their Their wings are not made for gliding but like Scaled up to human size, the bee would outrun take off because it would be too heavy for click The Microscopic Realm You've entered the microscopic realm and the size of an e coli bacteria. From your new tiny perspective, the park you to you - if you walked non stop it would It is hard to grasp just how huge the microscopic The giant bee that was close a moment ago, Everest, towering high into the sky - but The air here feels almost solid to you, on lava, extremely hard to push through. The blade of grass now expands so far you as Paris would to a regular sized human. You see valleys that look like dried up riverbeds, left behind by voracious aphids. But if you look closely, this is not terrain. These are rows of individual cells, each the shells. Every few cells, there are huge openings called out oxygen. Suddenly the gigantic bee begins to move - a against each other, like a suit of armor. It takes off to escape a drop of water the blade of grass and is now rushing at you at You brace for impact but instead of feeling You try to swim but the water feels thick glue. Air molecules are free spirits while water group together whenever possible. They pull on each other and create a relatively You can't help it but you are still moving, along by an invisible current. Floating in this miniature lake are tens of They take on many forms - viruses the size others like the Euglena oxyuris cells which But most look like oily jellyfish the size like super charged propellers. Despite the water holding onto them like glue, equivalent to a person shovelling through However bacteria weigh so little and water inertia - there is no gliding on this scale. The result is a weird jerky motion that's Maybe we can learn more about this strange click Molecule Realm You've become the size of a molecule, just At your new tiny scale, the droplet now seems The blade of grass it rests on could reach and the park is now almost the size of the space, it is filled with stuff. Everywhere you look, there are innumerable The rigid walls of the grass cells beneath of energy. The water droplet contains nearly a sextillion Water is actually a storm of H2O molecules of times a second. Each of them is moving at speeds of around sending small objects hurtling in all directions. This is the source of the invisible current times larger. Scaling this speed up to the human scale is be 2000 times faster than the speed of light. All this furious motion comes from heat. Heat is a bit abstract at our human scale, sense of whether it is hot or cold. But down here, you really feel what 'heat' and colliding as if they're inside a furious When these molecules lose heat, they move When they gain heat, they speed up and smash Temperature is basically the measure of the all day. Suddenly a molecule hits you especially hard into the air again. And here you see something unexpected: The Between the molecules that make up the air On average a molecule in the air travels for of a hockey rink if it were the size of a If we were to compress all the molecules and this in, they would only fill about 0.1% of 99.9% of the space around you is a vacuum, Which also means that every time you take a few atoms. Click Subatomic Realm At your size of under 2 picometers, scale A human would be nearly 2 billion kilometers stretch their arms from the Sun to Saturn. An atomic nucleus would be the size of a grain finger. That grain holds 99.97% of the atom's mass. The rest, a sphere of influence about as large is filled with an electron cloud. That's basically all the places where electrons Electrons are shapeshifters that morph around mess of different shapes with every new moment. Unlike the graceful motion of planets, the They bulge, roll, quiver and breathe. They hold back the same energy that powers still.. They twist and vibrate sextillions of times It is time to end our journey and return to... click What are you doing? click Stop it! click, click, click, click, click, click, The Smallest Place (?) We have reached the bottom, the border between The scale here is the Planck length, which Time. Planck time is the time it takes light to Ah ok. None of our models of the universe make sense is it. Sad click :( We think that down here, particles bubble creating a quantum foam of unimaginable energy. Can we go even smaller? We don't know. It is time to return. If you look up, the universe is large and So incredibly large and strange. But if you look down, into the tiny and extremely even stranger. In the end, the perfect place might be where small.