This is a truly tantalising image. Why is it tantalising? This is Proxima Centauri. Since its discovery over 100 years ago, it It lies so despairingly close, yet would take It is not visible to the naked eye, yet it It was at one point the lowest-luminosity one. As if the paradoxes of this star weren't alluring a seemingly Earth-like exoplanet in its orbit, that include Mark Zuckerberg, Elon Musk, and It's almost like it is knowingly toying with what lies beyond. If you're anything like me, you also can't about this enigmatic star. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. Join me today and let's indulge in a whistle-stop the binary stars Alpha Centauri AB, to diving Centauri, its recently-discovered planets, kind of flyby missions the future might hold. Leaving Earth, it would take just over 4 light our solar system. I say stars, because they are technically Collectively known as Alpha Centauri, they as Alpha Centauri A), Toliman (also known Together, Rigil Kentaurus and Toliman make They sit 4.37 light years away from Earth, centre every 79.76 years. If you're south of the 40th parallel, you'd naked eye, they'd just look like a single only Sirius and Canopus. The binary Alpha Centauri system was discovered for the third star to reveal itself. Luck came in 1915 to a Scottish astronomer At the time, Innes was the director of the While comparing photographic plates with the a faint star had moved in the five years between This movement was about the same as that of He wondered if the new star could be part After further investigation, he concluded siblings - a finding which was quickly confirmed Paradoxically, it became both the closest- The surprises didn't end there. In 1951, American astronomer Harlow Shapley star. Not only that, but that it was the most active Over the last 70 years, Proxima Centauri has And with the recent discoveries of an Earth-like will only intensify. But I'm getting ahead of myself. Let's get to know this star a little better it. At 4.24 light years away, Proxima Centauri AB. It is a main-sequence red dwarf star, with 15% that of our sun. Despite its smaller size, Proxima Centauri Due to its low mass, the interior of the star This creates a magnetic field around the star, magnetic energy in the form of flares. As a result, Proxima Centauri randomly experiences On May 6, 2019, a flare event on Proxima Centauri one ever recorded. These flares release radiation across the To give you an idea of Proxima Centauri's is roughly equivalent to that of our sun - a This level can increase by up to two orders Not only does Proxima Centauri have more intense higher frequency of it. It is estimated that 88% of the star's surface This is way higher than our sun, even at the Before you start thinking of Proxima Centauri comparing apples and oranges here. Our sun is not a red dwarf. In fact, compared to other red dwarfs, Proxima level. Unlike the sun which scientists estimate will before burning out, Proxima Centauri is predicted the main sequence in about four trillion years. And by then, Earth, our sun, and our whole Alpha Centauri AB is 0.13 light years, or You might be wondering - &quot;if Proxima Centauri is it considered part of the same stellar Well, we have data that shows it is gravitationally making it part of the stellar system with How it ended up in this orbital situation But the two main scenarios seem to be either: One: Proxima Centauri was bound to the Alpha the stars likely share the same elemental Or Two: Proxima Centauri was captured by the leading to a highly eccentric orbit that was further stellar encounters. Regardless of how Proxima Centauri got into 3.5 billion years it will get out. As Alpha Centauri AB continues to evolve and will unbind from the system. The binary star system itself is also predicted years, into two white dwarfs which will forge Being our closest neighbours, we know quite But we'll go into more detail about this binary For now, it's all eyes on Proxima Centauri. The search for exoplanets around Proxima Centauri much luck. But researchers weren't willing to give we had, it was also a red dwarf - 20-40% of zone. The patience paid off. Observations at the European Southern Observatory which couldn't be explained by flares or other The data seemed to indicate there may be a In January 2016, the Pale Red Dot campaign scientists and ground-based telescopes around planet could be identified. In August of the same year, the discovery It is at least 1.07 times larger than Earth, than we do to our sun. This exoplanet orbits its star in just 11.2 Even though Proxima B is within Proxima Centauri's sustain life. There's lots of other factors that determine For one, the intense solar activity would of UV and X-ray radiation we get here on Earth journey worth it. Another factor to consider is whether an atmosphere As far as we know, atmospheres are vital for pressure, protection from dangerous space The radiation Proxima B is exposed to might of an atmosphere over time. Frustratingly, we don't know much about Proxima orbital period. It is unlikely to have any moons, due to the but it is thought the planet itself is tidally As discussed in a recent video, this doesn't It also likely developed under extremely different Assuming it formed at the current distance a much faster evolution, with stronger impacts However, there is some debate about its formation. Some scientists think the amount of material for it to form at its current distance from It's more likely, they say, that the planet drifted into its current orbit around Proxima What the surface of the planet might look Theories range from a planet covered in ice, unlikely if the planet is indeed tidally locked or a subsurface ocean like Europa. In short - no idea. We haven't directly imaged the planet yet, to get a better idea - which some moguls are If it happens, I have a feeling it will be in the 70s and 80s - but more on that later. 6 years after the discovery of Proxima B, The first signs of the planet emerged in 2020, the radial velocity data during a study on Following further data collection and analysis, D in February 2022. So far, we know it is a sub-Earth planet, the star every 5.1 days. Sitting at a distance of 4.3 million kilometres, temperature, which would be driven up to 87 It's also probably tidally locked, and would of finding life there are very slim. But, this planet holds promise in another It is the lightest planet to ever be detected Since the planet is too far to be seen with &quot;wobble&quot; anomaly in the movement of a star planet. The more massive the planet, the more obvious In the case of Proxima D, the wobble was practically To me, the fact we caught the wobble and were that it is caused by a planet is a technological If only the world of astronomy were so cut Where there is breakthrough and celebration the other. That's exactly where you'll find the controversial Initially detected in 2019 using the same D, the existence of Proxima C was then confirmed However, in 2022, another team challenged to the alleged discovery. They claimed the anomalies could have instead errors in the data extraction method the researchers Basically, a miscalibration. The trouble arises from the fact that unlike its star, the data for alleged exoplanet Proxima an estimated 1,928 day orbit. "There is no similar example of a wobble at such a long period. That doesn't necessarily mean it's wrong, from additional observations," says Paul Irvine. If Proxima C does exist, it will take a bit If it does not exist, it remains unclear why and confirm a planetary signature. I guess we'll just have to wait and see what With the recent discovery of Proxima B and us, it is a perfect candidate for a future However, reaching our neighbouring star system propulsion technologies. Newer techniques like solar sails or nuclear within a human lifetime. Such ideas spearheaded the development of set up by investor and physicist Yuri Milner, - which aims to reach the Alpha Centauri system The idea is to conduct a flyby mission by at 15-20% the speed of light, and they think With this timeline, the probes would reach would receive the first data 4 years later. After the initial flyby, the probes would data on their atmospheric compositions, much solar system decades ago. The team is pinning their hopes on the yet-to-be-developed carrying cameras, photon thrusters, power - essentially constituting a fully functional Based on Moore's law, which states that the to double every two years. Bold and ambitious, the plan is not without The team proposes to power these microprobes That's the equivalent of the output of 100 probes just centimetres wide. Plus, all components of these tiny probes cold, vacuum, and collisions with space dust. With this in mind, perhaps the project would But if the history of space exploration has with cruel hardship and slim odds can emerge Proxima Centauri might just be the next one Let's just hope we're around to see it. Have you ever wondered why only some materials Magnetism works on the scale of atoms and own magnetic field when they move. If these don't point the same way, the fields This is a principle that Novium, the sponsor Using award-winning creative design, they've in the air using the delicate balance of magnetic Novium pens are comfortable, high-end, and With the Premium edition, there's an option a meteor 20 million years older than the Earth gift, or a great gift in general. If you want a pen that inspires your own creativity, below to get 10% off all Hoverpens, as well Check it out - after all, who doesn't Thanks for watching! And thanks to our crew of Astrumnauts over freely available to everyone. Chasing the algorithm can be hit and miss making the content we love. And if you haven't already but want to join to get in on the party. Just sign up with the link in the description. When you join you'll be able to watch the credits and submit questions to our team. Once again a huge thank you from myself and Meanwhile, click the link to this playlist I'll see you next time.