(upbeat country music) - This might be my new favorite illusion. When I grab this thing these spiraly things in the into the top of the assembly. At the same time, new bits of the spiral seem to be generated from the base. Up and down it goes, Here's another one, and look there's an infinite amount of spiral. I can just keep going, and more into that black hole at the top, and there's a never-ending I don't think this It's related to the barber pole illusion, but it's different in an important way, which I'll get to in a minute. So, I think it deserves a name of its own. I've been calling it the portal illusion. In fact, you know what? Let's put some LEDs in there. By using orange and blue LEDs, I can evoke your memory So now it seems as though this spiral that disappears into the top is the spiral that By the way, this was I'll leave a link to their This design is perhaps the if you haven't worked it out already. If I pull it apart, here's the spiral. And look, if I turn you get the same effect. The illusion doesn't and that's interesting in itself. When the spiral is back in the assembly and the turning of the spiral is done, not by spinning with your fingers, but by moving this piece up and down. Well, the motion of this piece matches the illusionary So the motion of this part Also, the fact that you can't see the top and the bottom of the spiral, into the darkness of those cavities there. That's got to play a part Basically, if you look at a segment of the spiral in isolation, rotary motion is indistinguishable and that's like the of a spiral, right? Or perhaps more correctly a helix. A rotation of the spiral is equivalent to some vertical So, your brain has to and obviously it uses external clues to figure out which one it is, or at least to make an educated guess. A few related illusions that Your brain tells you that I'm pulling these two spirals apart and yet they never separate. In fact, the overlap seems to stay the same. And then there's this As I move the ring around my finger, it appears to either grow or shrink depending on which direction I turn it. I also found this design, now that I finally have my own 3D printer. When this one spins, it are rolling around on top of each other, and then your brain has to of how are these things balancing so well? Again, your brain would than rotating motion. Actually, this particular because there was a kid's TV I'm pretty sure it was puppets, but it wasn't &quot;Thunderbirds,&quot; and the batty in it had a But I, just for the life of me, can't figure out which TV show it was. If you have any ideas, let So what's going on in your brain when you make an incorrect deduction about the way the spiral is moving? Well, there's a lot of about the barber pole illusion, so let's have a look at that. It's a really similar idea. A spiral rotates, but it You don't even need a Look, here I've got some stripes. You could say these diagonal Or you could say they're or you could say that they're In fact, all of those and there would be no way to But I can actually nudge your brain into choosing one of those possibilities. By laying this rectangular aperture over the top of the moving into thinking that the Or look, if I rotate the aperture so it's lying horizontally, now I've biased your brain into thinking the stripes Why is that? Well, your brain is looking for clues, and look at this point here where the stripe meets That point appears to This point here appears to be moving down. But look, there are six and two points moving down. There's a lot more evidence that the stripes are moving to the right than there is evidence that And the opposite happens when you switch the aperture to vertical. Well, if the aperture interestingly, in this that the stripes are moving at the slowest possible speed. That is to say they are to the direction of the stripes, this way. An actual barber pole is different to these stripes, in as much as the underlying With stripes, there's no way are moving down, or to the Whereas with the barber pole, you're choosing between which is rotational motion I believe that these things improve upon the barber pole illusion by giving these spirals Like, with a really simple spiral, like the one in a barber pole, it's really obviously a spiral. Whereas I would say, with a more complex profile like this one, it's not immediately obvious is equivalent to translational motion. Because I'm new to 3D printing this long part was wobbling and you can see that in which, if you look carefully, You can see that the bumps instead or vertically. That's why I'm filming Long exposure causes motion blur and the motion blur helps to This one was printed with support so it's a lot smoother at the top. This one also has an which is that the three to the same extent. This spiral goes through two whereas this goes through This spiral twists in to the other two. That means that rotating is not equivalent to some So, your brain is even more likely to rule out that possibility. That's my hypothesis anyway. In fact, sliding this causes the three spirals of each other at different rates. It's a really clever design. What about these spirals that Well, it's the same thing. It looks as though I'm pulling with my fingers, but actually I'm allowing the spiral to slip through my fingers It's just really hard for to the point where your the wire is getting longer. What about this ring? Well, this is the opposite, really. The up-and-down motion of in your brain as rotation of the spirals. When the spirals appear it makes it seem as if When the spirals appear it's as if the ring is getting narrower. I'm not exactly sure what's Like, surely your brain should over the rolling option. Maybe it's just because quite often in our like it shouldn't exist because the center of mass is outside of the apparent pivot point. All these illusions share a theme, your brain has to choose and lateral motion. But this one's still my favorite. I used to get a lot of these where the company knows my and I don't get them anymore. And the way you get from one to the other is long and arduous because there are all called data brokers that to these marketing agencies. And when those marketing and they say your name, you think, &quot;Oh, this must be a company I've got a prior relationship You can make it stop by to delete your data, but there are literally hundreds of them, and they all want to be You know, this one wants you This one wants an email. And I just know personally that is not a task I will ever do and it would take months anyway. The way I managed to stop was to get somebody else to do it for me. I'm talking, of course, about the sponsor of this video, Incogni. Incogni has done all the legwork, figuring out who all these companies are, how they want to be contacted. They handle that part. They handle the bit that comes after when there's a rejection of your request and you have to appeal. And I really appreciate a &quot;Is a thing that you want but don't wanna do yourself? We'll do it for you. This is how much it costs. You decide.&quot; This is the dashboard that shows me these are all the companies to no longer have my data. It's not just phone paper mail, email, fax. I dunno,, I've don't got fax, I dunno. And you know, if one of has a data breach, that data But you know, it's a and now it's done and that feels good. The deal on this one's really good. The first 100 people to and use the promo code SCIENCE The link is also in the description. So check out Incogni today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit Subscribe and the algorithm thinks (upbeat funky music)