Back in the day, one square mile would have as many as four different farm you have to go four When the farmer leaves the community within that community, he not only goes himself, and the potential future - C'mon, babies. He lives in Eliot, Iowa, and raises pigs from farrow to finish, For generations, this is what hog farming But in the last 40 years, That's 40,000 farms that used to look the number of hogs that have been raised, and the profits made in the hog industry has increased by 300%. You don't see that growth so where did that money go? Used to be you would drive rural Iowa Now you don't see them, but you smell them. Hog farms today look a lot more like this. These large metal sheds called concentrated animal feeding operations and all the profit that sustained farmers' that now dominate every aspect of the pork Smithfield, JBS and Tyson. We're going to talk about Tyson, set the standard not only in hog country They control 20% of all the pork, beef that you buy at the grocery store including a lot of brands Tyson uses that monopoly power to charge farmers less. It's pitted neighbor against neighbor. And Tyson has destroyed not just the They're chasing the almighty dollar. But the people who have to live next to their CAFOs on a daily basis. Ron's style of and four previous generations of farmers We live around here with the idea On Ron's farm, sows will gestate for about four months. And that is three months, Then piglets are born Piglets are weaned from their mothers, before they're transferred And they will be there until they're about 180 days of age. And at that time they will weigh about When CAFOs started arriving and his father made the decision First off, but we also felt that the consequences or too confining, financial commitment but also the overall But he watched neighboring farms Meanwhile, the kind of operations that replaced farms Kept waiting for these facilities to fail, our way of life failed. There's not a whole lot of us Nick's a farmer, too, but his operation has gotten smaller His bank tells him he's Now his neighbors are all industrial farms. Each CAFO houses between 2,500 to 25,000 95% of hogs in America but this method of farming is pretty new. It came to Iowa in the 1990s This method of meat production and there's a reason. in the thousands of chicken houses Don Tyson grew up working with his father, chicken business that trucked livestock When Don got older, Don Tyson is a remarkable person. Tyson Foods was but Don turned it literally into a global The Tyson model was to own They ran feed mills, hatcheries, And when that wasn't enough, The only thing they didn't own and fattened. That they left to the farmer. and equipment and then sign a contract The farmer is the one who buys and builds the barns, during their short life. This is actually the part of the process Animals packed so tightly corrode, extreme With so many variables, it's the farmer For nearly a century, this vertically integrated system But in the 1990s, hogs were chickenized. You know, the key to chicken production is concentrating And hogs And so Tyson had to build these hog barns and figure out how to pack these and raise them in the same way And one thing I really need to emphasize, they did this because there was Before, hogs were known as mortgage-lifters. Farmers but hogs were always a moneymaker because In 1992, 97% of farmers were independent. Now, 70% of all hogs are sold By that time, Don Tyson was a billionaire most of his time deep sea fishing The core DNA of Tyson's business model industrial scale customers: Wal-Mart, and it can promise them The Colonel's rotisserie gold. But to do that, Tyson needs to control every element Farmers invest a lot in these buildings. hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt for land and infrastructures And if they don't comply, With all that debt it makes it difficult for them or to convert It really was a true corporate takeover. Tyson created a closed contract and it destroyed the Ron is with a specialty market called that he sells hogs to at a premium as much as 44% above Any hog that Ron doesn't sell to Niman, The auction used to be a bustling hub Now, less than 2% of hogs are sold There isn't another thing like this Even within the last 15, 20 years, in every county to few and far between to just take them to a weekly sale barn. You know, because it's The big boys like your confinement, they're all more direct. There's just a lot less competition than As more farmers But even as farmers lost income, stayed about the same. That's because, as the industry to charge customers more and pay farmers And the consequences aren't only economic. Every year, as the summer heats in Iowa The reason kids can't swim and people can't boat anymore in When Americans think of agriculture, What we've seen as this industrial model Austin Frerick about consolidation in America's These facilities, generate massive amounts of manure. Okay, so this map shows Every red dot here is a building Here it is in 1990, in 2002, in 2011 and in 2019, So Iowa alone, there's 25 million hogs. Keep in mind, a hog defecates So you're talking about the manure That's the same as the population of All that hog waste On a farm like Ron's, It's used to fertilize the crops The same thing is done But the problem is there's just too much The smell today produced by these these factory farms when they empty out the lagoon pits by my house, my dog does not even want to go outside. Now more than half of Iowa's lakes, with cancer-causing phosphorus Algae blooms are creating the toxins and killing the fish. The drinking water is polluted, too. The city of Des Moines spent $18 million over the last 20 years treating water So you essentially have the waterways in A lot of Iowans know this I believe we have a right It should not be diminished hopping in his vehicle and driving away But just last year, Governor that monitors nitrates in Iowa's And it's not just in Iowa. Tyson has been polluting and using their monopoly power Okay, it might seem like we're covering a lot, Iowa's lakes and the farmers have left Corporate consolidation and power above the air and water of Iowa, Above the lives of farmers For every farmer we keep on the land, we have another reason We have another reason for a local church We have another reason for a local school And as agriculture has gotten bigger and as agriculture has gotten more I would say we've seen the demise we've seen the of these smaller communities Thanks for watching the Class Room This is part of a two part series on how Also, if you didn't get enough of Ron's