- [Derek] Do people really of the universe? - Damn, really? That's... okay. - This task is going to Rank these things from smallest at the top to biggest on the bottom. But sometimes you have to ask the question no one would bother to what people are actually thinking. - This is really gonna to the test, so. - Yeah, I'd say moon is probably the smallest. - But the sun is a star. - So this is like a science quiz. - I'll say planets are the smallest. I'd say planet might - Is the sun bigger than the moon? - It depends on the planet, right? - It does, but as a general category. - Stars, then moons. - Yeah? - The sun is a star, right? I think. - You think this one's next? I trust you. - Dude, we're talking about a galaxy, bro. We're talking everything. - You're looking at the galaxy too? (group laughs) - I think it's this one and then this one. - You're right. - You can do it. - Unless you believe in the - I think you're taking this, like, four-dimensional chess level. - I think the moon would be bigger, no? - I mean, you'd think right? Because like it looks bigger. - Yeah. - Is this supposed to be like - Like there is, there's - Okay. - We are not astrology majors. (Derek laughs) - So what is a moon? Like, how's a moon - It's collection of dust, maybe? - The way that they and like the, I don't - Planets is like human life. Already exists or potentially can exist. - And a planet has its - Atmosphere. - Yes! or something. - And then the atmosphere are completely different. - Whether or not it - I get why some people would think this, because the Earth has an atmosphere, while our moon has but Titan, Saturn's largest moon, actually has a thick atmosphere, while mercury has no So if having an atmosphere then what is it? - We don't know if the moon - You think the moon - There could be moon - I'm thinking like orbits or something. Something around there. - I think natural So, like, you'll always have You can't see a planet around a moon. - How many planets do we know of? - Uh... Mm. Mm. - I don't know. Well- - Let's see. - Seven or nine? - Do we have 11 in our solar system? - I think a planet has to be certain size to be considered a planet, they say it's not a planet - Pluto doesn't count as a planet anymore. - Pluto's technically not a planet. That's a dwarf planet? the poor story of Pluto, I think. - Because everybody loves Pluto. (bright music) - When Pluto was discovered in 1930, it was hailed the ninth planet, but it quickly became clear The real nail in the coffin came (thunder cracks) when astronomers discovered Eris, (gentle music) that's around 30% more massive than Pluto. Similar large objects had and more were likely to follow. So scientists faced a choice: either add a whole bunch In 2006, the decision was made, and a new definition for - They should just, like, get over it. - A planet anymore from the beginning. - Stay in your lane? (audience applauds) - Our moon- - Has five times the mass of Pluto. - What? - Is our moon a planet? - [Derek] To be a planet, an object now had to First, it must orbit the sun. Second, it must have enough self-gravity so that it's round or almost round. And third, it must be and cleared out its neighborhood. Pluto satisfies the first two So now we're back to the set - Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune. Oh, it's eight. (participant laughs) Bonus points. How many planets outside the solar system? - Oh. - Maybe around a couple - [Participant] Probably - Probably more than that. - I mean, in terms of is about 5,000 right now. - That have been identified, but like, you're right, there's many more, but we just haven't seen So the moons are the smallest. They go around the planets. What makes a star a star? - Kind of like a dead planet, right? Like it's just emitting heat. - Like little gas things. And they explode all the time. And we don't even see them. But I don't know where they come from. Can you tell me? - If you have a bunch of like hydrogen, helium, and that it forms a star. - And then like you say, there's explosions in the middle that and stuff like that. You just taught me something new. I didn't even know that. - Doesn't it take eight - A million Earths. I got it wrong. Okay, I'm stupid. - (laughs) No, no, but Here's one way to put this in perspective. In our solar system, hundreds of moons, millions But in terms of mass, 0.14% of the mass of our solar system. The other 99.86% of the mass is the sun. That is just how much bigger - Moon's smallest, then planets and stars. (students chattering faintly) (tone beeps) - Well, what is a galaxy? - Uh... - A group of planets in, I'd say, a certain amount of proximity. - Like the solar system. So like just how we have our solar system is what makes the galaxy. - A ton of stars, moons, makes the galaxy? - Maybe just a collection - So how many is a How big is a galaxy? How many stars? (gentle music) Help. (group laughs) I don't know. - 60,000. - Millions, I'd say, millions. - Tens of millions of stars, perhaps? - How many stars in a galaxy? Roughly. Ballpark. - Probably hundreds of millions. - Million? Billion? - 100 billion. - That was crazy. (laughs) - That was crazy. (laughs) - 100 billion stars. - Damn, really? That's... okay. - Number of stars in the galaxy, that can vary depending but like 100 billion, 200 like that's like kind from the galaxy. But the average is 100 billion? - Yeah. - That's crazy, - Yeah. (laughs) There's a funny question. Are there more trees on - (raspberries) Oh, actually, Mm. I'm now thinking about like a math problem where it's basically, you the whole entire surface - The answer is, I'll there are more trees on Earth than there are stars in the - You know it figures, you know? (laughs) - So a galaxy is a huge dust, dark matter, and other objects, all bound together by gravity. And then what is around - More galaxies. but they're kind of far away. So what's between us and - The... - Uh... - Like all types of vastness, you know? Super novas. - Stars? (laughs) - You know, this is the and one of the things I but like the Milky Way is like one galaxy, but it's huge. - It's like 100,000 light-years across. That's pretty big. - You know what I mean? But then around us, there's nothing. - Hmm. - Basically nothing. It's kind of like the continents, right? That you have a continent, like there's all this ocean, and then there's like more galaxies, and then there's nothing, nothing more galaxies, nothing. But this animation is not to scale. Really, it should look more like this. The distances between typically millions of light-years. If you zoom out further, are grouped together in clusters, and those clusters make up all separated by enormous voids. And you know how many galaxies - I'll take a guess and - How many galaxies in the universe? - (beep) If I know. (laughs) - 12? I don't know. Is it? Is that like close? - It's more, much more. Oh, much more. - I'm gonna say 100. - Thousands? - (laughs) Oh my gosh. (participants laughs) - 10,000. - That's small. - I mean 10,000 galaxies, but each galaxy's got 100 billion stars. - 16,482. - Hundreds of thousands? Millions? Billions? - 1 billion? - 1 billion? - 1 billion galaxies, each - I'll say 10 billion that we know of. - What are you gonna say? - The answer is... - How many galaxies in the universe? About? Oh jeez. (laughs) 100 billion. - What, really? - About 100 billion galaxies. - Yeah. About 100 billion. - Dang, weird. (participants laugh) 100 billion are observable. - And these are just galaxies? Each galaxy then has - Okay. That's mind blowing a little bit. - Right? - This is what I'm saying. I feel like most people don't know the scale of the universe, and that's what I'm - Mm-hmm. like, it's so much bigger - Right. - In fact, there could be even more, because 100 billion galaxies Some believe there are in the observable universe. So it's huge, and between nothing. - What a wacky universe, right? - [Participant] Yeah. there might be, on - Wow. about 100 billion times 100 and that's conservative. - Kind of like number of - Mm-hmm. - Yes. That sounds... That is actually, wow. - I feel like it makes me less stressed, because it's just a Nothing's ever that deep. - Whoa. (laughs) is insanely huge. I got you. - How does that make you feel? - Very small. - To think about the size of it. - Very small. It doesn't make you feel that small. - Nope? - You still feel pretty big? (participant laughs) but you know, I still feel like this Earth in particular of significant whatever, - This is a special place, for sure. - Yeah. On the 14th of February, 1990, the Voyager 1 spacecraft was from the sun when it took this picture. All you see are a few rays Carl Sagan described this picture best. (gentle music) That's here, that's home, that's us. On it, everyone you Everyone you ever heard of, every human being who ever every hero and coward, every creator and every young couple in love, every mother and father, every superstar, every supreme leader, every saint and sinner in the history of our species lived there, on a mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam.&quot; The earth is a very small To me, it underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another, and to preserve and the only home we've ever known. - I'm glad you taught me something today. I appreciate it. I like learning. - That's awesome. Well, thank you for 'cause that's so important. - The thing that people are worried about is making mistakes, but you can't learn without making mistakes a lot of times. (bright music) - So many people don't know the basics about the universe we live to understand the world we live in, and this has a lot to do which often prioritizes and sensationalism over facts, the problem that's so big I made a whole video about it. But Ground News, the changes the game by giving you the tools to consume news in a more It was founded by a former NASA engineer, and it gathers articles from So Ground News shows how different outlets cover the same story and gives you context about the source of the information. Take a look at this study on I can see that more than 10 and if I scroll down, I can Next to each headline, who owns the outlet, how and if they have a political bias. What's interesting is that some headlines just mention a decline in trust, some link it to COVID, and being worse in minorities. Ground News also gives a showing me that this by center-leaning sources with little coverage from the so for readers living in a this would be a blind spot. Ground News actually into a separate feed so both sides of the political and make sure you are Go to ground.news/veritasium or click the link in the description. And if you sign up using our link, you'll get 30% off their A subscription helps support Ground News to make the media So I would like to thank Ground News for sponsoring this video, and I'd like to thank you for watching.