My name's Jeff Turner, I've printed over a million and this is how crime works. I've been called &quot;the From my perspective, it if that makes sense. It just took a lot of The bills just progressively until eventually got caught. And the Secret Service were the best they've seen in 25 years. I started counterfeiting in a desperate financial situation. I wrecked a work truck, so I lost my job, and I had a newborn baby at home, the lease was up in our house, so I was just kind of in a desperate spot. I was just trying to think of some way to get my family back And counterfeiting just ended up being the safest, easiest way. The majority of the money I printed was the '96-series $100 bill. I also counterfeited some of but really that was just kind of a challenge. The longest process to was making the digital files. I would say I spent two months of just editing these images. Really, Wikipedia has pretty high-resolution and I broke the image So I would have one image of I'd jumble up the serial numbers. I knew I needed to find a real thin paper that was opaque enough the strip and watermark I went through rice paper, vellum paper, tracing paper, toilet paper, I ended up finding that Bible paper glows a dull I would acquire the Bible and just kind of taking Inevitably, I ran out of I would coat the bills with which basically enabled the to mark yellow. I would also use a invisible-ink UV pen to draw an invisible line over the strip. I also found a certain type that I would basically in the bottom corner to kind of replicate the color-shifting ink. One cashier would run her fingernail along Benjamin Franklin's shirt to kind of feel the rigid texture. I ended up going to, like, a Hobby Lobby, and I found a fine-tip glue pen. It would dry and give a The 3D security ribbon was hard to crack. The Bureau of Engraving and Printing kind of outsources a and some of the security features, and I was able to find the patent rights, so it was like, it basically The trial and error was When I first started counterfeiting, I would just experiment, and I'd mess up five for Towards the end I could make a perfect counterfeit $100 bill in probably five or 10 minutes. I've had a few printers Sometimes the paper would It's not so much noisy, because but the matte lacquer spray smells really bad. So a lot of times maids at hotels would come into my room thinking we're, like, I'd have to say, &quot;Oh, my or, you know, just make But eventually, I rented a that would suck the matte so I could kind of spray the bills in front of this exhaust fan that, it kind of sucked it out the window. There weren't really big I would try to essentially So I'd print maybe $2,000, $5,000 in the morning and early afternoon, and then I'd try to break all those bills before the end of the night. There was probably 10 or retail, grocery stores, And those were the best I also sold bills to people. 25 cents on the dollar was If I was breaking a bill in a store, I would try to go to female cashiers, and if I sent women in with the bills, I would tell them to go to male cashiers. When I would break a bill, I'd to kind of distract them a little bit. The majority of your get kind of called out at the register, and they'll get a license-plate And I would always park my car far away, so they could never get my license plate. I steered away from self-checkout machines because they were just too hard to beat. And some of them even where it just analyzes the micro-printing and all that stuff. In the beginning, I was definitely nervous because I spent so much that I would notice any little error or anything like that. I think I've got an attention to detail that most people probably don't have. And the knowledge I have I study extensively. There was a few times that I would go to the same grocery store and it turns out that the they found out about them. But really, most of the even if the cashier they usually give it back to you. Over the two years that I probably only had maybe three or four cashiers turn me down, and I was spending thousands Luckily for me, they only had, I think, like, 12 So I was pretty good about There was a be-on-the-lookout breaking a bill at a specific store. They didn't know my name, The Secret Service has the capability of kind of building cases on people, but as far as local police, I mean, they can't really do Knoxville has a lot of Basically, drugs are more than they are in Detroit or so a lot of people kind of to sell their drugs you can get a brick in and then cut it and go sell it for $100,000 in Knoxville. I was addicted to drugs at the time, so a lot of it was buying A few dealers I was honest &quot;This is what I do.&quot; And I ended up selling some bills to a drug dealer from Cleveland, but there was a couple from these people with And the guy that actually I probably got him for close to $10,000 over about a month's period. And he said that it was raining one day and one of my bills got wet and the color-shifting makeup smeared off. So he found out that they were fake. He was just kind of impressed and wanted to start buying them from me. These people would drive to buy a brick of heroin, and they would mix in $5,000 when they went to their city to re-up. All different stores have of detecting counterfeit bills, and a lot of the big retailers just use the counterfeit pens. So they typically just mark the bill, and then if it marks If someone's buying a real that's probably more reason Like, looking for the holding the bill up to the light helps. Really, the best way to is putting it in a bill validator. This is the more modern If you hold the bill at a the ink turns from a It's used with magnetic ink, so if you fold the bill in you can actually lift it There's enough magnetism to actually lift the bill up off the table. So, some cashiers will scratch the shirt to feel a kind of rigid The bills are printed on an intaglio press that kind of raises the which gives it a certain type of texture. Bills are really hard. There's kind of a real Well, yeah, there is a smell to money, and my bills, I've had a couple people, if I sprayed the matte lacquer too soon to spending it, a couple people would complain of a smell. I mean, they always accepted the bills because really, every security feature that a cashier would So even if they were kind of suspicious or even brought up they still accepted it because to believe it was counterfeit. It was 2019. The dealer from Cleveland, He either got caught with my and it didn't take him And then from there, the Secret Service raided my hotel room. I was in the process of printing when they kicked the door in, so they found computers and printers, and I think I had, like, that I tried to flush down the toilet. They pretty much caught me I was basically looking but the Secret Service came to me and basically said that if I pleaded guilty and showed them how I did everything, then they wouldn't charge and they would give me cooperation credit and they'd keep my restitution So, with the cooperation, that got reduced to 10 to 16 months. The maximum sentence is 20 years. I think white-collar criminals I mean, I deserved to go to prison. I was lucky with the amount It got me sober. Really, it was for the There are organizations in other countries that have taken a liking It's obviously extremely profitable, and I've heard that a lot of counterfeits come out of Lima and Medellin. I've seen some bills South America, but the I didn't think. It's criminal organizations And just from my experience, people who are in the drug trade, obviously, they're opportunists. If there's a way to make from my experience, they'll do it. There's a &quot;supernote,&quot; they say, most likely coming out of North Korea produced by the North Korean government, that is indistinguishable It supposedly has not only but all of them done pretty flawlessly. I started counterfeiting I read &quot;The Art of Making Money,&quot; a book about Art Williams, who was a counterfeiter up in Chicago. And that kind of gave but everything else was The bills weren't super sophisticated, but they were good enough to sell. A friend of mine's dad was kind of a connected guy in Tampa, but then my friend overdosed and died. I basically just stopped doing it. You know, at that point I And of course, when I it's all because of just a that kind of, you know, for any ways to make quick money. I don't think there will ever be a way to prevent counterfeiting. Even if it goes digital, there's still ways of like, a person I know was The million or so dollars that I had made over my career hasn't impacted the But maybe on the local level, it might make people lose trust in cash. In fact, a lot of stores in Knoxville don't accept $100 bills anymore. They've got little signs and certain stores that I frequented. Obviously, this whole situation kind of flipped my life upside down. I'm sure it wasn't easy on my kids. I had to go to prison. My wife and I are now separated. So, I mean, it's been rough on all of us. Now I am the production manager at a printing and graphics So, yeah, still printing, just not, nothing illegal.