I used to absolutely despise waking up early I used to find it pointless because for the first few hours of the morning I'd feel exhausted and unproductive and just generally unmotivated I remember I had to wake up at 7:00 a.m. from Monday to Friday for school and it was just torture but then I made a few changes a few changes to my nighttime routine and morning routine so that when I started studying at University I used to wake up at 4:45 a.m. every single morning even on weekends completely by choice and it was honestly one of the best things I've ever done because up until that point I always thought I was a night owl I thought that just naturally I was more productive in the evening and night time but honestly it couldn't have been further from the truth as it turns out I'm exponentially more productive in the morning than in the evening and if I didn't Implement these kind of strategies which I'm going to talk about in this video into my life then I would never have known and so this is how I did it so first just real quick I'm going to get this out of the way because it's a really easy actionable step that anyone can do you can put your alarm clock either in another room or the other side of the room so when it goes off you have to physically get out of bed to turn it off because the hardest part of getting up early is just ignoring the alarm clock and hitting the snooze button right so this way you're forced to get out of bed to cancel the alarm clock secondly in my opinion it's okay to lie in bed for 15 or 20 minutes while you catch up on emails or social media or whatever I never get out of bed as soon as my alarm clock goes off because it takes me a good 15 minutes or so to actually wake up so if I am struggling to wake up I actually set two alarm clocks so let's say if I want to wake up at 4:45 a.m. for example I'd set the first alarm for 4:45 and I'd have that alarm next to my bed usually my phone alarm then I'd set an alarm on my laptop in my office which is in the Next Room to my bedroom and I'd set that alarm at 500 a.m. so the first alarm is at 4:45 a.m. to actually wake up and then I'd have another alarm at 500 a.m. to get out of bed so for me learning how to wake up early was one of the best things I could have done it really did change my mindset in terms of my kind of energy levels in terms of My overall happiness in terms of my productivity and achievements I went from being really quite lazy honestly to being kind of super motivated and that's why I created the transform your grades course about a year ago which by the way we're currently running the biggest discount we've ever had I think it's on sale from 64% off right now so I managed to transform my grades from getting on average a 1.3 GPA throughout my entire education and I turned that around and graduated University with a 4.0 GPA and in the top 5% of my University now that whole process of learning how to do that took me 3 years and I've been coaching and teaching literally millions of students on this channel for 5 years now but I basically consolidate all of that knowledge into one package and teach you exactly how I did it in just 30 days so hundreds of students have already enrolled and graduated from the course and they've left some awesome testimonials and the course has been so effective for them partly because how many times have you watched a YouTube video teaching you how to improve on something but then you go away and never make any changes right so I've designed this 30-day challenge to bridge the gap between acquiring knowledge and implementation it heavily focuses on taking concrete actionable steps to significantly improve your exam grades there's a link in the description below like I said we're running the biggest sale we've ever run and it will be ending in the next few days so I've realized that at least for me if you need to start waking up early at like 4:00 a.m. or 500 a.m. whatever it is if you can keep it up for 3 weeks then your body starts to get used to it so it no longer takes this kind of massive effort to wake up early so if you can get through that first 3 weeks which honestly it will take a fairly big dose of self-discipline then after that it should become a whole lot easier another really important strategy that I implemented and that I still use to this day is that I set an alarm on my phone in the evening at the time that I need to be winding down and start getting ready to go to bed I think most people go about it backwards they want to wake up at 4:00 a.m. or 5:00 a.m. or whatever time it is so then they set their alarm clock at that time but then when their alarm clock goes off in the morning they're still feeling really tired so they hit the snooze button or just cancel the alarm and continue sleeping so instead of doing it that way I reversed it and I set my alarm clock at the time I wanted to go to bed I would wake up at 4:45 a.m. so I'd want to be in bed by 900 p.m. the night before so I'd be asleep by just before 10: p.m. so that's a good 7 hours of sleep and doing it that way way when my lamb went off at 4:45 because I just had 7 hours of sleep it was actually really easy to wake up in fact often I'd wake up naturally 15 or 20 minutes before my alarm clock actually went off because my body had rested enough and it knew it was time to wake up and another point if you're struggling with your sleeping pattern and let's say you usually wake up most mornings at 11:00 a.m. or 1200 or even early afternoon and you want to start waking up early it's best to do it gradually over a period of a week or so so one morning wake up at 11:00 a.m. then the next day wake up at 10:00 a.m. then the next day wake up an hour earlier and if you try to fix your sleeping pattern in one night and say you normally wake up at 11:00 a.m. but then the next morning you try to wake up at 5:00 a.m. it's going to be extremely difficult and it's why a lot of people fail when they're trying to do this and I should point out that for pretty much every single day while studying for my bachelor's degree so for 3 years I woke up at 4:45 a.m. however these days I wake up at 6:00 a.m. every morning not 4:45 I wish that I could wake up earlier because the very early mornings are by far the most productive time of the day for me however I'm living in Vietnam right now and I have business cards quite often with people based in the US and Europe so work kind of just gets in the way I guess it makes it not practical to start going to sleep at 9: or 10: p.m. so literally when preparing for this video I have a call in Brazil at 9:00 p.m. my time which I think is 10: in the morning their time so yeah unfortunately waking up super early these days would kind of interrupt my work schedule if I need to dramatically change my sleeping pattern I will spread it out over a couple of weeks and this is often the case when I travel and I'm in a completely different time zone so for example if I want to start waking up at 5:00 a.m. I would start waking up at 8:00 a.m. for a few nights then as my body starts getting used to waking up at 8:00 a.m. i' then start waking up at 7:00 a.m. for a few nights and I slowly work myself down to 5:00 a.m. over a period of a couple of weeks you see it's really easy to wake up extremely early even 3:00 a.m. or 4:00 a.m. if you wanted to providing that two things happen first firstly you go to sleep and you wake up at the same time every single day that means no cheat day 7 days a week even on weekends that way your body will get used to it and so naturally you'll wake up after having seven or8 hours of sleep the second thing is that you need to be disciplined with your sleep schedule so that means that if you need to be in bed by 10: p.m. at night time then you make sure that you're in bed by 10 p.m. that night and that means no excuses you really have to prioritize your sleep above all other the things going on in your life to make it happen another thing that was incredibly important was that I had a nighttime routine I've noticed that there are two things that if I do them just before I sleep I won't be able to sleep for hours and I'll still be lying in bed wide awake at 3:00 or 4: in the morning and the first one is exercise particularly cardiovascular exercise such as running if I go for a run 1 hour before I sleep there's no chance I'm going to fall asleep maybe it's because of the chemicals and hormones like adrenaline that are released during the run I don't know but going for a run before I sleep is a bad idea the second thing is watching YouTube I've noticed if I watch YouTube in bed before I sleep at least for me it kind of stimulates my brain to the point where there are so many ideas and thoughts rushing around my mind that I just can't relax and go to sleep I've actually found a good substitute for watching YouTube before bed is either reading or even just watching Netflix so watching a film or documentary is far more relaxing than watching YouTube videos at least for me so for you closing your eyes and listening to a podcast some kind of light meditation or feeling in a nightly joury J might be a better option for you so waking up early was just one of the things I did that really had a massive effect on my productivity and my overall happiness but there were a few kind of additional strategies I implemented that really transform my life I go through them in more detail in a video I uploaded recently called how I transform from lazy to motivated in just one year alternatively I made another video my 600 p.m. evening routine a really important video if you are working on getting your sleeping pattern in check and finally the transform your grades cost is on sale with a 64% discount we've never discounted the cost that much before it's ending in the next few days there's a link in the description below