[Deep sigh of regret] I gotta be honest guys. I'm really disappointed Team Cherry really dropped the ball on this main game, and a bunch of stuff that they missing. Something about Gods and Glory(tm) Cherry went in this direction with their newest like I accidently downloaded and played an Hollow Knight expansion because they happen still somehow trademarkable, name. And so the final free update for Hollow Knight fucking amazing. The new boss rush mode is are mostly fun, with one glaring exception. so fucking happy. Yeah, he's still a little care. But I'm sure you already knew that the fuck up and start talking about the lore. Now there's a Zoteload of lore to go over, new piece we got. Team Cherry has finally on Flukemarm. In case you somehow forgot, Royal Waterways. She is the creature responsible around underneath the City of Tears. So what's in Godhome, there are statues that represent statues come short descriptions of each of "Alluring God of motherhood." That's right, according to the Hollow Knight words, attractive, which mean that Flukemarm Not only that, but we also get a new character meet Fluke Hermit high up in the Junk Pit, by a pile of... whatever, and she is poking the Fluke Hermit show that she is scared of this is why she chooses to live high up above mentions that she gathers up the Flukemarm's hideout is also in the room where the Flukemarm words "Grow" and "Little Sisters", her sisters grow up from the materials she you wear the Flukenest charm and talk to the you know. We killed her mom. And then she So what exactly is the point of this new character? become more important in the upcoming Hornet will be a sequel. Maybe Team Cherry just wants fight boss. Either that, or Team Cherry just from the Junkpit to the City of Tears. Another new character introduced in this update isn't much to go on with this girl. How the French translation says, so I'm just be found behind the Colosseum of Fools and Dream Nail dialogue, we can see that this Journal entry, we know that her madness has The journal entry also mentions that the Pale of Fools. With her name including the word cave, and her Dream Nail dialogue using the that this character is somehow connected to think she really helps us better understand Alright, it's time to talk about the Godseekers. origins begin in the Land of Storms. The player in game by completing each of the five pantheons have to have all the bindings on at once, of Storms is a desolate wasteland with high a long straight pathway that leads to a room ground. In the background you can see the a better view of these bugs by ripping the The Land of Storms also contains an item that Mask. The description of the mask says that the design of the mask allows the wearer to is also a quote from a poem titled "Lament the previous Gods that the Godseekers worshipped Godseekers did to cause their gods to forsake Or it's possible that their gods just died. corpses. Regardless of why the Old Gods are a negative effect on the Godseekers. And it works. The Godseekers have a shared mind. The Godseekers "Our mind" as if they share one singular that their mind is a sea. With this shared themselves with the Gods. The description thoughts are focused through the crest of Godseekers are able to communicate with the Godseeker in the Royal Waterways puts it best "By attuning Ourselves We clutch at their splendour." During the Pantheon of Hallownest the Godseeker "We live only to serve the gods, to seek So what happens if there are no Gods around Lament, the Godseekers mention a woeful silence Rain departed them. Also, there's this line will save them from their silent mind. So gods otherwise their mind suffers in silence. Which brings us to the next part of the story, is yet another hidden area in the new DLC. you Dream Nail the Godseeker in the Royal you are taken to a strange area that looks the Godseeker hiding in a cave next to a strange they will find their way to their new gods. out of the area and booted back into Godhome. This scene appears to be a memory from the Land of Storms in order to find a new God. God Tuner, an item the Knight receives after sealed in. The God Tuner seems to have a couple the ability to locate powerful beings. It able to find Hallownest. In the Pantheon of the Godseeker mentions that the lingering was what lead the Godseekers to the kingdom. picked up by the Godtuner, leading them straight This is where things get a little weird. The of a cocoon with a lock placed around her. chains upon herself, unless she used some it was probably someone else who did this. her sleep was a "forced hibernation". cocoon is also called a coffin in the game's I speculated in my last video that it was This doesn't make sense however, seeing lead the Godseeker to Hallownest in the first there's the Weavers, but it seems like they and a key. So maybe it was one of the Five the Grey Mourner, or Hegemol, if he's still it seems weird that she wouldn't warn the were in Hallownest. So yeah, I am clueless Once the Knight opens the cocoon, the Godseeker first pick up the Godtuner, a description "Seek the gods of Hallownest. Tune their The Godseeker will tell the Knight that they them are still distant and must be awoken. the Godtuner, attune them to the Godseekers' agreeing to perform errands for all of these allowed to say "no", right? And so, as you encounter all of the different to the Godseekers' mind, where they appear At this point, I think I should point out as "Gods" are a little strange. I'm Massive Moss Charger to be a god, but hey, you could make a religion out of this. Anyways, let's talk about what happens inside calling the Knight a cringer. Rude. She then too puny to be in the home of Gods. From this of Gods, a place where they can refight bosses thing we want to look at are the Pantheons. update can be found, including the Nailmasters, These bosses weren't integrated into the can attune with at least some beings without Let's look at the Nailmasters first. Unfortunately, first fight is between Oro and Mato. In his path is his alone, which is pretty much what line is "Don't leave me behind!". Which best part about this fight is this moment. "GASOOOOOOOOO!!!!!" Lorewise, I want to say that in this moment, and working together to try and beat the shit it? Sheo gets all philosophical on us in his is a God, if not an artist?" and "Are I'm seeking lore, and this shit is a waste to do with philosophy? Actually make something Yeah right. Sly's new dialogue doesn't add any new I especially like the part where he starts exactly didn't he teach this technique to the deal with Sly's voice? [High pitched grunting and shouting that would Does Team Cherry just let any random person Of course these bosses each have their own still don't give us any new lore for the stuff related to the Godseekers. Each entry each of these entries the Godseekers make in particular, the one they call the God of is referring to is the Radiance. During each of the Pantheons, the Godseeker the first three Pantheons, she just talks gods. But the fourth Pantheon is where things right before the battle with the Pure Vessel, The Godseeker explains that while the Hollow ruin, the glory of its pure form still endures. will attune her to the God of Gods. If you seeking the God sleeping within. The Godseeker also ponders what connection stopping herself. She then freaks out, claiming To me, this is a really important moment. the Knight seriously. This could be a sign with the Knight. This is important because street. The Godseekers desire to attune with to their prime strength. The Pure Vessel is But let's put a pin in that discussion. This boss helps us better understand an important of how the Hollow Knight grew has generated really gained any traction, there was another theory basically stated that the Hollow Knight's The evidence for this was that there are a changed form due to the infection. This new shows no sign of infection. The Hunter's Journal entry for the Pure "Chosen vessel, raised and trained to prime I think this is the best explanation we are and trained to prime form, so that's why Another interesting thing about the Pure Vessel Alright, boys and girls. It's time to dive to Dream Nail the Pure Vessel, but what's for it in the game's code. The same thing game, but in that instance, there was a ton with it. For the Godmaster update, there really makes me think Team Cherry did this intentionally. we just aren't allowed to see them in game. dialogue at all indicates that the Pure Vessel [Cue sappy music] Looking into what the dialogue says is pretty basically just telling itself to stop thinking. these thoughts, then that means it must have the Pale King. So it knows what is at stake, trying its best to keep itself from thinking The Hollow Knight wanted so badly to save that desire, that hope was what ultimately Kind of ironic, IT'S LIKE RAAAAAIIINNN!!! IT'S LIKE RAAAAAIIINNN!!! [Angery Radiance roar] After the battle we get this cutscene. [Angery Radiance roar] [Angeryer Shadelord roar] The scene shows the Knight in the same pose looks up and catches the Hollow Knight's sort of camaraderie between the two Vessels. who observe this in silence. There is definitely don't think there is much else going on. Then a light shines down from above, and we hear another roar as a wave of Void covers with the Radiance's roar that happens in The name of the audio file implies that the Lord". We're going to be seeing the Shade this discussion for now. I want to mention a few miscellaneous things that can be accessed in Godhome. You have in the Pantheons to open the door. Inside, Lifeblood Cocoons that will show up during see our friend, the Abyss Creature. So what and lifeblood in general? Pretty much nothing god which is obvious. Some of the bosses in Godhome have new Dream she has been pulled into Godhome, but she From looking at his Dream Nail dialogue, it's is happening. In fact, he even bows to the characters have some sort of Godlike status. Hornet, her father was the Pale King, so she so this is possibly why she is only somewhat And now we move on to the fifth and final almost every single boss in the game without it's harder than fuck. If this is fuck, biggest problem people seem to have with this the game locked behind the 42 boss gauntlet. I don't think Team Cherry made the wrong a difficult challenge. But I also wouldn't either. When we first see the Godseeker in this Pantheon, us that the Godseekers will be listening closely are beginning to pay attention to the Knight. she will tell it to continue its combat and We then get to see the Goodseeker talking Okay so I don't know why I have been pronouncing it as Unn. I guess Uun just sound more like Basically the Godseeker confirms that Unn's This explains why she has stopped appearing The next God we see missing out on the party White Lady is easily able to avoid the attunement her power to avoid detection. If we Dream that's interesting: "The chance of meeting is too rare.... but What does Godseeker mean by "Them"? We origins. Could this be a hint at future character lady thing? Finally, we have the Pale King. The Godseeker lays heavy on the kingdom of Hallownest. She "A God so strong... Yet erased so completely. I think she is referring to the death of the White Palace in the Kingsmold's mind is that the Pale King reincarnated a second time Pale King is definitely dead. But like the killed the Pale King. This dialogue makes give us an answer to this question in the just give us more Fluke Hermit lore instead. After this room, all that's left are two the Pure Vessel. After defeating it, the Radiance Radiance. This is the Absolute Radiance. She's on each other, and there's this really tricky on the Knight. If you're able to dodge this shell breaks and it turns into a gigantic This giant creature doesn't just consume it completely destroys the asshole. One important the void comes up to confront the Radiance, different from the first Radiance fight. If we see the void cover the screen along with that the Shade Lord itself is responding to Radiance fight, it was the fellow shades coming Lord covers over the Vessels may also indicate become a part of the Shade Lord. But it's So why am I calling this thing the "Shade but there are files in the code that refer the God of Gods. But I see that as more of thing the Shade Lord for now. Also because this video. So, how the fuck did this become this? Let's the Hall of Gods. If you are able to defeat access to a room containing a statue of the forms depending on what difficulty you have shows the Knight in its traditional form. description: "Not bug, nor beast, nor god." Examining the statue will also give you an called the Void Idol. The Void Idol is described It also says that the idol contains a drop from Relic Seeker Lemm saying that the ancient The second statue takes the form of the Knight the base game. The statue's description "Void given form." I think this is referring to the fact that was able to command the Void and summon it description for this statue states: "Volatile liquid of the Abyss writhes within". This implies that while the void has form, The final statue takes the form of the creature Interestingly, the description for this statue release of Godmaster. In update 1.4.2.4 it "Void given mind." But since update 1.4.2.8 it now reads: "Void given focus." The Void Idol description for this statue "Rare artifact from a time before Hallownest, a large amount of liquid from the Abyss, perfectly So in this last form, we can see that the control over it. Hopefully all of this information didn't for all of this, but it's the last statue we have to figure out is how the Void was Lord Shade came to be. I am going to present think there is plenty of room for other interpretations, below. Let's start with the Godtuner. Remember picked it up? "Seek the gods of Hallownest. Tune their The Godtuner tells the Knight to attune itself happens through combat, according to the Godseekers. "Through sacred combat are We attuned to When redoing the Pantheon of the Knight, the attune with the Gods, implying that it is means this line from the Godseeker also applies "We shall attune Ourselves to thee and ascend So what does it mean to ascend? Well, the all of the bosses, which are more powerful safe to say that ascention makes a being more at the end of the battle with the Absolute Embrace the Void achievement reads: "Ascend the Pantheon of Hallownest and take So the Knight attunes to the bosses through Pantheon of Hallownest. But what exactly drives all of this? What to happen in the first place? Well, the Godseekers confusing attunement garbage was important the Godseekers that makes them special? They admits this herself when she says: "Ye must think Us Godly. Amusing, foolish." So what is it about the Godseekers that makes Mask. The mask allows the wearer to focus the Godseekers tell us the following: "Until through Godly focus do We attain the Kingdom's heart..." I think this "Godly focus" is what makes to be attuned back to their prime forms and ascension. All of the abilities that the Godseekers For the first four Pantheons, the Godseekers as a weak and meager... cringer. At the end Godseeker mentions how the Knight is beginning moment, we hear the Lord Shade's roar for the Pantheon of Hallownest, the Godseeker By the time the Knight has finally defeated is pointed towards this tiny little bug. And right at the Knight, who just so happens to Heart, the Lord Shade finally makes a formal to the Void. Before we get into the ending cutscene I wanted reads: "Inspired or mad, those ancient bugs. They or strength, but to the very darkness itself." So this pretty much confirms that the ancient the Void. To what extent we don't know. Void in general? Did the Lord Shade even exist because of the Godseekers? A more involved dialogue where she calls the Knight her ancient in the past? Alright, let's move on to the cutscene. and gives the Godseeker a friendly hug. You and to me, it sounds like she is more in awe were looking for the most powerful God, and in Godseeker mode, Godseeker keeps talking god, so this all makes sense. After this scene in the Junk Pit. The Void then erupts out land of Hallownest. The final scene takes place at the Temple infection fades away, and we hear the sound appears in front of the camera and Hornet We can tell from this scene that the Radiance away. Why does killing the Radiance in Godhome was already in the Dream world, maybe attuning One of the Godseekers in Godhome says "A find a way to bridge the Godhome with the Getting back to the cutscene, some people into Void, but I think these vines are just Let's talk about the figure approaching obviously the Hollow Knight. We hear its chains and we also see it's nail. And since the presumably no longer be infected. But this the Hollow Knight free itself from the chains? to me. Seriously, did it somehow pull off maneuver? I mean I get what Team Cherry is just standing there like a dumbass wouldn't me. This ending totally caught me off guard. I to be a prequel. In fact I had a whole video predict what I thought would happen. Luckily update came out. But now that the new ending I am actually really excited. The Shade Lord idea how Hornet is going to stand any chance is going to do shit. However, thanks to an the Void might be defeated. If the player has successfully delivered the Garden, more flowers will begin to grow in other NPCs in the game. This is probably what can't give one to my waifu though. Taking ending where the Godseeker and the Void disappear, into Hallownest. The description for the flower says that it a sign of something having a connection to Eternal Emilitia tells us that the flower's Pale King. The White Lady also tells us that that Mysterious Ze'mer brought it with her that was, but there is something about Mysterious completing the Flower quest, Ze'mer nopes the Delicate Flower caused the Godseeker to for now. It seems pretty likely that the Hornet going on here. And that's it. That's all of the lore Okay, there is one more thing, you can now water near the Junk Pit. I'm glad Team Cherry Well, there's also the Eternal Ordeal. This off against an endless stream of Zotes. It's discuss. For some reason, Team Cherry didn't This is unacceptable. Alright I actually am the game to talk about. But there is something not in the game that case you hadn't noticed, they kind of don't have required the entire game to be reworked But Team Cherry hasn't put out a formal or even what they would have been like, so is still amazing regardless, but it is still fills us in on how the charms were going to So where does this update leave us? This isn't is about to get totally fucked by the Shade How will she do that? Hell if I know, that's ones who have to come up with a solution to mean, I'll try and figure it out, but my long as I put the word "speculation" in a lore channel after all. Speaking of which. I know this happened like I've really enjoyed being able to make these I love hearing your theories in the comments like Twitter, and Discord, and Reddit and it is I am doing. See you in 12 weeks!