This is the Balfour Declaration. Signed in 1917, homeland for the Jewish people in Palestine. It's in understanding today's conflicts in the middle In fact, when the Balfour declaration was signed Arabs as an independent state and promised internationally administered zone - and even then, So why did Britain make these three conflicting how did Britain's strategy in the Middle How's that is that okay? That's good yeah. Well at the turn in 20th century Britain's we might think of oil, oil and the Middle East But what we're really looking at then is an Suez Canal is the quickest route from the crown of the British Empire, to Britain. You don't Britain had controlled Egypt since Desert was enough of a buffer to defend began in 1914 the Ottoman Empire 1915 the Ottomans launched a surprise attack It's easily beaten off by the British and Indian the Ottomans are going to use Sinai as a launchpad total mind change in British strategy back in the Russians are collapsing into revolution, somewhere else away from France and Flanders. And it. We can knock the Ottomans out of the war, but The area Britain had set its sights on was made up of different regions east and small Christian and Jewish populations, After centuries of Ottoman rule many many Nationalism is growing across the multinational 20th centuries and the Ottoman Empire is no is in 1908 there's a revolution within Turkey it's called the Young Turk Revolution. And what the government and are really into centralizing really starts to rile a lot of these Arab Pan-Arab nationalism coming up and the idea of one One of those leaders was Sharif Hussein cities of Mecca and Medina, he was held in high to use this to their advantage, promising him he rebelled against Ottoman rule. Sure enough in and Abdullah leading the fighting. As British advanced through Palestine. Arab militia with This is a typical Arab head cloth and its you keep the head cloth firmly on your head. And in in that Arab Revolt up through the Hejaz and war. This comes from the regular forces of the soldiers and they volunteered to fight for important because of their previous military as artillery and machine guns. So these men of the they blow up railways, they attack small the Ottomans to move troops and supplies around. Faisal and the Arab army have the honor But while the battle for Palestine was still deals elsewhere. Between November 1915 and Mark Sykes and Francois George Picot carved spheres of influence. The borders were largely religion of the local populations. France would parts of Turkey and Iraq while Britain claimed the Palestine. The remainder of the territory What the British are really looking for is an it's all about the Suez Canal. The idea of making the British don't want to give this to the to have it. So it's a compromise and in fact this compromise between two countries that happen to imperial rivals and they will go back to being Having already made commitments to Arab in November 1917 the British made one more promise Zionists seeking to set up a national Jewish in the 1800s. It was founded on the belief that and that Jewish people deserved a state like and religious ties to the region, Palestine became So this armband or brassard was worn by a serving in that area of the Middle East during of Jewish volunteers, one battalion of British, The British volunteers weren't really interested using that military service, service to the crown the American volunteers and the local Jewish up by Zionism and wanted to use this to defeat the what this object shows us and the story behind it the majority of Jews were not Zionists Jewish immigration to Palestine had been slowly by brutal antisemitic and terrible pogroms in around 60,000 or 8% of the population. But for the concerned with. In an effort to win the support like the United States, and enemy countries signed the Balfour declaration. Vowing to set up a So the Balfour for declaration is signed victory at the Third Battle of Gaza and that battle. And it shows the confidence the war in the Middle East. Let's face it, on territory yet but they're already looking There are people within the British cabinet, Prime that having a Jewish homeland in Palestine is expedient. The British and French War efforts there's a manpower crisis, there's a crisis in in April 1917 and we really need the Americans to the idea is by supporting this Zionist idea it in America on side and they will put big pressure in the First World War and fight for the Allied that the Jews control world finance and business hold and is one of the reasons we think they The declaration was vague. It said that but didn't say where. It also vowed to existing non-Jewish communities&quot; but made For the British these conflicting promises out on top in the world's first Total War. And victorious over the Central Powers in 1918. But have to face the consequences. The choices they Having captured Damascus in 1918, the British a military occupation zone, an area that However the French were not happy. Hoping to expelled Faisal in a short war. It was Instead it was the victorious Allied Powers in a series of conferences from 1919 to 1923. Britain and France took control under a series the local populations for independence. for Syria and Lebanon while Britain was Palestine. But after Faisal's defeat the Faisal was given the crown of Mesopotamia and newly created Transjordan. The remainder So this 1924 map shows the Palestine that It is not part of a pan-Arab state, in region. Also it is not an internationally French have any control at all. It is a mandate. What this Mandate for Palestine is the Balfour Declaration of a home Jewish immigration to mandatory Palestine continue living there, making up 17% of the population. violence between the new arrivals and local Arabs, were starting to see themselves not only as What these new Jewish settlers bring they start to buy up more and more land. land of Palestine which actually makes the dominant in the area. The British government the Colonial Secretary puts forward a white into the Palestine mandate. The following the British government and also World Zionist the white paper. And from that moment there is This reversal coincided with events elsewhere Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany and policies. This sent shock waves through the those seeking to flee options were few, with most immigration. For many Jews, Zionists or not, By 1936 the Jewish contingent inside of the population. Now tensions began to a general strike among Palestinian Arabs in settlements and British military installations. From this point really you can see to pan-Arab nationalism. They're fighting British control in the region, that no other And they want their own Palestinian State, an The British response was to crush the revolt as They brought a surge of new troops, more and declared martial law in 1937. Favoring tactics and burned villages to the ground, they and arrested killed or exiled Arab In addition the British use Jewish auxiliary But this is a real turnaround from 1921 in 1936/37 the British are so overstretched boots on the ground to sort this situation possible. So by the end of the Arab Revolt 17% wounded, imprisoned, or exiled. This Palestine just at the moment when the Jewish