Imagine walking into a state of the art train in more than 200mph and arriving in Los Angeles less later. No airport security lines, no traffic This is what California voters envisioned back in rail. But here we are 15 years later. At the time it was estimated to cost $33 billion by 2020. What happened? At that time when we went to California voters, funding. And I think that's something that we're had the full funding to construct and complete Progress has been made. We have one segment that's going to be completed We're working very hard to get the other two design work for Merced and into Bakersfield. But there is not enough money left to complete the Not even close. The latest estimates show it will cost up to $128 Francisco to L.A. The project has spent to date about $9.8 billion. We knew we've had a funding gap ever since the What I know is this the earlier we build it, the CNBC visited California's Central Valley, where out what it will take to complete what would be High-speed rail dates back nearly 60 years. The world watched in awe as Japan displayed its 1964 Tokyo Olympics. Japan's Shinkansen has since carried more than single accident. Talk of high-speed rail in California started in out its high-speed rail network. The California High Speed Rail Authority was start happening until California voted yes on a The real turning point came about 2008, 2009. However, it was very controversial at the I mean, it still is, of course. But but we did get it off the ground and we got The plan is to build an electric train that will San Francisco in two hours and 40 minutes. Phase two of the plan will eventually extend from 800 miles, with up to 24 stops. Why does the train go through the Central Valley? You know, I look at a map and I'm like, well, Was that ever considered? We were never on the five corridor. And there's a reason for that. The bond bill that authority to connect the cities of the Bay Area Valley and then back to the cities of Southern Brian Kelly became CEO of the California And Dan Richard, the former chairman of the Directors, said that just connecting L.A. And San Francisco was never part of the plan. There's been a lot of controversy about why the But here's the reality, in the lower part of the Bakersfield, there are about 4 million people. If it were its own state, it would be bigger than States. That region has historically been left behind. What is the most challenging part of the project Ultimately, if you talk about the entirety of the it's probably the tunneling segment. That'll be challenging work and it won't be cheap, world. They go through the Swiss Alps, if they We can figure out how to get them to Tehacapi. That's why the cheapest section from Bakersfield So far, 119 miles are under construction. We are working very hard to have some kind of by 2030, between 2030 and 2033. What do you say to the critics that say it's a I chuckle because even the initial operating connects three of the fastest growing cities in I think that's been a common mindset for a lot of Gate Bridge. Years ago, that was the same It was a bridge to nowhere, and I don't think any be like to not have that bridge connecting us to Yeah, it looks close. It looks like you're close Right. This is one of our signature structures. You can see that with the arches behind us. And then eventually, once we're done with all of ready hopefully by next year to start the CNBC also visited the high-speed rail construction there has been noticeable progress since then. More bridges have been built, land has been sections are now ready for the track to go in. From the last time you were here, a lot of relocations, some more preliminary work at our 30% design to now 100% design in the Central Construction started here in Fresno in 2015, but especially stringent environmental review process We have some of the most advanced regulation in United States and these other geographies. That's Bent Flyvbjerg, he's an expert on a book, How Big Things Get Done. Now, one thing with High-speed rail and actually across a lot of land. So you'll have a lot of landowners and neighbors land to the project. In America,we value private property rights and have to get into full negotiation and pay fair needed private property to build a public works When we finish just the environmental clearing $1.3 billion and that's for no steel in the 422 miles out of the 500 miles from L.A. to San Francisco have now been environmentally The environmental documents that are key to being forward. We're expecting that by the end of this miles of the project will be cleared. One of the goals of the project was to connect six and bring economic growth to California's Central regions in the state. I think the greatest success that we've had is the workers in the Central Valley. The Rail Authority says the project has created $13.7 billion for California's economy from 2006 2021. Since high-speed rail has never been built before, it's been tough to find US workers with So California High-Speed Rail offers a training Desrae Ruiz went through the apprenticeship. She used to work at jewelry chain Claire's, but five years. Working on the high-speed rail has allowed me and I had my second child in the beginning of my Me and my husband bought our first home. I purchased my first car and now I'm able to go my degrees in construction. Daniel Rodriguez was born and raised in I feel like it puts a sense of pride for everyone whether it be for them or their kids or, you So it's nice to have a project to work on and be to know that we're going to be working on this know and that's great. In 2008, the same year that California voters operating its first high-speed rail line. Since then, more than 25,000 miles have been But things worked differently in the U.S. We're not going to bulldoze people out of the way. I mean, we're just not going to do that in this We're not going to bulldoze over endangered You have to worry about environmental protection. You have to worry about historic structures. Governance is much more fractured in the United So it's not centralized like so like France and The policy in the U.S. is so subdivided, which is great for many things. But of course the downside is that it becomes In the U.S. local jurisdictions have a lot of say This has led to a lot of bickering about routes, environmental concerns or land rights causing It gives us everybody a voice, which is a good But when everybody has a voice, the effort to try harmonize all the different interests becomes At one time, on the first 119 miles of the lawsuits challenging whether we can spend money compliant with environmental laws, challenging money. The High-Speed Rail Authority has won We're down to 3 or 4 now. We're in settlement discussions on all of them. It kind of comes with the process here in As you move through that environmental process, Early estimates vastly underestimated these And along with the rising cost of construction has skyrocketed. Its latest expected cost of up to $128 billion $100 billion in the red and it's not clear where from. One of the biggest hurdles, clearly is funding. That roughly a little over $100 billion number. It's a pretty fair assessment, and I think we've had on this project since its inception. California is funding about 85% of that through The federal government is funding about 15% of 2009 and 2010. We're hoping to balance that out a little bit It's going to need to be sort of a 60 over 40 As far as that that funding split, we can't get without federal support. It's just not going to happen. It's not unprecedented for the federal government To put it in perspective, the Federal Highway highways in 2022, and the F-35 program is $1.7 trillion to buy, operate and sustain the But the support has been weak coming out of The bipartisan infrastructure bill passed in 2021 billion to rail, which was the largest investment Amtrak. But no money was specifically set aside Critics of the project want to keep it that way. And I just don't want the federal government We shouldn't be subsidizing this program, not at taxpayer money. And I just believe that this is a problem. I'm not anti-train, I'm not anti-worker, I am ideas. There was bipartisan support for high-speed rail. But, I will tell you that the day that President announced that he foresaw an America where 80% of could be connected by their cities with high instant, the Republican support evaporated, which because, you know, there are no Democratic or no Democratic or Republican potholes. But these obstacles to completing mega projects Britain is building a comparable high-speed rail England. It's also faced controversy, delays and $100 billion. There's this stop go approach to delivering them. You know that that now, then you're doing it and That's very bad for projects. If you decide to do a project like this, you need period of time as possible. Therefore, it's a really bad idea that both and California high-speed rail are doing exactly projects. California's actively applying for grants from the but competition is fierce. Brightline West, a private company, is another Which hopes to take passengers from Los Angeles California's line. It has already received bipartisan support for a grant. So the question remains, will California finish this epic mega project? I'm concerned about where they put this California would have been better off if they had north and from San Francisco south, because if the financially a disaster, you know, people are not But if you had built in San Francisco and L.A. And you could see a lot of people actually getting logic, you know, to actually finish the project. I don't have any question that it's possible to And actually, when you look at projects around this when you've already spent like billions and stopped. It's really easy to say, I don't want to spend the grandkids and the future of the state and the And every generation, I think has an obligation investments for the future. It's cool to be a part of this. I have two kids, so to see them and they're part of it, Hey, my dad worked on that and maybe to do something like that. I feel it's a part of history. It's something that I'm able to to share and be You can't build yesterday's transportation challenges. You've got to build stuff that's Electrified, renewable power, clean, fast rail is of that future. It's happening all over the world