(gentle music) - Okay, so the Tesla a couple days ago and it might be the weirdest tech event I've ever been to. You might have seen some I was there, I rode in I explored the insane looking Robovan and I talked to the Optimus robot and then I left feeling kind of confused. It was a weird event. So here are the three So first of all, the robo that we knew we were going of a fully self-driving Tesla. And we saw it and it looked like this, very, very much like a mini Cybertruck. Like you've got the the light bar on the back, the complete lack of rear visibility. Then, of course you can two seater passenger car. People were wondering like what a full self-driving whatever we're calling it whether it'd look dramatically different from a normal car like a And there are some things that about this thing they rolled out. I mean on the outside it's light gold. Every single one is this although there was never any Pretty small footprint, no exterior door handles, or And then, since they don't or pedals, they can sort of push the seating position way loungey seating position kind there's a center armrest and there's a massive 21 inch And yes, the doors go up from their lessons of the Model X, they're making another crazy set of doors which, honestly, is It's a striking feature of which, at first, just look But then, when you take a closer look, they're actually just normal 21 inch low rolling resistance continental tires. But they've painted half to match the caps in the middle. So it makes it look like a with a huge wheel, but But either way, no idea how to any sort of final production. But after waiting in line for a bit, I got to ride in this So I got in, the screen told and once I did, the door Then I just selected the destination, which was on this screen along this route, which I assume was pre-mapped. And then it just started Now, I've been in a but this one is just a since there's people everywhere and there's no steering But once you get over the eeriness of basically being trapped with no manual override, and noticing a few other things. You know, you sit pretty low to the road, similar to a Model 3, since the seating position's further back. And then, there's even than ever before in this car. Like I basically only found in the middle next to the cup holders. I didn't even see any door latches. Like the doors only opened with a button on this enormous touch screen. So again, like a Tesla, it's in the car on the screen while the car is driving because why not? So you can watch the entire trip that I took uncut on if you want, I'll link that below. But then the thing is Like there were shockingly the actual car actually other than basically like which are gonna be in all the that it will be fully Number two, that it'll for under $30,000, all right. But then number three, that by inductive wireless charging. So it pulls up over this on the ground and it Not something we've seen especially not ones with large No other numbers, no other specs. Just look at this thing, I just had so many other Like what is going on here? I did at the event walk and bump into some Tesla engineers and people who had been And so, I just ended up Like I asked them a So I'm gonna tell you guys and I guess we can take their word for it. So first of all, there or pedals, as you can see all right, let's say I or there's something happening and the car isn't reacting in time, is there a manual override? And the answer I got some sort of minimal but the goal is that you which is a noble goal, for sure. I just mean it's hard to imagine. We live in a world basically, right now but I mean, even with the wireless charger, picture you wanna like drive over the top of it and line it up perfectly because if it's off a little bit, that's just a giant waste of power. But if I can't adjust it But speaking of wireless charging, you might be wondering why The main answer, again, to be totally autonomous. They want people to just like a fleet of these things and charge themselves overnight. And the whole cable requires a human so that's It'll just line up on the notoriously inefficient wireless charger. But my question again was, okay, is there at least a charge port or charge quickly, I can do that? And the answer was, no, there is no charge port on this vehicle. So it is not even capable of or doing any sort of road trips, or anything like that, it's purely a taxi. I'm told there is no There's just the rear trunk that they showed in this presentation. And there's no planned range But what they did say for this vehicle to be that's their main goal, and the low rolling they can aim for about 5.5 Some of the most efficient are getting around 3 to 4 So this would be like if they achieve this and a smaller overall size battery for the lighter weight of the vehicle. So it'll be nice, they're of total range and that would put this at maybe a 40 kilowatt hour battery pack instead of the typical 70 to 130. So drive train wise, that You wanna make the cheapest, of all time, you gotta hit those things. But then again, you're while doing a car with scissor So you're gonna have some But really I think the obvious red flag, the biggest red flag to me I mean this is notorious Elon stuff. He gets on stage, he &quot;this vehicle out for No they're not, there's just no way that they're actually I mean if they do, let's say they do, I will shave my head on camera 'cause I'm not confident they won't do it. Like I wanna be optimistic, too much stacked up against it because in order to ship this at all with no steering wheel and everything, they have to get all for the full self-driving and all that, and get all the prices and ship something with scissor in the next two years, Tesla's been promising full for years over and over and over again and consistently keeps pushing it back. But then also just but Tesla promised a $35,000 I think they briefly for that price for a little Cybertruck, I don't know if you remember, do you remember the base price of what they said the Cybertruck would cost at the cheapest version when it came out? $39,000 and that was about what, like four or five years ago? Do you know what the cheapest $95,000, so you can see where But even after all that, you know, there's kind of a which is what is the this Robotaxi thing and a Model 3? Because Tesla has been promising for years that the car that people are driving and buying today is gonna be capable of full unsupervised self-driving, like the Model 3 and the Model Y? And it's actually not clear if there's that many differences. I mean, obviously, okay, one's and four doors and four and maybe be a bit more expensive. But like, yeah, if my car is gonna be able to do all that stuff I think I want the one that can plug into superchargers and do all sorts of carrying things. Maybe this will be an old fashioned way of thinking at some time in the future, like every car on the road is autonomous and it's like an &quot;old with the steering wheel that I think the main if it has the exact same capabilities as a Model 3 is it'll and easier to operate That will probably be the main difference as far as actually buying these things because they've been of the car that you buy and own today, you'll drive it to work and it'll go drive people around as an Uber for 10 hours or however long and then, you drive it home when you need it and then, when you're to drive and Uber people around. And so, it has all these it'll do all this great There's actually a moment I had to re-watch the event 'cause I was there and people are like like stuff at Elon on stage. And at this point in the oh yeah, Model 3 and Model Y And then someone goes like, And then he says, oh yeah, - So and Cybertruck too, yes, of course. Sorry, I don't wanna forget, yes, yes. All our cars, basically. - So yeah, okay, all our vehicles great, but then it's kind of quiet, but then someone else yells Which is, basically if you don't know, a reference to older Model 3s. And his response... - So... [Audience Member] Hardware - Let's not get nuanced here. - [Audience Member] What? - So yeah, let's not get will have it except maybe All our cars will be able to We'll cross that bridge when But here's a bridge that I don't think we'll ever actually get to cross, which is the second thing that was insane that was announced at this So somewhere about halfway they roll out this one of one super futuristic looking Kind of looked like a... It looked like the military vehicles from which that's probably not a good thing. But yeah, it rolls out and they give us, again, very, very few details. This is gonna be a Robovan that can hold like up to 20-ish people and it, again, will be fully electric and take groups or teams of No manual override necessary, great. Have you ever been to CES? Have you ever watched videos from CES? Every year in January it's really fun, in you'll notice in the south hall there's a section with all the And you'll find about 50 of these, every year there's just like and a bunch of seats And it's like the future There's tons of those. None of them ever ship, of But I guess there's that differentiates that brief concept we saw at the Tesla event with dozens of other vaporware versions of this that I've seen before, I mean, the fact that is the main differentiator, that could maybe But like I said, there's almost And I have almost no faith that with its minimal clearance, and just lack of numbers or anything I don't think that we'll I could eat my words, but But then last but not least, They decided to remind an AI company, not just a car company by bringing back out the So they had these things all dancing, doing these pre-rehearsed demos. But also, they were just They were serving drinks and snacks and they were walking and entertaining people amongst everyone at this event. Now, I already have my thoughts you know, humanoid robots before. I made a whole video about I'll leave a link below the Like button. I've talked about Tesla's Optimus. But even just what we saw with that, would've been a huge step forward Like this would've been one of the most impressive things ever. But then, they decided to take it further. They also decided to have and, I mean, it was way Like just watch this clip. - [Optimus] Would you - I will take some chocolate. - [Optimus] Right on, what's your name? - [Vanessa] Vanessa. - [Optimus] Vanessa? - Yes, Vanessa. - [Optimus] Nice, pleasure - Nice to meet you too. - [Optimus] Have a great night thank you. - Like it's just a person, it's a person talking through a speaker. It it even like stutters and makes occasional like human mistakes. If you watch a bunch of a bunch of different robots all have slightly different voices. Yeah, it was a person, for sure. And it's weird because Tesla, at no point, at least as of the time of recording, has not acknowledged this at all. They haven't said that or confirmed that, but people there at the event from various engineers, who only would tell me, do run totally on device. But like, yeah, no, I don't think so. So this kind of became of the whole event, like now we don't know how much of this event Like how much of what is human controlled or AI. You know, there were all and gestures and movements. I played charades with one of them. You know what it reminds me of? Remember that video I did at where they had these bipedal robots that were controlled by They did all kinds of walking around and stringing animations together to entertain people at the parks. There's just a bunch of button presses and controllers to make that happen. And sure, there's some but you could never deny that there's, basically, entirely human And that's, basically, at this Tesla event, lots of impressive and entertaining things in the form of a super advanced articulating robot stringing animations together. But it's just not totally ready We've never seen anything quite like it, even from Boston Dynamics, about the human assisted part. But the thing is, the dream that they are selling people is that this thing will it will be your human They said that it would be your friend, it would do chores for you, and be able to do all these the AI and the vision-based system. I think that's a really far off dream. AI is really, really quickly improving. But I still think that's a far off dream. So, you know, to their credit, Like they did a lot of things And if you told me in 2024 that a company would do a bunch of self-driving car demos around tons of people and they would have bipedal around performing tasks at the same event and that they would have a drone show like that in a row that is super high tech that could go wrong, but somehow didn't. And it represented, I think, of the future, even though like concepts, it's a future that is potentially way more efficient, and more impressive in than the world we live in today. So that by itself, I think is honorable. The things that they would be amazing and inspirational and honorable if they actually happened. But since they are also they felt the need to do demos and give all these big promises. And that's where it felt to make promises about when and for what price we're when it just feels very unlikely. And then doing the like, robots talking, it's just like now the Like how much of it is real, And then, now we're focusing on that instead of how cool the future That's where I'm at but that has the best chance of if you made me bet money on one company that I think has the best then, yeah, it would be the one with the massive data gathering advantage with stuff out there in It would be Tesla so I'll Thanks for watching, catch you