The universe today is happy and healthy, But at some point the night will turn will peacefully sleep forever. But what and when will it be? It turns out there heard about it. Let's travel to the end of After a messy birth our universe was a sleepy of hot hydrogen and helium. The story of creation Shortly after, the universe got busy making massive and lived violent lives, forging new they blew up. Countless stars were born and cycling matter around, each generation giving But not all gas is returned. Every time a make more and more red dwarfs that burn slowly they don't give their gas back to the universe up more gas forever. Some more gas is locked neutron stars and black holes. Which is bad, as Today the universe is a great for billions of years. But most of Over 90% of the stars that will To get to the last thing to ever happen, The next few hundred billion years galactic exploration - but step by our sun will die out. Eventually almost all The End of Everything - but not quite In a few trillion years the run out. About 88% of the mass of 2% neutron stars and black holes, and about White dwarfs are the corpses of old stars, not as half our sun, some even much more. This makes after neutron stars and black holes. the sun today. Since they used to be active degrees. White dwarfs are dim, hot, dense But eventually even white dwarfs will die because least 10 trillion years, more than 700 times As they do their cooling down, the universe as more and more white dwarfs burn black dwarfs. Spheres of death, as cold as space Over trillions and trillions of years, every object in every galaxy is the void or its orbit decays and it will fall In about a quintillion years, all galaxies in the center of its own observable universe, traveling through black nothingness. Black holes are dying. Slowly. They'll fizzle are so small that they die in a final flash 10 to the power of 100 years, until the last there is nothing to compare it to. survived around black holes - but even After this unsettling amount of time we are not black dwarfs. It turns out there is some weird The Weird Physics of Black Dwarfs A black dwarf is a sphere the size of earth, absolute zero. Stars stay alive because why do black dwarfs not collapse into Deep inside a black dwarf, matter is squeezed anything we see on earth. The pressure is so great atoms. Instead matter is weird, degenerate: the locked into a rigid lattice, while the And these electrons hold the star but imagine matter as a subway train are empty seats passengers spread out because But as a black dwarf is so incredibly more passengers into our train. Gravity Passengers are forced to sit and stand the passengers, our electrons try to push This way the electrons that are having a horrible hold up the star. Everything else in these tiny particles push against each other quantum mechanics didn't ruin everything. Simplifying a lot: when particles get close and fuse together. A process called 'quantum because of their intense heat. It is one of the ones. But it also happens at a temperature near This is the final step to creating the last Here, in this lone black dwarf something fantastic Nothing at all. Can you imagine that? But nuclei combine by quantum tunneling to become happens again! Then nothing for another bazillion As eons pass, the nuclei in the frozen black nuclei. And these take even longer to fuse, Remember the breathtaking amount of time evaporate? That's a brief moment in The difference between a second and Over a time so absurd that it has no name, Until, when silicon nuclei fuse, they which means it is unstable. And when it it emits two positrons - antimatter electrons. And these two positrons, find two electrons and annihilate them Remember how the uncomfortable electrons together? Destroying the electron means star. Losing an electron does not give it just makes gravity squeeze harder, the In the case of the most massive black the black dwarf turns into a sphere of For at least 10^1000 years - almost, no visible change in the entire universe. happen happens. The black dwarf has lost support its immense mass and goes into It first implodes and then explodes empty universe with light again! A beautiful as quickly as it began, it's all over. Darkness again, emptiness. That was the last thing that will ever happen. But don't be bummed out about it. This is so far Today the universe is the best place it knowing the last interesting thing that For now, there are still plenty of interesting discovering, the more you will understand KiwiCo helps kids get a headstart there myriad of STEM topics, covering science, Every crate is like a little adventure trip to the museum or an amazing theme with everything you need neatly packed inside. of all ages and interests so Like us, KiwiCo spends a ridiculous amount of their 2000 available projects took more than is tested by kids. We really liked the you a hands-on engineering project with information you need to complete the project keep some of them around the office and If you want to try out KiwiCo and get the best the code KURZGESAGT to get 50% off your first they also offer individual crates in love to spark curiosity - and we love to work