Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today we're going to Excel. When you select a value in one dropdown in the next dropdown or even multiple dropdowns. Microsoft Excel, and if you'd like to follow along I'll be using in the description down below. Feel along. I'm pulling together an order form for different items. Right over here, we see a list or a drink. If a customer selects a cookie, well all of the different cookies that we offer here. different drink options and you can see all those a coffee within the drink list, well then, we have fruit smoothie. If someone wants a fruit smoothie, a few more options. So how do we do this? Well, Oh, that's what this is. Okay, over on the the first list or the first column with all the what's called a named range or a named list. So, let's click on the option that says formulas. And the name manager. Let's click on this option that you'll also see that there's a shortcut especially if you want to turn lots of different and this opens up a dialogue. Here it says create top row because I have my header in the top row So here I'll make sure to check this item that unchecked and then let's click on okay. And I now you could go up to the top and we can click here I can see that I have one list titled item, cookie and drink. That's perfect. Down below, can confirm that you successfully set up a named here I can type in equals and then I'll type in item. So here I'll type in item. Here you see that on that and then press enter, that'll return all confirm that it's working properly. Now I don't hit delete to remove that. Now I want to create my let's click into the one titled order form. my first dropdown list in cell A7. This way a item. To insert a dropdown list, up on the top And then right here near the center, let's click opens up a dialogue and here we're in validation select the option that says list. We want to make here it says the source for the list. So, what we want to use that named list that we already we could type in item. That was the name of our another quick trick, you could type in equals and opens up all of the different named lists that this could be an easy way to get back to the right I'll select that, click on okay and that inserts look at that, it's now inserted a dropdown list. the different items in the dropdown list. So here cookie, that's great. But when I select cookie, can now select my type of cookie. To do that, let's jump back to the sheet titled lists. To make thing that we did with item. Here, I could simply select this entire area. Now up on top, we could manager. Let's click on create from selection. row. So here, I'll make sure that just top row go back to the name manager, here we could see the names and all of the values. But you'll notice empty values within this list. And here within with fruit smoothie. Now, if we go back over here, included all of these empty cells. Now that may the dropdown list, you'll have all these empty probably want to go through and highlight each one And I'm going to do that. Here, I'll click into These all have these blank values included. So and then click on close. The cookie column was had all the values included, over here, I could top row, click on okay. I'll highlight this one just the top row. And I'll do the same with the Now, if I click into the name manager, you'll just include the values. That's exactly what now let's add some more dropdown lists. On the order form. In cell B7, I now want to create a in the first dropdown or in cell A7. If we expand have either cookie or drink. And depending influence what options show up in this dropdown. the lists sheet, here we see that there are two drink. Depending on which one a user selects, you matches that name. For example, if someone selects name cookie and all the options underneath. Same And I also have another column or another list Now it won't work if let's say you have drinks to match one for one for this to work. Let's jump insert my dependent dropdown. So, like we did right over here, let's click on data validation to that we saw earlier. Now we want to insert a and then select list. And then down below, we to reference the list name that's selected in use a function called indirect. So here I'll type cell A7. So, I'll enter in A7. Now, if you just cell. So, then our list would just have the value that's how the indirect function helps us. It lists that use that value or that name. This all we have another dropdown list. Now, if I click on types, but let's test out to make sure this works and let's switch to a drink. Over here, let's here, I have all of my different drink options. I now want yet another dropdown list. So, let's let's go back up to data validation by clicking click on this dropdown and let's select list. And function. I'll type in equals indirect and then here, I'll select that and then close parentheses I have another dropdown. When I click on this, we great. Let's now try fruit smoothie. So over here, smoothie. And let's come over here and click on that? Let's have a quick look at the lists sheet the left-hand side, we selected drink and then fruit smoothie. And then we have a list with fruit smoothie matches the title of this list, let's investigate. Up on top, let's click into manager. And here we see all of our different for fruit smoothie. But one thing you might notice you create a named range and it includes a space, let's close out of this. Now, when someone selects space in it, but we don't have a list with a space it. So, we need to update this. Let's remove when someone selects this option in the dropdown, in the name manager, it has an underscore. let's also just insert an underscore here. Doesn't there's a matching list for this item. Let's now let's now click on the dropdown with the type of fruit smoothie with an underscore. Now over here, have my different flavors, vanilla, chocolate, and if these are smoothie flavors. This might be more different options. Now, one thing you could do is rows within say an order form. Over here, I'll here, I can now drag it down. So, let's drag it to all be filled in, so I'll select all of these Now I have a dropdown list on each one of these we could select chocolate chip. Over here, why here, I can now select, let's go with a coffee. So that's working exactly like I expect to. All would like to learn even more about Excel, I offer fundamentals. That way, you'll be able to tell the pivot tables, formulas, and functions, charting, Excel. You could find out more in the description please consider subscribing, and