Welcome to part two, looking at the Best Museum. I'm Dr. Denise Sandoval, co-curator of Chicana and Chicano studies at Cal State important to sort of look at the lowrider to other vehicles and objects outside of cars also known as viclas. And then by the 1990s, in bicycles and eventually by the late '90s early So this is lowrider tricycle &quot;Emily's Dream&quot; of created this vision of this trike and of lowrider car shows and I think it even integrating their daughters 2006 Harley-Davidson Road King &quot;La Vida Loca&quot; This 2006 Harley-Davidson Road King cruise the highway, cruise the road Mexico is often considered the lowrider capital but when you sort of look at the lowrider custom different type of customization and what I are sort of the religious symbols that particular to New Mexico. And you who's the Mexican Virgin Mary who really the blending of Spanish culture with the indigenous culture. She's often considered sort sort of that mixture of Mexican identity and Chicanos and Latinos have to Catholicism. And la Virgen de Guadalupe but they're kind of cholo Mexican history but also Chicano aesthetics as You can notice that it's sitting really low on like that so what does it have: hydraulics. are also used in vicla culture, motorcycle car shows are like here at the museum but when So before we take a deep dive into the talking about engraving. So engraving as from Europe with Spain. Think about sort of and so when it comes to Mexico you begin work and a perfect example is this beautiful called La Charra. La Charra means cowgirl and they always say everything bigger in Texas and so you see the engraving on the wheel, every and chrome, and gold, is engraved. What I love is about sort of Mexican history with horses and horse saddles and all the leather work is also represents all these customization techniques that So in the exhibit we have many examples of customization and really the art that's being we have 2015 &quot;Azteca de Oro&quot; and what I wanted the indigenous themes like we saw in the truck front wheel, you also have sort of pyramids and I think when we sort of think about the... drawn to sort of the Aztec imagery, it represents 1979 Lincoln Continental Mark V &quot;Las Vegas&quot;. So bring out some lowrider icons and this is the Las the more radical customization of the lowriding '95 and if you look at it, it is completely upholstery work, radical customs, the doors you have card tables, you have roulette, and you Mister Cartoon and so when you sort of think about a lot of lowrider owners also want to have and also on the cover of Lowrider Magazine. and it was a way to not just celebrate cars but look at some of the covers featured on this wall, created a space for customizers to keep up to date So in thinking about lowrider aesthetics, we have 1958, California Vehicle Code stated that wheel portion so that meant guys who had their hydraulics in the... in 1959 really introduced to legal at the street level and the original parts. Think about the parts that lower and Aguirre was one of the first to put hydraulics where hydraulics was an important innovation for the other way is thinking about hydraulics added using your car to be seen in the world and at the shows. And so when we sort of think 'best in high'. So hydraulics is not just about also cruising the boulevard on its side. What we Oldsmobile Cutlass called Simply Beautiful and where women are having their own car shows, lowrider community to create empowerment 1966 Chevy Caprice &quot;Game Killa&quot; So with his exhibit, it was important to not just scene but also the long multicultural history of African-Americans played a significant part to customization and aesthetics, this car that and she is known as the first lady of lowriding, Hall of Fame and so I think what's important with is reflected not just in the customization people use their cars to tell their story. So Game there's an LS1 swap engine that gives the vehicle more power it also adds that modern edge because that sort of innovation in lowriding is best adding sort of art and high performance as well The Japanese started getting interested in places was Lowrider Magazine that was highlighting Lowrider Japan. So the Japanese at first were customized and over the years, a lot of them came and now they have their own cars, their own shops, over the last 20 years, the Japanese lowriders level of customization skills and innovation. a 1958 Chevy Impala by Rohan Izawa Art of this 3D paint that looks like embossed fully engraved from actual metal work and paint the scene here in California and I think what are continuing to level up the skill set and So along with the global impact of lowriding, we wanted to include a space for artists and also reimagine the future of lowriding it has a lot to not only teach us art, but more importantly, the way diverse communities together all around the Hope you enjoyed part two of this exhibition at the Petersen Automotive follow the link in the description below. I'm