For a hundred years, the Panama Canal has There's no better way to transport goods from maybe, that's about to change. Mexico is about to open a new project: the It's a bit of a mouthful. But what is this thing? And will it replace the Panama Canal? I'm Regis, and today we will find out! Before we get to Mexico's new project, we the Panama Canal Along with the Suez Canal, it's probably the It cuts through the Isthmus of Panama. You don't hear that word very often: 'isthmus'. It's basically just a strip of land that The Isthmus of Panama links North America Pacific on either side. This isthmus is 65 kilometers wide. That's also the length of the Panama Canal, The Suez Canal is almost three times as long, incredibly -- more than twenty times as long. But what the Panama Canal is lacking in size, Take a look at this map of the Americas. Before the Panama Canal was constructed, way ships to travel from one side to the other. Imagine a ship from Europe. It has a load of goods that it wants to sell That ship would have to sail all the way to then sail all the way north again. If the ship was fast enough, it could do it You're looking at months. It was dangerous, too. The Strait of Magellan can get extremely stormy, In those days, the only other way around -- the -- was clogged by ice for most of the year, In 1902, the United States decided to do something They drew up a plan to build a shipping canal This new canal would take less than a day from the Atlantic to the Pacific by a distance That's a good few weeks of travel. Building the canal wasn't easy. Laborers had to use dynamite, drills and steam-powered meters of earth. To put that number into perspective: if you be 80 times bigger in volume than the Great than the Empire State Building. Basically, a man-made mountain. To make things even harder, the laborers found Celsius or more. Almost 6000 people died along the way, sometimes and the occasional tropical disease. All in all, it doesn't sound like fun... There were also some key engineering challenges There was a difference of almost 30 meters canal and the lowest. This meant the canal's construction team which helped to change the elevation of the These locks let ships climb all the way up way back down again. In total, the Panama Canal's construction of 375 million dollars -- that roughly works But despite all the challenges, after a decade opened in August 1914. The very first ship to traverse the canal first of many. About a thousand ships used the canal in the since. Nowadays, more than 10,000 ships use the Panama half a billion tonnes of goods. These ships pay a toll to use the canal -- for million US dollars -- but it's well worth the way down to the Strait of Magellan instead. This canal changed the face of global trade. But as of 2024, this famous waterway could That's right -- it's finally time to talk The Interoceanic Corridor of the Isthmus of Or... the CIIT, for short. If you're thinking those letters don't of the Spanish name for this project. To understand the origins of the CIIT, we That's around the same time that the United Canal -- and as it turns out, they weren't ideas. In 1884, a powerful man became president of That's a mouthful too! Let's call him Porfirio Diaz for short. Porfirio Diaz was from the state of Oaxaca, When he came to power, he decided to build of Veracruz in the north. In other words: he wanted to build a railway hope of tackling the exact same problems that Most people have never heard of it, but in -- known as the Tren Interoceanico -- officially This was seven whole years before the Panama railway right away. Over the next few years, hundreds of thousands it. Mexico started to thrive economically as it trade. But this success was short-lived. When the Panama Canal first opened its gates, the Tren Interoceanico, and switch to the In 1914, when the Panama Canal opened, the railway dropped by a third, and a year later, This was despite the fact that the train line Panama Canal -- it was closer to America, to use it. So why did people choose Panama? At first, it might not make sense. But there are actually a couple of very important First of all, a lot of the shipping companies support an American project as opposed to On top of that, a civil war had recently broken The violence scared a lot of the other companies Logistically speaking, it's also simpler to unload your cargo onto trains. And so, with such a massive drop in traffic, to maintain. It collapsed into disrepair. And it stayed that way for a hundred years, in Mexico: Lopez Obrador In 2018, President Lopez Obrador made plans and create a new corridor between the Atlantic nearby Panama Canal. The ambitious project was officially announced trio of primary rail lines: Line Z, Line FA, stand for, please let us know in the comments. We've had our team working hard on this, Anyway, back to the CIIT. Work began in June 2020, cutting back vegetation, with shiny new ones. In total, the new railway -- with those three 1000 kilometers long. The Mexican government is also planning to railway. And Lopez Obrador isn't messing around here. In 2023, he sent the army to capture a stretch a private company. Later, he offered to compensate the company stretch of railway was safely in the government's He didn't want to risk the project collapsing, a stubborn private company. There have actually been a few clashes with indigenous communities in Oaxaca. They're worried about the environmental impact been cutting down trees and damaging local One group of protestors was briefly imprisoned, with machetes. In other places, local families have been It all feels a little bit controversial... But most people in the region think the negatives benefits. Some experts think that the CIIT will create attract 50 billion dollars of international This economic boom could transform the country is counting on. In August 2023, Line Z was officially completed. In September, Lopez Obrador himself rode to the other. The journey took less than nine hours, making Canal. Two months later, just a few days before Christmas to the general public and started to carry the Pacific. The other two lines are expected to be finished Despite all this progress, the government can be used for international shipping. Another feature of the project is a total lines, to make them more suitable for cargo This includes a giant breakwater at the port of thousands of tons of rock to shelter the These giant rock walls are meant to reduce by storms or waves, which really wouldn't Work is still underway on that breakwater. But as of recent news, it's getting closer the CIIT will open to cargo sooner rather And that raises a pretty interesting question: What happens to the Panama Canal? Before we answer this question, we would really comments! If you enjoy these videos, make sure to subscribe But now, back to the video! Some experts think that the CIIT will prove the existing Panama Canal. If that turns out to be true, it would make routes, traveling through Mexico's railway Panama. Potentially, the canal could be driven out version of the Mexican railway out of business But actually, that isn't what the CIIT was The people involved have repeatedly said that Panama Canal, as opposed to trying to replace The Panama Canal has the capacity to handle year, but often, that isn't enough. More and more ships want to use the canal to keep up with demand. To make things worse, the canal has been having In 2023, Panama was struck by the driest season The authorities decided to limit the canal All its gates and locks use water to operate A decision was made. Only 25 ships would be allowed to use the almost 40 per day. This led to a bit of a frenzy, as companies guarantee a precious slot. Other ships were left stranded, forced to This is where another option like the CIIT It could take some pressure off the Panama route when the canal is in high demand. This would make shipping more reliable: companies reach their target destinations on time. The water shortages in Panama actually disrupted If the CIIT had been up and running, those Working together, the Panama Canal and the trade, with more goods now able to move between As one Mexican official said of the project country, it's about connecting the world.&quot; But in the future, there's also a chance that In 2014, a Chinese businessman tried to build up another alternative to Panama. When the Chinese stock market crashed in 2015, But maybe someone will come back to that in There's also a possibility that the Northwest be opening up as a result of global warming. In the last few years, a few ships have managed America to the other. One thing's certain: the state of trade the verge of some major changes. What do you think of Mexico's latest megaproject? Let us know in the comments below. Thank you for watching, and we will see you