Hey, guys. Toby Mathis here. And today Before we dive in, I just want to give you why you should actually listen I'm come from nothing, right? I'm just a tax attorney who's built up And I've worked with investors and high In fact, we do over 10,000 working with investors. And we've learned a lot over the years, just watching other people Myself and one of my business partners. We own over 300 individual properties, commercial properties, warehouses, duplexes, quads, eight plex, 16 plex, We own a lot of real estate, including private investments And we've learned a few things of watching the successful people And I what I'm going to share with you I've learned over these years watching, And I want to help and help other people as well, absolutely something anybody could have Do you think I'm leaving one out By all means, put it in the comments below right now, if you don't believe that there was value Like later. It doesn't matter to me if I don't earn. You're like, All right, let's dive in. 15 rules of money number one, This is the biggest differentiator And it's called locus of control. Quite simply, all it means is you believe you can affect your outcome. You believe that you can become wealthy. You believe that you control money It's called locus of control. And repeatedly it's shown between those who achieve their wealth And it's just that simple belief. It's that checkup from the neck up. I use that phrase quite often. It's making so that then your beliefs are in line I believe I can control my own outcome, When you don't believe that you can control things, And unfortunately it's a self-fulfilling So number one is locus of control. We see it over and over again. Number two Einstein said compound interest It's one of these things If you take the interest rate and divide it into 72, for that investment to double. So, for example, you're making 10% Your investment will double in 7.2 years. It's a game of doubling many people that I follow, If I can take $10,000, make it 20, That's what the ten to the 20, to the 80, 80 to the one, 61, 60 to 3, 23, 20 to 6, 46, 40 to $1 million. Then I am seven doubling away. So if I could put $10,000 away Yep, that's $1 million you have saved up one time if I could accumulate $10,000 Now, I know a lot of you guys are saying, If you did, you could literally put it without having to worry. But you could create extreme wealth. And what we have seen over and over again help people that we would never In fact, teachers in a national study The third largest group was teachers. The people that are not making doing is putting their money away Having long careers. And at the end of that career, sitting there because of this rule of 72, And the 7030 rule I've done four videos on this. In fact, three Steps really a lot on this And what that means The 30 is ten, ten, ten, 10%, giving 10%, paying off debt, 10% investing. And if you don't do the top two, and I don't like giving, but it's living off of less And then magic number. My experience, if you really want to get ahead, and make sure that you are putting money Now, if you are somebody who is struggling then I would say give time away to others, I don't care if it's a dollar find a way to put money because that's going to trigger your mind to investing and you are going to learn it It's the old Nike adage, JUST DO IT. You got to invest. You got to attack that debt. Debt enslaves you and makes you literally there's a Mastercard, right? Well, who's the servant in that situation? It's you. Right? So you don't want to be in that situation. You got to get out of debt. So the 7030 rule is live off of 70% of the 30% pay 10% to others. If you're not going to do that, which is investing Number three is investing. And if you do that, a month, take home What is that 2800 bucks? You got to do it. You got to buckle, you know, tighten You have to so that you can live the life Otherwise you're going to be in So if you want to be successful, That means I suggest the 7030 rule. And then on the investment side, called the 3030 3010 rule. And I'm going to stop right here and say, I have a book out I will give you a free All you have to do is write down below in the comments free ebook We'll send you a link so you can get it It's the CFP and other really smart investors got together And the 3030, 3010 rule is this There is cash or cash equivalents. It's It's your Bitcoin. It's your dollars US dollars. That is 10% of your assets, And I'm going to suggest that you do, dividend paying securities like Dividend that have been increasing their dividend Dividend aristocrats is 25 years. But I would suggest that you pick also do indexes like spy. VLO is, a good one that does covered calls to create additional income, But it's a strategy that I allows you Is Kevin Simpson's DIVO DIVO. It's a great ETF. but you're going to put 30% of your money 30% is going to be real estate So when I say real estate, I mean income producing real estate, assets, So if you do a REIT, Federal Realty Trust, oh, public storage, 90% of them of their income every year You have money coming in single family, multifamily commercial And then the last 30% is managed money. It's letting somebody else make decisions for you or mirroring So if you want to control it, And the reason being is that we could rely on, syndications private investment You are going to learn from them with them, and you're going to use So you're going to use like a CFP credentials to manage your money, as you're allowing them And again, If you love real estate, on all counts other than the cash. Right. You could be hey, I'm going to use reeds there. I'm going to invest in other real estate If you are a real estate buff, very heavily weighted into real estate But we want to use these categories. The reason being is because it's really, to screw it up I know there's people that say You know, Elon Musk is all Tesla. No, it's not quite that simple. You want to make sure Elon Musk would be the first one to tell He took huge risks. He thought SpaceX was going to go under. Tesla could have gone under because he could influence the outcome, in those businesses. We want investment assets that are paying We want to monitor, you know, monitor even if we make mistakes, The next area, the next rule that versus timing. It's not about your timing, the market. If you try to time Study after study has shown impact on trying to time the market and I'm investing at the perfect time, you'll be slightly ahead of somebody or just invests Like the numbers I've seen backtesting, and it's within percentages of each other. It's not massive. In the same token, the top, Everybody thinks, The market's been going up averaging about, you know, 10% per year. And if you play your cards right you could actually be getting income off and enjoy that type of growth. But it's not about any crystal ball in the market. That is how you want to be consistently Study after study has shown that you are going to do great In fact, one of the one of my favorite that I've looked at showed for 15 years, your chances of losing money And that's backtesting Even when the market crashed, in the Great You'd still be okay. But if you're investing in good dividend I think the drawdown on the dividend, Aristocrats and Dividend Again, there's ways to monitor that risk But the longer you have time in the market, the more likely it is If you were one of the first investors Berkshire Hathaway, Nvidia, you killed it. If you just invested in the spy or Vo, The 500 largest companies in the, in the stock market. If that's all you did, then you would absolutely be killing it, Because, again, you're talking about your money Every seven years? Number six, we want to talk about debt. Versus leverage. The rule is simple. Debt is on a depreciating, item that's going to be consumed Not like real estate. I don't want to confuse you Leverage is on a cash flowing asset. Debt doesn't pay me anything. It's debt is on a liability. Debt is on the car that I buy. Let's say you went out If I have debt on that, On a liability. In other It loses, what, 2,030% of its value and I'm going to have to pay interest It's like a double punch have lots of debt, have lots of credit have lots of debt on liabilities, It almost always ends in bankruptcy or severe financial stress, as opposed to if you're investing in assets If I'm investing and I'm, The cost of it is if I am making more So if I'm investing in real estate, I have to look at all of its costs. And if it's positive, it's an asset. If it's negative, it's a liability. So if I'm investing in assets then that asset will pay for that debt When you hear about Robert Kiyosaki what he's saying is and the appreciation on those assets I think since Covid, real estate has gone When you look at inflation, the the the value of real estate absolutely skyrocketed almost all, We're seeing massive gains. We're talking about the equity I think the average American Now we're looking at some of those stats It went up a lot. Well you get that And that's why leverage is so effective. That's why really wealthy people, you'll often And a lot of times and they're borrowing against that Those assets are paying off the debt, and producing income. That's what leverage is all about. And that's one of those things You really want to learn it. Servitude. Again, I They don't even hide it. Mastercard I am your master. They're literally saying the credit card, You are working for me, and you don't want to be enslaved by these You are now working to pay them. You're working your card off. And so many people in this situation, 20% interest rates, 22 or 23% They're working to pay their minimum the wrong way. We don't want that. We don't want debt. We want leverage. All right. The other thing we want to learn Versus liability. Assets versus liability. Assets pay you money. Assets pay you money on a monthly basis. Liabilities take money out of your pocket. How do you know whether something Look at your bank statement. If it's paying you, it's an asset. If it's costing you, it's a liability. I get this argument all the time. Well, gold is an asset. No, it's actually probably it's nothing. It's not it's not doing anything. You know, if anything, it's going to cost Maybe you're having to put it But realistically It is not an asset that is paying. You cannot spend that money An asset pays you cash. So a dividend producing stock, for every quarter, every month or every year, You can take that money You could buy the groceries, you could pay Right. If I am doing covered calls on those same Again, free book, type it in there. You'll learn all these things You can. Absolutely. I'll send you the free e-book. All you got to do But if you're doing that, I could take it out That's an asset. A liability So you have a lot of real estate people My house, it's a liability. I'm sorry. It might be appreciating, but it's not. You're not living off of it. If I live off of it, And I'm going to have to pay that debt. And I know a lot of people who are Why are we always when interest rates go like, I can't sell my house now the new debt on the house It's already costing me a bunch of money I have to maintain it. I have to continue to put money into it. It's a bit depreciates. It's means you have to replace parts of it That's a cost. That's a liability. I have to pay it. Liabilities stink. Liabilities bleed us assets feed us. You got to look that boat, your car, Those are liabilities. And you want to make sure that you are not And then you understand is not having to work for your money. And that's going to get there You got to have assets that pay you whether you're sleeping, whatever it is you're going to buy, things Next one next rule is taxes. Health. What does that mean? Taxes tell? That means that if you look at the tax Depending on what your situation is, than it tells me. Right. The tax code will tell us Like, you might be looking at it going, wait, I can use passive losses to offset that. It might be telling you It might be telling you to be it might be telling you Hey, I have Social Security income in. I am below $92,000. I'm married and I don't want to make But I need I need money. You should be investing in dividends. Why qualified dividends or taxes? Long term capital gains, which is zero. If you are making less than $92,000 So right around 90 right now Plus you have your standard deduction. So you could be making 100 if you're married filing jointly and pay That is telling me what I should be investing If I have a bunch of passive loss The tax code is saying the passive right now, you don't pay tax on. Maybe you should be considering that taxes The other thing taxes tell us is at millionaires in this country and say, The vast majority have three or more lines of income, We have our active income. We have profits off of business, in profits off of businesses We have long term short term We have dividends. We have interest. We have all these different types We have different types of income what those are, will allow us about what we invest in and how we grow, The guy that works at In-N-Out that somebody who's a real estate And it always comes up So-and-so made this much money as this person over here. Different types of income create Congress we would like you to do and you're paying taxes, it's They're literally saying, you can make money forever. You can even buy new real estate. You could sell and buy more real estate, And then when you die, And if you're heirs, sell it. That's screaming at you And you should listen because they will tell us how to do things in efficient matter, it's what you keep. It's not what you that top line, it's that bottom line That's the big one. Next big one. This is for all you folks that are I'm just going to call it the 5% rule. And here's a simple way to look at it. If you can rent a house for less on an annual basis for less than 5% of its fair you should rent the house. You shouldn't buy that house, right? So if there's $1 million house for $2,000 Do not buy that house, right? It's the cost of owning mark between the property I want to be wise about this. A lot of times You know, they go to the realtor and the realtor says, Let's see how much And they're not saying, They're saying how much home. Because then we're going to then they're They're going to get They're going to try to sell you a house because they get paid more on it. And I'm not saying anything I don't blame you. And a lot of people are like, They're not saying, How much is it going to cost me? And then people are surprised and they don't realize, And if you bought an older home, I them I have to redo the roof, I had to All these things are very expensive. Property taxes are expensive. If you live in a state like Florida, It depends on your area and what it costs. You should actually calculate that. But I'm just going to say renting a house and buying a house, I rented a house People were like, Toby, you could buy it. I did all of it. And I was like, yeah, but I wanted to be And the houses, like the cost of buying that house It didn't make sense for me. Like $1 I was paying $3,000 a month I'm just going to go ahead and rent it. Well, that house, I could have bought that house I bought a ton of houses through Vegas Loved it. It was great. I kept just a handful, But it was one of those things is 5% rule, okay, million dollar house. I could rent it for less than $50,000 I'm renting. That's it. Simple. Invest the other. Invest the difference. Make sure you're putting that other money that you would have spent even on the real estate, for that matter, I have a big stinking liability Just remember, of that million Ouch. I don't want to necessarily buy that home, even if I think it's going to appreciate. I just need to be smart about it so I use the 5% rule to determine, Now it's it the only thing you do know. But it gives it gets the conversation started, I use it, If I had bought that house, man, I would have been hating life How to go G's other rule their seeds and their seasons. Understand that when you plant seeds, you have to allow them to mature and you don't want to early harvest When you are investing especially things like oil and gas, especially things like syndications, especially those types of things Then I need to be very careful that I need to allow it to grow, hey, there's a time to harvest, there's a time to stay away and let I need to understand that and accept for example, and think immediately There are folks at particular times but I've also seen people get crushed in the wrong season. I remember Las Vegas is a great example. During the Great Recession, All along that way. There was people that saw a house It went to 400,000. I'm buying it. I'm going to fix it up and flip it for The house went down to 200,000. Now what do they do? They're stuck. Right? Because they didn't understand the season and they didn't understand They didn't let it mature. There are seeds. We do not eat our seed. That is our investment capital. If you eat your seed, We don't want to eat our seed, And then we want to understand And it may be a longer period of time, and You're going to have to learn that watching others, listening to those But that is an absolute rule You violate that rule, Now let's talk about the types of wealth. There are four types of wealth. You need to know the difference The first time of wealth is financial It's having the ability to pay for things. Right, I have money, congratulations. That's the great place to be. But there's other types of wealth. There's social wealth. Hey, I have money and I have status. People are seeing me. I got the nice car, I got the nice house, I love what you're doing with the place, There's that type or they're watching you you're doing all sorts of stuff You're getting feedback. There's two other types of wealth. I believe these next two types of wealth The next two types of wealth are time. Wealth, When you want to do it. You want to go on vacation. You want to go give time and fly out You don't need to ask anybody's You can just go do it You want to go to Fiji for a month? You can do it. You can travel wherever you want. You can do whatever you want. And then there's health. Wealth. Do not sacrifice three and four time and health for one and two. Just leave it at that. Do not sacrifice your health and your time chasing social status and money It's going to end up being suffering. You gotta look at all four A lot of people that I work with, that number three is really important. And number four is really important. You only got one body right. You got to take care of it. Once that goes one through, So you always got to be mindful But that got three That is for most people They don't need to have a Rolls-Royce, Lamborghini, Ferrari, great house, Right? Because you now know 5% rule. You're looking at your house going, it's a $2 million house, I bought a really nice car. Yeah, it cost $3,000 to change the oil. And each tires. 3000 bucks. Oh, right. Every time I drive that thing, You don't even realize it, right? There's a cost to those things. Do not sacrifice your time. Do not sacrifice. Sacrifice your health. And we've all done it. I'm a lawyer. I know what 80 hour, 100 hours feel like. I remember just working, And guess what it did? It was at the expense of number four. It really took its toll on me. Most people, it does. I was chasing number one. I was chasing status number two. Now I could do whatever I want to do I like to travel. We just go all over the place. I love that it's way more important Being able to have that time and then Absolutely. There's four types of wealth. Three and four are really important. They're all important. But don't do Ever. Just know that number 12 money magnifies. What does that mean? It means money I've seen this to be the true If somebody is a really cool person, If you are a sourpuss and you're an angry person, money makes you even And then you're wondering Money solves money problems. That's it. Money does not solve I mean, it, But you're going to have to do something You're going to have to have self-control and you're going to have to have access Money might open up some doors for you, Money takes care of money issues. If you're unhappy, money's Now, I will say this if you want to be I don't know too many givers If you are like me, like some people say, No loving too much money doing number one is bad, right? That's usually causes So if you're just chasing money including your integrity and your health, you're going to end up in a bad place, It's not that. But if, if if you want to say money doesn't buy happiness, I would say Do things that bring you joy. And it's really hard to be angry I'm just saying it now. You can take it for what it's worth, So if you are a very miserable, so that you can enjoy And it doesn't. Like you might be shocked if you have consistent money coming in, and how much happiness All right, number 13 be a student. One thing I have seen over and over again is students of money. It's called, learn until you earn, Learn, learn, learn, learn, learn But it's being a student. It's being diligent. It's respecting money. If you're angry person, you don't want Oh, this money will probably avoid you. Money is not too excited about hanging out So being a student of money, looking at all things Like Simon Sinek, right? What is the reason you're doing You start identifying that, and you get more money starts to become You can be a student. Why do I say this? Because again, mindset Your beliefs will create your behaviors. If you're a student, you can work on that. That six inches between your ears, right? The check up from the neck up. You could do all that And the most successful I have 80 plus year old friends that were super successful. They always have something they're talking about And it could be I love going around the world and checking how they built, what they're made out of, Right? And you go on the tours, The Duomo in Milan is just insane. The last Gothic cathedral that was built. Like you go to these things, First It's coming back. It's coming back. Right. But so you have all these different things and I don't know, And if you're a student of money about different investments, It's fun and it becomes more joyous So be a student. Learn before you earn. That is that is that is true. Number 14. Your dollars are your army. You used to call it the Golden soldiers Right. Well, your your money is your army And we want it to bring back prisoners. We want it to bring back more money. So you're pushing it out there, right? Treat it well. Don't let your army get captured Don't just send it into into eradication. Don't send your army into a battle Right? Don't go throw your money away. Treat it like it's your army out is going out and doing things, Investing in assets is a prime example. Don't go throw your money Let your assets pay for your liabilities. Let your assets create like, hey, have a Ferrari, I want your assets You want to have a big house, but have your assets but you. Treat your money like it's an army. I'm creating the investments, that those prisoners pay for my It's they're going out and creating more. It could be in the form of interest. It could be in the form of dividends. It could be in capital gains, Maybe I'm doing covered calls Maybe I'm doing cash Maybe I'm getting interest off of peer Maybe I'm buying notes, but I'm going to go ahead that are going to create more wealth, And then the last one is understand Versus wealth. And remember there's four types of wealth, right. Understand the difference between money What we're actually using it for. And I'm going to use an example He actually had a really great story It helps if I read it. And this is a what he wrote. He said true story word of honor. Joseph Heller, Now, dead and I were at a party I said, Joe, how does it feel or how does it make you feel to know may have made more money than your novel 22 has earned in its entire history. And Joe said, And I said, what on earth And Joe Not bad. Now rest in peace. There's a lot of truth We don't have to chase status. A lot of I've known this. I call him rich, miserable bastard. The people that are rich, they're unhappy. They're always trying to get more, And, you know, He's always he's he's miserable It's always trying to get more money. Thinks that's not going to solve it. That's not going to solve it. Or, you know, Scrooge. You could have an epiphany, maybe, It's not about money. It's about wealth. And that wealth might be time, freedom. The freedom to do what you care being happy, being around the people Maybe it's you I want to be around my kids I want to be able to travel That's wealth. That's not money, that's wealth. And I'll leave it at that. If you believe that I missed something, if you like this, please If you already liked, And if you know of anybody who would Otherwise,