The Airbus A220, originally the Bombardier entering service with SWISS in 2016. Passengers while some airlines have noted that the weathering the pandemic amid low load factors. significantly impact the A220's ability to One airline has completely grounded 100% about 50% of its fleet inactive. Some Let's look at the global A220 fleet As per Airbus data, up to March 31st, 2023, worldwide. This divides into exactly 200 This figure will be slightly higher once by much. In terms of airframes ordered, Interestingly, the March 2023 data states that all that, for Airbus, this simply means no airframes it fails to accurately portray the status of some A220s have worryingly been According to Planespotters.net data accurate as of as 'parked.' While some have been assigned this other airframes have been sitting on The most notorious problems for the A220 are the Whitney (P&amp;W). The A220 is exclusively powered by is part of a larger family of geared turbofan Embraer E2 aircraft. Meanwhile, the larger Airbus One A220 operator particularly vocal about airBaltic, which operates a single-type fleet airline CEO Martin Gauss explained that, due various intervals in the A220's lifetime, engines off the wing and are shipped to a specialist this process is taking far longer than it "Normally, that would take, let's say, an average ship it and get the engine back. That process European operators airBaltic and SWISS back when it was the CSeries. SWISS was the while airBaltic was the first to Sadly, these two operators have numerous This extended timeframe for engine servicing the airline had 11 of its 41 jets unavailable for two of those aircraft are currently while nine have been parked on the ground due to data, about four of these aircraft have not Over at SWISS, an airline spokesperson on average, six to eight of the 30) are not in service due to one or FlightRadar24.com data indicates that one while another has not been &quot;This number can fluctuate and the representative stated. Additionally, three aircraft are undergoing regular &quot;The reason for the increased need for replacement overhaul of individual components. This overhaul shortage of spare parts - this is creating a SWISS notes that it has adjusted its any impact on travelers. Interestingly of its wet lease partners for providing in this challenging environment.&quot; One Engine supply chain issues, while severe, will be engine backlog to clear by 2025. Even better news that engine reliability for later models is delivered later to spend an extended time in Unfortunately, it appears that Pratt &amp;Whitney's serious problem on their hands. Indeed, there impacting airlines operating in hot, humid larger PW1100G powering the A320neo, India's Go PW1100G engines in recent years, experiencing Over in Iraq, it appears that the country's to suspend all of its A220-300 operations In our reporting on the situation, photos of what is alleged to be an A220 Reporting by Airspace Africa noted have also been experiencing A220 engine failures. The chief at Air Tanzania stated that, despite the airline was having to remove powerplants Perhaps the most interesting situation is 12 A220-300s delivered to the airline, six - or of the flight history of each airframe reveals over a year. Indeed, three of EgyptAir's A220s two have not flown since about mid-2022. The 6th These are startlingly long times to leave Simple Flying made efforts to connect with but was unable to get in touch From Iraq to South Korea to Canada, in the number of A220s grounded. It does in hotter environments are seeing a larger it's rather different for airlines in other parts Here's what we saw as of May 4th... Korean Air has one of its 10 A220s on the ground. Air France has two of its 23 A220s parked. One has not flown since March 17th Of Air Canada's 33 A220s, three are parked. while the other two have been on And finally, of the other carriers with larger Airways' 12 jets are operational. Just a 60 A220s has been on the ground for As clarified by both airBaltic and SWISS in their simply undergoing scheduled maintenance. Thus, considered as suffering from engine issues. to see how long some jets have spent on the Equally as interesting is operator of the largest A220 fleet globally With so many aircraft in service, Simple able to seemingly operate unscathed by the A Delta spokesperson acknowledged our inquiry was sent to Air Canada, who did not respond to What are your thoughts on the Share your thoughts by leaving a comment!