This scene here is very There are guys in the military, certain groups around the world that can absolutely do this. Hi, I'm Cain Vincent Dyer. I committed over 100 bank robberies in a period of almost two years. After turning myself in, I decided to form a coaching company that helps people transform their lives. And today we are going to be judging the authenticity of bank-robbery scenes in some of our favorite movies. He has on this helmet, so he doesn't need a mask. He doesn't look like he'd be It looks like he just kept his helmet on, which guys do all the time. I can really, really relate to this, him wearing that backpack. I would sometimes either wear a backpack or a duffel bag strapped around the front, and you can still have That's the only drawback -- if you get any kind of you walk off, and that dye pack explodes, he's wearing it on his chest. Luke: Fuck. This is so real. It typically happens Bank robbery is bad enough, so, just to put that out there. What we know from watching the movie is he's in a really desperate situation. Sometimes the desperation kind of overrides the moral compass. It's very accurate. It takes a second for Luke: You! Get up! He has tape. He doesn't want those gloves coming off. So obviously he's really conscious of not leaving any type of fingerprints. Also, it's holding his which could be covering Interesting that he Because of the glass, he's and, you know, they could put any kind of device in that bag. It almost shows more so the desperation, that he went into this with glass and everything like that, but he was still so desperate [motorcycle engine sputtering] Son of a -- Him having a problem with his motorcycle is something -- sure, it's happened. [police sirens blaring] They just blow through that red light with all those cars coming. I don't think a intelligent police officer would do that, just because you're putting I would actually rate this a 9. Going into the bank, preparing, getting nervous even the mistakes he made inside, were actual mistakes that you would probably make. This vault that looks like except for probably the US military. We have to keep in mind that, this movie, everything about this movie is supposed to be over the top. Yes, they do have very and things like that, timed lock safes, things that are really hard to get into. But a lot of time, during business hours, they will keep certain safes open just so the employees can have access. I learned everything. So, at every bank I went into, I knew whether it was going to have a safe such as the one that's in this scene or if it was going to be, say, regular open doors. And if it were like this, Unless I found in one of their manuals or knew that they would between certain times. Could I get into that? Back then, where things I mean, it would've taken a considerable amount of That's not, like, a three- [gunshot] [cocks gun] You wouldn't have a unless you have a security You gotta keep in mind, and he hits that bank-robbery suspect, those rounds are probably and going straight into the bank customer or the bank employee. Robber: What bus driver? [windows shatter] That school bus doesn't and it just crashed through a cement and stone building. And, if you remember, it had to go up the steps, because when they robbed the building they went up the steps, and that -- like, totally Hollywood, right? Definitely a 1. [chuckles] The camera's already got them on video, so why even use a mask at that point? Either they should've gone straight in with the mask on, or not used anything. Robber: Stay down! We want to hurt no one. The energy is so on point. How they talk, how they Even the customers, just Cellophane money. The This is how a lot of when it comes in. Because they're still coming from, you know, basically the factory. Robber: Down! Down. Detective: Far East National Bank, 11:30! The silent alarm is actually going off as they're leaving, which is what employees It's less chance of the cops getting there and them having a hostage situation. The police are being alerted as the bank robbers are leaving, which is super accurate. I would actually give it about a 7. The energy is so accurate for that team. You can that it needs to get done. Robber: Move, move, move! All right, back it away from the counter! They know exactly what they're doing. You can tell by the way they know the layout of this place. Robber: Up against the wall! You! Away from the computer! Bank robberies that are done by a lot of different gangs, this is how they go in, and this is how they operate. Just with brute force and sheer fear. Robber: When's the time lock set for? 9 o'clock. Robber: Don't lie to us. It's 8:15. He asked her something very which he already knew. I would ask a bank employee a question just because I knew the answer, and I wanted to see if they were gonna be I wanted to see if they how they were gonna respond He just wanted to see if Robber: Hold it! Silent You pull the alarm? No! No! A lot of people believe you know, all employees That's not accurate. There's very specific people that have the silent alarms that are allowed to push it. Robber: Bleaching up! Come on, let's go, we don't have time. Bleaching is something I I know why he's doing it, to get rid of all type of evidence. You know, once you put bleach on anything, everything just kind of dissipates. It's just interesting to me like, the gloves, they have on I would say this movie is a 10. For the realistic way that these guys are just that aggressive. Unfortunately, you have and that's how they do it. Pills &amp; Coke: He's gonna kill us all. Unless... you can give me a giant f---ing s---wad of cash. I have a plan. I didn't start robbing banks just because I wanted money. I started robbing banks in order to pay off a debt that a very dear relative to me had incurred to a criminal organization. When people do a solo robbery and they're trying not to be seen, this is exactly how They would hand the teller a note. They would probably We can say he makes the but most guys that go in solo like that, they often do that, and they and they just hope that the and they won't get that much attention. But they will go in and You know, someone's like, She's probably still processing. What they are trained money that has some some kind of tracer or dye pack. And we see the stack. That stack looks a lot bigger and looks like something he should take. It could be what they A stack that bank employees and with those are the bait Here we see him being captured on video. So, when I did all of my bank robberies, it was in the end of '99, going into 2000. And you didn't have cameras that were as high-quality So these old cameras so they would have a lot of them, but it's very common to There are even things along doors that will allow a witness to gather even how tall you are, and you'll see it in a And when someone passes it, to look where he lines up on that. Absolutely a 10. Absolutely a 10. But you see the man with the briefcase? Teller: Yes. That's my partner. He has a gun in there. And if you don't do or if you give me any I'm gonna look over at my partner, and he's gonna shoot your I have done that. I have gone into a bank and immediately given instructions. I've looked back at the and told an imaginary accomplice there to make sure everyone not lay down or hands in the air, but they keep their head down, like, just their eyes and there was never anyone there. Take one of those big 100s, 50s, and 20s as He's disarming her fear. Literally, you know? So it's not bringing That method is a very, very common method. I would say things like that. Even if I yell louder at everyone else, I would tell the person to do whatever I'm I would be much more calm with them, versus screaming at them. The rating I'm gonna give this picture is a 10. You know, you would think he wouldn't just go into a bank like that, but people will do things like that, especially if it's a smaller bank and they think that the Police radio: All available units, we have a bank 211 in progress at the Pico Rivera Savings in -- [police sirens blaring] Stop! That is super accurate, where they're trying to back The FBI agent that was Patrick Conley, he changed how they And a lot of times they would to get caught in the, And they'd get caught and someone tells on someone. We've been surveilling That's what surveillance is! They commit a crime, The police aren't working together. In my case that happened a lot too, because other officers weren't giving Special Agent Patrick Conley the information he needed, used to chasing down actual bank robbers. Anytime he heard something come up, he was always there. Once that silent alarm [police sirens blaring] I have never been in that situation, where I have been inside but I have been in the situation where, as I'm driving away, all The moment I saw all the cops, I rolled all the windows down and turned my music on I'm gonna give it a 7, because today, you know, has learned a lot by not This scene here is very This isn't a normal bank robbery, right? There are guys in the military and certain groups around the world that could absolutely do this. Now, a typical bank robbery, you're working within a And trying to get in a vault like that, even if you have the it would probably take you as long to get in that vault as the sentence you would I have gone into banks that have safe locks in vaults and time-lock vaults and stuff like that. But there is a bank in Spain where if certain parts it will flood the actual safe I'll give it a 10 for entertainment, but I'm gonna give it a 1 on the skill set that anyone would have to go do that. I've been waiting to go into a bank and I've seen a pregnant lady or an elderly person go in, and it's made me either pause or wait, because I didn't want to -- you know, like I said, a lot they're not thinking that they're just taking the money. You're putting a lot and trauma on someone. Sometimes you don't Just the one, Sonny! Sonny: Right! This happened in 1972 in Brooklyn. Just a horrible situation when you have this hostage situation. [emergency sirens wailing] Right now he's in serious, serious denial. I haven't been in this situation, but I remember, even making the decision that I There was just so much They got me on kidnapping, armed robbery. They're gonna bury me, man! [audience cheering] Attica! Attica! Attica! Basically, he's buying time. You're working off because he knows. He can't go anywhere, but now it's just about survival. I'm gonna give it a 10. And were there mistakes made Were there things that wouldn't do in the bank? Yes. But in this situation, all those mistakes played Robber: We have it, let's go! A lot of bank robbers, especially their first time out of desperation they will just take whatever they can put in, and I've heard about and forgetting to take anything to collect the money with, you know? Putting everything, in a T-shirt, you know? Robber: I got this! He wasn't prepared for that, but then he had to jump back into his -- into that zone of getting So I like that they kind of did that, where they give him this &quot;Whoa! I didn't expect that.&quot; 'Cause he's just the driver. Robber: Look out! Ah! What the?! That's a situation that The guy who's engaging them has a Marine Corps hat on and a Marine Corps decal on his car. And that was something when going into a bank. You know, just wondering another guy in there like me. He was a Marine, like myself. It happened to me, where I had a guy who was probably former come at me, tell me to stop. And I followed the command. I know it sounds weird, because it just wasn't worth physically harming someone, for me. Just that scene there, that interaction, I would give it another 7. We saw a lot of violence happening, and it's easy from the outside to say, &quot;OK, that wouldn't happen,&quot; I've been into banks you'd see working crews there, but I would think that where you'd have working But if you had to have I can see how that guy can be in there. Robber: Easy... Everybody get down on [patrons screaming] I never used a team like that. Sometimes people will get a And a lot of guys probably think that's the way to instill fear, to get people to do what you tell them. But I'm kinda against that. Once again, we're looking at Hollywood; things would be much But a lot of old banks did Later on, in probably, what happened is you started to see banks incorporate this double-door mechanism. What that was actually for inside those first doors I don't know. If a bunch were doing something like this, this is probably the way they would do it. So I will rate it another 7.