The Aztec were a who thrived from through the 16th century. And when Spanish encountered the were amazed by their techniques and their surroundings, clean. So today we're going to was like in the Aztec Empire. But before we get started, be History channel, and let us other hygiene-related topics OK, time to get clean. Ah, Aztec fresh. The Aztecs were the inheritors from their Olmec, Mayan, As such, Aztec hygiene practices and continued their dedication Their concerns about personal were interwoven with so the Aztecs far of their contemporaries While London was of the sewage clogged Thames as the Aztecs, centuries earlier, to provide clean and rid the air of The Aztec peoples were well was to all aspects of life. This consideration of systems of canals in In Tenochtitlan, for supplied residents with water-- they were also a public transportation system. Conquistador Hernan that Tenochtitlan was big, alongside half-canals, where Canals that brought fresh were lined with plaster, to remove human waste Cortes recorded that alongside were two aqueducts Each was two paces And, along one of them, a carried very good fresh water The Aztecs drank from that which was left empty-- was used when the people wished The canals and aqueducts kept fresh and salt which was essential for both purposes. Another incredible benefit in Aztec cities was the fact in private homes. While most Aztecs they also occasionally for ritual purposes. An Aztec steam lodge, with no windows that floor dashed with cold water. It was built in accordance practice, and was used for after a physical conflict to aid or serve as a site for Like most aspects the temazcal was The goddess of Temazcalteci, a was kept on display nearby. Tlazolteotl, the fifth to the temazcal, by which people rid themselves grime. Aztecs didn't have soap, in but they did take properties of numerous plants. For example, the roots and later called the soap produced a lather that could and clothing alike. The xiuhamolli plants, had similar properties. Described as being long with a chute and a white The large thick roots and the small slender During the month of of the solar calendar by the grace of avoided bathing their as a sign of Similarly, women while men were away fighting. The Badianus Manuscript-- Medicinalibus Indorum Herbis, herbs of the Indians-- is an herbal text records that the Aztecs had odor. The book recommended that a person should enter a and there wash the To kill the odors, washing with the pulverized a human and dog's bone, and the juice of all well Sounds like a bath To keep body odor applied deodorants from ingredients like copal To overcome the fetid patients were anointed with pine needles, and fruit. Women also wore similar to the to sick and injured individuals. Curating smells wasn't The Aztecs burned especially priests as scents were crucial According to the a 16th century work by Spanish Sahagun, Aztec women believed was the ideal way As one of the few firsthand that survives today, the into cultural traditions Among other things, this his young daughter to and to clean her but never to wear on her mouth to look beautiful. The father added that things that light women use-- shameless creatures. If you want your dress well, wash yourself, According to or women who dressed and groomed use makeup and perfumes, called axin, which gave He also noted that what he described also sometimes wore rouge. Regardless of the preferences of women did often wear makeup, The most common cosmetic of sorts spread on the skin. According to a Aztec field surgeons tended and healed them faster than The quality of care also carried over Priests and healers and bloodletting rituals also distributed of oils, herbs, and to heal cuts of all kinds. Aztec healers trained to treat everything to low-grade infections. For example, juice from was used to reduce swelling, was mixed with wax, to treat inflammation and fever. They even used hair to and were capable According to Friar the broken bones were carefully splints of wood, tied A plaster then was composed of gum of the ocozotl The limb and the were encased in a second As part of maintaining Aztecs, like many we've covered in our hygiene urine to clean their teeth. Other materials, like ashes, were also used. To keep their breath were known to chew a gum thought which is derived from the When Bernardino de Sahagun he found it gave him a headache. He also said that when the Aztec word that she made a clacking noise As a remedy to Aztecs could rub But if the tooth problem got was a necessity. Luckily, that was something they Dentists could pull before applying a mixture This made for a relatively after which a mixture of herbs the open wound. Aztec dentists also filed, and applied jewels to incisors, of the night&quot; dyed to distinguish themselves. Most dental plans Networks of canals made it much easier to keep the When the streets for example, were swept, could be thrown into one of the waste from the city. Sweeping and cleanliness of maintaining order Women swept their homes to honor their domestic space, and schools to keep out threatening spiritual forces. Cities also had public toilets would be collected and It could also be by one of the canals or helped keep human waste from As Hernan Cortes he observed establishments where residents go to have Hairstyles for men varied significantly, with were sometimes matted with wore their hair short. Boys' were shorn At that point, they on the backs of their shaven once they'd to be a successful warrior. Women could dye their hair called xiuhquilitl, a purple shining in the hair. Some women shaved while older females-- particularly mothers-- divided at the nape of the neck Dandruff was cleaning and a hearty scrubbing Clay would then be used to In the event of had their heads were doused in urine of pinewood, cottonseed, and It was pretty much like they with a lot more urine. So what do you think? What surprised you the Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.