Professor Amy I'd like to begin. It is good to see you all. I don't know where those two So, tell me: Meridian over break; task for you? I promised? No. lecture today, you, thinking about as I talk to you Who liked this novel? maybe, half of you. it; someone tell me why they liked Okay. Someone can tell me one novel. Thank you.Student: is.Professor Amy creepy the judge is. is, yes. Yes.Student: quickly and bluntly some of the So, you'll be reading a passage things, and then all of a Professor Amy that? It certainly is a kind of violence, yes, What did it remind you of? I liked how ambiguous the Hungerford: Yeah. and we'll talk about that. Yes.Student: nightmare.Professor Amy nightmare. mean?Student: reading it, it felt like a It was very, and just very sensory, nightmare.Professor Amy It is very sensory. on the material of the world, that feeling of drawing you into I think, also, is heightened by the fact that this novel. novel. Why do you laugh? about the plot? You're still smiling from the you. Just because yes, That's part of the reason that reading, just maybe be dry, presenting violence. but the fact that there didn't or a place that they're going, just be, like. disgusting.&quot;Professor Amy It can produce this aversion in How many were averse to this Okay, a few of you, at least. I think, - when I first tried I failed twice. So, I failed twice to read this and then I persevered. actually kind of boring, because of the plotlessness. interested in how the story is it can be repetitive and can I think. novel that I will try to account lectures today and on Wednesday. going to do in these two One is, today, means to track allusions in a So, that's going to be one Allusions appear in most of dare I say all of them, to do with them, Now, the sense of literature as our being able to do something something to say about them. novel speaks to a novel or a from the past? that in the evolution of the art This is a foundation of what like pretty much at any At any university, you're asked to study a You're asked to master, or to some extent, English. asked to do that? gives us the opportunity to take What does it mean, in this time, in a tradition? focus on that's of general The second thing, that I will focus on is what to what to do with that odd detail It could be anything. argument that will radiate out holistic understanding of a My second lecture will be a argument for that as a literary and I hope that this will be next paper, which will be coming So, I want to begin, Cormac McCarthy. 1992. gotten a lot more press since latest novel, He's sort of been out and He gave her an interview. then for a magazine. reclusive writer, the late '60s and by 1992--up all interviews. even when he had zero money. even when he was married and man. He would turn down invitations to their last dollar. stories about this. he'd turn it down, another night. that life was like. &quot;The ugly fact is books are The novel depends for its life written.&quot; take seriously allusion in Did anybody on their own Blood Meridian? Yes. Oral history, Professor Amy absolutely. The oral tradition is very The sound of the prose is very Yeah. Yes.Student: when he frequently talks about there is a lot of that in when the sun's fingers are out...Professor Amy A lot of that cosmic imagery, great epics of our language. What else? Yes.Student: references to the Bible: things.Professor Amy absolutely. throughout this, say about that--some to say today, but I have a whole get to on Wednesday. What else? Well, I'm going to start, to home, in the American I'm going to start with This is my lineup of texts talk about Blood I want to start with Moby This is probably the single McCarthy, beside the Bible, character, ideas, All kinds of things come from And, if you want to begin the first thing is to think Ahab is known for his his evil quest to take on the As a character who is threatening, model for Judge Holden. general way McCarthy owes a There are many specific to Moby-Dick. out, is from the prophet chapter That's chapter 19. you can recall that before Pequod they are accosted by a And his name is Elijah, cryptic language about what when they signed the papers to And he suggests that what souls, not just the couple of The version that we get in found on page 40 and 41. It actually starts on 39. The kid has joined up with filibusters, and they are in a on 39--an old, place. &quot;a thin man in a leather straight-brimmed hat set square whiskers.&quot; Moby-Dick version, closely he's following the cues &quot;Queequeg and I had just sauntering away from the water, with his own thoughts, have ye shipped in that ship] who, leveled his massive forefinger He was but shabbily appareled trousers, a rag of black neck. the very brief description of around his neck, in these two little paragraphs. however, is much more dire, Melville's Elijah. &quot;They'll jail you to a man&quot; &quot;Who will?&quot; General Worth.&quot; &quot;Pray that they will.&quot; He leans toward the Mennonite. &quot;Do ye cross that river with cross it back.&quot; We goin' to Sonora. The Mennonite watches the it is reflected to him in the He turns to them. He speaks slowly. It was hid a million years have the power to wake it. Hear me. making into a foreign land, But they berated the old man off down the bar muttering. How these things end, blood. in the streets and the stars in the west and these young men were said that could not be put and in the dawn the kid and the boy from Missouri who had been name but he never spoke back. of the courtyard. The whores were gone. within the cantina. broken in a pool of blood, A third one came to be with It was the Mennonite. east held a gray light. grapevines had begun to stir and &quot;There is no such joy in the thereto,&quot; said the Mennonite. his hands and now he set it upon went out the gate. sayings, like this last little road thereto, language. prophet, who occupies the accosting the main characters is much more playful. pretending to have a big secret, secret to tell, So, McCarthy takes the model brings it into a realm where replace the inklings of fear irony, playfulness. difference, I think, not to give us an Ishmael. charming narrator. he's funny; he can wax both grand and silly; silliness. Ishmael's mind that we see in We never see the like of this never. McCarthy has revised Melville, observations I'm going to, What does it mean that this is This is one of the questions together, will answer. Another specific scene in Melville comes when Toadvine Do you remember the scene? little Indian boy on his knee. delighted. In the morning the judge has and scalped it, pants. to the judge's head, &quot;Shoot that thing or put it And Toadvine puts it away. moment when Starbuck stands Ahab's maniacal quest for the the whole ship. deliberative man, the whole ship has now been cause. musket and shoots Ahab in his of men. So, both Toadvine and Starbuck problem: Do you murder the ill-fated, violent quest? This is a scene I'll come on Wednesday, it. one thing that we can say about the lack of interiority for difference. revision. is deliberative. He gives counsel to Ahab over to abandon his quest, at the very end of the novel. Starbuck gives an impassioned reminds him of his wife and &quot;Leave off chasing that whale. We have no such history for What do we know about Toadvine? ears that he's cut off. criminal past on his face. criminal life, Starbuck's thought. character, and that leads us to his failure to shoot the judge. yields lack of decisiveness, that moral complexity is Or, is that far too much to say Is Toadvine a morally complex Do we have any basis upon which So, this is another kind of Now I'm going to move to my here, and that's Paradise McCarthy rings the changes literature, but also of world You were talking about The tradition. he is entering the great realm Now he gives a specific in Blood Meridian, How many of you have taken a or have read Milton in class? Okay, a good number of you, realize this. do you remember this scene? They find the judge in the They're being hounded by the this time. They know they're going to be They find the judge sitting on desert. Glanton takes him up. and he takes them to a volcanic and there he instructs them how He takes brimstone from the rim charcoal and other things, it. gunpowder, and they use that who come after them. directly from Paradise Lost. in how to make gunpowder, little bit from Book 6 of So, the fiends are down in somewhat in despair over their The fallen angels are standing and they're taking turns making and they've just heard a speech &quot;We really need a better Otherwise we're never going to And here is what Satan has to Whereto with look Not uninvented that, so main to our success, Which of us who beholds the ethereous mould whereon we This continent of spacious fruit, flower ambrosial, Whose eye so superficially as not to mind from whence they materials dark and crude,Of till touchedWith Heaven's and tempered, beauteous, opening to the These in their dark nativity pregnant with infernal flame; long and round,Thick touch of fireDilated and [that's very much a McCarthy shall send forthFrom far, among our foesSuch as shall dashTo pieces, standsAdverse, disarmedThe Thunderer of his So, there Satan's saying, You look at all these plants. this earth.&quot; says, for his part, This is on 129,130, is told by Tobin, In all this time,--[as plain without gunpowder] spoke hardly a word. of a vast malpais and his honor rocks there and he commences to See, there is that same The judge occupies the place Lost and gives a speech: it was no such sermon as any man Beyond the malpais was a it was many colors and there was little birds crossin down the the judge's old benjamin about and solitary mountain and to what end I know not, and he concluded with the as he said was round like an egg within her. horse he had been ridin across slag, alike, and us behind him like faith. see in the earth all the things Paradise Lost. And a little further down the page, about the volcanic terrain aught any man knows lies the He even speculates that this is So, what does McCarthy do when as the parallel of Satan? powerful allusions driving Lots of readers have taken on the model of Milton's the famous problem about here was Milton writing it to justifying how good God was, incredibly compelling character. irresistible, rhetorically, and so he makes all of these writes for him that we get to So, McCarthy sets up a similar Here is the judge. that we want to listen to. There is that debt to the oral incredibly evil man. here, of moral valence. or does the book condemn, It's the problem in Paradise It's the problem, If you find the violence in gratuitous, then you've answered by saying, &quot;No. compelling that I can put up of violence. But there is another school of of the violence, do make it worth it. The other way this sheds that the novel is concerned, with the great cosmic Now, this is another element, and I'll talk about that in a But it gives, a certain kind of weight. those big, cosmic structures and cosmic structures. by the kinds of delightful Ishmael. and full of portentousness, is there charming us. instead, is sheer pretentiousness--weighing on The allusions to Paradise portentousness. something smaller, poetic tradition: In the opening lines of this 3, &quot;All history present in that the face of the kid, man.&quot; &quot;The child, the father of the little poem by William It's called &quot;My Heart Leaps up My heart leaps up when I / So was it when my life began, / So be it when I shall grow / The child is father of the to be / Bound each to each by This is a lovely little snippet The point of it is to say that rainbow, gives you the man, and he says, delighted, childlike delight in the rainbow The rainbow comes freighted history: that is, to the world, that God will no longer send a as He did in the days of Noah. the fate of humankind, intentions towards us. McCarthy's child, is a very different sort. prior to the allusion: and in him broods already a What McCarthy announces here, is that, although to invoke project us into the realm of he is rejecting the later nineteenth century which found especially in the child as the a kind of great hopefulness. in humankind. to us, even though we are told, on page 4, the child's face is scars, the eyes oddly innocent. Is it, here, child, who can behold the relation to the world and to a Is it that kind of innocence? not knowing something? Is it an absence of guilt? These are questions, the side. kid's innocence? answer on Wednesday, it. causes us to ask that kind of The revision tells us we are in Now, I'm actually going to skip allusion and trust you to read, just in that first section. think about how the Bible is You see lots of Garden of Eden You see a parricide, father. and Abel, even though they are There is a sense that this is a murder has already entered. I want to go, books. called My Confession, Samuel Chamberlain. in the Mexican War, joined up with the Glanton Gang. historical fact, It was a gang of scalp hunters right after the Mexican War in Sam Chamberlain--I want to show guy. born in New Hampshire, At sixteen he left Boston and taking a sort of circuitous He went to find his fortune and but he also went with a box of And he produced these amazing and he wrote this testimony of Confession. It's full of his own heroism, romances, all the great battles but he really gives us an You can just see these. While I'm waiting for this you something you can't see on This is the Texas State documents are kept. know if you can see this. See, he writes in this gorgeous pages with little drawings. long, with hundreds of My bet is that McCarthy the Texas State Historical That's where he lived. he wrote this book. and gorgeous. of this with all its paintings. he married and he had three various senoritas that he had My Confession for each, One is at Annapolis; Historical Society, family. So, this isn't giving you and I'm going to--These are two This one on the right-- Well, left. drawing of the Grand Canyon, first ever painting of the Grand probably false). the gang. here, discoursing on evolution So, we actually hear about this novel. Chamberlain's Confession. a little bit from the The second in command, was a man of gigantic size who called Judge Holden of Texas. but a more cool-blooded villain He stood six foot six in his fleshy frame, destitute of hair and all always cool and collected. and blood shed, with a sullen ferocity worthy of [I'm going to skip a little Terrible stories were crimes committed by him when Cherokee nation in Texas. a little girl of ten years was violated and murdered. little throat pointed out him as such a hand. no one charged him with the He was by far the best educated He conversed with all in their spoke in several Indian lingos, harp or guitar from the hands of his wonderful performance, ball, plum centre with rifle or acquainted with the nature of botanical names, mineralogy, with all an errant possessed enough courage to anyone where he had the weapons, equal he would avoid it if I hated him at first sight and The intellectual beast saw fit insulting manner, of my conduct in drinking and This was shortly after the and when I made an angry reply Jack. Shake hands and make up.&quot; I thank you. powerful. Holden gave me a look out from said, &quot;You are there, Well, look out where my hand yet, my young bantam.&quot; on his huge carcass, matters to a deadly issue at There is that same It's right in My that particular strange huge and hairless. hairless just meant that he but McCarthy takes that and freakish character. infant. gets the most powerful character this source? Second question is: actually taking an historical the Glanton Gang and their the kernel of his novel, books here has absorbed in the novel's history? doubling the literary history He's pursuing two sets of links one in the realm of art, What's the relationship between When I first read this, surprised. too, to see that it takes so manuscript? originality. I think, McCarthy's quotation, points towards: are made out of books.&quot; What's ugly about that? on the novels that have been Is it ugly because it calls of originality? a reader like Harold Bloom, Harold Bloom argues that it is shapes many writers in the As they take on the great they feel that they are ever that there is no room yet in further. Is its ugliness, this quotation, anxiety about his own Can he really be original? portentous, cosmic aura that he the very style of this novel? &quot;Come and look for a deeper Now, I want to point out since I do have just the couple This is on 4 and 5. as the kid moves from Tennessee and then out to the West, He sees blacks in the their fingers spiderlike among a shadowed agony in the garden. imagery I was going to point out Against the sun's declining dusk across a paper The landscape itself is already it's paper. own construction. page, on 5, this is a tiny register to you at all. move again, a few dollars in his the sand roads of the southern his hands balled in the cotton Do you notice the way the words &quot;Spiderlike among the bolls of the cotton pockets of his coat.&quot; I would argue, here is the way the very style out of itself. in my excavation of allusion, to himself, re-layering that takes the of that language builds within There is a lot of anxiety right here in these couple We're told, &quot;Only now is now is the child finally And you note, that he is, and his folk are drawers of water.&quot; adjectives given to the sons of drawers of water. Noah, was that he saw his naked in his tent. got drunk, and I guess he was passed out. his father naked. father. blessed; Why is this a curse-worthy Why is this a curse-worthy I think it's because, you see the mystery of your And so, the kid is likened to their origin. can almost understand it. and yet by looking, than he should be. divest himself of origin, so if Ham is cursed because he the kid's curse lies, all origin. It's not that he sees it; And then you can get a &quot;His origins are become remote in all the world's turning will barbarous to try whether the to man's will or whether his own clay.&quot; several times before Wednesday, figure out what it means fully, Parts of it are more clear than Think about the balance between its content, you, what its diction says to itself actually says to you. think about. take this discussion of of ball it up and it'll become and that'll stem from one tiny the novel.