"Actung Baby! We Japanese learn a thing or two studying East German Car.&quot; When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, Trabants were used as escape vehicles behind the Soviet Iron Curtain for decades. planned economy gone wrong. It seemed like a piece Yet when the Trabant launched it used upcycled movement to a country ravaged by war and lacking drive design with rack and pinion steering. nearly came to market, and what happened after (music) Auto Union's four rings symbolised the four merged After the Second World War Germany and Auto Union found all but their Berlin The Soviets reshaped the region in their own that took a dim view to capitalism. Seeing to let Auto Union be the capitalist company they fearing Auto Union cars in West Germany would be headquarters to Ingolstadt in the American zone The old Auto Union factories were quickly German Government despite Auto Union's wishes. this was property owned by Nazis and war good of the people. Before the war Auto Union so the East German Government restarted production Or it would if they could produce raw materials were in short supply after the war industries over car production. Sheet metal and couldn't be bought from the West. In plastic body panels, but they'd proved to be were easily broken. The 1950s brought synthetic Germans could make something similar and use it a phenolic resin - better known as Bakelite with short cotton fibres from a nearby factory The found it produced large body parts that were and most importantly were readily available. which was exciting Western car designers The new material, dubbed Duroplast, was tested and with a new Duroplast body the new P70 shape there were problems. By using the F series for the general population. Supply issues meant The saloon's boot didn't open from the outside - compartment. The Duroplast shell was hung off large to be made from Duroplast so artificial Duroplast pressing tools were wearing out, and the Clearly the P70 was a work in progress. New large scale production. But it was also a great plastic-bodied car, but the P70 was the second. factory managers wanted something less expensive, reduced to sell to the masses, a sort-of East Early prototypes were deemed to be too small for was found and work began in earnest, taking the test cars were produced. In contrast to the P70, steel rather than a wooden frame. It kept the same from the old car was gone, replaced with a couple That engine was a smaller 500cc version of It had to be adapted to inferior fuel 17hp (13 kW) with a top speed of 56mph (90km/h) The new car was called the "Trabant", the German Sputnik which was the first man made object to later than planned, but to a hungry public The specifications called for the Trabant to of 51mpg (5.5l/100km). The final car came in 20kg Manufacturers claims put it at 47mpg (6.0l/100km) with a top speed just shy of 60mph (91km/h). was to sell the car for 4,000 East German Marks. It was a similar size to the West German NSU a two stroke, two cylinder engine, but the and got worse fuel economy. The Trabant did have The two cars went head to head in the showroom It was a good deal if you could get hold with less than 2,000 produced in the first practicality. The following year there was estate with reclining seats and a folding sunroof. in its engine power, improved suspension, The Trabant proved to be a rugged little car. rough Scandinavian roads in endurance tests. The crankshaft didn't last long, and in fact the for State Security to investigate, believing it was attributed to human error - a design the rapidly deteriorating relationship between considered. Socialist East Germany was trying Germany could do, but under pressure from aid from the American Marshall Plan, and with a By 1961 almost 100,000 cars had been produced, and had been turned over to produce the Trabant. The to relief stress on the engine parts from dodgy 595cc that allowed the car to get over 60mph slot for a radio and updated seats that improved identical although there were some new colours. refinement of the original Trabant, smoothing off easier to live with. Production grew, and by The Trabant continued to be exported, selling was also fairly popular in the West, selling The 1964 Trabant 601 update focused on a new was nearly 20cm (8") longer and the front and back 404, with new taillights. There was more rear down the windows and squirt the windscreen it was no heavier, meaning performance was What hadn't changed was the old-fashioned added every time you filled up. Crankshaft quality of oil in the Eastern Bloc. Meanwhile four-stroke engines with the Saab 96 being And despite more sound insulation, The new Trabant 601 went on sale in 1964 but was until that too was updated at the end of 1965. It was a regular Trabant with an electro-hydraulic veterans who'd lost a leg. The Trabant Kubel of Forestry use. It was sold more widely in As soon as development of the 601 ended, P602. The focus was on chassis improvements engine. But with the East German economy not the new luxury Wartburg 353 was prioritised, Production of the 601 was to end by 1971, this time codenamed P603. The team focused on another bit of forward-thinking engineering. 1970s to embrace the small hatchback. again with Duroplast panels, and a new innovative in development, and was pitted against cylinder 1.0L engine from the Wartburg 353, and built in neighbouring Czechoslovakia, By 1968 the design was finalised and preparations Government shut the programme down. They preferred Trabant and the larger, more luxurious Wartburg. sophisticated cars West Germany were producing shame. This would morph into a joint development Trabant, Wartburg and Skoda. Prototypes were direction it should go and the project dragged on. small update to the existing Trabant 601 in the car got a few other minor improvements. version of the new Wankel engine, but as a nightmare to make reliable and fuel efficient, The Trabant management team pitched the P603 again East German / Czechoslovakian car project failing, the P603 work and apply it to a new Trabant shape was designed. The two-stroke engine four stroke engine. Development dragged on the East German Government in 1979 after deciding It was clear the East German economy was in World War the leaders had been adamant they would was superior and led to a happier population. but it wasn't close to satisfying demand. In real East Germans had money in the bank to buy one, enough. Waiting lists grew and grew as production almost linear growth made it seem as if the East little higher every year to show the economy The gap between demand and supply grew, and by New owners could "unofficially" sell their new When re-registering the car with the police lower than the retail price, and the seller and rest of the money. A seven year old Trabant If an East German did get their hands fuel was expensive. It was double that of much - the average annual distance travelled 6,000 miles (9,300km). And heaven forbid the car factory output was given over to spare parts, with to keep these valuable cars on the road, demand would become a hodgepodge of improvised repairs. of 12 years. In East Germany it was almost 28. Bloc countries, or the Soviet Union, but due to their own economic problems. Alternative scooters or the larger, and pricier Warburg that Bloc countries desperate for foreign currency to like machinery for a car factory!, it meant many 54,000 Wartburg's were produced, but more than 60% about exporting the Trabant though - its outdated sell in the West, even with a heavy discount. in 1979, there are still a few photos that show The first is the P610Z prototype from 1980 from 1982. Both cars seem to be well developed, development team to get something they The Trabant had been entered into rallies since 1986 when the Trabant 800 RS launched with an The Trabant was suffering from an East German except small production increases of the existing "Until 1990 the Trabant 601 didn't have any but a little unkind, there were a few changes. much needed safety feature. In 1984 the electrical for new "luxuries" like hazard warning lights, fog rear leaf springs were replaced with coils. Very The East German Government couldn't keep up Trabant production. Quality fell and the thickness But there was hope the Trabant could see some could never beat the West German economy, in 1984 small engine in East Germany and transplant it But the factory couldn't be ramped up fast Government in power. Since the 1950s East Germans they would abandon ship. But by 1989 the once as the USSR didn't enforce its previous tight their Trabants as escape vehicles to drive to wall was a very physical reminder of the divide peaceful revolution let to it being dismantled, Workers in the former East Germany still needed produced. The new Trabant 1.1 launched in 1990 money invested in the new engine factory, so the existing engine bay was heavily reworked to There was a new grille and bonnet, plastic The timing of the launch though couldn't be recently updated Volkswagen Polo, showing just how East Germans didn't have to settle for a 15 year go and buy a brand new or used Volkswagen. Sales Trabants were bought by Westerners curious about Some also went to Hungarians who still liked helping to promote U2's new album, demand off and production ended in 1991. After 33 The Trabant had a propensity to belch obnoxious engine to use lower quality fuel and oil, and from filled up. At a time when global warming was on enemy number one, as it produced 5 times as much western cars. They also saw the old, tiny Trabant for basic transportation, efforts were made to get the Trabant was as safe as the current generation couldn't go fast enough to get you into trouble! Trabant into a convertible, that was about discovered in 1995. They'd been exported to and the cars were returned to Germany and how little consumers wanted a Trabant that they The Trabant became a car East Germans wanted days". But that inevitably turned to rose-tinted and are still on the road today as owners It was nostalgia that led German model maker look like for the Trabant's 50th anniversary in thing and in 2009 the Trabant nT concept was replaced by an ultra-modern EV powertrain with hopes for production, but investors didn't It's easy to laugh at the polluting, old fashioned centrally planned Eastern Bloc countries. The original Trabant used new, innovative but then what new cars don't? The Trabant limited budget to address any issues, and turned Those innovative upcycled Duroplast panels made it the new shape of the 601 was stylish for the have been one of the first small hatchbacks. dreams of a socialist East German state There were some interesting bits that didn't Trabant Optional Extra video on the right. Thanks