- How you doing? I'm Matt. Today, I'm gonna show you the easy way. These are all four made and what that means is they so you don't have to that sort of thing to actually make a beautiful cutting board like this. Working The Grain has four kits available at the time of this filming Now these kits come in a depending on what color and how you want the look We're gonna make a very to ensure that your cutting I saw this on a Russian I'll put a link to his channel down below. We're gonna use two-inch our own clamping jig that and that's what you want a planer later to re-flatten with some type of router jig. We're gonna make this first. Yeah. This is two-inch schedule 40 PVC pipe. You can buy it any home carry PVC pipe, anything like that. I had them cut this in six-foot lengths and I'm gonna cut it in half. PVC makes a mess when you cut it. (upbeat rock music) So you'll cut four pieces of two-by-four about three inches long. Then, you'll take your pre-drill and screw those into the PVC. Any of these exotic woods, the bloodwood, purpleheart, wenge, padauk, mora. You want to wipe those down with acetone before you glue them up because in the wood that are This will take those oils away. If you don't, you risk this cutting board separating later because those oils won't allow the glue to stick. Now, I like this pattern that it's in, so I'm gonna leave it. However, if you wanted to you could do that right now. Now these come precut and You don't have to do any of that. Everything is ready to go. It takes out a whole lot You're not having to joint them, and get those All you need to do with the let that dry, and put glue on it. And this stuff dries really quick. (upbeat rock music) The proof is in the puddin' right there. It's taking those oils out. See that color coming out of there? It's because of those oils. While that don't need it, but See how fast it's drying? (upbeat music) Once you let that acetone go ahead and put a liberal Don't be afraid to Spread it out. Make sure it's spread equally and the whole board is covered. (upbeat music) Once all pieces have glue, you're gonna start stacking Make sure you line up one end Then I put the clamp in Ensure that the bottom of your board is flat against that PVC. You may have to take a little mallet and make those adjustments. Once it's flat, you can start I recommend putting on as many as you can. I went and put up five per board. (upbeat music) You should see glue dripping out. Now, some people don't wipe and some people do wipe the glue up. I chose to wipe it up with a wet rag. Set that one to the side if and then we can clean off those Glue comes right off. Now we're gonna do the other We're gonna put that glue on there and then clamp it up tight. (upbeat music) One thing you want to watch for when you're clamping this stuff, a lot of times you'll see these boards start trying to, because they'll try to start moving on you when you first start tying it down. So what I like to do on any on one and then we'll And you just want to because if they don't, then create yourself a little more work later. Not that it can't be fixed but if you don't have this'll just make it easier when you start sanding everything. Another good idea, a friend if you leave your clamps just a little bit, that'll if you choose to wipe that down. Some woodworkers don't wipe it. Some do. I think it's a lot of personal preference. I'm just checking to make sure the PVC so that we don't wind We want it to sit flat when you're done. (upbeat music) If you have F-style clamps like this, which a lot of people have, this is what I started with was the only thing I had was F-style. This is Harbor Freight brand. I've got some Irwin brand. These work well. They're good clamps. The only thing is, you right here, and this the edge of your boards. But when you're clamping take a scrap piece. It doesn't have to be walnut. It can be pine or whatever Lay that on the edge on each side and when you start applying the pressure. That way, any indentions to this piece and not these pieces and you'll still get Make sure there's no glue on the outside when you use this piece, or it will become part of the cutting board. Mrs. 731 got in on the action, and she started to put the glue on, but it hurt her surgically-repaired arm. So I went up squeezed while she spread it out. Once we got it on there, she and started applying clamp. This board's actually her's. She's gonna take to her classroom. Now you'll notice I use cauls on this one. That's just plywood, cut and then had some painter's and then clamp two clamps on each side. What I did was made two with cauls and two without cauls. I noticed the two with cauls are much flatter and much easier. I'll use cauls from now on. (upbeat rock music) So you can see that that board is flat. And by flat, I mean the bottom There's no wobble there. So you're not gonna have to to sit flat once you're done. Now, all we have to do is sand this, or if you have a planer, you If you don't, that's one of is those who don't have planers, jointers. You're gonna sand this and I or a low grit, like 60-grit, 80-grit. Sand that and then 80, 120, all the way to 220. I wouldn't go higher than You'll do that on both sides. That's gonna get rid of that glue. That's gonna make Now what you may notice is a little bit of a difference in the heights of these. That's what you're gonna be So make sure that you're and going back and forth if you don't have a planer. Of course, if you have a planer, it's much easier to run and let it take everything down But if you don't, we can do the just gonna take longer. I highly recommend some Bench Cookies. These things are super awesome. They got this rubber Picks it up off the from moving around while you sand. If you sand your board, be (upbeat music) If you have a planer, this because you ain't got to Now this was not too bad on each board, it's actually really close. So actually this one than the other one. What I'm gonna do is run and I noticed that right here this is just a piece of 3/4-inch plywood with a board screwed onto the end to keep it from pushing off So I noticed that right here, there's just a tiny bit of a gap. I mean, I just got a little shim and you just stick them on it doesn't lift it up, but it's snug. And what that'll do is keep the planer from actually pushing that down. We'll get a one flat side, we'll take it off of the flat side down. It'll flatten the other side This is exaggerated, but we'll pretend that it looks like this Even if it's just a little bit, same principle's gonna apply. If it's rocking, you're gonna shim this up until it doesn't rock anymore. You're touching two opposite And then you'll just shim. Once you've got that shim, you can run it through the So you may notice a couple of knot holes or even little splits or You can easily repair those with CA glue. I use Starbond, I use clear here. If I was on walnut or a darker color, I would use brown or even black. Very easy to use. Put it in there, spray that makes it dry within about 30 seconds. Then you take your sander and it fills those holes. They're sealed and they won't split again. I'll put a link in the description below to the Starbond if you're interested. Now if you don't have a table saw, the best way that I is just use your circular Now you see me putting to prevent any tear out from (upbeat rock music) Remove the tape. Nice. I think you can see right here where I didn't get a good clamp on there and that is actually got a gap in there. I don't want to leave So I'm gonna cut that off. So we're gonna step it back. (rock music) We're gonna finish out the and we'll be ready for oil. On the other three boards, and the table saw to cut those square. I've got a video on how to If you're interested, I'll put (upbeat rock music) Now for the edges, if you can actually just use your sander and just kind of round those edges over. You need to ensure that This is a Whiteside 45-degree bit. It's very sharp and it works very well. I tried to chamfer the I didn't really like how that come out, so I didn't do it on the other three. But for the edges, top Here's an example of a Some people prefer the round over. I prefer the chamfer, but the options of what it So I don't have a spray bottle, so I just use a damp rag. Squeeze the water on there and that actually pop. It's what they call pops the grain. And you can actually feel it now. It's got little prickly like hair sticking out of it, and then we're gonna right before we oil it. That way when the first time or the person you've given this as a gift, washes the board, it It's already happened. So that's a very important step. It's the moment we've So I got some food-grade I'll drop a link in the description below. I bought this box at Walmart. You can get these at any If I find one on Amazon, I'll drop a link in the description. Mainly I wanted one big enough that it would hold the cutting boards. I'm gonna start with this one because it's by far my favorite And there's a lot of people who say you don't need to do this, I think that the board Some say that this will be That's nonsense. Once you get it of here, we're gonna set it up here. It'll drip dry. After a couple of hours, it's fine. A lot of people let these soak overnight, and some people let them (intimate music) So I let my board soak And then I pull them out and lay them on the same PVC we used to glue up. This lets them drip dry. I put two boards in the After I get them out, I so that they can drip. (intimate music) So then I let them drip overnight after they've all had So a couple of things you You can get a bottle of this Howard Butcher Block Conditioner. Yeah, they're almost the same thing. So this actually has mineral oil, carnauba, and beeswax in there. It's just more liquidy. This is actually a mix and both are food safe and a lot of people use these on their boards. It's called board butter. You can actually buy some if you want to check that It's waxy as you can see. Get you a clean rag and buff it on. This will just help protect it, and this is something you a few times and you'll want A lot of times, if you're or giving them as gifts, a can of this too, so that they can keep their board conditioned. And this will actually help bring out a little bit more of that color as well. You'll just lay a coat of that down, take the dry side of the Some people actually prefer the Howard's Butcher Block Conditioner. You can pick this up anywhere. I'll have a link in the if you're interested. This stuff is really easy to use. Just give it a good shake. Everything is good and mixed up. And then you're just gonna apply Use a clean rag, and same thing. Just work it into the wood with the clean side of the rag. So the directions actually sitting on the board for about 20 minutes before you buff it off. After 20 minutes or so, and buff off any excess. Now out of these two products, I much prefer the board butter because this is actually pretty oily. It's heavy in mineral oil, with the wax and you can to a satin sheen, and I'm so happy with how these turned out. They're absolutely fantastic. I think you should get I think you'll be surprised. Hey, if you like this some more beginner woodworking projects, click that box right there. It's gonna take you to those projects. If you click that box right there, it's another one of my favorite. You get big old virtual fist bump. And don't forget, you from our website, 731woodworks.com/store, and if you buy anything on the website, it directly supports our channel.