Hello, it's Mamiko from GOROGORO KITCHEN. We are back again this year at that wonderful hotel, the Ritz Paris! This time, we have already booked the popular afternoon tea, which we are looking forward to. We hope you will enjoy this elegant stay with us until the end. -Hello. -I'd like to check in please. -Welcome, would you like to check in? -Only a little. -Please. Well, your apartment is ready. Alicia will be with you shortly. OK, thank you. Hello! -Welcome, hello. -Have a good stay! -Hello. Wow, beautiful! So lovely! It's magnificent! Now let me introduce you to the room we will be staying in. Please! First of all, this is the salon. There is a dining table here so we can eat dinner and play games. Games? -Uno and others. And we can play Monopoly too. You are right. Also, Tsu-san can work here. Right? Yeah, I guess. Video editing, etc. Just like, &quot;hello? Yes, sir, right away.&quot; &quot;Good-bye.&quot; Right? And we play Monopoly here. What is that? Then, here, there's a fireplace. We cannot use it, though. But it's beautiful. It's nice to have a fireplace space like this. And there is a nice champagne and fruit. Everything is prepared. That's true. They are so lovely. This pink sofa is so pretty. Yes. It looks comfortable. This room has a pink colour scheme, which is a nice change from the room we have stayed in before. Yes, beautiful. It's so Ritz Paris. It is noblewoman-like. So, this is the bathroom. This is how it looks here, with water coming out of the swans. And the bath is over here? No sauna function this time. I see. so it's like this. It's nice. Well then. I like the way we can see outside. There's a garden. Isn't it wonderful? It's so wonderful. Beautiful space. With lots of greens. So nice. Everyone is taking some photos. Yes. Well. And here, there's a great clock. That's true. But it shows 6 o'clock, so it doesn't appear to be working. There's also a painting. The furniture is really lovely. Yes. There is a painting over here too. What is this painting of? &quot;Sheep and... me.&quot; Maybe that's the title, I'm sure. I guess. Okay, next, this is the bedroom. There is plenty of space here alone. That's true. See? It's the size of a normal hotel. Amazing! It also has a canopy. Also, here is some unusual furniture. This looks like a desk. Is it the type of desk that comes out? I cannot open it! Ah, look! It's a desk. Ah, I see. It's nice. Then, Tsu-san, you can work here. I am always being made to work. You can put something in here too. All the things. I want to open everything. And... Here you can also find this chair. This chair has an ottoman, which is nice. There is also fruit here. It looks like a fruit festival. We can live on fruit alone here. Tsu-san, this time the TV is a flat TV. That's true. Last time, it was... Like a canvas. It was unique. This is great. This is... glass, you see? It's so stylish. The previous one was cool too, though. The previous one was different and novel. And then, here... Well... Another bathroom is located here. It is great that there are two bathrooms. This is an even larger shower room. This one is even bigger, so use it according to our body type. Then this one is for me. This one is... for me, I think. Why is that? And there is a proper bathtub here. It's so pretty. I mean, it's amazing that there's a painting in the bath. It's unthinkable in Japan. I'm worried that the water might splash. It's nice. It's always nice here. It's romantic. But there was no green like this before, I think. But now there is. It's an ecological plan. True. Plant-tree activities. And... This is a walk-in wardrobe. My dream! Walk-in closets are my dream. We don't have anything to put in it, though. That's true. But it's great. Amazing. It would be wonderful if there was room for this much. You should have brought lots of clothes. Well... It's the only suitcase we have. And I don't know why, but this room has two doors. So you can go in directly from here and go straight to bed. Well, that's about it. Let's enjoy our stay! Yes! Now we'll give you another tour of the special suite. Again, Development Director APAC, Mr Sato, will show us around. Ah, Mr. Sato! Hello! Long-time no see! How are you? We are fine, thank you. And you, Mr. Sato? I'm fine, thank you. But I always watch you on YouTube, so it doesn't feel like it's been a long time. Good to see you again! Thank you very much for today. You seemed to be very busy every day. No, not at all. Speaking of which, congratulations on your publication. Oh, thank you very much! You've made your major debut. It's great! It's thanks to all of you. But writing is your main job, right? Yes, that's true. But still, it was a hard work. Oh, I see... Well then, I will now introduce you to the Imperial Suite, the highest-grade room in the Ritz Paris. Fortunately, it was available today. So today I'm going to show you the inside of that room. Oh, that's great! Thank you very much. So, here it is... Oh, that's true. It says imperial. It looks imposing from the entrance. This year, Ritz Paris is celebrating its 125th anniversary. So it is a very old building, and when it was founded, there were no lifts. That is why there is a gorgeous staircase. This is on the second floor, so it's where VIPs have been staying for a long time. The ceiling is also very high. Today, I will show you here, imperial suite. -Please. Excuse me... This is a three-bedroom suite, with a kitchen and dining area. Kitchen?! Yes. But nowadays, it's very important that it has a kitchen and dining room. Many of the world's wealthy people today have their own chefs with them, and it is difficult for them to go out for a meal easily. Many of them go out with security guards. Wow, amazing! It's great! This is the Imperial Suite, the top-of-the-range room at the Ritz Paris. Amazing! This is the only room in the Ritz Paris that has been designated a historic building. The Ritz Paris was completely closed between 2012 and 2016, and the building itself underwent such extensive renovation that parts of it were rebuilt. However, this room, which is a listed historic building, was left completely intact and only restored rather than renovated. However, the colour tone has become a little softer than in the past, although it is still the Imperial red. -It's calmer. This Imperial Suite is designed in the style of the Palace of Versailles. That's exactly what it looks like. The chandeliers and other furnishings are incredibly luxurious. And the statue of Napoleon in the middle of Place Vendome can be seen clearly from this room. It's a very nice view. It's just great. This is a room that has been stayed by distinguished guests of state. And this window glass is very thick, about 4 cm thick. It is bulletproof glass. Nowadays, many state guests cannot stay in rooms unless they have bulletproof glass, though it depends on the country. In that aspect, this room is very much in demand from those state guests. But more than that, it's very quiet because of this glass. This room faces onto Place Vendome, but with very thick glass like this, the sound insulation is excellent. That's one of the reasons why this glass is so good. The people who stay here also like the quietness. And here, this is the first bedroom. Here, too, the design had a much stronger impression before the refurbishment, but it now has a very pretty impression, with a slightly pastel colour palette. It's a bit of a relaxing and reassuring impression, with these pretty patterns. When I last introduced you, I think I mentioned that we had been refurbished in a soft pastel colour scheme. It has a bit of an antique feel, and it's lovely. It still has an identity that is very Ritz Paris. That's what we've retained. Recently, especially young guests have been staying here many times. Especially as the hotel is loved by women, it is also important what women think of it. This may sound strange, but hotels are often chosen by women, and when women are happy, men don't complain too much. So that's the secret strategy of the Ritz Paris. I think we make it with designs that women like. I always choose the hotels for us too. Yes, that's normal. When women are happy, men don't say anything. That's exactly right. Wonderful. Also, the bathroom here is very unique, the walls are wood. Ah, it's this way. Oh, wow! It's a completely different atmosphere here. Beautiful! The ceiling is lower than in the room over there. They used to be higher, but they were deliberately lowered. Bathrooms should be a space where you can relax. So if the ceiling is too high or the walls are marble, it can feel a bit cold. So this is the only bathroom in Ritz Paris with wooden walls. It's really nice. But the famous Swan tap is still in place. The Swan tap was a surprise before. Even in these rooms, hot and cold water are coloured in red and blue, so they are easy to recognize. Hotels these days are so stylish that sometimes it's hard to know how to use them. You have to wait until the water is warm before you can tell which. All the facilities at the Ritz Paris are really easy to understand. Like the light switch, it's somewhat old-style. You can see it here, it's like this. Ah, this one. I think it's very nice. Especially in the morning, sometimes it can be hard to think correctly. Even though it is written here like this, it is hard to see if it is night time. In such cases, with this switch, you only have to turn it. In the old days, this is the kind of electric switch we used to have. It's nice. Very nice. And this is a shower booth. The shower rooms in the Ritz Paris Prestige Suites, which are special suites, have a mist that comes out like this. So you can use it like a mist sauna. Ah, yes, that I know. The last time we were here, we were saying &quot;this must be a mist sauna!&quot; Last time you stayed in the Mansart Suite, I think it had this feature there as well. Ritz Paris has a total of 16 prestige suites. Most of them are equipped with a misting shower. And the bathtubs have these Jacuzzis. This bath is really nice, with this beautiful marble. It's so wonderful. Beautiful and romantic. Yes, it's so romantic. And it's very nice to have a window so that light can come in. Even when you are in the bath. As for the bath linen here, it is peachy pink, just like a peach. This colour has been used by Cesar Ritz since he founded Ritz Paris 125 years ago. This is also the same colour for the bathrobes. This colour makes a woman's skin look most beautiful. That's why it's decided to be this colour. This has not changed for 125 years. Peach pink. Pink peach? I am not sure... So, it's peach. Yes, it's like a peach. That is why. So there was such a commitment to that colour. And this bathrobe is very popular. For example, it is popular for young celebrities to wear this bathrobe and take their selfies. I have seen such photos before. Cindy Crawford was wearing this bathrobe and staying at the Ritz Paris. Really, we have Japanese celebrities staying at the Ritz Paris, and recently we have had some of the most popular K-pop stars staying at the Ritz Paris. And they all wear this pink bathrobe and take their photos. How about you? Me??? Well, I don't think it's appropriate... What about Tsu-san, then? Ah, Tsu-san should be alright, without showing his face. That's a good idea. The next, then, is the second bedroom. This is a very special room and we would like you to have a look at it. It's amazing to have a second bedroom. It's a three-bedroom suite in total, but the second bedroom is very special and I want you to see it. It is located past this living room to the far left. So, this is the second bedroom. Oh, wow. This bedroom is inspired by Marie-Antoinette's boudoir, her private room. At Fontainebleau, there is her boudoir, and this bedroom is designed in the image of that boudoir. Compared to the other bedroom, this bedroom is more like for women. It's like that one is for the king and this one is for the queen. The Boudoir is the only place where a noble like Marie-Antoinette could relax alone. It was a place where she could take off her clothes. So, the design was inspired by the image of a place where women could relax. It's really nice. It's a very nice coloured bedroom. The bed is canopied. So, it's canopy bed. This is because, the room is designed for women. There's even a feather on top. Ah, yes. Amazing. Indeed. I hadn't noticed that before. It looks a bit like Marie Antoinette. Great. This bedroom used to have a very strong colour scheme too. But between 2012 and 2016, approximately four and a half years of renovation work, it was transformed into a much brighter image. It has a lovely feel to it. After all, the best feature of this hotel, and of this bedroom, is that it faces onto Place Vendome. And also the very high windows. Sunlight pours in brilliantly from here, making the space very bright. And yet it's also really quiet, which is great. It's wonderful. -Thank you very much. Next, we would like to introduce you to the recently renovated Espadon restaurant. It is the main dining restaurant at the Ritz Paris. The Director of Public Relations will introduce you to there. Oh, I see. It's not you. No, it's not me. -Now, let's go over there. Now let's head to the completely renewed main dining room, the Espadon Restaurant. Melanie, the public relations director, should be waiting for us on the terrace side of the restaurant. Oh, it's wonderful. I agree. It's nice. -Melanie! Hello, how are you? -How are you? Welcome to Espadon Restaurant. It's very, very nice. We're in the garden of the Ritz Paris, the Grand Jardin. We opened this new restaurant on September 26. -September 26th? So, it's very recent. -Please enter! -Is this a terrace? Of course, now it's too cold to dine outside, but from spring, we'll be putting out candles and all the place settings, and we'll serve our customers on the terrace. The terrace is 200 square meters. It's very big. We've put some pottery here from Anduze, which delimit the space and create a very intimate atmosphere, with arches too, which will have beautiful roses too. The view of the hotel garden, which is 1600 square meters, in the heart of Paris. Not a sound is heard. In the evening, you can hear the birds. This is the hotel. Here too. Amazing! It's very quiet, very warm. Beautiful! Customers will love the beautiful summer evenings. Yes, superb. It's great! -Please enter... ...in the Espadon restaurant. -Welcome to Espadon. It's great! Here we are in the historic Espadon restaurant. In 1956, Espadon opened with Charles Ritz. Charles Ritz was the son of Cesar and Marie-Louise Ritz. It's him who opened the Espadon restaurant here. Really? Here? Exactly. Afterwards, in 1991, the restaurant changed location and now we're back with Eugenie Beziat in this historic restaurant. It's a very intimate place. You see, the tables are quite far apart. We've got 30 covers, roughly and really, we wanted the spirit of a private dining room with this magnificent opening onto the kitchen and the bay windows. You can see the cooks, but you can't hear them. Yes. Here we go again, you can see the copper around the windows, it's copper to remind you of the chefs' pans. -That's what I thought. We also have the very nice Astier de Villatte crockery. -It's Astier! -famous French ... ...beautiful, partly custom-made for the restaurant. -Just for this restaurant? Baccarat glassware. Eugenie Beziat lived in Africa until she was 18. At 18, she arrived in France. She studied literature and applied foreign languages. and a dinner at Helene Darroze's for her 20th birthday, she fell in love with the cookery, and told her parents she wanted to be a chef. So she did a BTS in hotel and catering, she trained with some of the greatest. Michel Guerard, the famous French three-star chef, with Eugenie, Michel Sarran, two-star chef. She also worked in Corsica with a one-star chef. and earned her first star at La Flibuste, Villeneuve-Loubet in 2020, 2020, ok. after only 18 months as chef in this restaurant at the time. Villeneuve-Loubet is the birthplace of Auguste Escoffier. Ah, I see. -That's funny. It said she was coming to work at the Ritz Paris, to join us here, in this magnificent room. Her cuisine is gastronomic French, with Mediterranean influences, and African too, because she has lived there. All her dishes, of course, feature local French products, Houdan poultry, lobster, oysters and each time, she'll twist it, she'll add spices, condiments from the Mediterranean, from Africa. So that, every time, every dish is an explosion of flavours. It's extremely original. Makes you want to taste more. -I would like to try it. -We want to eat here. -Thank you very much! I was delighted and I'll be waiting for your dinner, then. -I will. -Thank you. Now it's time for the afternoon tea we've been looking forward to! This time we will be having French afternoon tea at the Salon Proust. -Hello. Thank you. Madame, Monsieur, welcome to the Ritz Paris and welcome to the Salon Proust. In this famous Salon Proust, we wanted to create a French-style tea time. It's all going to be sweet treats from chef Francois Perret's cookie factory. You'll have four options for this tea time. All options include the cookie rack which you can see on the hunting table just over there, plus a hot drink. Next, we can add options to this tea time, especially for the Gourmande option, the second on your menu. Thanks to this formula, you'll be able to have an extra pastry by chef Francois Perret. Next, with Royal, we'll remove the pastry, but it will be replaced by a magnificent glass of champagne. And finally, thanks to the Imperial, you'll get a glass of champagne plus the chef's cakes. I see. If you want the whole package, the Imperial is really for you. I see. Francois Perret's cakes are delicious. I'm thinking of choosing that option. But you want to drink a glass of champagne, right? Yes. So, Imperial then? But what kind of cake is coming? Should we ask? Yes, ask them, what kind of cake is coming. Oh, it's like this. I see, a decent-sized cake will come. Here you have the vanilla-chocolate marbled entremet, the pistachio macaron with Iranian pistachio praline, Ritz soft raspberry, sponge cake with meringue and vanilla cream, trompe-l'oeil rhubarb madeleine, with whipped cream and Savoy cookie, vanilla mille-feuille, Ritz au lait, vanilla rice pudding with hazelnut, raspberry tartlet, tapioca cooked in coconut milk, red berries and lime jelly, apricot, thyme and almond tartlet. I see. What should I do, it looks delicious. I'll eat it. I'll definitely eat Francois Perret's cake. Then I'll have the Imperial too. &quot;Imperial too&quot;? I didn't choose the Imperial, though. But you can choose Imperial. Then I'll go for Imperial. Because it's great, isn't it, Imperial? Which cake do you choose, Tsu-san? I'm thinking mille-feuille or the very last apricot tartlet. I'm also thinking of that bread-like shape one. I'm the type of person who always eats the same thing. The mille-feuille looked good. The mille-feuille... Have you already decided on your tea? It's not tea, it's more like baba, isn't it? We decide if we want our baba to be coffee, tea or cocoa, don't we? So I'll have tea. Me too. Because it's afternoon tea. There are all kinds of tea. Black tea, Earl Grey, Winter at the Ritz. Winter at the Ritz! There is also brown rice tea. Japanese Genmaicha. Yes, I know. I am thinking of taking Genmaicha. -To your surprise. I made up my mind. Genmaicha. -Do you choose Genmaicha? -Are you sure? I want to drink, at least something with a non-sweet sensation. You are very afraid of it. I think I'll have a Ritzy Earl Grey. -Really? Ritzy Earl Grey. What do you think? Well... Decided! Well then, sir lady, Babas are traditionally infused with rum, will today be alcohol-free and infuse them into your respective hot drinks. You've had two teas, so it's going to be tea. If you'd had coffee, it would have been coffee. And if you'd had chocolate, it would have been chocolate. It's all about continuity on the palate. This is to refresh your palate. You don't have to wait for your hot drinks, you can have it as an amuse-bouche. If you like, we can add vanilla whipped cream on top. Yes, a little. Very good, Madam. It looks good! Thank you very much. There. How's that? -Yes. It looks good! You too? Yes, sir. Yes. Please. Ohhh, it looks good! Perfect. -Thank you very much. Good tasting. Madame, here's the Baron de Rothschild champagne for you, reserve Ritz and this is the brut. Would you like to taste it, Madame? No, that's not necessary. Not necessary? Very well. Madam trusts me. Here you are, madam. Thank you. Well, let's have some! Cheers! So tasty! Well then, let's eat! It looks delicious. Should I use this? Oh, this one. It looks delicious. Oh, it's so soft. Then I'll do a food report... It's so fluffy. -Oh, really? It's so good. See? It's so light. I like the combination with this cream. Yes. This is a very new kind of pastry. Yes. So fluffy. And after you eat it, the nice smell of the tea come wafting in. That's true. It's great from the start. It was worth coming. It still feels like a Perret's pastry, which is wonderful. Even that little baba! Yes. It's so tasty. I am suddenly very motivated. Well, Madame, here's for you. Brown rice tea. Even the pot has a madeleine on it. A green tea with rice aromas. Isn't it fun? It's a madeleine. Here you are, a seasonal fruit tart with apricot. And for you, sir, Chef Francois Perret's marble cake entremet. Looks delicious! Isn't this look great? Amazing. It's so beautiful. Let's eat! It's apricot, isn't it? Yes, apricots. Good? Is it the apricot itself on top of that? Yes, but really, it's like the apricot itself is on top. Do you understand? Aren't they apricots? That's not what I mean, this looks so beautifully cooked, but tastes so fresh, it's like eating raw apricots. It's amazingly fresh. It's so good. But I'm filming with one hand, so... Then I can eat it for you. No, don't! I'm going to eat it with just a fork because I'm filming, although it's a bit ill-mannered. Looks tasty! Here is what it looks like inside. That's delicious, isn't it? This is super tasty. Ladies and gentlemen, here's Chef Francois Perret's tea time. He wanted to make a high-end version of the cookies of our childhood. For that reason, on top, right here, you'll find the biscuit called &quot;Petit ecolier&quot;. with white chocolate and coconut shell inside. On the side, you'll have the &quot;palmier&quot;, which are natural dry cookies. Right here, we're going to have the diamonds, chocolate and vanilla in a shortbread crust. Keeping with the shortcrust theme, you'll find the little &quot;Barquette&quot; right here, with passion fruit on top, in keeping with seasonality. Right here, Monsieur Proust's official madeleines with pistachio inside, apricot financiers and right here, we'll have the chocolate and gianduja choux. I see. Keeping with the chocolate theme, right here, we're going to have the chocolate mi-cuits. Here, the two small tarts will be rhubarb. with an Italian meringue on top. Right here, you'll have the Savoy cake, two very airy Savoy cakes and in the middle, praline and gianduja. And finally, if I turn a little like this, Here you go, you'll have the honeycomb brioche with honey and almonds on top. You don't have an order for eating these good pastries. You can eat what you want, when you want. and above all, if you ever feel that you can't do it any more because there are too many pastries, don't hesitate, we'll make you a little box to go so you can keep the pleasure going at home. -I see. -Have a good tasting. It's great. Now his explanation has dispelled all your fears, hasn't it? You can take it home with you and you can eat it from anywhere. You can start with whatever you like. That's wonderful. So I'll start with this one here. Go ahead. So good! Was it white chocolate? Maybe a bit sweet for you, but great for those with a sweet tooth. In between this white chocolate, there's more liquid white chocolate-like stuff. Now, you guess what I would like to eat. For Mamiko... I know you like cream, but it's hard to guess. This one. Which one? This one. Wrong! This one. Oh, I knew that was it. Because it's a creamy colour. This is not cream, it's meringue, but it has rhubarb in it. Ah, I see. Because I love rhubarb. That's true. Yes, that's right. Then I'll try this one. Go ahead. Oh, it's so light. Heavy-looking but lightweight. How is it? It's tasty. I can taste the soft and nice acidity of the rhubarb. Also, the meringue is soft and fluffy. Is it soft? Yes, very soft. I have an image of meringue being hard. No, it's so soft. Oh, really. Yes. I'm already, quite full! I understand, and you have chosen the imperial option. But rhubarb is delicious. Which one am I going to try next? Tsu-san is the only one I can count on, you know. Well, after all that big talk, I can't afford not to eat it. Uh-oh, Mamiko, your hands are not moving? A smile like that won't fool me. Are you taking the rest home already? I'm quite full. You're getting full very quickly. I should have had my mother here when she came to Paris the other day. I didn't realise how nice the afternoon tea at Ritz Paris was. I should have brought her here as a gift. Ah, I am so full. I am very full too. So, do you want to take the rest home? Let's take some home for Kurumi and Tola. Do not give any sweets to Kurumi and Tola. I'm just kidding. Well, that was a feast! Thank you for the food! It was delicious!