Hello Mr. James Nevill. This is Mr. James Nevill. How often do I have We just like to make sure. Mr. Nevill, you and Mr. McGowan Now, take care, Professor. Now, look here, Jim! Of course, I got them. Well, what about it? -What about what? -Well, didn't you read them? What kind of talk, Cyrus? I was busy. Look, don't give me that. Six months ago in Paris, You told me to go ahead. What do you mean, so? I got tons of material waiting All of them I got on your assurances, Oh, we'll talk about that some other time. Cyrus, you can't do this to me. Don't tell me what I can't do. Look, I got to have your answer now. Not now, Jim. Cyrus, I've got to know now. All right, Look, don't joke with me, Can't you understand plain English? It's no. Don't you shout at me, I'm trying not to be told what I am interested, and that's final!. Mr. Nevill, maybe if you flew out there He said no. All right, I'll tell him. You know they are waiting in there. Let them wait. Soon or later, you're going They've been waiting Is it that bad, Mr. Nevill? You don't know how bad, Joan. What exactly do you mean by that? I mean exactly what I say, and I am going For a man who don't you forget yours rather easily? Don't you talk to me like that. I haven't forgotten Now, wait a minute, Hyson. Sorry I kept you waiting, gentlemen. I know you're all anxious to find out Is it progressing at all? Or perhaps you'd like Hyson, I'm sorry, That's the pity? The methods you've introduced maybe all right among You better watch your... Is this the opinion of the entire board? Certainly, it's not. Mr. Nevill, what can you tell us? I must ask your indulgence. You'll have to wait What miracle do you think I can't tell you that now. I'm quite sure Mr. Nevill I, for one, Surely have I. Can we have Mr. Nevill's promise that he will inform us of You will be so informed. Well, that's good enough for me. Except for me. I have a good reason You know, Hyson, It must be sheer torture for you You must find it has grown from to one of the strongest You have my deepest sympathy. It isn't a battle for profits, Now, may I once again have that I may postpone my full Thursday afternoon, to be exact? By all means. Do go on Have you told Mrs. Nevill? Andrea? Why not? I love her. When you love someone like Andrea, you want to keep them away Don't you understand, Joan? When you love someone, guard them, keep them safe. Safe. Get Paul Kirby on the phone. Kirby? He's been trying You said you didn't want to see him. Tell him I just said before I do the wait. You haven't forgotten that Party? and asked me to remind you. Party? Well, I need Are you going home? I'm sorry, Joan. For five years my tempers, and my bad manners. Please bear with me a little longer. Andrea, come over Jack knows that new song Excuse me, Frank. Hem, Thank you, Andrea. Well, Andrea, what Why don't you come along? Why Not particularly, Oh, no, your husband couldn't care. He's far too busy. But I do, Oh, yes, with a very old fish. Well, What are you trying to do? No, well, I'm trying to impress her Now, stop it you two, Jim Nevill is a fool. His business competitors Business? That's all he ever He never gives He works hard enough, I'll give you that. He had a board meeting this afternoon, You don't mean to tell me that I know what you think. That I was just elected of the impoverished aristocracy You're wrong about Nevill, though. Do you think he cares? Cares? He loves her so much, Well. Well. I beg your pardon, madam, Mr. Kirby? Andrea, my dear. You look lovelier Now, then, don't waste Did Jim tell you about my party? That schoolmistress of a secretary of his since he wants to see me. Is he around? Let me get you a drink. When Mr. Kirby arrives, He's already here, sir, Shall I tell Mrs. Nevill No. No, don't. But she did ask me to... Welcome, sir. Tell Mr. Kirby I'm in the study room Jim, good to see you. I've been trying to... Right there where I can see you. Sit down. If you're still sore about that check, It is about money, isn't it? Yes, it's about money. Well, it won't happen again, I promise. From now on, How would you like to make PS500 cash plus another 500 to come later? Who would I have to murder for that? Just one man. I'm a bit out of practice, you know, You've done it before. Oh, I admit but you were All those bars we wrecked? Is it a deal? You sound as if you really mean it. Listen, Paul, I'll try to explain. Not that you care but I'll try anyway. I'm finished. You know I've always been a gambler. Well, I've gambled the biggest thing I've ever tried. A deal I've been planning because the man I relied on, the man I had So what? You've lost before I've always envied you for it. Bouncing right back after the knockout. Well, there's no bouncing back this time. That's a great many people involved. People who are going to be hurt, people who trusted me. Sounds desperate. Me. Oh, that's rich. You should be writing fairy tales, but you had me boy, I thought Don't laugh at me. Don't you ever laugh at me. Listen, for the sake of the past, I've taken your sponging and your chiseling, Now, you are going You're mad. I don't mind my name but Andrea is going to be safe. I've got enough I'll have a clean balance sheet. You are mad. You're going to do it, and I mean it. I won't do it, I'm not asking you, I'm telling you. Surely, Jimmy, you can't mean it. We've been friends for so long. The things we've been I remember. Maybe you need a little reminding. Whatever Paul's forgotten, Jim, you really are the limit. Sneaking up behind my back, Paul and I had some business to discuss. Business? Why don't you go Then perhaps of attending his own party. Well, I was just going anyway. Now get into your Yes, Mrs. Nevill. I'm going to stay Yes, Mrs. Nevill. Sometimes I wonder if you Don't say that, don't ever say that. Sometimes in the middle Say what if What if she isn't there? It's a moment, Jim, you're talking like If I had all the time in Jim, we must get back to our guests. Couldn't we forget A fine thing that deserting their own party. Now, if you want to Jim, please hurry. I don't want to go home, Who? Oh, let him go, Oh, we promised Andrea If we didn't promise to tuck him in. Well, I suppose we'd better. Now, stay there, will you? Hello, Paul. You don't know the half of it. Money? Make me rich, he said. Give a drink. Give me a drink. Not here. I'll get you Great Mr. Nevill skunk, Let's go. This seems to be practically home to him. I think we've discharged our duty. Let's go, Geoffrey. I'm too delicate Come on. Here. He's crazy, Kill me and you'll be rich. What? What good is money to a guy I'm not going to do it. Forget about Mr. Nevill. I'll show him. Let him do his own dirty business. Make me a murderer, would he? I'll show him he can't shove me around. Hello, Paul. How'd you get in here? Caretaker let me in. He did, did he? No more drinking, Paul. Get out of here, Jim. I'm warning you, leave me alone. -Well. and I'm not going to do it. You have no choice. Look, if you're so anxious to die, Jump under a bus or something? The insurance companies That's your business. What if I'm caught? They'll hang me, won't they? What could your money be then? Don't worry, Paul, You'll be able to prove that you've been in Ireland You've got it all doped out, haven't you? You are flying to Dublin tomorrow? I'll arrange X-rays, You'll have an alibi, a cast iron alibi. That's what you say. It'll take 48 hours to do this and after that, you'll go to work Mr. Nevill, a great organiser. You make it so safe, You'll probably... I don't know where but you're going to do it. No. If you don't, there's a good chance How's that? You claimed self-defense when they tried you and it was self-defense because I said so. The principal witness for your defense. Well, now I got the letters. The letters Madeline got from you. The letters her husband found What kind of a devil are you? Holding on to stuff like that Madeline sent it to me Only a few months ago. You fooled me, didn't you? You convinced me that you were innocent. You made me testify for you. Well, I'll have no hesitation I've given them to my lawyers to the Crown Prosecutor You'll get them back if I'm dead. You'll also get another PS500. Here's the down payment. If you want to You'd probably be better off dead, but I'm not going to do it. You won't? No! Now, get out of here. Maybe that's the trouble, Paul. Maybe you just don't hate me enough. I hate you. I swear it. That's it, Paul. Now you're starting to show signs of life. That's it, Paul. Feel that hatred. You're doing fine. Work on that hate for a couple of days, and you will have No trouble at all. Jimmy? I tried to stay awake, Mr. Nevill? Sir Rupert's been Who? Forget Sir Rupert Yes. Joan, reserve a seat for me Do I arrange Yes, You haven't forgotten I said I'll be back Thursday morning, Sorry. Are you going to look up Consolidated? they might take some of these Yes, I will look up. Hello, Jim. Peter, just a moment. I want you to do me a favour. You better phone Yes, mister. What is it, Jim? I'm flying to Dublin and I thought perhaps you might take care Well, I'd be delighted Well, take her out, you know, Pete, and sort of things that please her. Now, that's the kind of job I really like. Happy to be of service Thank you, Peter. Don't mention it, boss. Arriving is flight EI140 from Dublin. Hello, Joan. I didn't expect to see you here. I thought I'd save time, Luck? You know how it is, the storm signals go up Your other business, Quite successful. Mr. Nevill, Yes, I know. It ought to make Now, you stay here, I'll drive. Is everything there? What time is it now? Well, it's after 12:00, Mr. Nevill. McGowan's correspondence, is it all here? I copied every letter we sent Letters, cables, files. Why do I need all this junk for? To go in there and tell them pulled the most probably ruin the firm. If you feel like that about it, I can go in and tell them. No, thank you, Joan, this is my party. I'm the principal guest. The time for hiding and bluffing is over. Besides, I wouldn't want He's been waiting Now, watch it now, Billy, don't crush it. Hi. I'm looking for Jim Nevill. Give me your name, If I give you my name, What in the name of heaven do you think you're doing, Do you think I have come 6000 miles I'll announce myself. Come on with me, you lunatic! Sorry young fella. I must say you're When I kept regular That's a secret to be accessible. Well, aren't you going to say hello? Good manners never hurt anybody. How did you... When... I flew in from Mexico this morning. Put that down there, will you? Don't knock it against the woods. You know that fool of a pilot and I want you to be the first Isn't it beautiful? Bill, he doesn't approve. Cyrus, is the deal on or off? Jim, Jim, don't get excited. Control yourself. Oh, you're nausing or shot to pieces. Look, I've got some pills They work wonders, Bill, you idiot! Tell me it's a deal on or off? It's on, but will you Oh, you stubborn, old mule? Temper, temper. You must take some of these pills. Hey, Bill, give him a couple, will you? No, don't worry, Well, Jim, I must get down to the museum now. Cyrus, say it again, will you? Say what? That the deal is on. It's on, Look, you ring Perkins I've told him to back you to the limit. Well, young woman, did you ever see -Come on, we're going for a walk, Cyrus. Never mind. Gentlemen, I want you to meet Mr. McGowan is backing our project. He has been backing it only up to now he was a little too shy Gentlemen, Mr. McGowan. All right. Your president has no manners, but I'm glad to be associated with him, and you're damn lucky to have him if only he would Good to see you. Jim, that's wonderful. It's a great day. No, no, don't crowd him, Jim, don't forget those pills. They'll do you good. Calm you down. Come along, you idiot. Once again, Thank you. Well, Hyson, you don't seem to be I expect you want me to congratulate you, and I won't. To me, the ends still I distrust and loathe your methods. Well, you don't loathe them so much that Gentleman, I suggest and we meet next week Sure enough. Sorry, sir. That's a cute hairdo, new, isn't it? No, Mr. Nevill, I've had it for a long. Joan? Oh, Mr. Nevill! Do you know why he came here? -I suppose. to apologize in his own way, that cockeyed, cantankerous, Well, I'm so glad. Call Parker, the trust man, and get Wadsworth I want the papers -Right. I want lots of flowers I want the whole house Joan, what would you like best If you could buy anything, Well, I get... and send it to Mrs. Nevill. Yes, Mr. Nevill. Something else. I want you to... Come in, Pete. Did you see Hyson's face? I thought he was going to have a face. Look old boy... Joan, call Paul Kirby. Kirby? Now, find him, this is important. Tell him the deal is off Look, Jim, about... I'm going out now Listen, Jim, I want... Joan, remember, Jim... Andrea. Well, hello? What are you doing here? I tried to tell you at the office, I'm supposed to b We didn't know and she particularly Peter, I'm so sorry. Jim, so you're back. Darling. I brought you something pretty. What is it? A bribe? Are you ready? Give me a couple of minutes to change, Peter is taking me to the theatre. He's taken a great deal of trouble So what? I'll hire the whole theatre. The house had been sold out for weeks. Look, I'll tell you what, I wouldn't hear of it. Well, if Jim really wants to go... and then he gets back expecting I won't stand for it. He's being so careless and inconsiderate. I wouldn't mind. Unless you'd rather not take me. Honey, look, I'll explain the whole thing. I beg your pardon, sir. Your secretary's on the telephone, Thanks, Perkins. Now, look, just a moment, please. Hello? Yes, but what about Kirby? Where is he? What's the caretaker say? 10:30. All right, No, never mind. You go home, Night, Joan. Tell you what, dear. I got one more piece of business You two go ahead and enjoy yourselves, What time does it end? Well, I'm not sure. I suppose 11:00. My appointment is at 10:30. I'll finish quickly All right? Come on, Peter. Darling? Please don't be angry with me. All right. Paul? Paul? That crazy drunken fool. He didn't give me a chance. Oh, it's you. What are you doing with that? Is there anything that passes as an antiseptic? What a waste. Can you lean forward? Oh. What are you doing here? Mrs. Nevill phoned me. Well, you were supposed to meet her When you didn't turn up, she got worried. What on earth I wasn't hit. I was shot at. The bleeding has almost stopped. What time is it? It's half past two. How did you know I was here? You told me over the phone, remember? What are you doing now? I'm trying to find a clean towel. I'm all right. I'm all right. Just graze my scalp. I was pretty lucky. Yes, you were lucky. You're angry. When you first came too, you just said something about a That was Mr. Kirby, wasn't it? I see, I'll have to tell you. I think it's the least you can do. It's going to shock you. Shocked, to working for you all this time. Four days ago, I hired him to kill me. What? You see? You don't believe me. Why? Please don't be so formal, call me Jim. Why did you do it? You know how bad things were, I thought this was the only way That was the reason Anyway, we don't have We can forget the whole thing. Forget it? If you'd make plans for a holiday I'm expected to say how nice, Mr. Nevill. You don't have to be murdered after all. I'm sorry, Joan. Stop, you are in no state to move, No, no, no doctors. They'll ask questions Anyway, I've got to get Kirby No, I'll find Mr. Kirby. You can't. I'll hire detectives. I can put a personal ad tomorrow No, this is something I've got to... No, you're not going Now, wait a minute, Joan. Listen, if... Jim. Okay, boss. When did you get home? I just got in, Disturb me? It's 3:00 in the morning. You were supposed to meet me at 11:00. What do you suppose Andrea. Look, I had an accident. -An accident? Well, it was nothing, just a little brawl. You've taken to street brawling now? I was just going to phone I phoned that secretary of yours, You've trained her well. Andrea, please. You are a careless, unfeeling brute. I'm sorry. Sorry. You can't even make it any better. I hate you. I hate you. Darling. Please. Forgive me. I promise you I promise you. Forgive me. Jim, you're dreadful. No, it can't wait until this afternoon. It's desperately urgent, then I shall have to get on to... Right. Well, now, Mr. Chapter, Yes, as soon as you give me When did he desert you? Who? Or is it your fiancee? Look, Mr. Chapter, you are out of... Trust lives deeper Deeper than the grave. By the way, who is the other woman? There is no other woman. There isn't? -Oh, it's a pity, it's always a lot easier to find them when there is, Now, look, Mr. Chapter, He's not my husband, and there is no other woman. Now, here's a description of him You can get started at once, please. but I still think I don't care how you Trust Chapter, deeper than the grave. Come in. Miss Peterson, That's nonsense, they must take it, They're waiting now in line. Advertiser? About this advertisement, of course, you can. Amalgamated buys and if you can't do us Yes, exactly. Who left this? It was left to She brought it, and when I went out When was that? It's 8:39, You aren't going? The message says to be at the Blackwell Arches at 9:00, You can't, Perhaps. It's not even signed by Kirby, Who's Eileen? I've met her. Barmaid or something, Please wait. The detective promised, tomorrow morning. Then tell the police How can I? I can't answer. Well, then let me come with you. No, you don't come with me. This is my problem. I started this crazy thing, But... Get a taxi, you're going home. You will see me later. Are you sure I'm sure. Stop, Paul, stop! Stop! Where is he? You've got a nerve bursting in here. Where's Paul? That's just what I want to know. Where is Paul? I've had enough Where is he? Mr. Nevill, not you. -What did you do to him? What's the trouble, mister? Keep away from me. Trouble? Why don't you do something? Go on, beat his brains out. You watch me, honey. Keep away from me, I warn you. Keep away. Will, what are you waiting for? Come on, do him. Oh, my big hero. Running away like a rabbit I'll ruin you totally, really, Come here. Now for the last time, where is Paul? I don't know. Why did you send me that message? Send you what? How could I? Three days? I'm not lying. You went and drove See, gone. He didn't tell me, it's in the letter. What letter? The letter you wrote to me What? -Look, I'll show you myself. Here. Well, read it yourself. He says he's running away that he won't do it and that he's getting out of the country. I don't know Where is he? I don't know. You're lying. Please, Mr. Nevill, We were going to get married. I love him. Listen, you, I'll kill you. I don't care I'll kill you, It is my very pleasant duty of thanks to our president. The brilliant way in which has more than justified our trust in him. I understand that Mr. Nevill He could well afford to refuse it. I therefore move in a more symbolic way. Perhaps a testimonial dinner -Yes. For me, I too am glad about this merger, but my sense of honesty We hope to continue our expansion and to bring off I must, however, that in future all such negotiations should be brought to the and not conducted Really Hyson, think just for once, we could have... it's simply a matter of ethics, and if you think the board the only result will be that we... Mr. Hyson is absolutely right. There will be no I am most gratified by the statement. Thank you, gentlemen, Are you all right, Mr. Nevill? Funny thing, I almost fainted What do you expect? You have been shot at, It's a wonder you're not ill, Don't tell me what I should do or not do. You, of all people, It can't be, Paul. I know that now. Well, I thought of that, too. It must be, who else can it be? Have you no enemies, Mr. Nevill? Can any man honestly say that, who's climbed as far Enemies, maybe, but murder. Let me see that last batch Where are they? They are in the upper left-hand drawer. Did you lock it? No, I didn't lock it. It's stuck or something. Too funny now. Look out, Joan! I told you, inspector, Do you realize, Mr. Nevill, to refuse information to the police? You must admit that You can't deny that. Now come on, Mr. Nevill. What about you, miss? -Miss Peterson... Inspector, We've been questioned for hours, and I suggest we terminate this interview. All right, doesn't mean that we're closing this case. I suppose you are. I must request you to hold yourselves We will be available, good night. Good night. That must have been You should have told him. Told him, told him what? About an attempted insurance fraud, That would have made What are you going to do? Well, I know what I'm not going to do, like a sitting duck At least I'm sure of one thing. Whoever did this Someone who can walk in Yes. Now, I've got to find him You ought to go home, Mr. Nevill. You need a rest. Go home? You know I can't go home, Well, then go to my place, No, I've involved you enough. I'll check in at the Dorchester. Get things organized. -Should I bring you a change of clothes? and tell Andrea not to worry. Tell her I'll be home very soon. Sleeping the sleep of the unjust, Hyson? As a sign of a clear conscience You, is this your idea of a joke? Oh, yes, I feel like joking. I'm splitting my size with laughter. Thinking about Forbes. Funny, isn't it? Three times It would suit you, Hyson, Then you could take my place You're mad, Nevill. I ought to sue you for slander. Where were you That's none of your business. I don't owe you any account Where were you? Time for your rub down, Mr. Hyson. Just a moment, Grover. Mister... This gentleman here Questions? Was Mr. Hyson here Mr Hyson, He comes here every night, He's so regular, -Mr. Hyson, do you remember? Was he here Thursday and Friday night? Yes. Are you sure? Do you call me a liar? How late did he stay? First, he has a bath Then he has some You won't be long, will you, Mr. Hyson? I have a few other customers waiting. Satisfied? Yes. It's more than If I made a mistake, I apologise. Do you think that's quite enough? I said I made a mistake. What more do you expect? Expect? What could I expect from you, but the manners of the gutter. You hate me that much, Of course, I hate you. I hate everything you stand for. Cocksure superiority, The way you do business I'd be quite glad to see you but I'd never do it myself. I believe you I couldn't, No, I don't see, Shh. Couldn't you phone me? Don't you think I have as much right Look, it was not my idea but I certainly Why all this cloak and dagger nonsense? Why do we have We've got a home Darling, look at me... Let's get out of here. Sorry. It's strange how I quite agree with you. and they don't consider anybody else. Shh. It was impossible to tell you It would have made you an accessory. Then suddenly, but I couldn't find Paul to call him off. Jim, this is terrible, I still think you should have told me. I couldn't, Andrea, I couldn't. It's like living in a shooting gallery I certainly wasn't going Well, should I be? We're married. No, as a matter of fact, As far away from you as I can get until I find out Until I find out What is it? We're ready now. What was that all about? I'm sorry, I'm so jumpy, Are you certain it wasn't Paul? On that, I'm positive. I'm also positive the same person and everyone who's had Look, Paul's out of the country. Eileen, his girlfriend and even Hunter to set that booby trap. Hyson was at his Turkish baths. I checked that. Forgive me, darling, but you were at the theatre. I'm right back What did you say? I said I was right back No, no, about Peter. I said he was at the theatre He wasn't. What are you talking about? Well, he excused He said he wasn't feeling well. You know he had malaria during the war. Well, it often happened before, Peter? Or it couldn't possibly be Peter. It is Peter. It's got to be. Now we can go home. We'll get Peter to the house. Maybe you'll answer a few questions. Oh, what if you won't come? He'll come Jim? I'm frightened. Take it easy, darling, take it easy. What's going to happen? I'm just going to have Perhaps he'll answer a few questions. But the gun! Don't worry. This I can handle. Anything I can see, Now, go ahead. Don't worry. Jim? Jim, help me! Jim! Andrea! Andrea! Jim, help me! Andrea! Andrea! Paul, where's Andrea? It's rude not to answer, Paul. Speak to Mr. Nevill. You, where is Andrea? If you've harmed my wife, I'll... I should stay I don't want to kill you too soon. He's crazy, Jim, He's had me locked up somewhere What is it all about? I'm merely carrying out which you and your drunken enthusiasm Jim wanted you to kill him. Well, Andrea What are you saying? Do you find this confusing, Jim? Are you so shocked? No. No. Yes, he is. Mr. Nevill, a great financier How easy you made it for us with your idiotic schemes and harebrained ideas. You told me it was Peter. Of course, I had to. You were going away, and I couldn't Andrea, stop it. This has gone far enough. Paul, you've been elected having killed Jim, you will be overcome with remorse and shoot yourself. At least, that's the story but that's the way Jim wanted it, You loved me. I know you love me. Love you? I loathe you. I've loathed you for years. You bought me with your money and you thought that money Oh, I wanted your money, all right, but now it's time I had it without you. After all, you wanted me safe, secure and happy, didn't you, Jim? Well, I'm going to be safe and happy being your rich widow, which is what you wanted. Go ahead, Peter. Do it now. I'm sorry, Jim, I rather like you. In the name of heaven stop it. Stop it, please. What story should I tell the police? Should I tell them and Paul is a suicidal killer? Whose that? There she is, Peter. There. No. Let me go. Okay, Jim. I said I have got the gun. Mr. Nevill, don't. Don't, don't. don't do it. Don't, Jim, don't. I beg you. I beg you, Mr. Nevill, leave him alone. Let the law handle him. Listen to me, Jim. I love you. I love you and if you kill him, I love you. I love you. I hope I live long enough to see you do your star performance at the end of a rope. Come with me now. I'll call the police. Come into the house. Let's not leave her here. It's dark. Out here, it's not right. I'll take her inside where she belongs.