Rachid: Welcome back to the I'm your host, Rachid Finge, and this behind the scenes at Google, who work on our devices and services. And today, we have three They're the ones who create finishes, and hinges now, as well. So if you ever wondered what it takes then this is the episode for you. And I'm so excited that we're So let's say hi to Ivy Ross, Isabelle Ivy, Isabel, Claude, Please tell us about your role at Ivy, can we start with you, please? Ivy: Sure. I'm the vice president of and that's over all of design-- industrial design, store And I got to Google, actually, was hired to work on of Google Glass. And I think it's been And actually, Isabelle and I, we met of design for Google Glass at the time. Rachid: Exactly. And frequent listeners of already know that story from on the &quot;Made by Google&quot; podcast. But, Isabelle, for people please tell us a little and how you ended up at Google. Isabelle: Sure. So in my current role, I'm working on our home And I also oversee color, for all of our hardware products. And like Ivy mentioned, I started And so that was a very But excited to be working Rachid: That must be a great place, And, Claude, what about you? Claude: So I am the director of and I also lead the packaging team. And the way I got into to lead a VR-specific team had some experience in the space. And so I joined Daydream and then slowly shifted over I was always part of Ivy's team, around phones. Thank you. So before we dig in-- and know that we have this internal can state their own personal mission. And I just always like to read And maybe they reveal So, Ivy, yours says Why did you write that? Ivy: God, you know, I haven't But when I saw that, I sat with that. I go, yeah, I still believe in that. First of all, play, to me-- the It's depression. Playing is doing something And I think that's how yourself some time to play with ideas. And I just sometimes think we don't So that's a big mission of mine. And then the next is design. Design, to me, is solving So after you play it's time to create boundaries out of the boundaries you're given. And then manifest-- I mean, I kind of starting with nothing, starting with nothing and So for me, those are the mantras I Rachid: Yeah. It sounds like you captured the essence Ivy: OK, good. Success. Rachid: Amazing. Isabelle, three words as Isabelle: Yeah. This has been a mantra for me or maybe even before And for me, the most important thing is solving the problems like for example the new Pixel Tablet useful in everyday life, it that just people respond to or that was thoughtful. But it can also be things like coming you turn the product around or when you're changing it matches the pop So for me, it's making people smile. It's about adding that delight and joy, about solving problems for people. Rachid: Amazing. And it worked, because people can Definitely did make me smile. So great job there. Claude, finally-- &quot;design more less.&quot; Rachid: Yeah. Sure. So I think, as designers, we And that could be said where we aim to delight our complex, the very technical, simple. But it also applies to about resources, when our and to simplify manufacturing. So it kind of goes both ways. And I believe in that very strongly. Rachid: Today's guests are responsible Ivy Ross is our vice president of She's known for a lot of Some of her work is part of the museums, like the Smithsonian. Isabelle Olsson is our wearables, and color material finish. Originally from Sweden, before joining Google 12 years ago. If you love the look of your you have Isabelle and her And Claude Zellweger is the director Claude joined Google a few months after The camera bar that we've had since Way back, Claude designed And as you'll learn, that's a I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. I guess, for today, we're talking we launched-- Pixel 7a, Pixel Fold, and Pixel Tablet. Maybe we can get into colors, So what went into selecting those? I guess, Isabelle, you're the perfect Isabelle: Yeah. I love that question. And I'm going to correct we don't select color. We create colors. Rachid: That's a good shout, yes. Isabelle: It's not like we just open But it's an involved process, where we really create And in a way, it's pretty simple. We are just really inspired So that could be anything from a bag to a little pom-pom that you found It's just-- we're trying to surround us a sense of delight and surprise. And then we create these and start there, and develop the colors. Actually, during the pandemic, came from water coloring. We were actually trying to remove that we rely on so much for being But it was almost like a need to and go back to basics and our for collaboration. Rachid: And any manicures Because one of the things you of course, that's a way to sort of see Isabelle: Yeah. I mean, there's multiple And I think we all have our But again, it goes back to, how do that the consumer And how do we make sure that it's but that also stands the test of time? These are phones and products that So even if we want to develop a new we want to make sure that you So again, that goes back to that And sometimes, that We actually did a nail polish Rachid: Wow. Isabelle: Yeah, that was a lot of fun. So it's still part of the process, but I should say. Ivy: I have to say, the other day, we And they made this comment that they you do bright colors, never look cheap. They always look sophisticated. And that's a testimony to the because it's about dialing becomes that right level of color is different on each material. So then translating it to each material want things to-- the color to be but as an ecosystem, So it truly is an art and science. Rachid: So if we look, for example, at 7a, how many prototypes are there lying around there this is the perfect color sea Isabelle: I mean, I should I mean, it's in the hundreds. But we often start simply where we look at different shades. Let's say we're feeling that we because of the world that we're in. Then we start collecting these objects. Then we start extracting And then we have, actually, a beautiful So we go downstairs and work to develop a whole range that's Then we start applying those to forms. Because like Ivy said earlier, the have a different look and feel whether it's a tablet or a small earbud And there, you start thinking with different skin tones, et cetera? So we then apply those And then we start kind of And then eventually, we align on what So again, it's not usually just one And then we start developing Because, again, the finishes and the materials themselves. And them I start working with our material scientists, to bring that can be produced. Because that's the other thing. We're not artists. Although, sometimes, I But these products have So there is a lot of work how does this color actually These products go inside, outside. How does it fade over time? Is it a graceful fade or does it That is not a great experience, but it's definitely not delightful. So it goes from that more into a more technical process Ivy: And you know, I wanted to build this idea that color also society is going through in terms of Because a lot of times, people And so if you study this, it goes along So right now, people need to feel that we have some bright colors. There are other times where-- I remember when we first it was very much when sustainability So it's an interesting juxtaposition of society as well, as Isabelle said, and all of the influences. Rachid: And I guess, just coming I think the first time we saw if I'm not mistaken. So now it's on the Pixel 7a. I guess it's a very bright color, Was it, like, a deliberate, maybe Isabelle: Yeah, I think when we develop line, or in fact our want to make sure that that could appeal to almost everyone. And we know people have Some people like cooler colors. Some people prefer warmer colors. So we want to make sure we have a range. And then we also want some people might prefer something calming, like the sea, although it's And then coral was really about that we wanted to bring. You've seen this color kind Actually, it was at the top of Pixel 6, And you notice we had it on the Mini. And then we thought to introduce it on the entire phone. And we think it's exciting. Rachid: It definitely is. Now, Claude, coming to you, the camera bar is there. It seems like we really embraced that as Claude: Yeah, absolutely. We've started this design And we wanted to really create something and that is also very efficient of our really impressive a very simple and easy to read graphic. So we've built on that. We started with a graphic on 6, durable and refined and simple. And translating it into, I because we're borrowing a lot We want that user to experience the with the materials, with the camera craftsmanship, and precision. But we also-- it's executed It's a more cute version of it. It's a little more soft. And then on the foldable, So we wanted to design that-- cutter approach to our design language. So that's how you can We've taken a little bit of a different but it's still very distinctly Pixel, as well. Rachid: Now, of course, with the that foldable thing fold, I guess. And it's a stainless steel hinge. Why did you pick that? Claude: So this is the-- we call this The hinge itself is not stainless Yeah, so I think, generally speaking, that kind of checks both boxes in such as stiffness, scratch the visual and tactile appeal of it. In this case, it's the high finish, which is really you hold the device most of the time. And so yeah, that's been What's happening on the inside We're trying to make the thinnest puts a lot of pressure, if to build a hinge that is extremely torsionally stiff and clever. So a lot of time was spent in with engineering to find that also has just the right feeling It should be a very satisfying feeling, Rachid: Yeah. Well, something also, we talked to some about the Pixel Fold. It needed also-- if you have to of course be sure that when you put it that way, for example. Claude: Exactly, yeah. I mean, it needs to work really well essentially. And yeah, a lot of Ivy: Yeah, I was going to say, because there was another foldable the discipline to hold back and and really wait until do something that was good enough or So it's really a testimony able to do that and recognize Rachid: There's a lot involved in design as well, then. Ivy: Yes. Rachid: Excellent. So we've talked about phones. We didn't even touch on And speaking of touch, it that we talk a lot about, Isabelle. Can you describe what it is even if you've never touched it before? Isabelle: Yeah. The goal was to make it feel exactly And I think we actually succeeded. It was a fun process in the beginning, And they were trying to get What are the numbers? What is the coefficient friction? How do we measure this? And even though we tried, there we were trying to create in numbers. So we invited our team members to come And the interaction was just And then, of course, through a lot we were able to get there. But yeah, the idea-- the same way is, when you you have a little bit And then it's smooth, And so the idea is so that it feels really satisfying. But then also, when it's in its it doesn't feel out of place that have that cold metal look. So it was kind of to both have as well as the aesthetic Rachid: What I found so when I'm not recording podcasts, And we had them, of course, And you can see their sort of mind for the first time, saw the Pixel and that you don't need to I guess it's maybe also one to experiment with magnets, making that that's satisfying. So could you tell us a little the dock, and then the case as well? Isabelle: Yeah. It's an exciting system that required with our research team, our material scientists, our engineers. I mean, it was a true And yeah, you mentioned it. It's a really tough balance to it feels really secure. I mean, the fact that we were able is pretty awesome, at the same time, And we spent countless really tuning that so that you could and it would still stay in place. If you make the magnets too hard, then but if they're too So at some point, we're going to be able to thread this needle. I mean, there were many moments But we tried all these different And finally we got to a point where it And it involved even things with the front plate of a rubberized textile, that would and feel when you dock it. And it also not only It actually helped with the magnet So this is where function follows depending on how you look at it. So every single piece of considered to have that moment of calm and security and Rachid: And so where does Because I could imagine-- I mean, I'd probably Then maybe, we have it all figured now we need to have a case on it, not strong enough this stand without being in the way? So how did that come to life? Isabelle: Again, through prototyping, if you count the number is probably up to a hundred-- experimentation, prototyping, living I think it's very important, again, to step away from our So we would take prototypes home. We would live with them. And don't tell anybody, but we And we would see how they to make sure that we're cases and those serendipitous moments. And early on, we started realizing, and you make it useful in the is going to want to use it. And then you're like, wait a minute. I spent X amount on this product. I might want to have a case for it. But given it is this idea of it throughout the day, we thought, once it leaves the dock, If you want to do yoga on the floor or I think many of you might have something up and you try to prop it it's kind of annoying. But then we wanted to create incur any more friction than necessary. Imagine you would have to take off Any moment of friction of just putting it back in the drawer. And that's the antithesis to do in the first place, be more useful in your everyday life? So then this idea of this ring wait, when we create this it can be an infinite angle. So we call it the infinite hinge. And then it can also go onto the dock The ideas really came from using and having that moment tuning it and perfecting it over time. Claude: It's interesting when you because I think about think about the category of foldables. In the past, there was a big when they wanted to get into foldables. Yeah, you get the bigger screen, So you're making a big trade-off. And so for us, for the design thinking about, how can And that was kind of the impetus that of inspired by a Moleskine this kind of very that is thin and slides easily sort of the satisfaction around opening So a lot of these elements were inspired because we knew we could With our services, we experience in the foldable space. But we needed to make going to be something that people Rachid: What would you the Fold is your most or the team in getting that Claude: Probably two things. One is this song and dance that Isabelle to make that form just exactly the when it's both open and closed. You have to really That's an interesting constraint You can't just optimize even though we know that people use It's still like a 70% So it has to be really first, and then also be And I think the other thing I think being able to shift a foldable could be, particularly the porcelain skew. It's really interesting how just just really shifted from a of something that feels and you can imagine Ivy: Yeah, I was going to say, with the I love that we're giving choices and really launching Because I do think the future is how do I want to work? What do I need? And so I'm very excited to round out so that we can give the consumers Rachid: So, Ivy, maybe I So we have these devices that different audiences. You also mentioned you also work So these are wildly different things. But how do you ensure that they sort they're designed? What's sort of the secret behind that? Ivy: Well, I think the secret is that discipline, and then I have different But the mission, we've all aligned that underlines all of the aesthetics. And so when you have that and we come together weekly to share. The different teams And we always use the test of, is Where is the daring part? Where is the optimistic part? And we kind of spot check-- each group spot checks each other. And then when we lay them out together, we want to do what's But as a group, it always from either the mother or father's DNA. There's some relationship so that people recognize as Google. So I think it's a byproduct of but then with these focused areas, Rachid: I also wanted to as that's one of the key How do you make sure the and I guess maybe sustainable but also sustainable, perhaps, So what does it take when it comes to sustainability there? Isabelle: Yeah. So designing for sustainability is We talk about reducing waste We're very focused on And then the third one is The piece on longevity is as well as how it lasts over time. And I think what's with the tablet is this idea of, how So that's a component The most sustainable that people keep around and don't throw When it comes to developing every year, we're advancing So in Pixel 7a, for example, not but also the back resin enclosure is And then more recently, to design our adhesives to be recycled. So we're not stopping at the exterior, We have a material science team who are It's the beginning of a journey, every rock that we can to do better. So that is a little bit on our approach. And, Ivy, maybe you want to speak Ivy: Yeah. I was just going to say, across product, but across packaging. We made a commitment to be We're actually going to be So we're very excited about that. And then our retail stores. Our retail stores are the And we, in our Chelsea store, got the I mean, there's very few retail stores And all of our stores are getting for sustainability, because-- as Isabelle says, just it's the same thing in It's the glue that I mean, everything has to be considered. And we now have, with our there are checkpoints where the team has to talk for more sustainability, and make-- so everyone's aware of And then be conscious if there's so that the first step is-- because And we can't necessarily do but really, at least, bringing and what's in the way of getting there. So I think it's been a great education And we're proud of-- we are making progress every time. Rachid: Amazing. Claude, anything to add there? Claude: The only thing I would we're starting to ship And so every little change that we side of things-- so that's can really have a huge impact. So we're actually, as designers, with things like tooling engineers to to tool or quicker to machine out. If you have a block of aluminum, to be milled out of the solid piece? And that, in fact, has a huge you can produce in a and therefore, the carbon footprint So we spend a lot of time on the very Rachid: I wanted to that touches upon your careers. You're all great designers, did not start out in technology. For example, Ivy, I know you worked So I'm wondering, what career at a completely different field So what kind of lessons did uniquely can apply in your job today? Maybe, Ivy, we can start with you. Ivy: Yeah. I think we're all a byproduct makes for this beautiful diversity. And I love-- I particularly try to because that's what equals each come from a different place. My career has been in consumer goods, in jewelry through clothing, toys. I touched pretty much every category. Because, for me, it's the process. I have to love what the output is. But it's more the process of Interestingly enough, in I was always a futurist, And that's where technology think I've always had a love as a tool for creativity. But from my personal attention to detail is what I learned I'm very glad I was a maker with my Because there's something about you get a new skill set. So I would say that experience But really, this idea that in every it's understanding and having So that diversity taught me that there's which is what design is about. Rachid: Claude, what about yourself? Claude: Yeah. So I think the things that is having a really diverse set that I worked with. Really, specifically, I did a lot of designing boots, shoes, watches, but then also getting, always being really interested change behavior, that shift behavior. So I was working at the time the first like high-end VR headsets. Those are always things that I felt, that we interact with technology. And certainly, that's to want to work at Google, to these incredible technologies to responsibly think about this technology into their lives. I think that sort of cross-pollination is really helpful. Rachid: So you mentioned Is anything of that time that you for example, in designing phones today? Claude: Yeah. I mean, well, phones, I would say It's very much a fashion product. So the thinking that you have for and things like that, can be very and how do you create interest And how you think graphically it's about the form and I think so. That helped a lot, also, always being really interested And so how we think about our early so there was a totally different And I think right now, when we think there is a strong element So that translates. And, Isabelle, what about you? Isabelle: I'll give one example. I had the chance, earlier in to exhibit at the Milan Furniture Fair. And that was an experience in and putting together a that people would see and react to. And it made me very humble, because and you put this exhibition together. You sweat, blood, tears-- you drive a van down there. I mean, it's just an incredible, And then to see someone just walk by [CHUCKLING] Or people engaging with and asking questions, and learning the collaboration part, and But also learning how to and listen to how people And that's something that I've taken being open to feedback, being versus my personal pride in the craft. You have to set that aside, because We're designing for other people. So that's a critical piece. And I'll repeat what Ivy said, too. I think it's the making part versus But creating things with our And then now, actually, we had a chance to go back to Milan. We just came back from our So it's been incredible to get Rachid: That's the same exhibit Isabelle: Yeah. Ivy: Yeah. I mean, and lot of us go It's a great coming together to both the built environment, different I believe the designers sometimes or do something different It's back to that play idea. And being able to get, as and see the joy that we bring to people. Rachid: And you all three definitely do. Well, Ivy, Isabelle, Claude, thank and teaching us about design at Google. Ivy: Thank you. Isabelle: Thank you. Claude: Thank you. Rachid: Well, wasn't that great? And what a great team they are. I learned a lot about design once designers don't pick colors-- they create them, and rightly so. There's much more to come this Next time out, we're talking to the team that you probably take for granted. I mean, the calculator app, it deserves So subscribe to get it in your Thanks a lot for listening. Take care and talk soon.