NIKKI SIXX: Bands keep doing. They don't stop. TOMMY LEE: &quot;Too Fast for we were in a full blown, I guess my fondest and is that we were fucking green. MICK MARS: For the most us doing everything on our own, that we could afford. VINCE NEIL: I think it cost And we did it in It was basically just TOMMY LEE: Nobody knew Which is, I think, is the It's why it sounds Everyone was just-- we were like, whoa, you know, let's do this. We were just like, OK, Like, nobody really thought Nobody overthought anything. Everybody just played. NIKKI SIXX: My passion that had all the elements of and the glam bands that and the edge that was inspired and the Ramones, and TOMMY LEE: We were playing songs in clubs, that were tested. Like, we rock these things. These things were They weren't like, hmm, let's we just hit record MICK MARS: One day and started like, you And Nikki said, He started like this don't want to say a VINCE NEIL: Showed and started jamming the song. And it turned out MICK MARS: And so we took it to made-- gave Motley VINCE NEIL: It's been it's been a band MICK MARS: Terry And they had Walking in And he heard it, and Sounds like this And a few other bands that were saying the same thing-- TOMMY LEE: We try to keep very simple to sing don't have to be a You can sit there and scream, And it's simple. NIKKI SIXX: When I got and we started this amazing sense of of the song something And we had a very, just TOMMY LEE: And [DRUM_SOUNDS.] The the guitars are ripping. It's full on as you VINCE NEIL: If we we would get so much hate mail. Because people just whether you grew up from the beginning or if you're like a new It's just one of those songs to you. It's just very raw. NIKKI SIXX: And &quot;Live Wire&quot; It was really-- it says plug It was really about when all that really mattered and mixing up in the to discover new art, and what was going and trying to find something And in the end, we ended up TOMMY LEE: I remember people's and hearing the music and then They're like whoa, These dudes are crazy. They got like seven and makeup, and some of VINCE NEIL: We kind of, away to people at them to come closer It's like, here, here. Did the same thing TOMMY LEE: That first wasn't a record that was all over the world. It kind of grew up, outside of Los were making noise We were selling out through at the Whiskey. And this all kind of snowballed VINCE NEIL: You know the and it sold 20,000 records. But for a club band, that And that's what got the They said, if those guys in just LA and Phoenix, we could with these guys. We signed with Elektra brought in Roy famous for doing The Cars and MICK MARS: He heard it and he So I was like, I went I know. VINCE NEIL: To a lot of They brought him in And I think he took of real-- the There's actually four Not only quality, but And the little subtleties know unless you're in the was the second version, And it's kind of A lot of people go, yeah Nope, it's like the third. NIKKI SIXX: I know for was a glorified demo. And that's what's We just, we captured what We were very excited to get which would be TOMMY LEE: Yeah, we There was just that we always just off, whether it was the way we MICK MARS: People's If they don't understand it-- they don't understand NIKKI SIXX: &quot;Shout us kind of rebelling would become the see for the rest of our career. I also think that it stepping into heavy metal. VINCE NEIL: Nikki would like he was playing the base of his hand and stick in the And people would go, dabbling with the devil. NIKKI SIXX: It was just being But we were trying to dig and find messages that And for me it was a message that lots of That's what it's You know, it's an anthem. Many people can and all feel unified by that. I think that we're missing And &quot;Shout at the Devil&quot; to take that with things It was so simple or using bastard, and into the audience's head. [MUSIC--&quot;SHOUT_AT_THE_DEVIL&quot;] VINCE NEIL: To a lot of people, was &quot;Shout at the Devil.&quot; This is where they Then they went back and NIKKI SIXX: &quot;Shout at the to have more money and and better drum sounds and more to sort of craft what it TOMMY LEE: We have better than we did before. VINCE NEIL: We for probably at least NIKKI SIXX: That album was including the lyrics. For me as the lyricist, it And I find it-- that was a even though there A&amp;R We really did understand. But accidentally we when in truth is more of a-- kind of a punk band. TOMMY LEE: If we noticed we would completely you know, and do it differently. It was just in our spirit. NIKKI SIXX: Anything that we were against it. MICK MARS: When we came out, the kids, or the went to our shows and stuff, it was like new music to them. But mom and dad It was just noise to them. It was the devil's music. They didn't understand it. NIKKI SIXX: The label, at the time they to &quot;Shout at the Devil.&quot; They didn't understand from our punk rock They said, we had a formula, MICK MARS: When they see they're really flipping out now. Even our record company TOMMY LEE: I remember battling with the They're like, you guys on your record company. That's just-- we're We're like, we're doing it. We have to do it. We want it. MICK MARS: You notice that at the Devil,&quot; it's like and not the pentagram And I thought it was kind of TOMMY LEE: Still to stories all the time of into their house behind And their mom or dad walking And getting-- tossing the whatever. MICK MARS: Elektra I'm going to expound on Those guys suck. And they were in the hole. We pulled them out of the hole. They made so much money that And like the know-- we wanted to headline a Then we did that. Then we wanted to We did that. And then we wanted to open TOMMY LEE: That one made a to get someone like who are these guys? VINCE NEIL: And we all have jackets and stuff, and And here comes Ozzy in this jacket, like down to the floor. And here comes Carmine long, giant fur jacket. I'm like, oh my god, these TOMMY LEE: Then, just, the But that record started a VINCE NEIL: &quot;Home Sweet Home,&quot; NIKKI SIXX: That song really was or our &quot;Stairway to Heaven.&quot; And all the bands had that one song And we felt that that was We did on the first album-- And we have &quot;Merry Go We had &quot;Danger.&quot; MICK MARS: &quot;Theatre of Pain&quot; that I believe was one of the power ballads. VINCE NEIL: It was kind when you look back now, that whole thing. NIKKI SIXX: And I had when I was about 17 years old. It was just in the D position. And one note moved along. I would always play it. It was just one of knew there was something to it. But I never fleshed-- find a way to And Tommy picked up and kind of started mimicking, And then Vince-- we I'll never forget this. We were actually-- we were and we were going to go have some drinks, and and do our usual shenanigans. And we just kind of fell where the song was written TOMMY LEE: At the time and we would have been on And this song really meant And one of them want-- we needed to go home. Like, people have NIKKI SIXX: We that were floating around that ended up on And stuff from &quot;Shout at we had some of the songs that like &quot;Home Sweet Home.&quot; I always wonder if &quot;Home Sweet on &quot;Shout at the Devil,&quot; what that would have had, or what for our career. [MUSIC--&quot;HOME_SWEET_HOME&quot;] VINCE NEIL: The whole MTV was now-- everybody And we when did we the video TOMMY LEE: I remember MTV, and just that one day, your and you have the number It's playing on loop, almost. You're like, Jesus, VINCE NEIL: They had like a battle of and they had like And we never lost. MICK MARS: We did, I believe, &quot;Home Sweet Home&quot; I go, again? Again? We're number one again? Cool. VINCE NEIL: Finally because we couldn't lose So the Crue rule was be on more than four weeks, like that. MICK MARS: We try to set goals. We try to break rules. We try to break the And show them that there's of what you can achieve. NIKKI SIXX: Success to spend more money on But it was the same So when we were doing we could afford a And &quot;Shout at the Devil,&quot; we And by &quot;Theatre of Pain,&quot; And we were indulging in it. And it was starting to not work. VINCE NEIL: Our said, if we gotta send you to doing, someone's going And literally right after in Europe touring, NIKKI SIXX: We obviously Vince had a horrible experience. Razzle's family had a Others were just-- it was just VINCE NEIL: We kind of started We didn't have a NIKKI SIXX: With Razzle's with the band around then, and a lot of confusion. We just weren't sure what There's no way around it. It was a horrible thing. And none of us will Vince will never And it's hard to explain. You just can't put it in words, I think the focus on VINCE NEIL: Thank God for in the Boys Room,&quot; have been any songs I mean, if you asked me any I wouldn't be able to tell you. NIKKI SIXX: Vince to do &quot;Smokin' in I think that was a It was like, we Lift the spirits of a band. Lift the spirits of the fans. MICK MARS: The one was &quot;Smokin' in the Boys Room.&quot; That's what broke the band. NIKKI SIXX: You know behind &quot;Theatre of and there was discussions in the VINCE NEIL: We had to cancel the &quot;Girls, Girls, Girls&quot; tour. And that really sucked. TOMMY LEE: I pinch how certain people are still Like, it's so bizarre an endless amount of to end all, a long time ago. I mean, it's ridiculous. It really is ridiculous. Somebody's looking out after us. That's all I can say. NIKKI SIXX: We wanted And we stripped we were when we were on stage, rode Harleys, hot rods, got drunk, and VINCE NEIL: We to come out with a good album. Thank God &quot;Girls, MICK MARS: I really and party that much. Because I'm a bit older I've done that. So I was mostly interested and While the other guys were out and they might be doing. So they were the wild side, VINCE NEIL: Mick had some really on some of the We went kind of straight away stuff, except for a MICK MARS: Adding an element that blues ties together and this or changes-- and say [MUSIC--&quot;WILD_SIDE&quot;] We're playing the for like, how many bars-- And then it goes into this NIKKI SIXX: My lyrical was to uncover that life and thought it was-- and I still I think it was some of my best It was really, really, Really good on some of those you can read it, and And that picture was It was a very honest record. TOMMY LEE: We were and we were like, we gotta write And we're in them It would be silly not to. I just remember seeing that girls-- the red neon sign. I remember bringing the and they're like, [MUSIC--&quot;GIRLS,_GIRLS,_GIRLS&quot;] And once again we We were let's-- we were writing riding motorcycles And our lifestyle at the And that record just took on where we VINCE NEIL: &quot;Girls, Girls, I mean, we got inducted into because of that song. NIKKI SIXX: What happened is we were unified as a band. We felt like we made such and leaving all the And we felt the songs were so so good, the and it was such that when the record was we sold the most and it was through Payola position, it unified And bummed the band out to we will do anything are the biggest in the world. And that is how we TOMMY LEE: Everybody And it was time to And there was no way we We needed to go and eat, live, Not you know, well, I'll Like I gotta take my and then I gotta take And oh yeah, you going to make it today guys. We're like, we're We're moving. We brought our motorcycles. We brought all of our pinball and we just set up shop. And we're like, we're going until we can't see straight. Go to sleep, and do the same for six months. VINCE NEIL: It worked. It absolutely worked. And everybody was sober. Everybody had clarity. We'd go to work every day We'd go back to our apartments It was a really cool, NIKKI SIXX: We were a gang. We were a gang like we And it wasn't about the money. We all had so much money It wasn't about the were in relationships, so we It wasn't about the quit doing the So it was only about the music. TOMMY LEE: And it was rained every single day. There was no, oh it's No, no. We stayed in and we just worked. And we really-- we made the It was just all about focus. NIKKI SIXX: It was raw. We were a gang. We spent eight, twelve We hung out afterwards. We hung out before. It was a magical time. VINCE NEIL: We're rock we figure everyone else But it was just The production is better on it. It was fun to have a lot Steven Tyler sang on and Bryan Adams, Robin Zander. So it was kind of neat. NIKKI SIXX: &quot;Kickstart like a lot of our songs, I don't know where I but it came out. It just-- I think I in a movie, or something. But I was playing guitar. I was in my kitchen And I just started And I remember writing down on And my manager came over what's that? And I said, it's this song And he goes, what's it about? And I played it for you have to show the band. And I said, I don't know if it's quite right for us. And he goes, you're crazy. And I go, it's more that would be similar And we're doing these big riffs Feelgood.&quot; And he got me to MICK MARS: Nikki had come to And so we started and adding parts and As we call it, like cutting NIKKI SIXX: If it wasn't and back to Mick Mars, if it guitar, it would just be It really took the into this big rock anthem. And with Vince's unique vocals, we've ever had. MICK MARS: One of after the song was hey, what do you guys And I went [GUITAR SOUNDS]. You know, that And they were flipping out-- I go, okay, I'll do that. NIKKI SIXX: There was a and with the record that to be the wanted &quot;Dr. Feelgood&quot; That song almost like, I almost didn't Then the band didn't want We thought maybe it would be a I don't think anybody really Everyone else saw except for the MICK MARS: What I try when I do stuff like or I do stuff like &quot;Wild Side,&quot; a little left field, is I try that a guitar is more thing that you play. It's a real instrument. Look what you can do with this. I remember seeing Eric Clapton And so Eric Clapton and he goes-- this fast riff. B.B. King looks up at him. And he goes, [GUITAR SOUND]. And the crowd just And that's what It's just those like that that TOMMY LEE: Sometimes you look at and you go, mm, it's all right. And then there's sometimes you We knew that when we were We knew we made MICK MARS: If people go out or sing the solo, then you've done your job right. To me. I mean, that's the way TOMMY LEE: I don't forget having-- I have We had a number one record in I'll never forget that. I remember the label hey man, happy fucking birthday. You have the number one And I was like, what? Did not-- totally unexpected. I knew we did well, and I knew NIKKI SIXX: There to go out and play festivals. And the festivals And there was AC/DC And I had said to want to play third on the bill. And they said, you guys than both of those bands. You should be headlining And I go, no. Talked to guys in the band. We want to go out and And we're going to write TOMMY LEE: We went back because we got along so well. And it was the worked with a producer who in and was like a fifth Our past, we'd had producers they'd just sit in oh do it again guys, or not He'd be out there with a guitar And he would sing with and go, no, no, let's He was in the band for a minute. So we went back in and worked on &quot;Primal Scream.&quot; NIKKI SIXX: It was about being very raw and dirty, getting to the playing in front and playing in and kicking everyone's ass. It was such a cool time. VINCE NEIL: That's always with us. We don't really write the But when it gets-- when people obviously tend to and know what to say TOMMY LEE: We It's probably one of my drumming wise. NIKKI SIXX: I had been working that sounds kind And Tommy had this was just called Shout, And we merged them together. And Mick had this amazing It was really a hodgepodge, a But it was really the song to That's really what it was about. VINCE NEIL: It's just You know, it's to say it's not rock got a different vibe to it. It's got a really sexy-- just makes you think of sex. A lot of girls I that's my favorite looks like-- it's [MUSIC--&quot;PRIMAL_SCREAM&quot;] I'd just got back in the band. Still really weren't getting I probably quit five times of this album. Didn't want to be there. But &quot;Glitter&quot; was actually NIKKI SIXX: &quot;Glitter&quot; was an experiment in writing And that whole album to be honest with you. And it was a time where we had nothing to prove, so And there's elements it's so raw and so dirty. And then there's has a little bit of I guess to be an industrial sound to it. TOMMY LEE: This is-- with a different Scott did all the Pro stuff and sampling. And this opened up a You've got someone like who's used to playing guitar plugging his guitar through what the fuck is that? You know, [GUITAR SOUNDS]. And he's freaking out. We're doing things And within &quot;Glitter&quot; you which are these They look like an operator-- with millions of patch And we started with some crazy technology. [MUSIC--&quot;GLITTER&quot;] VINCE NEIL: It's funny A lot of people don't know And I remember, I was married in Beverly Hills. And my wife came home and Latin girl. And she's like, And I go, no, this is She really was, but-- And got released. But it was-- it turned And I thought it But I don't know I'd like to hear the TOMMY LEE: You listen back to and you go, it was good But there's certain still-- like I go, wow, And even after playing certain ones are still good. NIKKI SIXX: I think we I don't think a lot the record until years later. I know that for a fact. I have friends come I just listened to and that and &quot;Too Fast for Love&quot; But it took a while. Bands keep doing. They don't stop. Even artists like Neil Young or They're touring. They're writing music. And all of a sudden, everybody-- And the artist is like Something about was sort of a of the world for a band that's some years. MICK MARS: The &quot;Saints of a whole different animal. We had-- good lord-- 10 and ins and outs and everything So it's almost like, I don't because we still sound But it was almost like If that makes any sense. Probably doesn't. But that's because I'm half VINCE NEIL: It's cool and there's a 12-year-old on, singing the words and all these songs that were not born when TOMMY LEE: I absolutely love and seeing people have been fans and seeing their kids. It's the craziest thing when of their dad, just [SHOUTING]. And I'm like, what? MICK MARS: And all of our They were like, There would be, remember from back in the '80s. Especially this guy Bob. He has no teeth, and VINCE NEIL: And so you just of fan-- the high school, Which is pretty the only way you can you have to be NIKKI SIXX: You You realize that what you is honest and real. And you always go back MICK MARS: &quot;SOLA&quot; was We'd send like, Hey, what can you do with this? What do you think of this? What do you think of this lick? Oh, that's a great lick. OK let's do this. You know, and that as opposed to sitting let's try the chorus And instead of having you just cut the And it was like, it was so easy. VINCE NEIL: When you it's almost like because it starts out and ends with &quot;Coming And pretty much the story NIKKI SIXX: The album to the movie that is going shortly. So we had some didn't see eye to didn't fire at the same time. So now we have to go to the movie. We can call it &quot;Saints Or fuck the record company. SPEAKER: Is there could sum up the VINCE NEIL: Chicks