Some engines are good and some engines are through history and look at both the best and includes a little bit of everything, so you're the end. Let's get right into it. And before we me know what you think are some of the best and guys have to say. All right, what better place to the B series. And for those who don't know, the engines of all time, powering cars like the Civic the B18c. The B series as a whole is a family of to 2.0L, and what makes this engine so friendly interchangeable. So, you can take something like a head to get the best of both worlds. Think of the interchange between each engine, allowing you on top of that, it's a very powerful engine for Straight from the factory, an engine like the B16b displacement. Now on paper, 182 horsepower does you have to remember this is a naturally aspirated insane. That equates to about 113 horsepower per the same year of 1997 only output 305 horsepower just about 66 horsepower per liter. That's nearly that's not exactly a fair comparison for a perspective the absurd amount of power Honda was a cylinder head with massive flow, and a crazy just a performance engine, because Honda was like the CRV, which is a kind of larger SUV where low end torque. And the B series was able to do both performance and commuter style applications, anywhere in the engine. It's arguably the absolute 1990s, and it will forever go down as one of the time. Now, we've talked about this engine family because well, it's not exactly known for staying 300 wheel horsepower and that's the Subaru about defending the EJ as an engine that can be a proves the point that it's frankly a bad engine in you can see explode and still claim it's a good It's an engine that was inspired from an airplane majority of problems with the EJ platform are stock form, the EJ doesn't typically explode and But it seems like the second you think about look at your EJ wrong, it immediately explodes. with the EJ include head gasket failure, excessive tuning challenges, insufficient lubrication and much more. Again, in totally stock form an EJ all. Almost every single one of those issues comes throw on a Cobb aftermarket tuner and maybe like exploding really fast. Frankly, Subaru's use of factor to those problems, because one misfire or If you look at just about any other Japanese none of them really suffer from any major issues can be fixed and modified into a good engine, I and two that still proves a point that in stock automakers, Mitsubishi does a lot of different we're here to admire is their 1980s World Rally introduced this engine all the way back in 1980 as Mitsubishi Sirius 4G6 family, but if you fast we're here for, the 4G63t first seen in the 1988 Here in the states you could find the 4G63 in those who don't know, is a little series of cars it's so weird to think of Plymouth as a little the 4G63 uses a cast iron cylinder block and an other performance four-cylinder engines from you're talking about, the variant and the year, it different bottom end. And much like the Honda the 4G63 has a lot of interchangeability with its easily combine the two and create a turbocharged the 4G63 is still in production today. That's the only thing it's being produced for and used in here in the states or pretty much anywhere other absolutely insane. And those decades of production to be the perfect engine for both performance high-end aftermarket performance side, it's pretty it's not particularly hard to find examples of close to 2,000 horsepower for built Billet block often include a lot of very expensive custom it's still a 4G63. Now, I'd like to highlight a pretty serious problem with the 4G63 engines as crankwalk, which is basically the destruction of the highest performing four-cylinder engines terrible four-cylinder engine we have one of the and it's really only weird because of one thing engine is particularly interesting compared to that the materials used for the cylinder head and all engines, the cylinder block is made from cast cast aluminum. For modern engines which are almost matched with an aluminum cylinder head, except a cast iron head with an aluminum block. Now cheap to manufacture, but also very cheap to run. the reverse configuration of the Vega engine could liners, but instead they just didn't. Leaving the combustion. Now I think it's important to note necessarily a bad thing. It can be done well, but Audi, BMW, Mercedes, and Porsche, have all used the Vega engine with a mixed bag of success, but without steel cylinder liners just kind of suck. worse by the fact that almost anytime the Vega block would contract and expand at different materials. Which means this thing destroyed head came with an even worse problem, it broke down left soft spots on the cylinder walls that by the pistons. And unlike an engine with cast reused the, Vega's block was irrepairable. Meaning of cylinder wall damage. Overheating this engine head gasket or damaged cylinder walls. Either problems are pretty severe and quite frankly this the world of naturally aspirated performance K series, we had the arguably better but much less the F20c is the engine that you can find in the AP2 using the F22c, which was mechanically And the reason that this engine will forever be time, is its absurd power output of 120 horsepower the AP1 and AP2 S2000. That kind of power per quite literally held the record for the most all the way up until the Ferari 458 came out. The a Honda engine in terms of power per liter should the time that it came out. It was flat out miles how did Honda get the F20c to make so much power? rev limit of 9,000 RPM, which was later lowered the longer stroke. The head even featured some program, such as a single valve spring rather rocker arm to help reduce friction in the valve at close to 6,000 RPM. And because this engine was both the F20c and the F22c, Honda designed the lightweight thanks to its use of an aluminum components, which is something Honda had never point. It's lightweight, compact, and quite per liter of a production car engine. And on top not have the insane aftermarket performance of the hard to deny how important the F20c and the F22c right, now let's set our sites back on GM, because just wait until you hear about the 2.5L inline 4-cylinder natural aspirated engine that GM larger V8 engines. This was during the 1970s when with fuel prices getting absolutely out of it on their wallet. As much fun as V8 Pony cars And while the Iron Duke was great at saving fuel than the 5l or the 5.7L that you typically find performance of the 2.5L Iron Duke is nothing short equipped with an Iron Duke engine quite literally you, it was really that bad. Power output was right, literally not even 100 horsepower from the 2.5L Iron Duke is sitting at 34 horsepower commuter focused engine. Outside the embarrassing decent little engine, other than being kind of I can't even imagine how embarrassing it would this engine. Like the 1982 Camaro. You pull up to to 60 time. By the time you hit 60, a Foxbody quarter mile. And even worse than that, it had a meaning you couldn't even clutch kick this thing to be to be fair, I'm not exactly sure how much doesn't even have a limited slip. Either the weirdest and for sure the weakest 4-cylinder out there the idea of a 4-cylinder engine will some of which we've already looked at in this decent inline 4-cylinder engine, which takes us to ever 4-cylinder engine and part of what makes M3. One of the most iconic performance cars of all to take the three series, which was just a family that somehow had a number plate. Throughout a very three versions, the S14B23, the S14B23 Evo 2 which engine but with more power, and the S14B25 EVO3 even more power. And funny enough, the BMW S14 which itself was the basis for the BMW M12 amount of power, well over 1,000 horsepower, itself was. The S14 engine was the brainchild of a most iconic performance engines ever, including 1969 European touring championship, and the Formula 1 cars. The cylinder head of the S14 comes time, except with two cylinders chopped off to power output ranging from 197 horsepower up to 235 it's still very very good. But more importantly, which went on to be one of the most successful Hours of Nurburg five times and the 24 Hours of perfect little racing engine, it does have a few outside of that, it's a fairly reliable engine. think after GM put together multiple terrible that they'd learned how to build a decent engine, about is the GM EcoTech. Now, this is a family up to 2.5L, and on paper it's nothing crazy. It's with an all aluminum design and overhead cams. that doesn't feature absolutely anything crazy make it the absolute opposite of that. This engine facing multiple class action lawsuits over how bad to the 2.4L Ecotech engine having a pretty severe about and did absolutely nothing to fix. Now this because it's cheaper to fix them as they come in. it really screws over all of their customers. And with an engine that powers a lot of their little the injection system getting clogged with carbon issues, premature timing chain failure, cooling and much more. No matter how you cut it, the GM they are problematic engines with almost almost no good redeeming qualities about these they don't really make a lot of power even in much all bad, no good. The GM EcoTech will go down and the entire time GM knew it was a bad engine So far we've looked at Japanese, American, and one other country that has pumped out one of the thanks to Volvo with their B230FT engine. and Grail. This is the best performing Volvo engine but it's technically not an inline 4, but as well be an inline 4, but just tilted to the a super tough turbocharged engine that has a lot What I'm talking about is the cast iron block the bottom end ultra strong on this thing and exploding. On top of the cylinder head you'll with a single overhead cam. Inside the engine the year of the engine that you're talking which was caused by Volvo putting the wrist pin did eventually fix that problem. Now, in terms of It's just a 2.3L engine; it's turbocharged, and is pretty bad. But, on the bright side, it's very tuning, not even a single aftermarket part added, of power on the table. With modern parts and little things well over 300 wheel horsepower. And on the list, it will go down in Volvo's history and one of the best performance engines ever to something I really expected to put in a video like and yet here we are looking at this: a Mercedes you probably think of their powerful V8 engines absolutely insane. But here we are looking at this this is a little 2.0L turbocharged 4-cylinder with forged pistons, forged crank, both direct and port thing cool. And even crazier, a claimed weight of the M139 is handbuilt in AMG's facility in is on this list, is the absurd power output of if you're used to modified four-cylinder engines, added, that power figure might seem a little bit four-cylinder, that power output is absolutely the most powerful 4-cylinder engine of all time. isn't hard, but getting it to be reliable and stay traffic on the highway is a different story. driving across the country: they break. No offense just the truth. It's not that easy to make small while this is an incredible engine in terms of that are frankly unreliable. Remember, at the specifically, it's a Mercedes engine, meaning it's a total of three heat exchangers, an electronic of that covered in Mercedes electronics, on top this engine seems like one that can and likely won't be easy to work on. But with a power per engine is anything short of absolutely special. Be sure to drop a comment down below letting me what engines you would take away from this list. know what you want to see in the future, I read so be sure to drop yours down below. While you're the video, get subscribed so you don't miss out on lot on Instagram, TikTok, Facebook, and just about