- [Jared] In 2018, I made an animation about the International Space Station. I showed all the pieces coming together, but I didn't show how it was done. These modules didn't just It was a lot of work. It involved mission astronauts onboard the station, In this video, we're gonna to see how it worked. (wires static buzzing) (words exploding) (inspirational music) The International Space Station took over a decade to complete. Most of the pieces that you see here were launched by this space shuttle. In fact, this was one of the main purposes of the space shuttle. It was to build the space station. We can't go over every single mission. That would take too long for this video. What I'd like to do is talk of the station's construction back when the ISS was really small. We'll go over just a few of and how these pieces were put together. (gentle music) We've got to remember, the station isn't just It's going incredibly fast, about 20 times the speed It orbits the earth once every 90 minutes. Here's the front of the station. It always travels in this direction. So this is forward, and and then there's zenith and nadir pointing towards the earth. These terms are part of of an astronaut. We'll be using them a little This is what the completed The only part that the are the pressurized modules. When I say module, I'm cylindrical pieces of the space station. It has air to breathe, and protects the astronauts Each module has one or more berthing ports that can be connected to Sometimes these are referred but if we're being specific, because the joining module or spacecraft must be assisted by use of a robotic arm. (gentle music) There are two main the Russian orbital segment, and the United States orbital segment, these are modules from the You can see how the modules on each side look just a little bit different. On the US side, the modules are connected by the common berthing There are two different sides to this, the active side and the passive side. Once these are brought together, and then there are 16 bolts The space in between is This will be pressurized with air. This process takes a few hours. Then the hatch is opened. Some of the hardware is removed, and connections are made which includes oxygen, Once finalized, there is put in place. The astronauts can now move The common berthing that are permanently attached together, like the harmony and Destiny modules. They can also be used such as the SpaceX Cargo Dragon. The Russian side of the docking mechanism that is We need some way to connect This is kind of like taking a power plug from the United States and It's not compatible with the wall plug. What do we need? An adapter. It's the same concept but on a larger scale. Two different mechanisms, so This is called the or PMA for short. The larger side uses CBM, which can be attached to The smaller side uses APAS. This is compatible with the and with the space shuttle. (gentle music) On this station today, there PMA-1 is permanently in place connecting the two sides of the station. PMA-2 and PMA-3 were used as docking ports for the space shuttle. The smaller side, which is was used for the space shuttle. This is how it would dock Both of these PMAs now have placed at the end. This allows for more modern spacecraft to dock to the space station. If you'd like to see this in action, you can watch my SpaceX Crew Dragon video. I'll leave a link in Now, let's take a quick The crew spends most of their time up here in the crew compartment. Back here is the payload bay. This is where the space station modules were carried up into space. Up front here is the This is the place they could dock to the International Space Station. The astronauts can also do spacewalks from out of this hatch. (gentle music) On the side here is the Canadarm. It's a robotic arm that is capable of moving things around in space. The arm can be controlled from at this workstation. The space shuttle launches took place from Kennedy Space Center in Florida. Once in space, the payload They remained open for the Then it took a few days to catch up with the ISS. The space shuttle is retired now, but it played a crucial role Let's take a look at a few of This first mission we'll go I wanna give an idea for the timeline and how long things took. And then for the next three missions, we'll go over just a little bit quicker once we get the right idea. (gentle music) The first mission we'll in December of 1998. And the STS stands for All shuttle missions started This was the first shuttle mission to the International Space Station. At this time, the station It was the Russian module Zarya orbiting the earth all by itself. On the completed station, And this first shuttle mission This is kind of like the with six berthing ports where (suspenseful music) Unity was launched with PMA-1 and PMA-2 already attached to it. This mission took almost The first few days were and to catch up to Zarya. On day three of the mission, the Canadarm was put to work. It was time to lift Unity PMA-2 was then attached to on the shuttle. The Canadarm can move due to being weightless while an orbit. It had to move very slowly to not strain the robotic joints. It took hours to complete The shuttle's thrusters were fired to bring the modules together. On the fourth day of the mission, the space shuttle slowly approached Zarya. The Canadarm grabbed onto it, and then moved it into Again, the shuttle's thrusters were fired to bring the modules together. It took a few more days of preparation before they could go inside the station. There were two EVAs where and go outside the station. They connected cables on the outside of the station. The Canadarm was used to help On the eighth day of the and entered the station They only stayed inside for about a day, just enough to check things out and prepare it for the next mission. On the 10th day of the mission, there was one more EVA to Then on the 11th day of the mission, the shuttle undocked from the ISS. At this point, there was The station was too small. Unity and Zarya orbited all by themselves for the next few months, of course, all while being monitored by mission control back on Earth. Now we'll fast forward (gentle music) The station had a few more modules, and there were three crew members living on board the station. The next mission we'll in February of 2001. So here's our completed station. Here's what it looked This mission brought STS-98 lasted for 13 days, but they were attached to the station for only six of those days. They docked a PMA-3 on the nadir, or bottom side of the station. The Canadarm was used to grab onto PMA-2 and relocate it to the Then the arm was used to out of the payload bay, and then attach it to the This took hours to complete and very careful movement to The next day, they opened the hatches and went inside Destiny US laboratory is mainly used for scientific research PMA-2 was then relocated to The mission had three separate EVAs to connect and install items (gentle music) The purpose of this next mission was to give the station called the Canadarm2. The first Canadarm was Very useful, but it was permanently This means it goes home at The Canadarm2 can lift heavier loads and would now stay onboard the station, so it can be used in Here's an example of where on the station today. The arm can attach to the These are called latching end effectors. It attaches to anywhere on the station that has a power data grapple fixture. As you might guess, it provides so it can be controlled and from mission control These power data grapple on the outside of the station. The mission that brought up the Canadarm2 was called STS-100. It was a 12-day mission. The shuttle docked to the This carried Raffaello, a which would be temporarily The second piece of It was brought to the station The shuttle's Canadarm lifted it out of the payload bay, and then attached the pallet to the top of the Destiny Module. It was slowly unfolded and put They also had a little help Then the Canadarm2 was moved It was initially connected to the side of the Destiny Module. At the end of the mission, the Canadarm2 was used to lift the pallet and hand over to the shuttle's Canadarm. This was the first robotic sometimes referred to as because both of these The empty pallet was then put A few days later, the shuttled The Canadarm2 was essential for constructing the rest The last mission that I wanna So here's the completed station, and here's what it looked This mission brought up the Quest Airlock. The mission lasted for almost 13 days. Once again, docking to the This was the first time to help construct the station. The Quest Airlock was on the starboard side of the Unity Module. Two of the astronauts were in position ready to help install the new module. Once Quest was installed, it was time for the Once again, the Canadarm2 was The astronauts helped guide (gentle music) Up until this point, they from the shuttle's payload bay, but the Quest Airlock This part is called the equipment lock, and this part is called the crew lock. Once the astronauts are the hatch is closed, and the This means that all the air is pumped out. Now the airlock hatch is opened, and then the thermal cover on the outside. The opening points straight down. So the first thing they see is This video summarized four just to give you a better to construct the This was just the early stages, and there's a lot more Maybe we'll cover that in a future video. My name's Jared. Thanks for watching. (inspirational music)