These journals contain stunning images of identical twin the Olympic. I found these The journals, written between 1909 and 1911, sunk; they give me a new perspective and let the engineering of the Olympic-class ships. details about the Titanic and its twins, the in the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast surrounds the ships as they are built. It used by workers as they construct the Olympic far end of the gantry lies the Belfast Harbor. right, and then nine months later, before on the left, the Titanic. When completed the will point toward the harbor. The ship's as a long, dark shape. The keel is the backbone we look at keel from the land-side we see blocks, typically pine, separate the ship gantry. Each keel block stands about five ship for workers to construct the ship. Workers they construct the Olympic's double bottom. and supports the two bottoms of the ship; made of steel plates and is sometimes called 44 water-tight tanks. Most of the tanks carried weight to the ship, but some carried freshwater. tons of water--or about 1.5 million gallons. workers erect the framing for the hull. From of the ship. Its what a worker would see standing toward the aft of the ship-- that's where rib-like structure and the start of the transverse the hull, which will form the skin. So far, In the gantry that ship sits here in the background. the Titanic. Its construction began nine months the keel, the framework of the Titanic's mechanism lying on the ground, and these three which workers used to install most of the we see the almost complete hulls of both the progresses rapidly: the state rooms are being the ship. To prepare for the Olympic's launch will stand out in black and white photographs, after its launch so that it matched previous the water, the slip was greased with 23 tons to release the ship was given, the hydraulic into the harbor reaching a speed of twelve launched backwards. There are many reason's the rear, is wider that the bow, so it is the Olympic was afloat. The moment the ship although it was mostly empty. Here it weighs the water. The draft--the vertical distance of the water--is only 18 feet. After it is that: 52,000 tons. With that additional weight the border painted on the hull--a draft of itself and so a tugboat tows it to the fitting-out Here the crane lifts aboard a cylindrical the propellers--is done in dry dock. And is ready for the sea. Seven months after this this journal a few photos of that event, but because it was first. The Titanic only becomes shows the twins, the Olympic and Titanic. time they were photographed together. Less giant ships, one suffered a collision that was, of course, the Olympic. In September England, sailing towards the Isle of Wight. and passed a British warship, the H.M.S. Hawke. Olympic's wide turn, but he managed to take the Olympic. The Hawke then increased its wake sucked the Hawke inward rapidly; the below its waterline the damage was even greater. in. The Olympic limped back to Southampton wood, before returning to its home dock in also suffered a traumatic blow that caused about the Britannic. The Britannic was the and Titanic. Although intended to be a passenger service in World War I as a hospital ship. was struck by a torpedo, and sank in less the Olympic-class ships were great feats of design and workmanship. Just consider ship had two sets of reciprocating engines. stored along the bottom of the ship. Exhaust these smoke stacks, which are frequently called funnels until you look at them the right way: of the Olympic shows the boilers sitting atop is funneled up and out of the ship. It's ships is a "dummy"--it was built primarily service the boilers, it was used as a ventilation rooms. The Titanic needed 4,000 tons of coal hours to shovel into the bunkers. Here, in being loaded into coal ports on the side of much the same way. This loading left streaks ocean liners at the time were painted black advent of oil fueled ships, lighter colors the Atlantic, 650 tons of coal per day was was burned to produce steam. These boilers picture shows a single boiler -- notice the to these reciprocating engines. The engines, like this. The orange is the piston rod and This worker peering out of this casing gives these engines was used to drive a turbine and without its outer casing. Note the workers you can see that the turbine is made of hundreds from the engines to the propellers. The ones the reciprocating engines and each propeller was powered by the turbine engine. It was and weighed 22 tons. The outer propellers while the central propeller was only used central propeller could not be driven in reverse, system the Olympic-class ships were not the The White Star Line decided that their ships It's clear that the lavishly decorated rooms the passage more enjoyable, but there were ships the pinnacle of comfort for all classes helical gears. Each ship had two sets of both massive gears are nearly six feet across, of pounds. Notice the herring-bone pattern engagement of the teeth and resulted in reduced Altogether, the gearing on the Titanic weighed structural piece is called the boss arms, in place, and because of their size and strength, Panting occurs when variations in water pressure, flex the hull inward and outward. Less flexing These boss arms, also called shaft brackets, of the ship. While the Titanic and Britannic triumphed. In it's lifetime it made over 400,000 passengers, and sailing one and a as a U.S.-Canadian troop transport during After twenty-four years of service, the ship The Olympic-class ships were absolute marvels engineering, rather than their failures that the EngineerGuy. I thank my advance viewers video. If you'd like to be an advanced viewer for watching.