- Welcome to another episode. Today we're in the south of France and touring this newly constructed 263 foot motor yacht, Leona. This vessel features one of topped by its lavish interior spaces that are spanning over five levels, each marked by their own exquisite details and craftsmanship. And after seeing countless over the last four years, is on another level. So without further ado, to welcome you on board Leona. (upbeat music) We're gonna start our And once again, welcome Now right in the center we that's two and a half meters It has three skylights to the lower level. And I also really appreciate how this section has seating and lounging areas on each This section looks phenomenal. Now on the other side, we have the seating area, LED lighting, cushions, pillows, built-in planter on the back. This section is so exquisite. And right in the center bringing even more natural Now to complement the seating area, they have placed this amazing dual elevation countertops, seating. And this bar houses a And on the other side we have a pop-up TV. That way you can enjoy watching or seating area. Now before we go inside, We shot the tour of this right outside of Cap Ferrat, which is about 30 minutes from here. And at the time we shot the tour, water conditions were really rough. It was actually right after a big storm. And because of that, we couldn't fill up to the level that we would prefer, and that's why we felt like we have to give the full so we shot the tour of the main deck aft and the indoor pool area So I wanted to point that out. Once I get inside, we will Now let's continue. We have this motorized sliding glass door opening up to the dining area. Without a doubt, one of I've ever seen on any yacht. Where do I begin with the details here? We got beautiful marble Then right in the center we that sits 12. And look at all the details, Above, we have an elegant chandelier that warms up the space. And if you look closely, you'll realize that they've matched on the ceiling as well with mood lighting. Then we have recessed lights of the dining area, exquisite finishes. And over here we have with a double-sided fireplace below that. This section looks very elegant and it complements the dining I also wanna point out that going down to the beach club. And we're gonna see the Now next, I want to take which is on the other I really like the two plush couches, four chairs to complement stone coffee table right in the center, room is very spacious, it's full beam. And all the furniture here Now before we continue our tour, I want to cover the specs of this yacht. So it's 263 feet long, 40 foot beam. It features five guest cabins, including the owner's stateroom, which is located on the top deck. It can accommodate up to 10 guests. The interior was done by H2 Yacht Design. The exterior and the naval architecture were done by Unique Yacht Design. And I unfortunately cannot but all I can say is it's very, very expensive, very exquisite. And with that, I wanna give and the owners for giving us the honor to tour this incredible vessel I am beyond excited to be onboard. And I mean, look at this This salon is exceptional. We have marble floors with bronze inlays throughout the perimeter of this room. And look at the chandelier Then we have these bringing so much natural light and allowing you to enjoy the ocean straight from your salon. These windows also come and motorized curtains. And overall this room is so impressive, the textures, materials, details used here are just very exquisite. And we also have Dal And Dal, what do you think? - [Dal] Honestly, it's incredible. The finishes, the And Enes, this is actually we've toured, is that right? - That is actually correct. And I'm glad you mentioned that. So the first Bilgin yacht we toured was motor yacht Tatiana. We did a tour a few years ago. That tour now is the most And here we are, fast touring their second yacht, which is based on the same model. And we are honored to be Let's actually continue our tour. Now I want to take because we have a door here off of the entry. Small service hallway, some countertop space And then we have another door opening up to the main galley. Cabinetry, countertops, and even the appliances so it is designed like We have two deep sinks here, some windows to bring natural light, upper cabinets, two dishwashers. And on the other side we have induction cooktops, with fridges, another sink. And we have one more oven here and a commercial vent right in the center. It's a really good kitchen. And it gets better, if you we have a door here that opens That way, crew can access And lastly, they have a dumbwaiter here that services all levels. And with that, we are Now let's jump back to the salon so we can continue our Over on the other side we have to a long hallway that takes But before we check out those spaces, I wanna bring everybody's attention to the main staircase. Bronze frame with LED lighting, unique wall panels with bronze railings with glass sections in the middle. And if all that wasn't enough, right in the center of this staircase we have this water feature, which is a bubble tank and RGB lighting, making and adding up to your which is phenomenal. Then if all that wasn't enough, over on the other side Look at the interior of this elevator with all the wall panelings, And this is pretty much it Now follow me this way. Before we check out those guest suites, we also have an exterior door here. And this door opens up to a really exquisite day head, marble floors with bronze inlays, agate wall panel that is backlit, wall mount toilet, beautiful vanity. It's a really nice day head. Now continuing our tour at the end we have the doors We're gonna start our tour Right off the entry we with an L-shaped couch, gold leaf ceiling with these mirror panels and mood lighting. And the space looks phenomenal. This is this seating area. And behind this TV unit is You have this unique pattern same gold leaf ceiling with this gorgeous light fixture. And Dal, let's bring everybody here. We have another TV on the leather wrapped section. And Dal, let's get another closeup. On this side with the built-ins, we also have a small fridge here. Really cool. Now this cabin comes with two bathrooms. We have the first one here. This is your walk-in closet. You have all these panel And then we have this door Look at the stonework here, drop in vessel sink, LED lit mirror. I mean, this is gorgeous. And over on the other side we have a glass enclosed water closet with a beautiful bookmatched marble wall. Next we're gonna check Same design elements are also here. Built-in bench, towel heater, And on the bottom it says escape route. And actually if you push there's a secret emergency exit that takes you all the way to the bow. Nicely tucked here. How cool is this, Dal? - It's pretty cool, right? Rainhead above, bronze fixtures. It's a very spacious walk-in shower. That is nicely done. Now that's it for the first bathroom because this guest suite actually The other one is on the other side so we're gonna go have a quick look. Another walk-in closet And then we have this door opening up to the second bathroom. Comes with a built-in tub. Same stones are also used here. Vessel sink. Again, you have your jetted tub here, this really unique mirror And we have another glass with a beautiful marble wall. And with that we're done Next door is the second guest suite. This one has more of a lighter And off of the entry we have two chairs, coffee table, another beautiful lighting fixture. And the space is so elegant. We have this TV unit, with this beautiful diamond pattern. Corners are also curved, And on the other side of this unit is where we have the king sized bed. Look at all the accessories, textures used in this room. You have your reading Ceiling is covered with And they use the same Plush carpet, room is very spacious, gets great natural light. In fact, on the other side with motorized shades and curtains. They also placed this desk That way you can enjoy the views while you're getting some work done. Now this guest cabin comes The first one is right behind me. You take this hallway, it After that you have your full bathroom. This specific bathroom really nice vanity. And on the other side of the room is where we have the second bathroom. And look at the finishes here. Marble floors with inlays. Beautiful vanity with a vessel sink. Bronze fixtures with these custom handles that are so opulent. Then we have the LED lit open shelves with glass And then on the other side you have a glass enclosed water closet with a onyx wall that's backlit. And then lemme take everybody They use the same onyx on this side. Obviously the slab here is Then you have these mosaic towel heater, gold leaf and your bronze fixtures. I mean, these bathrooms are phenomenal. Main deck is really impressive. (upbeat music) Here we are on the lower deck. I wanna first take everybody to this side. We have three different rooms gym, movie theater, and this door right here opens up to the first guest cabin on this level. This room comes with two single beds. And again, room is very, I love the dark, contrasting tones. You have a mirror ceiling design, two windows with automatic And around the corner we Beautiful marble floors. Vanities on this side, gorgeous sink. You have the mirror here And then you can see that gold mosaic tiles into the walk-in shower. You have the rainhead and the same mosaic tile Your towel heater, robes. This is a beautiful bathroom. Next door we have the movie theater. This is another incredible space. Two-tier seating, comfortable couches, velvet ottomans. I love the suede wallpaper here and how they have vertical so it really lights up the space. It brings your attention towards built in speakers, all JBL. And check this out. When you change the mode to But these hardwired coffee tables stay on. They just glow beautifully. And this is your screen. Now let me turn the light back on. There we go. This is a phenomenal space. And I'm so impressed with the fact that you have a comfortable within your yacht. Now next we're gonna check out the gym. The amenities continue. Welcome to the gym. Massage table, gym equipment. And we have the treadmill And check this out, they recessed in this Technogym equipment so you're running or you're Fantastic detail. Then we have all these windows I have a TV across from me. And Dal, we need to get a closeup. Look at these dumbbells. They have Leona's logo on it. I mean talking about details, This is incredible. We have a small sink here. Door next to the sink opens They have the same style marble back wall, your toilet. And I'm gonna close this door because on the other side And the door here opens that's all marble clad with a rainhead. And the door at the end opens another incredible amenity Now we're done with this space. I wanna take everybody back And the door on our left opens that I don't think our It is the dressing room. Yes, you heard me correctly. They have a specific dressing filled with cabinetry, And Dal, come this way. There's a vault there with watch winders nicely paneled behind this space. And then you go to the other side. Look at all the cabinetry, marble border detail on the floors, island right in the center that can house all of your Chandelier above. I'm speechless, I don't know what to say. Alright, let's go back to because we got one more Follow me this way. Right across from the dressing room, we have this door opening and the last door opens up to the second guest cabin on this level. As expected, this room plush carpet, king sized bed. I really like the treatment with all the mood Then the ceiling is also nicely curved. Beautiful light fixture. Built in seating area on this side. You can see the Macassar that's vein matched, nicely polished. And over on this side we And check this out, I love this detail. They covered the surface of the desk with this beautiful material. And this is where we have the chair. So when you're not using the chair and when it sits flush with the desk, it blends in really nicely. To me, this is what luxury is about, being able to use different furniture, accessories, and in a way to create your own unique style. And they have certainly done that with this incredible yacht. Now around the corner we your closet space. This small door here for the guest cabin. And the door behind me They went with more of for this bathroom. Marble floors that continue all the way into the walk-in shower. Vanities on this side LED-lit light panels, mirror TV. And then we have the glass door opening up to the walk-in shower. I appreciate the fact that it comes with a generous sized window. That way you can enjoy these views straight from your shower. I mean, we've seen all This yacht is phenomenal. But wait till you see the beach club. (upbeat music) So we have this staircase from the main deck to the beach club area. And this section is so opulent. Look at these curved Mirrored panels on the stone caps, chandelier above. This section is very opulent. And behind these glass enclosed doors we have the beach club. I don't think I've ever seen in any home, let alone a yacht. And I'm gonna do my best First, behind this door we Next to the hairdressing room opening up to the Moroccan Two couches, beautiful marble floors. Love the ceiling details here. TV on the other side. And on this section you can that falls down to create this amazing outdoor balcony I'm in. What a phenomenal way for you to enjoy the sea straight Now going back to the center, This is the skylight that I bringing natural light. And on the other side we have with barstools, backlit countertops, open shelves on the back. And we have another shell door here. This one is actually bigger And for a brief moment we got a chance to fold You get a phenomenal outdoor seating area, two sun beds, railing throughout, that way you can walk enjoy the sea, enjoy the views. I mean, these shell doors to really enjoy the outdoors and be able to connect your lower level to these amazing views. Now to complement this transom door, we have another seating And now let's come to the which is this insane pool. I mean it is incredible, the fact that you have a pool this size within your yacht at the sea level. This is fantastic. Look at all the mosaic details, which are also fountains, these marble wall panels And then you have those three skylights that are located inside of the bringing natural light to the section. And also this pool is eight 1.35 meters deep, and you have it within your beach club. Once again, big congrats to It took them almost four years, and 500 plus employees have worked on this incredible vessel. Now what's left is for open up this transom door I mean, what a way for you to to the beach club. Perfect place for you to have some lounging beds I also wanna point out that located on this level. And since we're outside, let's of this yacht for a second. It's called wine red, so you get this perfect This 80 meter masterpiece is dynamic curves, and a that anchors its design. This unique color scheme and low profile approach makes with a distinct and commanding presence. Complemented by seamless both a touch of modernness Designed in collaboration Leona boasts a steel hull and its sharply pointed bow cuts through the water While the top deck of to the owner's suite and seating area, the shell doors down on the beach club create balconies that seamlessly connecting guests to the sea. This truly is the pinnacle where elegance meets power Leona is a well-engineered sports car, ready to take off and be on its way. (energetic music) - Heave up anchor. Start the engines. - With Leona underway, her speed and performance become apparent as it effortlessly cuts through the water. Leona's incredible presence, and the maritime experience it offers is truly one of a kind. And all of this is powered that is right in the heart of Leona. Welcome to the engine room. This is the space that We have two MTU M73 4000 Each engine produces And both of these engines up to 19 knots speed, which is incredible. Now Dal, let's get a close up here. This is a special exhaust system. It's called SCR. And what the system does of the nitrogen oxide produced during the combustion process. It basically cleans the air before it goes out to the exhaust. This yacht is also IMO so it's very environmentally friendly. And both of these engines combined burn around 250 liters an which is a very, very impressive number considering the length and Now this is where this tour is We're gonna go into the What's so nice about that it is sound insulated. And this is where the chief and monitor the engine This space is also constantly so if the captain needs something, they can actually control of this yacht from this room. It is also nice that it's relax, and make sure Now follow me this way, Because this engine room We're currently on the top floor. And also on this level we have and that's pretty much it for this level. Now I want to take everybody downstairs so we can check out the These are the MTU engines. By the way, look how Look how easy it is to walk around and be able to get to all these valves, service any of the equipment here. And the tour continues, check this out. We have the air conditioning units. This yacht has three massive And check this out, Dal, They actually suck the and use it to cool the air before they push it to And you can imagine, with five levels, the amount of interior square footage we have on this yacht is a lot. So these machines are doing a great job keeping the yacht very, very cool. Now let's continue our tour. You wanna see more? - We're on the utility level right now. And this door opens up to a to a few other rooms. Now the first space we're gonna check out is actually on this side. Dal, guess what's behind this door. - A fire escape? This is the stabilizer that is located on the side of the yacht. This is what's keeping this And then the dumbwaiter that comes to this level as well. Now let's continue back here. A few technical rooms, and two walk-in fridges. So you can store a lot of food here. Keep in mind you can take and you can be away from So it's nice that you and fridge space to keep as Now continuing our some of the crew quarters and Crew mess has an amazing seating area where the staff have their Now let's continue our tour. On our left we have this door opening up to the laundry room, some cabinetry. And going back to the hallway, we got a whole lot more to see. Let's continue. Next, the technical room. Welcome to the room where they heat and produce all the water This yacht actually has two water makers. Each water maker makes straight from the seawater. And then this is also You can see all the shutoff valves. You can actually close off whether it goes to the or to a specific bathroom. And looking around the way, how they ran all the lines very cleanly, it's very, very impressive. (machine hissing) I'm assuming it's one of the water makers, but regardless, we're gonna continue. Now Dal, what does it say here? - [Dal] Bow thruster room. - That's right. This is the mechanism that sits allowing this vessel to go This is how they maneuver Think about it, if you just it would be so hard to navigate this yacht or be able to dock it. But thanks to this actually very, very easy And it is located right here. We're below the water right now. How crazy is this? But more importantly, how I'm walking around so comfortably. And yeah, this is the engine room. (upbeat music) Welcome to the bridge deck. We're gonna start our tour on the aft and work our way all the way to the bow. The first space I want to cover is this exquisite seating with marble side tables, fire pit right in the center. I also really like how they have the starburst And then you have the This is a fantastic space enjoy this yacht. And the carbon fiber poles behind me are for the retractable awnings. We currently have 'em off right now, but obviously you can cover Now next on my left hand side is the built-in barbecue station. Next to that is the bar. I love the blue resin front with fluted details, dual elevation. And it's a great place for the and be able to service which is on this side. Look how beautiful this with bronze inlays, cove lighting above, recessed lights, built in speakers. And it's just a phenomenal space enjoy a great meal and Now before we leave the that we have a staircase and another staircase going And lastly, motorized and it takes you to the sky lounge. At this point I'm running out of words when it comes to describing I mean, every single space is so unique, so different, colors are so contrasting. Look at the seating area. We have these curved couches, built-ins. Look at the ceiling. That's a massive monitor that is currently reflecting which means you can actually If all that wasn't enough, you can see some of the that we have on each side. And then you bring your and you can see the circular and they match these with the carpet. They also have these on the other side of the room if you wanna seal off this section. It's exceptional. Now next, your sky lounge continues. You have this beautiful space with a table right in the Another seating area on my left. The flooring here is spectacular. We have marble throughout. And then they have nicely incorporated to the I love the circular section And again, if you look up to that they match the pattern How crazy is that? Instead of these curved lines going from one side to another, they actually place these LED lights to elevate the scene here. And between these beautiful elegant seating area, this is a very, very impressive space. Next, let's check out this bar. Backlit panels with bronze details, bar stools, dual elevation. Look at these vertical stone and then to the bar section. And it's also backlit. It looks so exquisite. And like I mentioned earlier, we have this beautiful white piano complementing the room really well. And with that, we're Now let's continue. We have this door opening and the same hallway brings Again, we talked about the pulsing water jets. And before we leave this section, we're also gonna check out the Beautiful marble floors, agate back wall that runs all the way to the ceiling. Of course it's backlit. And then I love the fact that they incorporated with these ceramic handles. Beautiful. I mean, this is just a powder bathroom, but they really went out of their way to make sure every corner, every accessory is perfectly Now getting back out On the other side of this It's a nice intimate space, desk, built-ins on this side with mood lighting. And I really like these curved corners and curved ceiling panels. It's also nice that it is which is located on the top deck. Close your door, get some work done. And that's pretty much it. Now let's go back to the hallway so we can continue our Now the hallway takes you to this side where it goes straight to the wheelhouse. And on the way we are gonna see to the crew of this yacht. This is the room of the chief officer. Captain's room is on our right hand side. And then we're gonna continue this way so we can check out the wheelhouse. Obviously the space is super modern since this is a newly Love the carbon fiber countertops here. Five massive screens. You have your navigation This screen on our right hand that we have on each tank. And of course some of the controllers, you have bow thrusters, engine, autopilot. Then they have dark tones throughout with beautiful blue leather, diamond stitching on this blue suede ceiling complemented with these It's a really nice wheelhouse. I'm gonna keep our tour Next we're gonna check out that's right in front of the wheelhouse. I love this built-in seating area here. Cushions, marble table And on the other side you can Now in case you're wondering it takes you to the forecastle deck where we have the anchoring, for this yacht. It is nice that it has its with two side folding balconies for additional access and usability. And then right in front of us we have this amazing spacious bow area. The railing system here where you can really enjoy the space, whether it's to work out Now on each side of me, we have these massive butterfly doors that hydraulically open up. And on the right hand side And on the left hand side It is nice that they have where they can tuck all these And once they close these doors, you'll have an amazing outdoor space. And the bow of this (upbeat music) Let's go check out the owner's suite, which spans the entire top deck. On my left we have the staircase landing, elevator to my right, really cool art piece, skylights above bringing natural light. This is a great space that welcomes you to the owner's suite. Now the first space we're gonna I love the finishes and the details here. These polished doors, custom handles, mood lighting throughout, And behind these doors we hangers, everything you need. And I just love how clean and minimalist the cabinetry here looks. Next we're gonna check out the bedroom. Without a doubt the best owner suite I've ever seen on any yacht. The furnishings, details and textures. All the materials used in We have the king size bed on this side over on this raised platform. In front of that, you can see this section that's beautifully book So not only you can enjoy you can also pivot the same TV and watch it on this side Now looking closely to I love that corners are nicely curved, fluted details with the bed. Look at those bedside tables Then you have your reading that starts from the back of the bed and runs all the way to the ceiling. Then you have this marble perimeter that runs on the ceiling as well. And all of these contrasting make this room very, very elegant. Obviously this yacht was built for the owner's specification. It's very bold, striking, contemporary. And it feels amazing to be able to enjoy space like this on a yacht. That's all I have to say. Now next, we're gonna Two really cool chairs, Then we have six skylights Look at the glass cube I mean it's incredible, mood everything is very, very seamless. All these panels are nicely And then you have motorized opening up to the owner's deck aft. This yacht is all about so it's nice that this level We have one on the aft, You get a long couch, two chairs. Look at the attention to detail here. These chairs have bronze fronts with Leona's logo right here on each side. Same carbon fiber poles are also here for retractable awnings. This is just a phenomenal straight off your bedroom. Now let's walk back inside so we can sum up the details here. This is your seating area. We have the bed on the other side. And Dal, can you follow me to this side? Because I want to talk about this section. We have a makeup area here You lift up the center section. It has an LED lit mirror. And the bottom looks like but it's actually not. You pull the handle, this is a chair that tucks into the cabinetry I love details like this, so I wanted to show this to everyone. Lemme close the top. There we go. And like we saw earlier, rest Now we're gonna take because this is where the bathroom starts. We have the vanity on this side, Jetted tub right in the The top and the bottom You can see this beautiful with this tree figure. Even the ceiling has marble. Then they have two water of the jetted tub. And I love how they work the You can see that beautiful marble column with all the figures. Then you come over here, look how cool this custom handle is here. You twist it and it opens Love the marble mosaic floors. You get a massive mosaic tiling on the back. This is incredible. This has to be one of the I've ever seen in my life. Look at the cabinetry here, these gold sinks, fixtures, with a TV integrated right in the center. You also have your makeup Bronze details. Look how they worked these and to the marble sections here. Every surface, every area, every corner features Look at these marble columns. Mirrored trim that runs of this bathroom. I feel like the more I spend time here, the more details I find. So I just want to continue our tour and cover some of the other spaces. We have beautiful And around the corner we have to the walk-in shower. I mean, look at this The tile work here, these are And they have this figure running all the way to the wall. And I can only imagine the amount of man-hours they spent here And honestly, I feel very inspired that I'm getting the of craftsmanship firsthand that the Bilgin team Now on the other side, you bronze fixtures, steam feature, Now let's walk back to the bathroom. And then we have this door They use different type of marble here. Cabinetry on the bottom, you have a small fridge It's just a nice service area for the room that's right behind me, which is the private lounge Just when you think you've Yes, the owner suite comes with an additional private seating area. We have two couches, coffee Look at the ceiling, four Of course the skylight assembly here comes with a motorized curtain as well. And then you look around the room. Window treatments, It's a very, very exquisite space. And Dal, let's actually It's a coffee table, right? Now it's an ottoman. How cool is this? - It's a really nice piece. And yeah, this is a phenomenal space. Now we're gonna open up these so we can check out the Built-in seating, beautiful chairs, pillows, textures. And I also really the color of the railing that we've been seeing So there's a beautiful Then the steps take you that is located right in the center. It has a glass front. And it's a perfect spot for and enjoy these views. Incredible yacht. I feel very fortunate that we and share it with all of you. (energetic music) In the darkness of the sea an opulent beauty rising above the water with a magnificent glow. It's hard not to be impressed with Leona and what Bilgin yacht A four year commitment, 500 and engineers that poured their heart and soul into this project, sourcing unique materials and applying building techniques that created this one of a kind yacht. It's amazing that this can take you to some of the most exotic and remote locations around the globe, all while providing the Bilgin Yacht's attention and their pursuit of what's possible while still providing the leaves me speechless. Every portion of Leona is beautifully lit. Its pool deck and interior spaces are even more magnificent at night. It's something you truly Getting the opportunity to tour every part of this incredible yacht will be a memory our team Thank you Bilgin Yacht for this remarkable experience. (energetic music) All right everyone, Hope you'll enjoy this video. And big congrats to Bilgin As someone who appreciates and deeply loves engineering, it is hard for me to and not get sentimental over And as always, you can about motor yacht Leona in Now lastly, if you enjoyed subscribe, and we'll see (energetic music)