I nearly fell over! Warning: this video contains some colourful I DON'T MEAN THERE'S ANY SWEARING!! It's just a video about colours. We're about to explore the origins of the What's the first colour we came up with? Can black also mean white? Did the ancient Greeks really have no word And which came first... orange, or the orange? Stick around to find out. Welcome to another Rob Words. Before we begin: if you're looking for my that and the Americans spelling colour like That's it. But basically this American dictionary fella were rubbish so he changed a few of them. Colour was one of them. There you go: saved you a click. Why not repay me by clicking the subscribe Right, let's crack on. You know how movies started off in black and Well so did languages too. What I mean is, before coming up with words For the darkest darks and the lightest whites. Let's begin with black. Its origins are a little murky - but the word ago, in proto-Indo-European. That's the language that's our best guess Some etymologists believe its origins are of the meanings of which is to do with "burning". The later Proto-Germanic word Blakaz also And what colour are things once they're They're black! Black also shares its origins with another Which we get from the French word blanc. But hold on... blanc is the French word for What's going on here then? Well before you throw any shade at me (is words meaning the perfect opposite of one So the old Germanic folk who were using the problem. They all agreed that blac meant burnt - but There was one camp that said it was the bright And another that said it meant the dark charred So the English ended up with black meaning but in the form of blanc. Oh, and then English took blanc from french And also developed the word bleach, meaning well I don't know anymore! We're in danger of falling down an etymological Which brings me onto something else! So old English had the word blac like I mentioned. But it also had another word for what we call Germanic languages' common words for black. However, blac and swart were not exactly the They draw a distinction that we've lost, black as describing a place where there is Whereas swart describes an object that is So a deep, dark cave would be blac. A burnt stick, a piece of coal or - I don't Let's pull ourselves out of this darkness WHITE and light because it comes from the Prot-Indo-European The K and H sounds have swapped around a lot Ts and Ds like to swap themselves round too. So kweydos eventually enters Old English as Note the order of the h and w - which is still An extra tasty nugget here is that the word By the time it was in Old English the words is so called because the old milled grains Now, because not all things can be black and Grey itself of course has its own grey area. If American viewers are watching this in some not wrong. This is the standard British way of spelling Our old pal Noah Webster can be blamed for However, down the centuries, grey was spelt And the reason is a goodie... It's because it used to be spelt... like After we lost that letter, ash, writers had Some went A, the others went E. OKAY - so that's the shades sorted now let's themselves. The question is, which order to do them in. If only there was some naturally occurring An established progression, a spectrum, if But I can't think of one, so let's do Are there any beginning with A? I can't think of one. So let's skip straight to B - and not before Time for a bit of BLUE. What colour could be more obvious than blue? On a clear day we can be surrounded. Vast swathes of the earth's surface are We call our home the blue planet! But believe it or not, blue appears to be develop. The ancient Egyptians only came up for their from Afghanistan. And the ancient Greeks never got round to That's right: the Ancient Greeks had no How can that possibly be? Well the thing is, blue appears very rarely There are no blue flowers that haven't been And there are very few blue animals - just And cultures, before they've developed their sky as... something else. I know this sounds crazy, but it's true. The Greek author Homer consistently described the last time you saw blue wine? The Greeks referred to the sky as "bronze", What's more, studies have been done that colour of the sky, if they've never been I hope that blue your mind like it did mine. Anyway, back to etymology. The word blue with the meaning it has for although the French words blo and bleu could other things. Before that, Old English had the word blaw, meaning bright. It also had the word haewen to describe the It encompassed the concepts of green, blue Which sounds about right for the North Sea. It's nothing like the beautiful azure colour another thing I wanted to mention. First off - I've just realised azure is friend was telling me that to him and millions colour to blue. In English, azure is merely a shade of light Italian football team wears blue, he said They wear azzurro" - indeed, they're known And he would never describe the sky on a clear I thought this seemed ridiculous until I realised with pink! Pink is just light red, and yet we treat it The same goes with blu and azzurro. Next up, we're going down to brown town. I wish I hadn't said that. The word brown had an illustrious start to other... unpleasant... stuff. The Old English word "brun" and its ancestors A meaning fossilized in the Modern English However, another meaning also took hold, equivalent By the Middle English period brown had completely it had taken on the meaning it has today... i.e. to describe things that are THAT colour. Of course, brown things aren't all bad. What about lovely, life-giving trees! And that brings us nicely onto our next colour: Green has also been with us since Old English, In fact, the word green shares its etymological other verdant words like grow, grass and graze. One of the oldest written records of it is poems that tells of Christianity's first "Adam stop / On grene graes, gaste geweorthad" worthy. Okay, next alphabetically is orange. Now, would you believe me if I told you that Well it's true. At least, the fruit came before the word for We had the colour orange before oranges, but And in Middle English it was often called We get the word orange from Old French, where d'orenge", meaning orange apple! There's a common misconception that orange but became orange because people got confused It's a surprisingly common phenomenon called I did a whole video about it. Anyway, with orange, this wasn't actually It's true that through much of its etymological the start - beginning in Sanskrit, through And it still had that N when it reached Europe But it's the Italians who appear to have passing the fruit onto the French, who in The lack of N is not our fault! Anyway, after getting the fruit, we started for other objects of a similar hue. You'd be surprised how often a colour is Pink is another one: named after a flower There's not a lot more to say about it really. We've already concluded that pink doesn't just light red, remember. So let's move swiftly on... To ANOTHER word that we get from the natural Purple. The word originally comes from a shellfish and which yielded this beautiful, vivid dye. This stunning mix of blue and red was then But clothes of that hue were worn by only The word found its way into Old English as the colour of choice of kings and queens. And then, during the Middle English period with its meaning widening out to go beyond onto all mixes of blue and red. That brings to an end our purple patch, now Red. After black and white, the colour of blood develop a word for. You can see how our linguistic relationship words for red across Europe and beyond are That's because they share an ancient common From that same root, we also get the words There's also evidence of how red predates that we refer to some people as redheads, If we'd come up with the word sooner, we Yellow is a weird one. If we look at other European words for yellow, But let's actually look a little closer The German gelb can be traced back to the But if we follow another branch of gelwaz's We find ourselves in Old English, then into like that. Remember that first letter from my video about It's called yogh and is sometimes pronounced But ALSO sometimes pronounced like the Y at So suddenly that G sound we've had at the and we get yelo and OH LOOK! Yellow. As you've just seen, yellow's ancestry In fact, you can trace it back to a Proto-Indo-European And on that bright note, we'll draw our If I've missed off your favourite hue, tell I'm also always fascinated to hear about languages. Kindly hit like and subscribe and watch one Until next time. Take care.