- Hello, my name is Margaret Atwood. And it's my very great to the one and only, Jane Goodall. Hello, Jane. - Well, hello, Margaret. I'm Jane. And you are the one and So we're both talking to one and only. (Both laughs) (orchestral music) - So when I'm writing a novel, I always decide what And then I know what was happening to them when they were 10 and what and when they were 20, So you were born in 1934. And that means in The Depression. And then, when you were six or five- - Five. - along came World War II. Where were you living then? - Just before the war, my father took a house 'cause he wanted and my sister For some odd reason, I was there with my sister, and two kids. And then learning French, haha, and war broke out and we had to leave. So we went to my father's and then came where I'm speaking from now, my grandmother's house, Well, I was born apparently, loving to watch anything that We had a dog, we had a cat. And then as soon as we I spent all my time watching on the cliffs above the sea. Before we go on with You were born in what- - Yes. I was born in '39. So two months after war broke out. So in fact my whole in that period. And my childhood was similar to yours in the animal watching department. Although possibly more so because we are in the Quebec, North Woods. And did a lot of frog watching and turning over of logs in or a snake. And my dad was a forest entomologist. So in an early conservation, it's like very early, the period when people thought if you were interested in those things. So I sort of grew up that way. But I don't imagine that &quot;Jane we want you to grow up and go off and study temperatures. - No, no, no. Not (indistinct). My childhood, you know, the other thing apart from books, books, books, no television. Must have been the same for you, really? It was. Yes. - So books, books, books. And I was only about 10 And I was only about 10 You know, in those days, I think this was from packets of cereal. - You will get something free. Now you save it up and but you still have to pay. But in those days you didn't have to pay. And she got me this book, which is just being reprinted. It's not for children at all. It goes right through evolution and Darwin and ends up with the human But I spent... I mean, it was one of my along, of course, with a fiction, which was Tarzan Dr. Dolittle spec. (Margaret laughs) - So I was 10 when I Was very jealous 'cause Well, he did. I'm quite sure he did. Anyway, I knew there wasn't a Tarzan, but that was when my dream began. Go to Africa, live with wild of animals and write books about them - Which brings us to the next thing that people always ask about about. I bet they ask you too. And that's the hope word. - The hope word. - The hope word. Where do you get hope? - I think you should start that one off. - Well, okay. So my answer usually is why not. (both laughs) So if you're not hopeful, things are going to get less hopeful. And if you are hopeful, and actually inspire Because if you don't have any hope, then there's no use doing anything. - I quite agree. - So people who say we're doomed, I'm just not interested in that. It doesn't generate any - I see. Hope is something tied into action. And so I see like we're in a There's no question. We've got climate change, we've got the pandemic, we've you know, we've got all these problems. And so that's the dark tunnel. And right at the end is And we don't just sit and hope that light will come. - I think this is gonna but I'm gonna give it a crack. Where have you found the - Well, the most rewarding that I can have as a gift on audiences. It's very rewarding when jump to their feet and I miss that a lot being And so I'm having to So I'm looking at this little green spec on top of the laptop and you know, you don't get any feedback. You say something funny, nobody laughs, you say something sad, nobody And yet if I don't put the and enthusiasm into those talks, there's no point doing them. It was incredibly rewarding when the chimpanzees lost their fear of me after four months. A lot of things with animals, you know when you overcome the fear of an animal. I mean, I have lunch every day and a little robin comes along - My turn. Well, I can't... I find it a very difficult because a lot of things but I don't think that's why you do them. I don't think you do them necessarily, so you will get rewarded. I think you do them because you think that And I'm sure it's the same for you. (indistinct) And some of the things that we have done have been not rewarding because people did not at but we did them anyway. The conversations around feminism, if we accept it as the basic premise that women are human beings that is an ongoing effort, - Oh, so much. '40s actually, women were very active, but it's the usual thing you know. Women are very instrumental, very helpful, and then they're told, We're finished with that, you know. Back to the bungalow and there's a washing machine Were you told you couldn't do things because you were female? - Yeah, I was, of course. When I wanted to go and everybody laughed at me. But you see, I had this amazing mother. - Oh yeah. So did I have one. - Yeah. She said, &quot;If you you're going to have to work very hard and take advantage of every opportunity. And if you don't give up, 'Cause for me, it wasn't it was 'cause we didn't have money. - Right. - The war was raging when I thought, Africa was still the dark continent. We didn't know much about it. It was full of danger. But you know, having and a wonderful family. And you know, so I wasn't I was stuck away in Gambia and I just missed it all together. And it didn't impinge on me. The scientists were kind of the findings of this young girl. And though I only got credit and they only came in with And if that was said now, you - Very shocking. But back then, I thought, well, if geographic came then thank you legs. I mean, you know, I don't care. I just want to study the tombs. And I didn't really care what people said. I mean, it's true. - Yes. Well, the main is that they made it able - Yeah. Up and down the hills. Yep. And you know, I've watched... Did you see that film, Jane, - No, I haven't seen that, but I will. - If you see it, you'll see (both laughs) - So you've been very interested and that movement. Extinction, rebellion, but And that has been a huge success. - We have 65 countries and growing. - Yeah. It's wonderful. - Even during the pandemic, we've had new Jane Goodall institutes, but, of course, Roots and all 24. One new one in India, with Roots and Shoots and the other one in Turkey. - Wow. Turkey? - Turkey. - And how is that going? - Super well. - Wow. - And we're all over China. We've got about 2,000 - And the government hasn't shut it down. - No. They love it. And they keep asking me It's their equivalent of Facebook. - Yes. And they're very keen on Really. - Well, that would be huge and cut their emissions. - Yep. So you probably know about an online thing Which tells you... It has these statistics, it's got the benefits that we are doing now. But if we did them more, would cause a net drawdown of carbon from the atmosphere by 2050. So I'm very keen on them as well. - Margaret, I understand that your new book, Burning Questions, is coming out next month. Well, what is it about? - Oh, it's a collection of Let's say 2021. And it's the third such collection. There are two earlier ones. So it's the third in the set. And it's just stuff that I which were pretty tumultuous years. We had the big financial meltdown. It was right after 9/11, It was when I was publishing which is on topic for what And then it goes on through the election of the person whose name shall not be mentioned, and other kinds of social changes and uproars continuing on to about now. But of course, environmental questions during those years. 'Cause we went through a big pile of paper to get these essays out and I noticed myself making quite and telling people that they'll stop breathing. That's my short form of why - Yeah. - Because people usually, in general, are slow to action until - Well, that's it. That's why I kept saying, you know, awful though it is the and the flooding and the fires are hitting Suddenly, it's not just them over there. It's not Bangladesh and Also I give people the Sometimes what they're doing They don't know. They haven't had the right education or nobody's pointed it out And it's amazing how people do change. - We are told that we live in And that people in this bubble in that bubble. So part of your mission, I take it, is to who open up communications - Yeah. Oh, it is. They're now calling them - Are they calling them silos? (both laughs) Guess they don't know what - No, I think not. - Don't fall into one. - No, you don't want to fall into one. - What was the compelling, convincing thing you have said to someone who is indifferent to or - The first thing I try to do that links us. Like maybe you both love dogs. Maybe, I don't know, And so make that connection. Take time to listen. My mother taught me that. She said, &quot;If somebody you listen to what they say because that never occurred to you.&quot; - And I think that has to happen. People have to find a common ground. - Yeah. And it's very hard because that don't want that to happen. - Yep. However, you know, the sci-fi writers would So the very rich person gets an island and they put in almond cons, and they're gonna isolate there. And while everybody else But you have to have So you're gonna have to have a staff. And at the point at which is more interesting to (both laughs) - Yeah. Right. - that'll be the end of that. - Yeah. And I think some people who were thinking in terms of being a that has already occurred to them that if they don't actually they're just as doomed as everybody else. - Well, of course. And besides, unless the island is frightfully where is their food going to come from? - Exactly. Where is it going to come from? And as for shooting yourself off to Mars, good luck with that. (both laughs) So what are you gonna do next? What's your next big thing? - What do you mean? Other than dying? - You know, I say that to people. I say, &quot;This is gonna be your problem 'cause I'm gonna be dead.&quot; And they say, &quot;No, you're not.&quot; And I say, &quot;Yes, I am.&quot; They say, &quot;No, you're not.&quot; I say, &quot;Yes I am.&quot; I was a seed investor in a new method of It's very green Jane. - Okay. - So we know about green burial, but this one is called recompose. And you get turned into Started in Seattle. They called it originally But I think that was a name that was somewhat off putting to people. - To be regeneration. - They floraled it up a lot. It's now very floral. And it is not... It's hardly impactful at Plus, so good for your rose bushes. (both laughs) So this is something One of my fans wrote me a and said, &quot;I'd like to make you a gift. And my gift to you is going to be a pink, organic, handcrafted, silk shroud.&quot; And I said, &quot;Maybe not just yet.&quot; So maybe not just yet, Jane. So what are you gonna do meantime? - Well, I'm carrying and when I can, I'll... I mean, I miss my friends. Really, I do. And they miss me. I haven't seen my grandchildren who are in Tanzania for two years. Never been back to Gambia - Oh dear. - You know, I need to And I know it means going on an airplane but airplanes will fly. I would never have a private jet, but, you know, if there's a Haven't talked about These ain't human beings, we We need to ban unsustainable There's an awful lot we need to change. - Yes. I think we need more marine parks. - Yep. - A lot more marine parks - Yeah, you're into marine They're the two lungs of the world. - Yeah. Well, I'm into forest too and you're into marine parks too. - Yeah. Of course. - We're both into both. - Both into both. - Oh, that's very true. And organic soil, of course. A huge carbon sink. - We're killing soil with and artificial. I mean, it's terrible. We literally are losing our soil. And then we- - So that's the real It's not that it's going it's that we need to because it holds carbon - Regenerative farming is the - I'm with you, Jane. - Yep. Let us just talk about when we think the - Oh, we can't. Can we? We don't know what Omicron's going to do. - Well, let us pretend that viruses being what they are, and evolution being what it is, it's gonna take the path that - Yeah. And that would be spreading - Right. - So that seems to be what it's doing. And there are some people that think that the 1919 into the flu we have now, which is not nearly as lethal. - Right. Yeah. So maybe it will And we'll just get an annual shot. What do you think? - I don't know. (chuckles) Continually talking to and they don't know either. - They don't know? Nobody quotes No. So this is gonna be a - Well, I mean, there's so many problems. Like you get you get the say Delta, and you're not very sick and but you are very prone to long COVID. And one of the side effects of that is irreversible brain - Really? - Well that's horrible. - Yes, it is horrible. That's why I'm being extra careful because I do need my brain - Silly old you. (both laughs) - I need mine, you need - Yeah they do. - But anyway, I think we should end on a very nice positive note. So in your work with discrimination, I mean, with gender equality, there's a tribe in one of And I was talking to the chief, and he said, &quot;Our tribe is like an eagle, and one wing is male, And only when the wings are - That is a wonderful thought. I will tell that too Equality Now, which works around the world on laws having to do with gender. - Yeah. - So they will be happy to hear that. - Yeah. It's a lovely one. - And it's a good saying. Wonderful. - Well, it's been great and I look forward to - I'm gonna go look up (both laughs)