They do not have the great lifespan of who fought against Morgoth. Yet, their stories in all Middle-earth. From their early days in of men in the War of the Ring, time and again, Today, on Nerd of the Rings, we cover The oldest ancestors of the Rohirrim actually Both were believed to be descended from the Edain Ered Luin, befriend the elves, and take part in They would remain in the lands of Rhovanion. first and second ages of Middle-earth. Our story begins in the aftermath of the my video on the Wars of the Witch King the people in Rhovanion. In fact, it was so 200 years later in 1851, the Wainrider invasions of these first assaults. The wainriders are chariots. In 1856, King Narmacil II of Gondor Mirkwood and gathers together what he can of descend upon the Gondorians. The battle killed as well as the leader of the Northmen, and into Ithilien. With the exception of of the river Anduin. While this Battle of the prevent them driving deeper into Gondor, they have This results in the Northmen becoming even more river and merge with the people of Dale. Some take of Marhari's son Marhwini. Marhwini leads his settling in the Vales of Anduin - between far from where Smeagol would live during later. Over the next 40 years, many of by the wainriders. Marhwini is joined by whose land was taken by the wainriders. new civilization of men, the Eotheod - this In 1899, Marhwini discovers that the a large area in the northern portion of warning King Calimehtar of the impending provokes the Wainriders out of Ithilien. he drives the wainriders back. Meanwhile, outlaws settlements in Rhovanion. The wainriders are northmen to the lands beside the Anduin and the Later, Marhwini's son, Forthwini, succeeds Forthwini learns that the wainriders have forces in the East. He alerts King Ondoher these enemies of Gondor make a double assault - few days, the Wainriders attack from the east. southern army to combat the Haradrim, while The wainriders move quicker than anticipated outskirts of the Ered Lithui, rather and horsemen overwhelm the King's Guard His son Faramir would die in the battle as his father's wishes. The forces of Gondor and The Wainriders, having won a great victory, their conquest. Little did they realize how For Earnil and his southern army had been their army in South Ithilien (north of Poros). Earnil's army, joined by the fleeing members unprepared wainriders. Many are driven into the the Easterlings would not march against Gondor of Gondor and in 1973, he receives word by the Witch-king of Angmar. He sends his son also said that a certain group of tall and fair joined these Gondorian forces in defeating Two years after the fall of Angmar, Lord north of Mirkwood, between the MIsty Mountains and the Forest River - away from the lands The region itself comes to be known as Eotheod, The remainder of Frumgar's reign continues without Fram, however, would become one of the few men influential that the main settlement of the During Fram's rule as Lord of the Eotheod in the a dragon known as Scatha the Worm plagued his we know that he possessed a great treasure hoard the dwarves. After his people have been troubled sometime around 2000 of the Third Age and lays the Grey Mountains, where Thror would be born hoard. Fram rebukes their claim and instead a message "Jewels such as these you will not match It is rumored that the dwarves the men of the Eotheod kept at least items was the very horn which Eowyn would and he would in turn use it to rouse Nearly 400 years after the time of Fram, Leod is Lord of the Eotheod. He is known he captures a white foal who is both wild Leod attempts to break the horse, but is thrown the age of 42. The Lordship passes to his son, Eorl swears to avenge his father. He hunts down in payment for the death of his father. The agrees. Eorl names him Felarof - the first of Years later in 2510, Lord Cirion, the Ruling men were mustering along the southern edge of sends six volunteer riders to attempt the 950-mile and past the shadow of Dol Guldor to ask their only a single gondorian rider manages to Borondir, presents Lord Eorl with the This is the first mention of the Red Arrow - the in times of need. Borondir informs Eorl that the 500 years, has been attacked by the Balchoth, a as a guide and assembles a great Eohere (a term make their way from Framsburg, through the eastern portion of Mirkwood - they keep as far to the west In UNFINISHED TALES, it says: he commanded. &quot;There is no other way to held back from battle by a river-mist?&quot; white mist was driving back the glooms of riding slowly at first and warily; but under and shadowless light, while to left and right they &quot;The Lady of the Golden Wood is on &quot;Maybe,&quot; said Eorl. &quot;But at least I will trust heart is high, and his weariness is healed: he have I had more need of secrecy and speed.&quot; behind followed like a great wind, but in a beat upon the ground. So they rode on, as fresh during that day and the next; but at dawn of the the mist was gone, and they saw that they were far lay near, but they had almost passed its great was the morning of the fifteenth day of Viresse, Indeed, Borondir was correct in his assessment. allowing them to pass through the land with The Balchoth, who were under the sway of Dol assistance of orcs from the Misty Mountains, realm of Calenardhon. Because this area the Balchoth met little resistance. By appears from the fortresses of Isengard, and other fortresses in the White Mountains, into the Wold - the Northeastern part of The North Army, led by Cirion counter-attacks later reinforcements by the Balchoth army. the North army is under attack by a band Gondorians are now backed against At this time, surprising both friend and foe, Lord riders and several hundred horsed archers. of the river and break upon the rearguard of the destroyed and the Gondorian armies are saved. northern Gondor, scattering and destroying all Cirion asks Eorl to meet him in 3 months &quot;Farewell now, Eorl, son of Leod. I will set in order. Calenardhon I commit to your to return to your own realm. In three and then we will take counsel together.&quot; When they meet again 3 months later, Cirion and the two men with their parties ascend the his resolution - he offers to Eorl the land perpetual alliance with Gondor. Eorl accepts, in At the foot of the stair there was a small shelf There the company sat for a while, until white wand of office and the white mantle on the first step of the stair he broke the &quot;I will now declare what I have resolved, with offer to Eorl son of Leod, Lord of the Eotheod, in help beyond hope that he brought to Gondor in time the great land of Calenardhon from Anduin to Isen. after him, and his people shall dwell in freedom the Great King returns. No bond shall be laid upon this only: they shall live in perpetual friendship while both realms endure. But the same bond Then Eorl stood up, but remained for some time of the gift and the noble terms in which it Cirion both on his own behalf as ruler of Gondor, and as a friend of the Eotheod of whose needs he numerous for their land in the North and longed were restrained by the fear of Dol Guldur. But and yet be far from the shadows of Mirkwood. Eorl were moved at that time by the great and by the love that was between them as true of a wise father, old in the cares of the world, while in Cirion Eorl saw the highest and and the wisest, on whom sat the majesty At last, when Eorl had swiftly passed all saying: &quot;Lord Steward of the Great for myself and for my people. It far exceeds if they had not themselves been a free gift of with an oath that shall not be forgotten.&quot; Cirion, &quot;and before these witnesses The group continues their climb Cirion reveals the tomb of Elendil. The beginning of the Third Age and had been Only the Kings and Stewards of Gondor knew of Before his son Hallas, the Prince of Dol Amroth, and 2 other councilors of Gondor as witnesses, Eorl swears the Oath of Eorl and Hear now all peoples who bow not to the Shadow we will come to dwell in the land that he names and on behalf of the Eotheod of the North that shall be friendship for ever: their enemies shall whatsoever evil, or threat, or assault may come our strength. This vow shall descend to my heirs, and let them keep it in faith unbroken, lest the In addition to his oath, Cirion speaks an calling the Valar and Eru to Vanda sina termaruva Elenna-noreo alcar tiruvantes i harar mahalmassen mi Numen &quot;This oath shall stand in memory of and of the faith of Elendil the Faithful, thrones of the West and of the One Eorl leaves half of his army behind, and bringing those who had stayed behind __________ the Eotheod had inherited two long-abandoned there is a fortress known as the Suthburg, also Dunharrow, a refuge whose origins traced noting is a third structure at the northernmost The former two of these structures the Rohirrim. None of these, however, would Eorl would build the city of Alburg in the Eastern Rohan is divided into regions. The West-march west of the White Mountains. Between the river the Eastemnet lies between the Entwash and the great plains of Rohan. While there would be is common for Rohirrim herdsmen to live as nomads Within the northernmost portion of the Eastemnet of the kingdom (and the area where Aragorn, of the orcs carrying Merry and Pippin). Along populated areas of Rohan, the westfold, Eorl would rule from Aldberg as the first King he would never lose his yellow hair. In 2545 TA, again invading The Wold. He would die in battle at fell in the battle, would be buried in the first Elendil had been buried, were covered in alfirin, The kingship passes to Eorl's son Brego, who continued overseeing the migration of Rohan in the south. It is said he would finally their lands. He also defended against Dunlending the Dunlendings' hostility is not The Dunlendings, some of whom had settled Gondorians once stationed there, viewed the should have gotten possession of Calenardhon. but these men, who share ancestry with the Men Brego would continue to explore their new they would come to Harrowdale, where they discover man, aged beyond guess of years; tall and kingly stone. Indeed for stone they took him, for he to pass him by and enter. And then a voice came their amaze it spoke in the western tongue: The and saw that he lived still; but he did not look It was made by those who are Dead, and the Dead During Brego's rule, he builds the Golden Hall the new capital in 2569 TA. The lordship Eofor. It would pass through his line even who would dwell there until his own ascension to completion of Meduseld, Baldor, the king's eldest later and is never seen again. Over 400 years Aragorn and the Grey Company find the remains notched and his legs ruptured - the With Baldor's death, Brego himself and the kingship would pass to his second serving ruler in Rohan's history, living years. During the reign of Aldor the Old, and the Harrowdale along with other valleys people. The remaining Dunlendings east of the Isen Because of his father's long lifespan, Aldor's son King of Rohan. While his fourteen-year reign is prosperity, which would pass through the reign the kingship to his son Freawine, who is already before his death. There are some claims, that will other descendants than his son Goldwine. These the Dunlendings - and it is from these people, and After Freawine's death in 2699 TA, Goldwine the new king is over 60 years old when taking the peace. Events in Rohan would, however, begin His reign would see raids upon the lands of Rohan the king leads an expedition to the north, where They also discover that Isengard is but a hostile force of Dunlendings. Having this enemy force cannot be driven out or defeated. experiencing a renewed war with orcs in the to send aid to reclaim the Gondorian structure. Rohirrim cavalry in the north of the Westfold, This protection however, would only do so much, Gram is one of warfare with the Dunlendings, death in 2741, his son Helm comes to power a Rohirrim lord who is both rich and powerful is believed to be descended from both not fully trusted by Helm, and only At once such council in 2754 TA, Freca comes lands around the Adorn. He requests the to which Helm scoffs, making fun a rage, saying "Old kings that refuse a After the council, Helm stands and puts his hand permit brawls in his house, but men are freer to have been a descendant of King Freawine, went "Now, Dunlending," said the king, alone and unarmed. But you have said much your folly has grown with your belly. You talk that is thrust on him, he breaks it. So!" With that he fell back stunned, and died soon after. the king's enemies; and they fled, for at once It is likely that Helm's punch of Freca, resulting Hammerhand. While Freca's men would leave Edoras, In 2758 TA, the Dunlendings, reinforced by throughout the coast of Gondor, launch an invasion at the Crossings of Isen, but are defeated The Dunlendings and Southrons overrun the and sacking the capital of Edoras. Wulf kills in the Golden Hall, claiming the kingship of trapped in the Suthburg during the cold and harsh winter that would see many Sometime after Yule, Hama would lead a group out Rohirrim in the fortress. However, they would would grow gaunt from both grief and to strike fear into the hearts of his enemies the dread of Helm Hammerhand alone was He would go out by himself, clad in white, and enemies, and slay many men with his hands. It was bite on him. The Dunlendings said that if he could Dunland. Helm had a great horn, and soon it was blow a blast upon it that echoed in the Deep; that instead of gathering to take him or After one of these nighttime raids, Helm did not return. The following morning, There stood Helm, dead as a stone, said that the horn was still heard of Helm would walk among the foes Thus the first line of the Kings of Rohan throne is now Frealaf, sister-son of King Helm. in the aftermath of the Dunlending invasion, comes to Rohan, Frealaf leads a daring surprise Frealaf avenges his uncle and cousins, killing Frealaf claims his rightful place as King they clear the Dunlendings from Rohan, It is in the aftermath of this long-fought that the wizard Saruman comes to Rohan. He brings Rohirrim. He then offers to take up residence in agree to this proposition, seeing the at Rohan's northern border, protecting it in time, this move would come at a cost, And while this would, for a time, aid Rohan the deal would eventually turn sour. Frealaf would His son is Brytta, who inherits a Rohan still He continues his father's ways of helping those "beloved". Still, his reign would not be without still seeing minor conflict with the Dunlendings, aftermath of the War of Dwarves and Orcs ending and attempt to populate the White Mountains fight these new foes and by his death 43 years In 2780 TA, Brytta's son Walda takes the fought in his father's army in defeating there were indeed orcs remaining in Walda is killed by orcs in Folca, his son, would become king in that year avenge his father, purging the lands of Rohan orcs 13 years into his reign, we are told Folca Firien Wood. We are told nothing else about this though he receives a mortal wound from the Thus, Folca's son Folcwine becomes the fourteenth Rohan would fulfill their alliance. Gondor would drive out the Dunlendings who had taken control in 2885 TA, Folcwine fulfills the Oath of Eorl, Haradrim. The Haradrim had been stirred While the south kingdom is victorious, Folcwine's the Crossings of Poros in Ithilien. They are of their death. The mound is called the Haudh in southern border of the realm and it is said the With the death of his eldest sons, Folcwine Fengel in 2903 TA. Unfortunately, Fengel grew up spoiled by his father and greed and love of gold. He was often children. This leads his youngest child, a going instead to live in Gondor. THere, he would Thengel would meet and marry a woman of Gondor line of the Princes of Dol Amroth. Together, a daughter Theodwyn, and three other unnamed is called upon to return to Rohan and, though as King. In this very year, Saruman, having taken returns once and for all to Isengard, beginning begins to work against Rohan, encroaching Roughly four years into Thengel's reign, a and enters his service. He would ride with call for aid from Steward Ecthelion II and would return to fight alongside Thengel's son, In his youth, Theoden would not only become also the elven tongue of Sindarin, for Thengel had age of 75 in 2980 TA, passing his role to Theoden, is 32. The rule of Theoden would be one marked Twenty-three years into his rule, and her husband Eomund died. Theoden, who was adopts Theodwyn's children Eomer Twelve years later, Theoden's health begins it could have been seen as it would later be revealed that through Saruman was poisoning the king. With Grima uses both orcs and Dunlendings to raid Rohan in an Theodred is killed in the First Battle 3019 - a death which was the primary objective Grima knew that their greatest obstacles Eomer - both of whom were fiercely loyal Theodred and Eomer are in the important roles respectively. According to tradition, top three military leaders of the of First Marshal himself - being in charge when Theoden's health began to decline, so that none other than the king could After Theodred's death, Theoden orders Eomer Eomer disobeys this order, destroying the Isengard. Grima is able to order the arrest and his greatest obstacles are nearly completely dealt with - and Rohan is effectively However, on March 2, Gandalf the White would restores his nephew as his rightful heir and Isen to take the battle to Saruman. However, host had been defeated at the Second Battle An army of 10,000 orcs and dunlendings was Theoden leads his people to the ancient his end. The area is now known as Helm's Deep Helm's horn which he sounded while hunting his the Rohirrim would fight valiantly against return on the morning of March 4 with Gandalf the forces are utterly destroyed by the Huorns which his threat to Rohan is no more. After their meaning "the Renewed", having finally and Upon meeting Meriadoc Brandybuck and Peregrin their race, calling them Holbytla, He is familiar with hobbits through the folklore they would spout smoke from their mouths - a While initially puzzling as to how the Rohirrim the answer comes from the early days of their the upper Vales of Anduin, there was a race of Gladden Fields. No doubt, this would be a likely Five days later, Theoden comes to Dunharrow, from Gondor. The errand-rider Hirgon delivering Steward Denethor's request possible to Minas Tirith. The following they begin their journey to Minas Tirith, En route to Gondor, they are made aware of a host to the Druadan Forest, Theoden meets with the Ghan-buri-Ghan. Ghan offers to guide forgotten roads through the forest. He the orcs will be driven off, but he also they will leave the Wild Men alone in the Theoden quickly agrees to this arrangement, the history between the Druedain and the taken place in Rohan's history, whether it was and elves thousands of years earlier, or As we know, the Rohirrim would arrive at turn the tide of battle, fulfilling is mortally wounded by the Witch-king, and a new king would rise. With the death of of the kings of Rohan is ended, and the third Having lost his uncle and seemingly Eomer flies into a rage, shouting "Death!" Just as the king loses hope at the Aragorn's banner is unfurled and the While Eowyn would be healed in the Houses with Aragorn into battle - this time at the Black Eomer and his people would witness the 3019. One week later, he renews the two kings pledging the friendship of Eowyn would leave to return to Edoras, for there Eomer returns to Minas Tirith on July 18, body back to Edoras. On August 10th, Theoden Eowyn is bretrothed to Faramir, and along with Rohirric name "Holdwine" meaning "loyal friend". Mark, which dates back to their people's Eomer does away with the roles of Second marshal position for each half of Rohan - and Elfhelm becomes Marshal of the East-mark. It was said that before the White many enemies would need to be conquered. Thus, riding with Aragorn to subdue the remnants of King of Rohan would be known as Eomer Eadig, rule that Rohan would recover from the hurts of In 3021 TA, Eomer marries the daughter of Eomer and Lothiriel would have a son - Rohan would welcome an entirely new race of been in awe of the glittering caves behind Helm's with the permission of the king, founds a new with both Rohan and Gondor, and Gimli would In total, Eomer would rule Rohan for 65 years their country. Prior to his death in the 63rd once again by Merry and Pippin. Upon his death, king listed in Tolkien's writings, Elfwine prosperous position than the home of the as always I want to say a huge thank you who make this channel possible Tom de Thomas Charles leiser CCDC red team Joe teer Matthew Jeffrey Viking Lord Alvin Ebert Leo Berto Berg Graham derot the darkhaired one wiland in this video check out the artists in the work for yourself thanks so much for watching