-Next guest tonight you know from shows and &quot;The Big Bang Theory.&quot; She both stars in the limited series which premiers on HBO Max Let's take a look. -Uh, uh, I don't -- This -- This place is so pretty. -Yeah? Let's see. Bangkok. Oh, speaking of getting arrested do not get arrested there. The laws are, like, Byzantine. -Right. Uh, yeah. How did you -- How did you know -Oh, when we took that girls' and we turned on side something, And, um, yeah, you just never Listen, you're not, like, actually in trouble -No, I'm, uh... hung over in Thailand. -Please welcome back to the show Hi, Kaley! -Hey, Seth! [ Chuckles ] -It's so nice to see you. I'm really excited I watched the first episode. But I do -- I want to ask -- I know you've been spending How has life in isolation -You know what? mine is surrounded by a lot of So it's been okay. -You know? But, yeah, we're I feel like I've quarantined I've been in multiple places And I've really given my all I've been committed. On behalf of society, You mentioned dogs. Dumpy. -Yeah. [ Laughs ] That is Sir Dump Truck. I got him over the first He was supposed to be a foster, I turned into a girl which I really didn't want -And it should be noted, is not just stationary Here's a quick video of Dumpy in a moving stroller. -No. Oh. You're really ferocious [ Laughs ] That dog could kick your ass. -So, Kaley, tell us how... You know, obviously, you didn't want to turn into Do you notice -- Do you watch it as you slowly realize who has a dog in a stroller?&quot; -I didn't want You know, we have multiple dogs, But I was in New York And Dumpy was there, so I thought it would be easier right? -- in the stroller. And the funny part is, He had a very traumatic life In the stroller, he has that I've never -- He becomes completely aggressive I don't know -Uh, well, you know what? We gotta let Dumpy He has some paparazzi, People are excited to see Dumpy -Oh, my God. I'm telling you. So, we were in -- which is a very -- you know, And there are a lot celebs not -- just a lot of paparazzi. every time I'd come down to take Dumpy out there was paparazzi. oh, they just Well, an article that came out that my girlfriend sent me, &quot;Dump Truck goes to the bathroom Had nothing to do with me. They were there to see the Dumpy -You know that means you have to that says &quot;Blonde Owner,&quot; right? -You gotta do it. -Yeah, no one cared it was me. They were following us And I realized they were trying to get all of the photos He became an overnight success. Please do not allow your to drive a wedge I'm begging that of you. Let me tell you. thought everyone but I was sorely mistaken. -So, congrats on the show. It's weird to say because -- spoiler alert -- But, tonally, it is -- There's a nice energy to it. was a massive part of the show -I gotta tell you, the amount of about the word &quot;tone&quot;-- -Over the last year, I didn't think I could say or hear other people say I wish I had picked for my first producing venture, And, yes, it's definitely -- it rides a wave And, obviously, But since I can't help but be it was definitely written -Yes, based on you thread the needle And you also had to work around, the pandemic You, sort of, got in because you were shooting -We were shooting in Italy, yes. And then, in Italy, was right before So, and then, also, we had like everybody else. and finished, because the show takes place And we went back, and And everyone in the background So it was a very strange trip. When we looked at dailies, we That guy's got a mask on.&quot; how we were doing everything. -And you have -- I think have rules now about the number And you have to double up That must make things tricky, -We... [ Laughs ] So, yes. to minimize any new people So we had six extras And we kept putting them in different wigs, kind of mixing On the plane, too, because we had to have them I was like, &quot;These people are a lot of flights, But it was the only way So we -- we did our best. just about these that are constantly going from New York to Thailand. -It would be funny. It's very strange. When I would watch dailies, You guys, we had those two in the last scene. -[ Laughs ] And now, we have, coming up, which I think is going to be, and different for everybody You also have a birthday Do you have any plans? Is it just gonna be scrolling through &quot;Daily Mail&quot; your pictures are in there? for like 200 people -Oh, God. -Hopefully, just 200 people have a lot of elderly friends. -Oh, exactly. Yeah, for sure. for sure. -Hey, thank you so much Thank you for all your time We do appreciate Love to Dumpy. We are hoping And all the best, Kaley. -I didn't want that to happen. [ Both laugh ] The first three episodes of &quot;The will be available on HBO Max A great way to spend some time.