Hello cinephiles! Whenever I think of The Shining, I'm always in a single movie. So, I wanted to take a look at the writing a masterpiece of cinema. Now, there have been plenty of great videos about the script, but I want to go deeper. How was it written and what exactly is happening What was it like to collaborate with Kubrick How did the movie wind up so different than How close did they stick to the screenplay What were Kubrick's thoughts on horror? All that and more on this episode of Making In 1975, Barry Lyndon had hit the theaters for his next film. After he finishes a film, he just begins to to find a subject that has certain cinematic Kubrick: &quot;I don't find any systematic way It's a terrifying prospect when you realize you're never going to read or that you should that seems like the best approach" (A Voix There was an interesting bit in American Film many books on the supernatural. He would sit in his office and read. If after a few pages, he didn't think the it across the room against the wall." Apparently Kubrick's secretary outside noticed had stopped. She went in and found him reading The Shining It's hard to tell if there is much truth at Warner Brothers, sent Kubrick the manuscript Kubrick said, &quot;The Shining I found very compulsive structure were much more imaginative than anything I've ever read in the genre" (The Soho News Interview). Warner Brothers had bought the rights to Stephen in 1977 and they also bought a screenplay However, Kubrick wanted to use the novel as didn't read King's screenplay nor did with him on a new screenplay (Kubrick Companion). It's interesting to note that nearly all books and there are a couple of reasons for First, Kubrick felt that there aren't many caliber as some of the greatest novelists-- And second, and perhaps most important, is objectively and, as Kubrick puts it [quote] written, you have the irreplaceable experience This is something which you obviously cannot This way, Kubrick could experience the story and then evaluate what it was about the book He could get at the core of what was good enhance the most brilliant aspects with a (Something we probably all wish we could do For the task of adapting the book for the Kubrick enlisted the help of novelist Diane Johnson. He had met her in 1976, when he considered a psychological thriller about a woman They had discussed the book extensively and, UC Berkeley on the Gothic novel (New Perspectives So, when he ultimately decided on pursuing that it would be interesting to work with Kubrick said, "[S]he seemed to be the ideal which, indeed, she proved to be" (Archives). In early 1977, Johnson spoke at length with an outline later that year (New Perspectives It wasn't until March 17th, 1978 that Johnson began working with Kubrick on the story full-time (New Perspectives 288). She said, &quot;The driver would come and pick [to Kubrick's house]. I would stay all day, through dinner. We would work in the morning and then Stanley was doing the sets and the second unit were Johnson and Kubrick had long discussions around Jane Eyre, Wuthering Heights, and stories They also watched movies every night--many to see whether they liked him more as a "depressive" or a &quot;hyped-up animated&quot; character (New Perspectives 288). They discussed The Shining for over a month Many of their discussions started from simple Johnson said, &quot;Stanley uses the Socratic method: Does his wife love him? What kind of clothes would she wear? In this way, Kubrick got to know and understand for themselves&quot; (Kubrick Companion). Johnson also said, Kubrick's &quot;approach was on outlines, big on lists and he focused on or the problems that it posed" (New Perspectives They also drew a fair amount of inspiration titled, The Uses of Enchantment and the writings but more on that later (Kubrick Companion). Johnson and Kubrick each came up with their on their talks and then came together to compare, "more fleshed-out outline" (Archives). They worked on the screenplay for 11 weeks and then Johnson left for the United States (New Perspectives 288). She returned to England in 1978 for a few Johnson said, there were &quot;a lot of phone conversations When I left the second time there was a pretty Stanley went on to make some changes but most of them he checked with me" (New Perspectives 288). Without Johnson's contributions to the screenplay, important to recognize the work that she put crafting such a great adaptation with Kubrick. On October 17th, 1979, Kubrick had her contact there to be a shared screenwriting credit publicity and advertising (New Perspectives 289). Kubrick's first treatment, completed on was 36 pages and contained 61 scenes. The treatment ends when Grady removes the This is one of the most important moments is any evidence of a ghost having any affect All supernatural aspects of the film up to in the minds of the characters or have some Wendy: "You did this to him! Didn't you!?" Kubrick: &quot;I've always enjoyed the genre that presented that genre. There have been pictures which have had shocks gory or horrific moments. But to properly present that type of a story get involved in the story and the supernatural dramatically realistic. What I found so ingenious about the way the events occurred, which you always wonder to to explain this?'. The way the story is written, you assume as are probably going to be a product of his And I think this allows you to start accepting It isn't really until the bolt is open that a product of his imagination" (A Voix Nue). The guiding principle for Kubrick's journey Lovecraft essay that states, "In all things Kubrick expands upon this in an interview people's imagination, their sense of the And as long as it doesn't, within itself, is just a matter of, as it were, building working in this area of feeling" Kubrick was keen on using the audience's mystery and the suggestion of horror, the with their own fears. The story beats are very simple, there isn't horror films. Instead, we are watching with a mindset based We get lost in the mystery, but we are also We experience the fear of the mystery and how to escape the situation. Kubrick uses the first expositional scenes going to go crazy and try to murder his family In this way, we are placed in a similar situation We know Jack will go crazy, but there isn't Then we are left to watch it all unfold. Jack: "Well, you can rest assured, Mr. Ullman, In early versions of the script, quite a great that was discarded that involved Danny finding all of strange things that have happened at There was another version where Jack finds the scrapbook just appears on his desk (SK We can see the scrapbook on his desk in the Another guiding principle was raised by Kubrick He says, &quot;... in fantasy you want things to as possible. People should behave in the mundane way they You have to be especially careful about this or fantastic details of the story" (Archives). This contrast makes the extraordinary more as well (Archives). Mundane Fantastic The opening scenes are presented almost exceedingly Hallorann: "How do you folks like our hotel Wendy: "Oh, it's just wonderful! Hi Danny!" Since the beginning, Kubrick knew that he as you see in most film and television depictions He said that, in the stories of people who described as solid and seeming very much like Films and television often use transparency we are seeing is a spirit. Kubrick subverts this and uses context, but would choose to depict the ghosts as solid You see, Johnson and Kubrick drew a great The Uncanny. If I'm understanding it correctly, Freud heimlisch which means 'homely' or 'cozy/comfortable' of uncomfortableness inside the home. It is something unfamiliar and possibly threatening This can refer to the Overlook seeming like interior threat, but it can also relate to Freud notes the fear of inanimate objects (although he says that, this is not usually inanimate objects like living things for fun). And in Poltergeist, the youngest character Carol: "They're heeeere..." However, as Freud points out, the reverse like a person, but is not. We can see this in the most terrifying moments and the woman in the bathtub. We don't know what these people are or what they exist at all or if there is some sort Perhaps the most terrifying of all is a combination Jack Torrance seems normal and he is a familiar course of the film, he becomes something unfamiliar, psychosis make him a threat. We can see a similar concept at play a few The Exorcist where a woman's young daughter Incidentally, Kubrick was offered the job Despite really enjoying Stephen King's book, changed in order to bring it into the medium Kubrick said, &quot;The main problem with The Shining and to reinvent those paragraphs where the (...) Diane and I talked endlessly about the scenes, which we thought the movie should The scenes on this list were changed over until we were satisfied" (S.K. reads S.K. 190). I imagine he means cutting the inner monologues to translate the story into something more Now, I'm not very familiar with the book, book as well as many iterations of the script. The bigger changes, in terms of character, because Kubrick thought she was more realistic woman would be less likely to put up with This change actually happened fairly late They also used the H.P. Lovecraft principle and removed most of the most of which are in the scenes with Lloyd Kubrick said, &quot;From Jack's character, for to his family life have disappeared in the I don't think the audience is likely to pages King devotes to things like Jack's To me, all that is quite irrelevant. There's the case of putting in too many Jack is the way he is, which is not really I think that is a major key in what makes of his humanity. The earlier treatments stuck much closer to One early treatment explained the woman in Kubrick made a comment that [quote] "We These early treatments also had Tony, you as a character who Danny would actually see. Hallorann trekking out to the hotel after the ballroom scene with Grady are some of through each version and into the final film The second draft of the screenplay, from July Danny and the woman in room 237--which happens What's interesting is that this version to Danny with the sound of the Grady twins us know not only who rolled the ball, but and the woman are somehow connected (S.K. reads S.K. 191). And, as some have pointed out, it is possible woman with Jack and the same woman in the They might be two different people. You can see that one has much shorter hair. Perhaps they are the Grady twins. As for the third draft, from August 1, 1977, of him killing Wendy and Danny as well as which caused him to be fired from his teaching According to an essay by Ursula Von Keitz, are kept in the present as the characters The fourth draft, dated August 15, 1977, is and, boy, is it a doozy. Jack surprises Wendy and Danny after he is She hits Jack with a rifle butt and then Hallorann and is hit in the head by Jack. Wendy kills Jack and rushes to help Hallorann and greets Hallorann by saying: "Good evening, chief." The script ends with forest rangers entering and finds the bodies of Danny, Wendy, and "blown his brains out" (S.K. reads S.K. 191). There were really an incredible amount of Here are just some of the ideas that were Tony speaks with a voiceover, Hallorann arrives fights with Wendy, Halloran becomes demonic girls' shoes in a sand pit, Danny sees a flashback of the incident when Jack injured imagery including a mask that appears in Danny's I believe that some of these were taken from One of the more brilliant changes from the In the book Hallorann journeys to the hotel this thread in motion only to have Hallorann I love the idea of this moment surprising because this moment marks a point where they One thing that's really cool is all of the as well as the book. We can really get a sense that new ideas were being distilled and simplified and refined. I've made a page with the notes I was able Click the card to check it out. Jack: "Go check it out!" Now, as Lessons From the Screenplay mentioned, available to see at the Kubrick Archives in However, I imagine that if you had the chance The purpose of these drafts was to get a sense but it was all very fluid. Diane Johnson was quoted saying, &quot;The writing were, what the events were, and the exact Stanley kept saying, 'When you know what's It wasn't until the production itself that completely new phase of rewriting. Kubrick:"But I find that the structure, you know, if the moments are right, it usually There are times in various films where there It's never been solved until, say, two days Once you know what's supposed to happen, actors-- as it were--in the rehearsal. I mean, that part of the scene, the dialogue, It isn't in this type of story. It is, obviously, in a film where someone in one place, you know, like a play. When the attitude of the people is correct the action of the scene is interesting, then Kubrick's approach during the production on their character, make suggestions, and better even as it is being filmed. Kubrick said, &quot;The key part in shooting a had in mind but [to] stay loose in case you When asked if he lets the actors improvise, "Yes. I find that no matter how carefully you write time there always seems to be something completely interesting ideas in the scene which you never were interesting aren't. Or that the weight of the idea is unbalanced; so I very often rewrite the scene with the I feel it's the way you can take the best and even perhaps the weaknesses of the actors. If there's something they aren't doing, must say that's not true in The Shining become aware of ideas and possibilities which Diane Johnson: "When it came to the shooting, They didn't get along (he and Shelly Duvall) the way she would say the lines. And so he'd say, 'oh, well then nevermind. Cut that.' And so, finally it came down to her just screaming If something isn't working, it is usually There really isn't a point in trying to work with the actors or some other reason. Kubrick continues saying, &quot;I've always been out the scenes and can actually find that It may be some shortcoming of my screenplay, looks on paper, the minute you start in the aware of not taking the fullest advantage to what you wrote. I also found that thinking of shots, or thinking actually rehearsed it and got it to the point is worth putting on film, will frequently possible result of the scene" (The Soho Thanks for watching! The Shining was suggested by my patrons over I want to thank my patrons for supporting I'm able to make these videos. If you'd like to support this channel, head and you will be able to submit movie And if you're new here, please hit that more videos on the way for cinephiles like Thanks again for watching!