Mother Earth is my employer. She pays me with clean air, clean water, clean food, clean land. And then from that you have a clean spirit. I just wanted to say those things because I'm recognising where I come from. And I think part of introducing where you come from is not just the human factor, it's always the land. The land is coming first and what supported you, what gave you life to that name, what gave life to your family. And part of that is understanding who you are. You feel like you have to take out an ID card in this society. That's not what makes you who you are. It's all the elements... the energy, the sunlight, everything... that makes you who you are. Humans want to rush being a human being, almost as if there's no time left. So time moves so fast for them. And then they're at the end of their life and they realise that in that mind of junk is that they've wasted their lives because they didn't become what they felt they could be. Instead of accepting each moment as it is. And to take the 'would have, could have, should have' stuff, mindset out of it. In recognising the present... not what you could be or would be or should be. Be patient for recognising yourself in a common way, in a good way. And try to keep it out of your head. Because that's where the mind junk, mental junk comes into play. Something that we've gotten away from is to be here in the present. If we forget that then we're either embedded in the future or in the past. There never will be another time like now. And this is why every moment is innocent. Every moment is innocence because it's true. There will never be a moment like this again, never a minute or nanosecond like this again. A tree is conscious. It's here, it's not in the future or the past, it's here. So be like a tree, intelligence. Be like the wind. Be like all that. Because that is like you, because it's in your body. It's moving. It's your full spectrum of your full brain, not just your head. An uncle said that we live in a time and place where our spirits can be eaten. So we must learn how to protect our spirits. And he also said, 'They will have machines for ancestors.' And so we're in that world now. Artificial intelligence has taken us away from that which is and put us into 'could be'. And it's based only on human fragility of conscience. Modernity has devolved the spiritual aspect of what makes a human being because it's taken you away from nature. And technology has no wisdom. It's a language of the mental logic. And there's no wisdom there. It's not the language of the heart. Our bodies, in many nations, are named after parts of the earth. And 'cante' is a word for heart in Lakota. Cante is like a tree branching out into the body. A tree is also branching out into the body of earth. When the tree is communicating with other trees we understand that underneath the ground in the earth there is a great happening. It's always eventing, moving, motioning. So this is the heart of the rhythm of nature. Our human bodies need to be in tune or attuned to Mother Earth. And so the heart is pumping that same message. And that's why people go to nature. They know the awesomeness, the awe of it. And they feel like they've been close to god. But if you grew up this way you realise that nature is everywhere. Our responsibility is to learn how to be at peace with Earth, of living with Mother Earth. And not having war against your own mother. Trees are the teacher. So are animals and birds and everything that makes this body live. They're showing you how to live with their patience. We say... 'I do this so that others may live'. 'I live this way so others may live.' And that's not just for humans. It's for life, all life. We're all one. So maybe these arrogant ideas of humans are not the same ideas and feelings of a human being. We have no word for 'goodbye'. We have something like... which means I'll see you again - surely, eventually.