The Simpsons Golden Age. When talking about The Simpsons and its 30+ the conversation. The newest episodes measured against the golden However, as with any fandom-related topic, The Simpsons Golden Age, as it can vary wildly So that makes me wonder. What exactly is the Golden Age of The Simpsons, Is the Golden Age even real? Before we go further down this fandom rabbit Age of a TV show is. This whole topic is extremely nebulous and on the same page about what we're talking Generally speaking, when people refer to a where the show's output was its strongest. The critical reception, the fandom reception, and general pop culture footprint into making For more serialized shows with a rotating combination of characters. Often, a show's Golden Age arrives early itself up. Although this is not necessarily mandatory. Usually the term "renaissance" is used In addition to the quality level, there is You can't call something a "Golden Age" one or two really good episodes of a show. That only works if there are only 5 episodes You're typically talking about a period out one gem after another. Now, a "Golden Age" does not preclude it. Even at a show's best, sometimes it will In addition, the idea of a "Golden Age" episodes outside of that era. There is a consistency factor that should Not only is the show producing good episodes, Now the tricky thing about The Simpsons is It's not like "The Office" for example. Where some fans might say that the Steve Carrell he left, that's when it ended. Or they'll cut it down further and say the married. Or they'll say it started in Season 2 with I'm in that camp, by the way. With The Simpsons, you have considerably less A character like Maude Flanders could be killed, Maude is gone? Is she that important? That Maude Flanders was the pillar of classic When you're making the Maude Flanders argument, of how the show lost its way. That this is a pattern of behavior. After all, the show prides itself on how it at the beginning of every story. That's why I'm against the idea that a I think that's the biggest crock of bullshit If you hate Season 9, just say you hate Season We don't have to put it on the shoulders I don't wanna get further into the weeds not, but you have an idea of how messy figuring Since Simpsons fans are often making a strictly to be a definitive answer. Everyone is different and wonderful and will them. So, in trying to define when The Simpsons at the general consensus and pick out individual Which seasons are part of The Simpsons Golden OK, first let's do a quick rundown of the as a refresher. Just since we're gonna be namedropping them The first two seasons were showrun by the Sam Simon. Then in Seasons 3 and 4, the duo of Al Jean Then when they departed, they brought in David After that, they promoted writing duo Bill 8. Then, Mike Scully took over for 9 through by all the previous showrunners. Then in Season 13, Al Jean returned and ran Matt Selman showrunning the majority starting There's a lot of smaller nuances in here great influence over the seasons they worked But this is the very simplified, top-down From being on the internet for a while, I've are the Golden Age and which aren't. But I wanted to see what the current feeling So I decided to ask everyone. I created a poll asking to select which seasons Age, and sent it to my YouTube and Twitter I ended up getting over 3600 responses, wow! Now, from a methodology standpoint, it's bias" here. I'm asking people who specifically follow Simpsons isn't gonna represent the whole Anyway, so here are the results of the poll. As you can see, the general consensus appears the Jean/Reiss, David Mirkin, and Oakley &amp; Weinstein Seasons 4 through 7 were most popular, all peak of the mountain. I want to meet these 5% of people who are perspective. Seasons 3 and 8 are equally popular in this Season 3 sometimes gets booted for being a People into the more rapid-fire gag-driven 3. And Season 8 is occasionally excluded because in, especially in the back half of the season. There's some divisive episodes here and around this time. Honestly, I'm kinda surprised how well Season It's always had its share of detractors Simpsons fandom has always had an odd relationship I think that's true for most TV shows, that working out the kinks. With its rougher animation and its different popular fan opinion that Season 2 is when Some even suggest skipping it to new viewers. Typically, the biggest points of contention Seasons 2 and 9. 3 through 8 is the generally accepted Golden 2 at the beginning, Season 9 at the end, or 2 through 9 is a fairly common opinion, for The quote-unquote "problem" with Season for everyone. From a jokes and pacing perspective, it doesn't It does have some super popular and acclaimed Substitute," which some folks would want Season 9 is certainly the elephant in the history. I mean, it polled at nearly 50%. How much more split can a fanbase be? Some fans absolutely love Season 9 and think There are indeed a ton of very popular and Other fans don't think it's nearly as year of the Golden Age. Whereas other Simpsons fans think it's too in the second half. Some of the more controversial episodes of And some might just not be into Mike Scully. After that, we get our bell curve downward, About 30% of the respondents went all the decent overlap with the Season 1 crowd. These Season 1 through 10 voters are clearly each showrunner 2 years of the Golden Age. There were some votes that came in that went About 1-2% of Simpsons fans voted for these The question itself is a little biased, assuming people to pick. But clearly there is a subsection of Simpsons all or most of the first 20 seasons "golden." Writers and producers of The Simpsons themselves Are they correct? We as Simpsons fans have constructed the idea a bunch of fans reach a consensus doesn't There are so many delusional fanbases on the Is The Simpsons Golden Age actually real, Over the years, Simpsons writers have done comes up from time to time. And we have gotten plenty of quotes and arguments In 2007, Matt Groening said this to the Los "You always hear that the show isn't as compare the new shows to the memories of their them. You've got to have an open mind, and for some Nostalgia clouds their thinking.&quot; In a 2020 AV Club interview, Al Jean expressed "It's very hard to compete with something I remember when I was 10, reading Spider-Man And it's hard for anything to compare to discovering it." I think many would agree that the rose-colored human psychology. That the first Simpsons episodes you would you're going to have an extra sense of reverence There's both a novelty and a nostalgia factor You think back to an episode like "Homie great moments, like this one and this one You don't think about those weird references that don't really land. You don't question whether this ending is I frickin' love "Homie the Clown," I That's why I picked it for this example. When you're thinking of something you consider those potential points of criticism. Can we totally disqualify a modern Simpsons when "Homie the Clown" was behaving similarly Was "Homie the Clown" the start of bad Obviously I'm being glib when I ask that. That's just the kind of critical lens we when something is brand new. We like "Homie the Clown," so we are more I think, to some degree, Matt Groening and That, when evaluating a new Simpsons episode, an idealized memory rather than the old episode We should also remember that, even in the early internet fandom was not at all on the Al Jean, in that same interview said this: I was there and people were sort of dismissive I remember people going, "Oh, The Simpsons It's lost its way. What's this 'Monorail' show?" A lot of people didn't like the "Monorail" And now you say, as I've heard, that people So I think you can judge relatively what episodes to now." This is a very extreme example, given the However, thanks to archivists, we do have If you've never gone to The Simpsons Archive Guides, I strongly recommend checking them I've considered doing a whole video about The review sections start being archived in were mixed. Here are three reviews from a Conan O'Brien "Don't get me wrong. I really liked Cape Feare, and the B#'s was episode was the worst Simpsons episode I've I've loved every other episode, I'm not at Are there new writers? I'm embarrassed. I've gotten so many people into this show, "I found this last episode to be utterly few _funny_ parts. I normally laugh hysterically at least once I sincerely hope the quality of the shows episode three times." "After watching the last three episodes, Oh, it's not easy for me to say that, but anymore. Satire has been replaced with sight gags. The characters are losing their individual The storylines have become a series of non The whole thing reminds me of the last season that got!" Well, I'm gonna say "ouch" for Moonlighting. Also big thanks to our three guests for reading haven't already. Obviously, I cherry-picked these examples, user reviews were negative. With the nature of the internet, you're gonna episode. However, when considering how The Simpsons makes a lot of sense that longtime fans would shifts. Remember, their point of comparison would and "Bart's Dog Gets an F." A zany episode the Vigilante" comes along and you'd be more? In a commentary, Bill Oakley and Josh Weinstein see the negative comments, and even admitted cranks when they were running things in Seasons 95% of fans today say that Season 7 is part a perception that The Simpsons were over the from the internet, studio executives, and It got so bad and was such a continuous thing and Scratchy and Poochie" show in response. That's our smoking gun that this did indeed Its thesis is very clear that they believed It was just the audience's perception that So yeah, it makes a lot of sense why the Simpsons instant reactions to the new episodes. We internet people are not the most reliable Maybe instead we should look at the more measurable For example, we could look at their Emmy wins They won in 1990, 1991, 1995, 1997, 1998, But after that point, they didn't win again the Toy." Awards voting is always gonna be fickle and You should all hear the audio commentary still beat "Radio Bart" in '92. But given the series suddenly went an entire only two explanations. Either the Emmy voters think The Simpsons in animation, The Simpsons kept getting shut I thought last year's "Pixelated and Afraid" in quite some time... And even it lost out to "Arcane" because We could also point to declining television that was a great metric. One, because all TV ratings for a series decline Heck, these days all TV ratings are such a dang solid. Secondly, since when are ratings an indicator All the ratings chart demonstrates is that on the planet. And we all know that happened. See, that's the problem with any Golden Like with most artistic endeavors, it's You look at the series' body of work, do a cutoff point. There are objective facets to television criticism, joke construction, pacing, etc. But artistic taste often gets mixed into the One person's lazy ending is another person's We've gotten a sense of when the fans think by the staff, so what now? Is The Simpsons just permanently stuck being I've purposefully avoided inserting my own summarizing the debate itself... But here's where I land on it. When I created the poll, I personally voted Yes, I'm one of THOSE people. But you all probably saw that coming with At the same time, with all my Modern Simpsons I take a fairly traditionalist stance. That there is indeed a Golden Age of The Simpsons. I understand why many aren't into Season later stuff. But for me, I still feel that Simpsons essence that defines the series. And I think the episodes are strong enough For the end of the Golden Years, there are explaining what got worse after Season 8. They're a lot of the typical things you've out the jokes too much, cop-out endings, repetitive Even The Simpsons themselves have referenced Mostly I tend to exclude the Scully Years something like the Mirkin Era. They stretched the rubber band just a little But, admittedly, even that is more of a taste However, I think time is the main culprit Time has always kinda been the villain of issues with the show. Fundamentally, The Simpsons has been on the From both a production side and a fandom side, I think Al Jean and Matt Groening are right fans are never going to be able to watch a But I also don't think that's wrong. The Simpsons chose to continue on for over it comes with a lot of baggage. The series will inevitably repeat itself, Yes, The Simpsons is a status quo show, but up standing on the shoulders of every other We've seen "Lisa the Greek," we've and more challenging presenting that relationship The writers will try creative, unconventional In addition, the audience starts recognizing formulaic. After 20 years, we have a sense of what an We learn their tricks, understand their sensibilities. I knew, when they did that fan contest a while Bomba because that is the kind of funny thing You just get to know people after a while with their TV shows. Of course, long-time viewers of this YouTube like that. I've always believed that, after a certain harder than the previous one. Just because of all the things you've done It gets harder continuing to carry that torch, I remember when reading John Ortved's "Unauthorized talking about writing during the Oakley &amp; Weinstein Describing how it had sort of a fraternity late, trying to get the best possible joke And there's an anecdote about "Sideshow trying to come up with the name of the general "Finally, somebody came up with a name - Colonel And everyone laughed, but it was kind of a My life is like grains of sand in the hourglass And we were all just kind of laughing at the But Bill and Josh heard the laughter and it And they were like, "Hap Hapablap! Colonel Hap Hapablap!" They just kept saying it and it just kept And that's the name of the guy in the show: I'm not bringing up this anecdote to slam They're honestly my favorite showrunners 7 and 8 turned out so amazing. They worked themselves to death to give us against them. But you could imagine why that kind of process Burn-out is inevitable and you can't expect that forever. The Simpsons writers clearly work hard on on Permanent Crunch Time just to give us the 35. If that even is possible for a Season 35 of The Simpsons had a beautiful, magical run-up was brand new, bringing adult animation back It's just an impossible standard to live Those early seasons are where everyone collectively is the show. So when a showrunner takes things in a different like the sky is falling. Just like the writers, fans are also storytellers, is and what it isn't. Who's to say that the show can't be a jokes? Who decides that? Is The Simpsons meant to be that inflexible? I'm curious where everyone else lands on we all agree exists but can't nail down It's something fun to argue about, at the At the same time, I don't think the Simpsons the show. I think there's enough room to say there of good episodes in the later years. Both statements can be true. However, the one thing The Simpsons should We can never return to the Golden Years and them. But as long as they are still trying to change try my best to forget about Season 6. At least for 30 minutes on Sunday night.