Hey guys! All good? Today you will learn how to detoxify your body in 10 days. We know that one of the organs responsible for detoxifying our body is the liver. When we eat poorly, when we are exposed to toxins, our liver can become intoxicated. It ends up decreasing your ability to perform basic functions and reduces the elimination of excess toxins present in our body. For us to be able to detoxify our body, the liver must be working perfectly. If there is any inflammation, injury, or fat accumulation, this process may be impaired. That's why I decided to make this video. You will include 10 types of food in your diet for 10 days. They will help you detoxify your liver and your body. Stay with me until the end of the video to understand what happens to your body and which are the 7 foods that will detoxify you in such a short time. Without further ado, run the vignette! Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist. Hello, heartfelt friends! All good? I am Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist, specialist in Pacemakers. Are you already subscribed to the channel? If you are not registered yet, sign up! Click the bell to receive all notifications! Today the video is very interesting. I see a lot of people wanting to improve their health in a short time. It's possible? Everything is possible when we do it efficiently. And the most important thing is that this becomes lasting. You'll start to feel so good when you add these foods that you won't want to stop using them. As I said before, the liver is a vital organ that performs several essential functions in the human body, including detoxification. When the liver becomes intoxicated, this means that its ability to efficiently perform these functions may be compromised due to excessive exposure to toxic substances. And what are the negative effects that can occur when the liver is intoxicated? Constant exposure to toxins can lead to liver inflammation and lead to hepatitis, for example. Chronic poisoning can cause damage to liver cells and can compromise their ability to perform important functions, such as protein synthesis and metabolism regulation. In the case of fatty liver or hepatic steatosis, the inflammation is already more severe and can progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. In cases of steatosis and hepatitis, the liver begins to lose its body's ability to detoxify, increasing the risk of accumulation of harmful substances. In more advanced stages, chronic liver toxicity can lead to the formation of scar tissue, even cirrhosis. A condition in which normal liver tissue is replaced by scar tissue, further impairing liver function. And finally, in the most extreme cases, severe and prolonged intoxication can lead to liver failure, which is a potentially fatal condition, in which the liver can no longer perform basic vital functions. It is worth remembering that the liver is an organ with the capacity to regenerate, and much damage can be reversed when you adopt healthy habits. That's right, guys! Unlike the heart, which is an organ that does not regenerate, the liver is capable of regenerating itself if you take good care of it. We know that although the liver carries out detoxification processes, some foods can provide nutrients and compounds that help to optimize its functions and improve its function. That's what I want you to focus on today. The more healthy foods you include in your diet, the more effective your body will detox. But first, did you know that Clinica Yano is located here in Indaiatuba, right guys? Close to Itu, Campinas, Sorocaba, Jundiai, Sao Paulo. On the other side we have Limeira, Piracicaba. You can consult with me in person. Our clinic is here in Indaiatuba. And for those of you who live further away, I also serve all of Brazil via telemedicine. It's hot today, oh. I'm recording here at home, but it's hot, look. I'm sweating here. You don't care about that, okay? What matters is the content. Let's go? So let's look at the 10 foods that will help you detoxify your body in 10 days. First food: cruciferous vegetables. Among them we have broccoli, radish, cauliflower, cabbage, turnip. These vegetables contain phytochemical compounds, such as glucosinolates, which have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. The benefits of cruciferous vegetables for detoxification are related to the role they play in activating liver enzymes. There are then two main phases in the liver detoxification process. In phase 1, liver enzymes help convert toxic substances into less harmful substances. And in phase 2, the substances resulting from phase 1 are linked to other molecules, making them more soluble in water to facilitate excretion from our body. The glucosinolates present in cruciferous vegetables can positively influence both phases of the detoxification process. They are broken down into bioactive compounds that have the ability to modulate the activity of liver enzymes, helping a lot in this process. Furthermore, cruciferous vegetables contain a variety of essential nutrients, such as vitamins, minerals, fiber, which will contribute to your overall health and can then help eliminate these toxins from the body. My tip is, include these vegetables in your regular diet. It will definitely be a healthy strategy and will help improve your liver function. Remembering folks, detoxification is an ongoing process and not something that only occurs in response to a specific diet for a short period. I know that a lot of people want to detox to feel lighter this holiday season or a wedding party. But when you maintain a healthy, long-term lifestyle, your body's health will thank you. Think about that. Let's go? Second food: beetroot. Beetroot is a very nutritious vegetable that has been linked to several benefits for our health, including its role in detoxifying the body. It is rich in antioxidants, such as flavonoids, which help to neutralize free radicals. This ends up protecting liver and body cells against oxidative stress. Furthermore, beets contain betaine, a compound that helps in the liver detoxification process. This component is very useful in phase 2 of the detoxification process, where toxic substances are combined to facilitate their elimination from our body. Another important thing is that it has a lot of fiber that helps eliminate toxins from the digestive tract and therefore promotes more robust digestive health. Furthermore, beetroot is a source of folic acid which plays a fundamental role in the synthesis and repair of our DNA. Another benefit of beetroot is its anti-inflammatory capacity, provided by some of its compounds, which contributes to reducing inflammation in the body. And who doesn't like beetroot, right? I love beets! Comment here if you like it too. Do you eat beets at least twice a week? Third food: garlic. How many times have I talked about garlic as an excellent antioxidant, natural anti-inflammatory, which can even discreetly lower blood pressure? For me, every food has to have a little garlic seasoning in it. In addition to being a tasty ingredient in cooking, it has been associated with several health benefits, including its potential role in detoxifying the body. Garlic contains sulfur-rich compounds such as allicin, which contributes to its medicinal properties. Allicin stimulates liver enzymes, which participate in phase 1 of the detoxification process, where toxic substances are transformed into less harmful forms. Garlic also has antioxidant properties, which help neutralize free radicals and protect liver cells against oxidative stress. Then add garlic to all your preparations. It's delicious and helps you eliminate toxins. Fourth food: ginger. Ginger is a super food. It is widely used in oriental cuisine. And of course I love it, it gives a really refreshing flavor. Ginger has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties that can contribute to the health of our body. It stimulates blood circulation, helps the digestive system and is a natural detoxifier. It contains compounds that can protect your liver and facilitate the process of eliminating toxins. So make ginger tea, add it as a seasoning, use powdered ginger, right, it's delicious. Fifth food: lemon. Did you know about this? Lemon is known for its detoxifying benefits because it has a high concentration of vitamin C and antioxidants. These components will help neutralize free radicals, improving the health of your cells. Furthermore, lemon stimulates the production of liver enzymes, facilitating this detoxification process in the liver. You can drink lemon juice every day, or you can simply drink 300 ml of water with a few drops of lemon, right. Put lemon in your daily life, every time I talk about lemon it makes my mouth water. But come on, sixth food: it's avocado. Avocado is a very nutritious food, which despite not being traditionally associated with detoxification, offers numerous health benefits. This fruit can indirectly contribute to the process of eliminating toxins from the body, because it is also rich in antioxidants, such as vitamin E, which helps fight damage caused by free radicals. And you may have heard several times in my videos that avocado is also an excellent source of monounsaturated fatty acids, which are healthy fats. These fats help with our cardiovascular health. And, of course, also in detoxifying the body. Let's go! Seventh food, in fact, is tea: green tea. Green tea has catechins, antioxidant substances, which can help protect our liver cells. Green tea can neutralize free radicals, stimulates liver function, increases your metabolism, and antioxidants can even benefit your heart. Eighth food: nuts. Nuts are nutritious foods, which despite not being traditionally associated directly with detoxification, offer health benefits, which can also indirectly help with the issue of eliminating toxins. Because it also contains fatty acids, such as omega 3, it contains vitamin E, polyphenols, which are excellent antioxidants. In addition, it has fiber, proteins, amino acids, minerals. A handful of walnuts a day is enough. Take a handful of nuts a day and eat them. In addition to being delicious, it will help protect your liver. Ninth food, folks: turmeric. I've talked about turmeric in several videos. In fact, I have a video that talks just about it, about all the benefits of including turmeric in a healthy diet. Its main compound is curcumin, which has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. So go there and watch my video to find out all the benefits of this spice. Type there, turmeric, doctor Roberto Yano, you will find a special video for you. Tenth food: apple. Apples are rich in pectin and other substances that help eliminate toxins through our digestive tract. Have you ever heard the saying? An apple a day and you don't have to pay the doctor. Almost that, folks. Of course, it is important to consult a doctor, but the fact that apples can bring many benefits is also true. If you don't already follow me on Instagram, it's @dr.yano. Tag me in stories if you are exercising, eating well. Tag me there and I'll share you in my stories. Well, guys, so these are the 10 foods that will help you detoxify your body in 10 days. Eat healthier, include these foods, drink plenty of water and do plenty of exercise. You can be sure that in 10 days you will feel much better. And try to keep these foods in your routine, in your daily life. Okay, guys? I hope you enjoyed the video. If you liked it, don't forget to share. When you share, we help save a life. My idea here is to save the world and I want to know if you're coming with me or not. Is it ok, guys? So I'll stop here. Today's message is this. A big hug. Bye Bye!