I'll start the autumn morning with my usual routine. Late last night I was making apple juice from the last apples in my garden. I didn't film the process because you've already seen it. The juice has cooled down overnight and can now be put away in the cupboard. But first, I'll have to &quot;play Tetris&quot; with the groceries to make room for the juice bottles. I also made turkey wing broth yesterday. So today I'll make soup. Perhaps it will be bean soup. As usual, I take all the ingredients &quot;by eye&quot;. Beans about 1-1.5 cups. I'll take the meat out of the broth. Add beans to the broth and cook until fully cooked. It would be better to cook the beans at the same time as the broth. But in the evening I hadn't decided what kind of soup I would make yet. So I just boiled some broth. While the beans are cooking, you can prepare the vegetable dressing for the soup. Chop the onion and fry in butter. Grate the carrots into strips and add them to the onions. Add tomato paste (about 2 tablespoons) or tomato juice. Cut the potatoes. 3 potatoes will be enough. We cut the meat into small pieces. When the beans are fully cooked, add the potatoes. Add salt. When the potatoes are cooked, season the soup with the fried vegetables. Bay leaf, pepper. Add meat. Ladle the soup into bowls and sprinkle with herbs. Sashulya, this is your portion. Bon appetit. Mmm...delicious. Yes, it was drizzling constantly. Charlotte is changing every day. Look how big she is already. Her ears are already standing up well, although not completely yet. But she is still a child and is always trying to bite your hands. If with little Nyusya my hands were scratched, then with Charlotte they were bitten. Charlotte is a little football player. I finally filmed the process of sewing &quot;Young Santa&quot; for you. This is what the templates look like. I left them for you in PDF format, the large parts need to be glued together. The clothing pattern already has seam allowances. Let's start. For the legs I used plain flax glued with interlining. We transfer the body template onto the fabric. This is a thick cotton fabric. I use a pen that disappears under the influence of hot steam. We also transfer the templates onto the fabric for accessories. For the hat I used felt. I transfer the clothing pattern. Since the templates already have seam allowances, I simply trace the pattern. I immediately transfer the embroidery strip and the hem line. The fabric feels like thick flannel. Sew all the details on a sewing machine. Change the color of the thread to match the color of the fabric. The main assistant is always nearby. At this stage I remove the ink marks from the fabric. As if by magic, the ink simply disappears. I cut out the pieces with scissors and turn them inside out. I ironed some pieces right away. To form the boot, fold it in half, tucking the other half inside. I stuff Santa's body quite tightly, especially the head and neck area. Charlotte walks outside a lot, but she also rests at home. But you need to constantly monitor her, otherwise she will gnaw everything that comes into her field of vision. To make it easier to stuff the neck, I always leave the hole next to the neck unstitched. Once you have stuffed the body of the kula, the hole can be sewn up. We sew the arms and legs into place. I sew almost all the details using blind stitches. Do not fill the legs completely at the top. Leave some space for bending. The hardest part is sewing Santa's legs on at the same distance and symmetrically. Now let's move on to clothing. We'll immediately embroider a primitive pattern that will decorate Santa's suit. I embroidered simple basic stitches. Now we sew the dress. First the shoulders, leaving the neck unsewn. Then we sew on the sleeves. For convenience, we pin them in place. For trousers, first sew the top, then unfold and sew the legs. At first glance it seems that sewing such a doll is difficult, but in fact it is simple. Do each operation step by step and you won't notice how your Santa is ready. I fold the hem of my coat, sleeves and trousers. Secure it with &quot;sticky tape&quot; We put the pants on Santa and sew them to the waist. At this stage, you also need to immediately sew on a loop for hanging. This is what the sewn-on loop looks like. The collar is simply sewn on top and then folded under. I sew it twice, first the inside of the collar, then the outside. And then I realized with horror that I had forgotten to sew the buttons on my coat. Luckily, I managed to get Santa's coat off, albeit with some difficulty. Now I can sew on the buttons. These are 6 small red buttons. Now we lower the collar and secure it with a thread. We stuff the felt cap with synthetic padding so that it holds its shape. Sew the hat to the head. Making hair. Wrap a woolen thread around your finger 5 times, you will get a bun like this. Now we sew each bun onto the head, covering the edge of the cap. Form the bangs. Twist the thread randomly to form loops, secure them with a thread. Boucle threads would be perfect for these purposes. Finally, secure any loose hairs with a felting needle. Using acrylic paint, paint the eyes and add white highlights to bring the look to life. We apply blush to the cheeks, and our Santa is almost ready. All that remains is to attach all the accessories. We sew laces onto the boots and tie a bow. Embroider the letter &quot;N&quot; on the Christmas stocking, dot the edge of the sock and sew a loop on the side. I sewed two goslings of different colors, I will choose the one that looks better. I paint the beak and the area where the paws are with acrylic paint. I sew the ribbon to the back of Santa's hands and attach the toys to it with clothespins. That's it, our Santa is ready! I think these are unique toys that will decorate Christmas and your home in winter. This way we create a sweet Christmas and a cozy loving home with our own hands. What does Nyusya do during the day!? Today, at the request of the child, we are making pizza. It was a spontaneous desire, so Matvey volunteered to help me. This is a classic dough recipe, I already gave it to you once. We'll make the pizza filling from what we find in the fridge: cervelat, blue onions, tomatoes, tomato sauce and cheese. I already said that Matvey doesn't like to be filmed on camera, but it's surprising that he agreed. Because I had other things to do and I was filming this. But the desire for homemade pizza got the better of the child..lol. So Matvey is our main character today)))) For me, this is a priceless time when you cook with your child and the fact that I can capture this moment on camera. When Matvey grows up, he will appreciate all these captured moments. Maybe I don't make pizza according to all the rules, but it doesn't matter to me. I know for sure that the result will be very tasty. I put the kettle on right away. I'll brew tea with dried linden flowers. Spend more cozy, warm evenings with your family. It fills you with happiness and gives you unforgettable moments. Pizza on the &quot;quick hand&quot; is simply fantastic. It does not compare to what is sold in our stores. Dear friends, thank you all very much for sharing these family moments with us and visiting our home! I wish everyone warm and cozy homes and may nothing in this life upset you. See you in a new video next week.