I'm happier when customers say &quot;It was fun!&quot;, than when they say &quot;It was delicious!&quot;. And I'd rather be told I'm funny than that I'm cool. ...no one ever tells me that I'm cool though. Good Morning! I'm in high spirits! It depends on the day, but I'm usually here from 10:30am. When there's a lot to prep, I'll come earlier. If it's not clean, customers won't come. Our boss is very strict about that. Cleaning is more important than the menu. We're doing this everyday. First, I saw the boss do this, kneeling down. And I felt like I need to help out too. I'm doing some cleaning in the outside area too. I'm picking up some good luck! We're really thorough with the cleaning. We start cleaning around the store, and then clean around the area around the store as well. In the beginning, we had no customers coming to this area. And our boss had to deal with a lot of criticism. So we're trying to brighten up this area. To prove to those people that they were wrong about our store. Going shopping now! There's a wholesale supermarket close by, so we're going there. Want some coffee? In the morning, &quot;Morning Shot&quot; coffee is best! That's how I start my day, it makes me wake up. Thank you! I never manage to open this! If you can't open it, I won't be able to either! For real! Good Morning! Minced chicken meat, 1.2kg. President! Over here! He's the boss of this supermarket. We're always in your care! Thank you for always! Yeah, they're filming a YouTube video! This is giving me muscles! I'll be prepping everything now. It'll take around 5 hours. Prepping everything in 5 hours, and then we'll open. We also have cream stew on the menu right now. So I'm cutting them a bit small. This is Thyme. Putting thyme in the stew makes it more delish. It gives a great aroma. This type of potato is more sweet, but it's quite hard to peel. We want to create a fun work environment, for the part-timers too. Since we want them to make money anyway. Like complaining and stuff... Having someone to consult in when you're in trouble is a great thing. We're all really lucky to have that here. He over there is hiding a lot still probably. And I'm the one running my mouth. You can't eat this part. The part around here. Ah yeah, sorry my thumb is super short. This one over here is short. You're done with one pack? Got it, go ahead! This is sesame pudding. I really want customers to eat this last. There's even customers who come just before closing to eat this pudding. I joined this place 1 year after it opened. I originally worked at an Izakaya, but I wanted to work in Fukuoka. Since the restaurant industry is really great here. I'm from the countryside, Shimonoseki. I wanted to be successful in Fukuoka. Nowadays we're really busy, but back then not that much. But the atmosphere was really great, and the staff very energetic. I was looking for a comfortable work environment, and saw how the staff here was enjoying themselves. That's why I wanted to and started to work here. This is oga-charcoal, the square one. We're using oga- and bincho charcoal. The bincho charcoal gives off a better aroma, but it depends on how you use it. Even if you use good charcoal, if you don't grill the food well, it won't taste good. When I came here with my mom to eat, the customer service was really great. The other part-timers said I should join the team, so I accepted! The employees and part-timers are getting along really well, it's super fun. If there's something I don't understand, others are quick to notice, and give me advice on how to get better. I really appreciate that! It's my first time working part-time, so I didn't know hot to interact with people, or how to give recommendations or similar. They've taught me everything from the start. I want this to be my first and last part-time job! I'll be in their care for 2 more years! I'm a kitchen staff here at Kojiro. I'm only in my 2nd year working here now. I decided to work here because of the great atmosphere, and I felt I wanted to join the team and liven up the place. Kuniya-san is the mood maker, he's like the sun, creating smiles wherever he goes. You're saying some good stuff! One ginger highball! G'day! I'm a senior in college now, and started working part-time here when I was a junior, so I've been here for about a year and a half. The work environment is just really energetic! If we don't have fun while working, the customers won't have fun either. I think this place is so popular, because the people who work here and the customers are all enjoying themselves. This is pork belly, shrimp in bacon, chicken back meat, chicken neck, chicken heart. Coming though! Kuniya never changes, he's always like this. It's been 10 years since we last met! And he's still really cool. It was super delicious! I liked the shrimp best! The shrimp was delicious, Kuniya! Thanks! We're from Ehime Prefecture. I've always wanted to come (to Fukuoka), since the food is famous. So we came to visit. And we found this place on Instagram and made a reservation. The chicken skin skewers were delicious! They are famous in Fukuoka, right? And the sesame pudding was super delicious! It gets fun when it's busy! Someone who doesn't enjoy being busy wouldn't enjoy working here. Thank you so much! And come again! Take care! Look in front, you! Take care! Come again!