"This dog has followed us for 7 kilometers. My wife with me Haven't fed it anything yet. We're afraid feeding it will make it follow us more. Looking at the situation now, It doesn't seem to want to give up. Nor does it plan to go home. Maybe it doesn't even have a home. It left its two friends behind, And started following us. If this dog follows us to the campsite, Then we'll take it in." A couple on a cycling trip It followed them for 7 kilometers. Seeing its persistence, The couple was both surprised and touched. They decided that if it continued They would adopt it! "The little white dog Has followed us for 14 kilometers now. Soon, when we find the campsite, We'll keep it." The dog ran 14 kilometers with the couple. It might be worried about being left alone, It follows them closely, never slacking. The couple slowed down their cycling speed To let the dog run ahead. Soon, the three of them entered Tibet. The dog had run 26 kilometers with them. Along the way, the dog It was clearly scared! The leading goat seemingly protecting its herd, Bravely rushed forward. The couple with the dog The mountain road ahead became more rugged. The challenging terrain worried them greatly. The rough and muddy road A landslide blocked the path ahead. Ignoring the danger, the dog bravely It acted like a guard dog, protecting its owners. Cautioning them to move slowly and carefully. Perhaps knowing that The dog stayed close behind her. After passing the dangerous section, The dog's thoughtful Such a small creature to be so intelligent. It protected them throughout their cycling journey. The man named the dog "Luo Luo." Although Luo Luo was smart and affectionate, Life on the road was harsh After much thought, They decided to find someone to care for Luo Luo. &quot;Do you want to take him?&quot; &quot;I don't know.&quot; &quot;I'm afraid we won't be able to take care of him.&quot; &quot;Then you'd need to get a cart to carry him.&quot; &quot;But it's followed us for so long.&quot; &quot;It doesn't feel right to give him away.&quot; "But in the city, It won't be left uncared for.&quot; &quot;We'll figure something out.&quot; Thinking about giving Luo Luo away, The woman couldn't help but shed tears. They gave him to the border checkpoint officers. "But after 20 kilometers together, We couldn't bear to leave him behind." It was locked in a small room, Hearing the dog's frantic barking, they felt sorry They decided to take the dog back again. It said that the dog wouldn't eat or drink. Even a plate full of chicken It anxiously barked at the door nonstop. As soon as it saw the man Maybe this was fate! Luoluo followed the couple In the darkness, It trusted and depended on The couple marveled at the dog's loyalty. They found it incredible! It seemed like the dog was sent They guessed that Luoluo's previous Abandoned, it found this couple The dog followed them to their campsite. After running all day, it was starving. They set up camp. Luoluo rested and finally had dinner. Even though it was just some simple The next day, Luoluo continued With the dog's company, their trip They passed through a small village. They stopped for a short rest and to refuel. Luoluo stayed quietly beside them. After cycling for about five hours, they found a spring by the roadside. The woman stopped to prepare dinner. &quot;We've found our campsite. It seems to be an abandoned farm. They pitched their tent at the abandoned farm. For dinner, they made fried eggs, cornmeal porridge, and instant noodles. Luoluo waited patiently nearby for his meal. It had grown tired of the On the fourth day of adopting the dog, after a night of rest, Luoluo was full of energy and When they encountered uphill turns, It would rush ahead. As the temperature dropped, the couple put on thicker gear, "Wear fleece pants, down jackets, cotton gloves, and wool hats. The altitude would increase to about 4,700 meters. A gain of over 1,000 meters. So we needed proper gear. Don't let ourself get cold." The dog encountered a yak Every time it sees another animal, There were many yaks on the mountain Seeing the owner struggling to push the bike uphill, Luoluo quickly followed her. They set up a tent at the top of the mountain. The dog rested nearby, eyes half-closed. The owner started preparing dinner beside it. In that moment, happiness became tangible! From curious following to steadfast It accompanied the couple It experienced snow for the first time in its life. They sat down and had lunch on the spot. The owner admired the misty fairyland with dog In that moment, their weary hearts found peace. The journey continued for the couple and the dog. Luoluo's tiny figure ran tirelessly beside the wheels. It seemed to have found its long-lost support. Following them closely without ever falling behind. This is silent loyalty. It doesn't understand grand promises. But it shows undying loyalty through its actions. It doesn't care about the long road ahead. Nor does it mind the quality of food or shelter. It just wants to stay with &quot;We arrived in Zuogong County. Here in Zuogong County, we need to solve a problem for Luoluo. Previously, it always ran alongside us. Because we rode around 10 to 20 kilometers a day, it could keep up just fine. But on the 318 National Highway, so we need to address this issue.&quot; He prepared a basket for Luoluo. From here on, they'll be riding much faster. Worried it wouldn't keep up, &quot;Now, Luoluo is secured in the basket on the bike. The front is quite heavy with all the stuff. About 20 pounds, so controlling the bike is tricky. After a while, it'll get easier.&quot; A month later, the couple ended their cycling journey. The owner was pregnant! so they stopped the trip and took Luoluo home. They took it to a pet shop for a bath and grooming. Got its vaccinations. And arranged for its flight home. Even though there were 2,000 kilometers apart, the couple never abandoned They had already treated Luoluo as family. Perhaps from the beginning, That's why it always stayed close to her, It's the reason that it followed her &quot;We made a tag for Luoluo. It looks just like the dog We are very satisfied with it. The design is of a Chinese rural dog, and our phone number is on the back.&quot; Concerned that it might get lost, It has their contact information on it. Now, Luoluo is happy in its new home. During this unexpected journey, Its loyalty and persistence found it a new family. And the owner successfully conceived twins. All creatures have souls! May the dog continue to guard Continue to accompany the twins as they grow. Luoluo will have a loving and warm family. And live a happy life.