Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard, where we set those who lived to entertain us, by visiting Today we're heading back to Valhalla Memorial Ken Weatherwax, Mae Clarke, and many more. Join us, won't you? Welcome back to Valhalla Memorial Park. This was the second cemetery we ever visited has changed since then. Valhalla -- named for the Norse hall of slain renovations and upkeep, and is in much better The grounds are well-kempt, and they've overgrown. It was nice to see, for example, Madame Sul-Te-Wan's cleaned and polished. Valhalla, you'll recall, is the cemetery Airport. In our previous tour here we found big stars you haven't seen that video yet be sure But Valhalla doesn't boast the number of Lawn. What Valhalla does boast is being home to players. In these grounds rest a number of talented on the movie poster, but they did appear in So just as Valhalla is a supporting player were many of the talented individuals resting stars. Let's begin just in from the entrance in Prayer we find the grave of actress Jill Banner. She didn't have as many credits as many today for starring in a comedy horror film cult status: Spider Baby: or, the Maddest Jill played the title character. "A big fat bug right in my spider web." "Virginia, are you crazy?" "And the big black spider goes round and Jill also played Snow White in The President's on TV's Dragnet. She was just 35 when she died from a car accident The next section north is block L. Quite a in this section, including several we found Here too is a prolific supporting player, Kit Guard. He began appearing on screen in silent films duo with Al Cooke. He's also remembered in this era for his Kelly in some two-dozen short films beginning Come the talkies, he'd become a regular westerns, including several alongside Bob He died from cancer at age 67. Not far from here south is Vivienne Osborne. The actress appeared in some 38 films between Earlier in her career she was appearing on Perhaps her best-known film role is that of Gene Tierney and Vincent Price. This would also be her final screen role. Other films include Two Seconds, alongside Vivienne lived to be 64. A few rows away is a grave that was hiding and they kindly uncovered the grave of Syd Like his neighbor Kit, Syd was a prolific credits to his name. He was known as a comedic actor, often playing He starred as the title character in Let's in the 20s. And in the 30s he starred alongside Clyde And his television work includes numerous Rin-Rin-Tin, and Maverick. He died from a heart attack at age 67. The section north of here is the Masonic Garden. Here we find a noted composer of music for He began writing music for b-western films his work for television in the 50s and 60s. His first work for television was writing 1958. He'd go on to write music for many of the like Dragnet, Laramie, Have Gun - Will Travel, Nathan also wrote the music for my favorite He lived to be 94. At the northwest corner of this lawn is the Here we find the small cremation plot of Nana She began her acting career on stage, in California Yankee in King Arthur's Court. She began appearing on film in the 30s, often Her roles include Mrs. Hazel Chumley in the Adventures of Tom Sawyer. And on television she had recurring roles Our Miss Brooks. She lived to be 67. Let's cross the street to the next section Here we find legendary wrestler Gorgeous George. Born George Wagner, Gorgeous George was a Age of Wrestling, in the 40s and 50s. He'd be a pioneer of the showmanship that debuting his glamour boy image, bleached blonde in the early 40s, which earned him his nickname. He even transformed his ring entrances into but fairly novel at the time. His antic antagonized the crowds, and his wrestling's first true cowardly villain. All this combined with the advent of television, star of his era, and a larger-than-life American But Gorgeous George wasn't just all gimmicks wrestler. George also played himself in the 1949 film George retired in 1962, and died just one attack. Gorgeous George would influence other fighters, self-promotion. And in 2002 he was posthumously inducted into of Fame. Across the street east is section G. This is the grave of Kay Morley, whose epitaph irony to it on the 100-degree day I visited Her work as an actress in film and television Her films include Code of the Saddle and Campus She made a handful of TV appearances as well, of Superman. She retired from the screen in the 50s, and Kay was married to actor Richard Crane. They appeared together in the film Campus Richard began appearing in films in the 40s, He's perhaps best remembered for playing Jones, Space Ranger. His Rocky Jones became a popular figure for He also played Lt. Gene Plehn on Surfside like Lassie, and The Lone Ranger. Richard was just 50 when he died from a heart Back across the street is a name you'll Buster Brodie. Buster what a character actor who appeared Golden Age, mostly in uncredited roles. But at 4'9" and bald, his roles were often His films include The Island of Lost Souls, monkey in The Wizard of Oz. Buster lived to be 62. Let's head a little further north in this Here lies Ernie Adams. He began entertaining audiences in musical as half of the team "Gilbert and Adams." He'd then become a character actor on film, than 400 credits to his name before passing So if you've seen a movie shot between the particularly as shady characters in westerns His films include The Pride of the Yankees, He died from a pulmonary illness at age 62. Moving on east back to section G. Here is comedian popular in the 30s and 40s. He began appearing in films in the 30s where people laugh. This led to roles in Harlem-style western He then found his way to mainstream comedies, characters. Many audiences today recognize him for his Charlie Chan films, in which he not only received contributor to the series' success. Mantan was even considered to be one of the But when social attitudes began to shift in by black actors of Mantan's generation began became hard to come by. Today's audiences, understanding the context, comedian who broke barriers the best way he era in America, and opened the doors for the Mantan Moreland died from a cerebral hemorrhage Let's head a little further south in this Here lies Florence Halop. You fans of Night Court will remember her three of Night Court. But long before that, Florence was appearing like Meet Millie, as Mama Bronson, and providing and the Teen Angels. Florence also made numerous guest appearances, Show, and All in the Family. Florence died from lung cancer after completing She was 63. We've arrived back in the northern part last time. Here too we find the unmarked grave of Alice She was a popular actress of the silent and Alice was often paired with Roscoe Fatty Arbuckle Oh Doctor! and The Cook. She also found some success as lead actress and The Hole in the Wall. But like many silent stars, she found work career declined into the 30s. Her final screen appearance was in 1935's She died from a heart attack at age 72. A few rows behind us is Claire McDowell. The veteran stage actress was introduced to She soon came to be known for playing matronly in The Big Parade, and Ramon Novarro's mother Other films include 1920's The Mark of Zorro. Like many of her neighbors here in Valhalla, appearing in close to 400 films, into the Like many actresses we feature on this channel, her birth year online, so we'll just say Just north along this same row is Chief Yowlachie. He was a native American singer and actor, He began his career singing as a bass-baritone at the White House. He'd go on to appear in around 100 film the 20s and the 60s. His roles include as Quo in Red River, alongside in The Paleface. Chief Yowlachie died following a stroke at His funeral here included a traditional Indian Continuing east we reach block E. A healthy Tayo, also known as Lyle Barton. Lyle was an actress, a contract player for 70 films between the 20s and 40s. She appeared in several Our Gang comedies Little Rascals. She would also appear in a number of Laurel She retired from film in the 40s, and lived Her grave remained unmarked until just a few of this marker for her. Back across the street north in section E, Sam was the brother of Academy Award winning He to had a prolific career as an actor, appearing roles. After performing for decades in minstrel troupes, his kid sister Hattie tagged along. Among the many films you'll see Sam in are the Night, and The Ghost and the Guest. You'll also be curious to know that Sam on I Love Lucy, in the episode, The Great "Pardon Me." "Oh, yes of course. Mother, are you and the baby okay?" "Hello Porter. How soon do we leave?" "Right away, sir. You can set your watch by the dome light." Sam died from cancer at age 76. Continuing east, let's avoid clipping sideview on the left. Here is the grave of Eddie Acuff. The actor is remembered by fans of the Blondie films in the 40s. He also had notable roles in a number of serials West, and Chick Carter Detective. He had supporting roles in hundreds of films like Humphrey Bogart and Bette Davis. Eddie was just 48 when he died from a heart On this same lawn but farther east, we find He was a Hollywood talent agent, responsible 50s, and known for giving all his clients His roster of talent consisted of the young like Rock Hudson, Tab Hunter, Robet Wagner, He also discovered and developed glamorous Louis, who he re-named Rhonda Fleming. As a gay man himself, many, but not all of of that era, a big part of his job was helping working. This included coordinating a lavender marriage But when his own homosexuality became public for fear of being branded the same. He died penniless from cirrhosis of the liver Henry was portrayed by Jim Parsons in the Still further east we find the grave of Gino He was an Italian-born actor who appeared As a supporting actor, he appeared in some including minor roles in Gone with the Wind, His career started way back in 1916, where silent films as well, like Intolerance and Rounding out Gino's impressive roster, he in a handful of their films. In fact, the image engraved here on his marker Micro-Phonies. Gino lived to be 89. Circling around now to the south, we reach of the Folded wings, a shrine to aviation, aviation pioneers. This grand rotunda was once the main entrance drive to enter the grounds. In our last visit here we featured the memorial Here too we find the grave of singer, dancer, She only appeared in 12 films, but it was in 1960. To overcome childhood paralysis, she began and dancing in public. She began performing on vaudeville in her on Broadway, including the Ziegfeld Follies, Of her 12 films, her most notable would be hit song "I've Got a Feelin' You're of a stroke at age 74. In our first tour here, we stopped at this the crew of Space Shuttle Columbia, who perished in 2003. Well, if I had bothered to peek at the other a dual monument. It also commemorates the crew of Space Shuttle space shuttle broke apart shortly after takeoff. Their bravery and intrepidness are an inspiration Moving on back toward the west we stop at Love. When thinking of legendary cinema canines star quickly comes to mind: a brave and loyal Here is the grave of Lassie owner and trainer, In 1940 a young collie named Pal was brought motorcycles. He was unable to break the young pup, so instead to keep. In 1943 MGM began work on Lassie Come Home, But when the dog cast as Lassie struggled called and confidently stepped in, impressing swam in, but Lassie swam out." Rudd would handle and train the dogs for the hundreds of episodes of the Lassie TV series He also trained other animal stars, like Old After his death at age 77, Rudd was reportedly to be with them forever. Resting in the mausoleum adjacent to Rudd to you fans of the Addams Family. Ken played Pugsley Addams in 64 episodes of "The Raven was always one of your favorites." "I like it alright, I just got other things Ken would reprise his role as Pugsley in 1977 had lost interest in acting by that point, sets. Ken died from a heart attack at age 59. Years after his death, in 2017, friend and led efforts to have Ken inurned here at Valhalla, Let's cross the street to the section southwest, Here is the grave of Earl Hurd. He was a pioneer of animation. He began making animated shorts in the very series featuring a character named Bobby Bumps They would produce somewhere around 75 Bobby Hurd and his producing partner were responsible where moving characters are painted on a transparent background. Cel animation revolutionized the animation major studios in the decades to follow, including for many of the big animation houses, like on films like Snow White, and Fantasia. Earl died from a heart attack at age 60. Continuing west we stop at block J on the Meet Fuzzy Knight. He was a character actor of film and television He got his start in travelling minstrel shows, University. He was appearing with Mae West on the vaudeville His films include She Done Him Wrong alongside comedic sidekick, like in Gunman's Code. Fuzzy would become one of the top money-making On television he made a number of appearances Fuzzy Knight on Captain Gallant of the Foreign He died in his sleep at age 74. His grave remained unmarked until 2014, when Straight across the street south, just in Mary Anderson. She's perhaps best remembered today for the Wind, though she was considered at one Mary is also remembered for her role as Alice Mary made quite a few television appearances on Peyton Place. She lived to be 96. Just a few spaces away is another Anderson, As an actor he's perhaps best remembered antagonist in the 1962 film, To Kill a Mockingbird. "Somebody told me just now that they thought ours. You know what I said? I said, you wrong man, you dead wrong." He's also remembered for his many roles and Laramie. James was just 48 when he died from a heart When ranking the supporting actors in these next star may just top the list. Meet Stanely Blystone. He was a busy busy man between 1924 and 1956, He's remembered for playing gruff and villainous shorts. Another notable role includes Paulette Goddard's alongside the likes of John Wayne, Tom Tyler, In July 1956, Stanley was working on the series He was walking down a Hollywood sidewalk in and died from a heart attack. He was 61. Let's head a little farther south in this Not far in we find another little neighborhood As noted here on his stone, Sam Lufkin was the supporting actors called in to play character Hardy. Sam can be seen in close to 200 films, including Music Box and Sons of the Desert. He'd also have bit parts in films like Born He died from uremia at age 60. This is another grave here that had remained of Laurel and Hardy. One row up we find Johnny Arthur. The svelte character actor specialized in in the silent era. He played Johnny Goodlittle in 1925's The in The Ghost Walks, alongside June Collyer. Johnny is also remembered today for several father so Spanky and Darla. After his death at age 68, his grave also Dearly Departed stepped in and had this marker A few spaces away is another distinguished If you love Frankenstein, you'll remember Frankenstein, and making appearances in Son as well. He had small roles in numerous classics in and had a memorable role alongside Laurel After passing away at 85 in 1953, his grave Along with several other similar markers that by fans of Laurel and Hardy in recent years. One more in this neighborhood of stars. The name Nick Cravat will be familiar to you Nick was an actor, stuntman, and circus performer He was a longtime acrobatic partner of Burt like The Flame and the Arrow, The Crimson One of Nick's most iconic roles is one in played the costumed gremlin, alongside William Nightmare at 20,000 Feet. He died from lung cancer at age 82. Back in the car, lets proceed east now to Her marker isn't in the best shape. I tried to clean it, to no avail, so it's Symona was an actress, best remembered today to the 50s. Among her around 150 film appearances are Three Stooges, including Half-Wits' Holiday. Outside of comedy, she had roles in dramas Symona died from cancer at age 56. Her grave also remained unmarked for decades, Three Stooges Fan Club in 2005. Still further east we cross over into section If you're a fan of the Jack Benny Program, episodes of the series, from 1950 to 1965. Sam also worked with Jack on his radio program. He'd write for other shows like Here's and Navy Blues. Sam lived to be 96. The Terry. Her breakout role as an actress came in 1920's She'd go on to be cast as leading ladies Horsemen of the Apocalypse, Scaramouche, and Rex Ingram. She also proved her star power outside of and Scarlet. She worked closely with her husband behind much so that in a few of them, like the film credit. Alice died from Alzheimer's in 1987. And finally, we come full circle, to the section This is where actress Mae Clarke is laid to Mae had several memorable roles in the 1930s. She played Elizabeth, Dr. Frankenstein's Also in 1931 she was on the receiving end unusual scenes: when James Cagney smashed "I wish you was a wishing well, so that "Maybe you found someone you like better." Other notable films include Waterloo Bridge, Later in her career she'd have small roles appearances on television shows, like General Mae died from cancer at age 81. And that concludes our tour. What are some of your favorite memories of Share them in the comments below, and be sure grave tours. Thanks for watching, we'll see you on the With all the planes that take off daily over of the Folded wings, I wonder what would happen Hang on... what's this I see over Amelia Captain Dale Black, the only survivor of aviation's On July 18, 1969, Navajo N9150Y crashed into Wings." The twin-engine plane crashed into the dome Burbank airport, having suffered engine failure. The pilot and co-pilot were killed, while Wow... a plane crashed into the Portal of housing the honored dead of aviation history, That truly is the most tragically ironic plane