By the time I finish this sentence, up to a billion billion dark matter particles may have streamed through your body like ghosts. The particle or particles of the dark sector universe - so to them, you are the ghostly one. Today we're going to try to make contact. We see the influence of dark matter in the bends around galaxies and clusters, in the and more. It's become disturbingly clear that we can't Even more disturbing is that there doesn't in the known family of particles. We're faced with the eerie reality of the family of particles that exists in parallel overlaps our own, but so far is hidden from Today we're going to open the gateway to When we talk about the "dark sector" we that contribute to dark matter. Now it's possible that dark matter is not stars or even weirder so-called "compact It might even be that what we perceive as we use to describe gravity. But those possibilities are for another time of the dark sector. So let's begin with what we do know. Our best understanding of the subatomic world is given by the Standard Model - which describes the behavior of the known family of particles with incredible success. The visible universe is made of these particles, interacting with each other through the standard model forces - the strong and weak nuclear Plus gravity. In general, the behavior of a particle is We can think of forces as the languages that particles use to communicate. Any electrically charged particle experiences the electromagnetic force and can communicate with other charged particles by exchanging But for an electrically neutral particle like it doesn't speak. Neutrinos are unaffected by that force, and A more technical way to think about this stuff is in terms of quantum fields - where each particle and force is a vibration in its own These fields fill the universe, overlapping to - coupled with a force field then it can The force of gravity is a sort of lingua franca, mass can speak. But gravity is a little different to the other and we don't even know if it has a quantum The main requirement for a dark matter particle is that it doesn't "speak electromagnetism". It doesn't produce light - hence the "dark". But it also doesn't absorb light - otherwise light from the more distant universe - in of dust that block the light from the center No, dark matter is both perfectly dark AND Good - so it must be electrically neutral Dark matter can't have charge but it must actually seen dark matter do is to exert its Dark matter "speaks gravity". And we can learn an awful lot from HOW it We can map where dark matter is found by how it affects the rotation of galaxies, and how it drives the orbits of galaxies inside galaxy galaxies and clusters. These tell us something really important: diffuse - than almost all of the visible matter. And that tells us a lot about any prospective For one thing, dark matter doesn't tend much. If it did, then giant regions of dark matter contract. They might collapse into dark matter galaxies or dark matter stars or dark matter people. But no - dark matter seems to stay puffed more concentrated clumps of visible matter. In fact, galaxies are really just shiny dustings of stars, sprinkled deep in the gravitational wells of massive reservoirs of dark matter. But the fact that dark matter forms those important. It gives dark matter a temperature. More accurately, it tells us how far dark early universe. This "free-streaming length" of dark matter before interacting with something - typically In the early universe, that distance influenced the size of the seed structures which galaxies would later form from. We've talked about that structure formation Now, based on how that structure did end up forming, it seems likely that dark matter was moving pretty slowly. We refer to such dark matter as "cold". So let's review - if dark matter is a particle, interact much with itself, and it's relatively For a long time people thought the neutrino most abundant known particle in the universe. But the neutrinos of the standard model move too fast - they are "hot" - and there just isn't enough mass in neutrinos to do There's really nothing else in the standard but actually gets physicists very excited may be our best for finding a bigger, deeper It would also be a no-brainer Nobel prize lives to hunting down this particle. Dark matter hunters come in two breeds. One type searches for new evidence out there in the universe or in our particle experiments here on Earth for evidence of particles that The other delves deep into theory - in speculative mathematics beyond the standard model for signs of new particles. Today we're going to focus on the theoretical prospects - because we might as well have some fun before those pesky "observations" Actually, we don't have to go too far beyond matter candidate. Completely independently of our quest for a new type of neutrino - the so-called sterile I won't describe these in detail now because we've been over them before - but in short: as ghostly as neutrinos are, sterile neutrinos are far ghostlier. They don't even interact by the weak force, detect. There are some exceedingly clever experiments to do so - like we saw that time we visited FermiLab. If sterile neutrinos exist AND are massive dark matter candidate. Another candidate we've discussed is the This is a weird little particle that popped to solve another mystery of physics - the Axions, if they exist, would be incredibly neutrino. So to account for dark matter they'd need to pro-axion physicists, that may well be OK, enough with the things we've already Explorations of the theoretical landscape for dark matter particles. One of the most promising ideas comes from supersymmetry. We've also talked about supersymmetry, but Supersymmetry is an extension of the standard model which proposes that all the regular particles - both matter and force-carrying side of the table. Every matter particle or fermion has a supersymmetric force-carrier, or boson. And every boson has its fermion twin. It's expected that these supersymmetric model counterparts - and that may explain accelerators - perhaps we just haven't produced enough energy to make one yet. But they may have been produced in the insanely from that time could still be throwing their The simplest kind of dark matter we get from supersymmetry is called a 'neutralino.' It's a sort of 'three in one particle' of the Z boson, photon, and Higgs particle, In some models these are the lightest supersymmetric particles possible - "LSPs" - but they're still incredibly heavy. And while normally heavy things tend to decay to lighter things, if these can't decay into Standard Model particles then they'd be stable and long lived- an almost perfect dark matter particle. There are other dark matter candidates in of them "LSPs" - for example the counterparts of the neutrino or the graviton. The expected mass of these particles is eerily of dark matter - which some would say is a This seeming coincidence is sometimes called "the WIMP miracle". But for that to make sense I should probably explain what a WIMP is. Supersymmetric dark matter particles like matter particle type called the WIMP, or "weakly The idea of the WIMP was proposed independently of any actual WIMP candidates. It's a description of what some physicists which is to say, weakly interacting and massive. The massive part is obvious enough - it helps if you want to make up 80% of the mass in the universe, and also slows the particle We also covered weakly interacting - it helps dark matter halos stay puffed up. But it also turns out that the interaction strength of dark matter is extremely important - it may have governed how every interesting thing in our universe first formed. The idea is this: In the first fractions of their antimatter counterparts would have been popping into existence constantly, borrowing energy from the crazy radiation of that time. And then when the particle bumps into its that energy again. As the universe cooled and energy dropped, We were left with a universe full of particle-antiparticle pairs that would then just annihilate over time. But its possible some particles may not have been able to find an antiparticle counterpart before the expanding universe pulled them Things like electrons and antielectrons, or electromagnetic force - which means they find each other too easily. The universe didn't expand fast enough to all annihilated. But a WIMP, with its extremely weak interaction, would more easily dodge its antimatter buddy - and so countless may have survived to this day. So it turns out you can do a calculation of would need to have in order to survive in sufficient numbers to give us dark matter. And that interaction strength is about the Ergo, WIMPs interact by the weak force only, or something weaker. OK, so we have multiple possible members of the dark sector - and we didn't even cover all of them. Perhaps none exist, but perhaps several do. It's possible that an entire ecosystem of across the universe - interacting by dark own dark quantum fields - perhaps with their own complexity and diversity. Because dark matter is weakly-interacting, - probably. But to know one way or another one of the or planned will need to bear fruit. We'll talk more about those experiments For now, we'll just have to enjoy knowing in parallel to this completely invisible and Before we get to comments go, we just wanted to let you know that while we love talking about Space, if you have more Earthly concerns, you should check out PBS Terra on YouTube, and their show Weathered. Here is a quick trailer: Are you prepared for the next disaster? The flood's right there. Keep going. Are you ready to help your family and neighbors? Welcome to Weathered. In this show we'll explore the most pressing natural disasters in the US How they're changing and how you can prepare. This is literally a life saver. Like this saves peoples lives. In the last episode we asked the question I know all of you had on your mind. Would a spaceship traveling near the speed of light cause a closed universe to contract so much that it would smash into its own ass? In the process of answering that we explored the ladder paradox and the twin paradox, and that's what our questions are about today. Cezar Catalin asks what if the ladder traveling through the barn stops when the outside observer sees both doors closed? Does the ladder instantly expand, exploding both doors outwards? Well that's awesome question - the answer looks different depending on your reference frame. From the frame of the barn, the ladder is Let's say it's an adamantium barn door. The ladder collides with the door at a high fraction of the speed of light and a shockwave blasts down the length of the ladder totally destroying it and embedding the walls of the barn with splinters. And all those splinters have to be inside From the ladder's perspective, its butt end hit the door. There's an absolute limit to how fast that The shockwave can go no faster than the speed of light. So by the time the base of the ladder even the front of the ladder, it's already inside The shockwave hits the base of the ladder the ladder or the barn's point of view. Etu Suku points out that the difference between the traveling and stay-at-home twin is actually acceleration, so shouldn't acceleration Well I'm actually glad you mentioned that. Yes, the traveler needs to decelerate and according to Einstein's equivalence principle, acceleration is fundamentally the same as gravitation as far as the laws of physics are concerned. So can we apply the gravitational time dilation to the traveling twin, as though they were standing on the surface of a planet with the Yes we can, and we'd get exactly the same instantly flip its velocity around with no It turns out that there's no distinction far as the universe is concerned. And that's something we really do need to very very soon. From Brandon Treu: This isn't related to show over the last year and being challenged intellectually regularly has inspired me to go to college. I had my first class today! Well Brandon, thank YOU for sharing this! This is exactly the kind of feedback that If we played a small part to inspire you to been worth it. But really, it sounds like you're the kind it - the the credit's yours my friend. And a final thought from Sebastian Elytron, was a real person. He always thought he was a theoretical physicist. *theoretical mic drop*