This video is sponsored by flexispot. Hey guys episode of the chemical formulary series. For the and inside are a bunch of recipes that are about rest being some of the worst ideas our species ridiculous recipes to test, and in fact, preparing so you know this one's going to be good. Now I you are extremely dangerous, and you'd probably since I was nearly banned for this video series literally a chemist. I may be crazy, but I know try this at home. Anyway, let's continue our dive This is one of the most ridiculous ideas I've ever I guess the motivation here was, why carry a can just combine them into one? Now if that ingredient list. Potassium dichromate?? but this is just speed running it. and the burning There's actually two recipes here, where the don't say which form of carbon to use, so I used it makes. As for the second recipe, I mixed the dichromate. Now don't be fooled, this stuff may it'll mess you up in nearly every way imaginable. in most safety data sheets, which is the the completed mix looks just like cheese sauce. and eat it. I can't do that though, because it's glorified matches look like after a few days of uh ah what the heck? This mix was hard to ignite, shot burning embers everywhere. I probably used hindsight, but at least it made an awesome huh that felt just like a normal match. Slo-mo embers, but nothing like the first formula. This it comes with the cost of being incredibly toxic. on some of my favorite chemicals. Now I thought up for these experiments, and spoiler alert, I this E7Q standing desk that was sent to me by my and built with very tight tolerances which means I horrible chemicals everywhere when I'm working on here is actually highly chemically resistant polymer chemistry. I actually had to sand this to the desk. The first part of the formula calls forms these bright blue crystals, and potassium when dissolved in water. Potassium permanganate is well it was until the factory exploded a couple stained the wood a fairly dark color on its The second solution looks pretty boring, but when black color due to the formation of polyanilines. conductive so I figured I'd use it to make grounding it. It turns out trying to drill through but then again, the desk is rated to hold over spot where I could attach a ground wire via quite the ideal workstation for me. It is in fact and it is quite resistant to fire as well. The applying the linseed oil, but the frame itself is in its own right. Now I've always liked standing easier to build stuff on. My new lab actually but they were built by a guy that was like a foot to use. These Flexispot desks have motorized legs which means I can find a comfortable height no with 100 Micron tolerances so there's no wobble the terrifying chemicals I'm working with but even when I'm not using deadly science stuff, needs. Now is the best time to get flexispot off when you spend $500 with the code styro60. continue on to the next recipe. This one's silly. from the weirdest recipe in here but I guess it's Thankfully I still had some coal leftover break it up since the recipe calls for freshly this recipe is based off of, the book is wrong to be mixed before dunking the coal in it. I'm calcium salt here but that change shouldn't Did it just - did it just dye it brown? Well there. The patent says that the effect is better Holy heck look at that! That's beautiful! Check pieces are all so different too, some are orange amazing. For such a simple procedure, this is one and the chemistry here is fascinating Blue pigment that uses the coal surface as a colors than blue is mostly just due to thin film the coating ends up thick enough to look more example of how chemistry is literally magic. The couple simple chemicals transformed some lumps of reactions like this that remind us that chemistry Here's a great recipe for removing annoying ant them to kill a hundred people! If you think this ant removal recipe in the series, because at least book, there are ant poison recipes using arsenic, horrible poison that doesn't just go away. Here's artificial fog, I think of a club filled with chemicals used here, this looks closer to a war That stuff is straight up cancer juice! and the recipe. I'm looking forward to testing this one. interesting. Half of it is carbon tetrachloride, layer and your liver, we used it widely as a fire it as the oxidizer, liberating carbon and zinc reaction akin to a thermite. Something tells me will be hard to ignite, so I'll be using these all right any minute now. Hmm but I think it's picking up pace now. Oh wow it's thickest smoke I've ever seen made by a pyro You know, this mix is both clever and stupid at zinc chloride smoke, which has a potent affinity water in the air, which increases the particle that smoke is also quite acidic, and it's full a very similar mix called HC is still used today if you go to the war gases section of this book, mixes like this are harmless. Now I can't say these other crimes against humanity. Have you go through the effort of making it naturally? Well perspiration. I love how there's recipes for mix some of this stuff up. I can't help but wonder but without any context given by the book, I will say that the use of lactic acid and ammonium mosquito bait in traps. Well here's two liters of Yeah I can't really say that one does, oh yeah that one actually does smell a bit oh yeah it actually does it tastes a little bit with this book and inhaling chloroform and ether, while you're sick. Now seriously, what's this coma? Now those other ingredients are no cake walk it's a it's a smoke pot. I'm guessing it makes a Now there are two recipes here, so you can pick or sulfur? If you're concerned about the amount is that red arsenic is only 70 arsenic by weight, It is however a pound of AsS. Now even a pound of so I decided to go with the burning Brimstone element anyway. Yeah it's smelly, but it can critical roles in biology. Plus when it comes to happy being either the fuel or the oxidizer. and that's that it doesn't even work! I can't If you've ever had the urge to plate random you. Apparently with just two ingredients, plastic don't know about you, but bone silvering juice one out. I found this deer skull while hiking this experiment. Thankfully, the bugs had already a quick rinse with water followed by a light wash gallons of four percent solution, so I just made times to make sure it soaked some of that up. Now nitrate to use, so I went with four percent The resultant plating was fairly dark, but a I think the result is quite impressive. The smooth plating, whereas the more porous areas kept a but some areas are covered in little crystals of desk to boot, how lovely. You might think that but it turns out there are plenty of exciting etch glass, which is pretty crazy considering how they tell you to not get it on skin. If Hydrofluoric acid is a funny chemical. It's which is something that most strong acids can't but I subbed them out for modern plastic since So what would happen if I spilled this on my skin? but soon it would reveal itself as the ultimate penetrates skin to attack bones and liquefy flesh, can be fatal. This is what makes this ink one of On the flip side, the ink did a great job at a bit and cause etching in unintended places. with laser beams, as it preferentially illuminates but I'll say, it is quite scary to work of a Mercury salt for stomach gas? This would absorb would stay with you for life, and you know need a HazMat team to clean it up. I have no Judging by these parade torch recipes, the Look at that first formula, it contains Paris which is a Mercury salt. As you can imagine, but maybe the beautiful blue flames would be worth toxic so I think that's the one I'm gonna test. is an old name for the complex tetraammine have any of this on hand, so I had to make some by The resultant product is an incredible deep blue batch of this blue parade torch mix and filled It sounds pretty cool, but the I can't say I'm very impressed with this one. I figured I'd try to improve the mix using an Okay now we're talking! Wow that sounds like a blue light, yeah my camera hates that. I should quite the challenge, well at least when you this formula is an exception. It just needed some This one looks really useful. It's a simple method ingredients! What could possibly go wrong? favorite microwaves here, and since I don't this is a perfect opportunity to test this quite unusual, but at least they're easy to mix expose the bare meta. Let's go ahead and pour some uh is it supposed to catch on fire like that? Wow that mix burns quite hot! it definitely plugged the hole there, this So what happens if you spill water on it? Oh look you plug with this won't be water tight. It would Yeah that's right, those little bubbles I've found in the whole book series. which generates the extremely deadly hydrogen gas builds up to a measly one tenth of one you'll get knocked out almost instantly, and your I cannot overstate how dangerous this recipe so an unsuspecting user would likely be oblivious Ointments aren't typically something I consider a mercury based ointment that also uses nitric potion for, I have no idea, but whatever it is, ingredients. Ever want to trick your geologist If so, look no further than this simple recipe. and then cook the daylights out of it. What a get to break out the uranium salts. It's hard to their strong fluorescence. Of course, using because unsurprisingly, this gives a The uranium is diluted with sodium nitrate here, it brings up its own set of issues, one Anyway, let's cook this uranium mix. Hmm oh yeah there's some brown gas being released, down there, you don't want to breathe Here's the completed fake mineral. It is quite probably due to trapped nitrogen dioxide I'll take that as a yes! Is this recipe worth both of these ingredients here are deliquescent, that they'll turn themselves into a puddle on a everywhere, and simply touching it with your bare there are plenty of real fluorescent minerals out with something artificial, you might as well pick I have this neat GAGG crystal here that's not and even crazier, it's ferromagnetic too. Most by touching it. What a silly formula. Chemicals I mean nowadays we're spoiled with all sorts see an old recipe like this holds up. For this what I have on hand. I don't have zinc sulfide, produces zinc sulfide along with a bunch of reaction will be enough to produce at least some Oh wow that's a lot of fire! I love the green mmm those fumes are delicious. Yeah that crucible didn't like that Here's what the finished product looks like. When a decent afterglow. Sure it's nothing compared to well considering its simplicity. I've picked out Check out that afterglow! I can't believe how There are plenty of toilet fluids in this video turned out to be really popular, so I feel This recipe calls for glacial acetic acid, 20 times more concentrated than normal vinegar. regular vinegar strength with water, so it Well I still don't know what this stuff to my favorite toilet. Oh you know what? This is oh wow what a beautiful ad-friendly Now before I end this video, I feel like I it's already one of my top search suggestions anyway I was was playing with some stray cats in the driveway. Now it wasn't black! it was a couple guys come out so I walk up there to their badges and tell me that they're with the it all that you know Soviet military surplus I parts? have I posted have my memes been too spicy Arabic probably doesn't help my case either. but online that they were concerned about, and they all these chemical names. and this actually that I've bought for forever. I even told them me over chemicals right but apparently the issue pretty uh substantial amount of chemicals that can to make sure that I didn't have anything horrible my squirrel friend heard all this commotion and and walks up to us in the driveway and then she's wish I had my security cameras up for this because like you know what's this squirrel here looking at some crazy guy that lives in a cabin in the woods squirrel friend that uh that loves people and trying to prevent her from jumping up on us but but uh but I mean they were cool about it uh around but but they declined but it was it was One more thing. If you like my chemistry content, trash, I have a couple medium length chemistry channel that only has one video so far, but there. Anyway thanks again to flexispot for