Okay I'm spoiling this game I imagine, for a lot of people, Returnal feels Do you know how health works in Returnal? Let me tell you. You have a health bar. It's here. When you're damaged, from a monster's filling the screen, or by falling off a cliff, A sizable chunk of it. Don't worry though, you can increase your How? Well. Throughout each world, there are a few health If you have previously been smacked or hit your missing health. However, if you're not hurt in any way, health bar instead. In other words, if you're struggling with from the countless dangers you're up against, life bar for the whole experience. It's only when you're excelling, in fact really need health, that the game rewards Returnal is also a roguelike, where dying again. Returnal is a roguelike which has a first who have never beat the first boss. Which means that, for those people, Returnal alien wolves and tentacles and dying and dying And look, I know it's video essay 101 to "this is why it's good, actually." We've all heard someone talk about Dark I don't want to do that here- if you're level, that sucks! I don't think it's good that you're I wish there was a way I could give you the Because Returnal, for me, was one of the most last year. It's a game I want to tell everyone about. And oddly enough, my explanation of why it's might have fallen off it so hard. It's a game where you can't get out of Let's talk through the basics. You're an astronaut named Selene, and when of "forbidden signal" called "white It leads you and her to a planet far from and seemingly undeveloped planet, her spaceship plummets out of the sky, and crash lands in With no other option, she abandons Helios, new world she's trapped on. As becomes immediately apparent, the world ruin. In that first endless rain, each new room overgrown corridors, and massive statues soon Almost every new door means a new confrontation Everything has tentacles, and you shoot all Brutes covered in writhing masses, flying And yet sometimes you open a door and instead something more inexplicable. A black orb, made of something Selene calls denies your attempts to destroy it. A hall of what seem like memories, thousands of the alien race that died long before you And in the middle of this forest, built into the paint peeling, the porch decaying, but A little later, you'll find the key to the You can go inside. Outside, on the surface, you've likely discovered Every failed attempt to get out of the forest Selene disappears down a bottomless pit or up again at the crash site, choking, still Even more disturbingly, this cycle physically run across your own body, lifeless on the creature. And this immediately begs the question of unlike the time loops we're more accustomed over. Time still progresses, the physical proof Selene's various corpses, still littering It seems like the world itself continues to But. Selene is getting further. You're internalizing the timings of each which upgrades are worth investing in, you're that lets you get past those gold barriers. You will, eventually, beat Phrike, the boss You will step into a portal and emerge in caused you to crash land on the planet in is that Selene absolutely needs to find. And, having made it out of that forest, the physical metaphor, because you start ascending. Though the desert appears flat at first, it hollow, with the promise of something at the And as you continue to hone your skills, using becomes more pronounced, short-range teleporters below drops away. At the top is another boss, a beast that breaks you cut it down to size, and the reward after more difficult, a dead city now teeming with towards you and drones that hit like a truck. You will claw your way to the top of their is the grandest moment in the game, one of memory, a fight against a creature called by what I can only describe as Giger-esque In an incomprehensible void you will shoot flings you miles away and after what feels you're treated to the game's most audacious Emerging from the fugue state of the Nemesis on this hostile planet, the White Shadow signal over and over to find. She gasps. White Shadow was a distress signal- it goes she needs to be rescued. "White Shadow...you were how I escape" And then in a cutscene that screams finality, hell. She returns home, is hailed as a hero, retires She is largely solitary but she ages, has She lives a life of peace after experiencing And then, from natural causes, she passes We see her gravestone and then are placed and deeper until [wake up, gasp]. &quot;No, I can't be here- I escaped, I was-&quot; Her distress signal didn't matter, her decades Selene never escaped the cycle. No matter if her life ends by monster or by here. She is still, still, trapped on the planet. &quot;Why doesn't it just do us in and get it over Christ, I don't know how much longer I can It was our one hundred and ninth year in the And he was speaking for all of us.&quot; A half century before the release of Returnal, I Must Scream" was published in March of by the uhh...notoriously cantankerous Harlan It is, not just thematically but experientially, I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream is one of encountered. The story consists of the last five humans landscape while kept in immortal, eternal AM, a sort of proto-Skynet, was a Cold War found it had sentience but was unable to move, "AM could not wander, AM could not wonder, He could merely be. And so, with the innate loathing that all creatures that built them, he had sought revenge. Like Skynet, the computer very quickly decided but its calculation wasn't one of cold math; rage. It saved only five people- the characters for itself, and/or a collective punishment But despite the substantial amount of world sci-fi fare, and more like a tone poem. And that tone is...venom. Every description is unsympathetic, every themselves are short and brutal. I'm not even quite sure how to describe The five humans are hungry, always. They hate each other. They walk endlessly. They're tortured. They're blown through the mechanical halls by a great monstrous bird. The torment becomes monotonous. They pass through the path of boiling steam. They pass through the slough of despond. Although the story is short, it's also relentless, one before it. It succeeds in communicating the headspace than this. Anything for a way out. Almost all the "events" of the book happen The group of humans reach an icy cave that It's all in cans. They don't have a canopener. As they collapse into infighting for the thousandth way out. He seizes the moment. He drives an icicle through one of the other's AM can preserve life indefinitely, but it The benevolent killing spree continues and lifeless. Ted has wiped out AMs playthings, its objects And so in the last paragraphs of the book, anger on Ted, mutating his body, turning him smash his own skull or slit his own throat. All he has is the consolation that he gave He imagines it's what they wanted. AM will be all the madder for that. It makes me a little happier. And yet ... AM has won, simply... he has taken Ted succeeds. For the only time in a century he succeeds, able to before. And for his victory, he is punished worst I have no mouth. And I must scream. It's hard to overstate just how jarring final boss, watched the final cutscene, finished to the beginning. It is, I think, the moment of the game that It is also the moment that Returnal starts the planet in purely literal terms. Previously, the farmhouse was an outlier in Now, the rest of the world is morphing to out of place, not nearly as alien as it should There are fascinating aesthetic ways the planet it, dozens of years ago. Time doesn't reset, remember? It still rains in the forest, but it's day Eerily, the trees now echo with a musical At the end of the forest, replacing Phrike, It smashes out the musical motif over and Selene sobs through the same notes in an audio "All our times have come...here but now &quot;Seasons don't hear the reaper.&quot; (Don't Fear) The Reaper by the Blue Oyster this alien world. The behemoth falls but the notes still remain, be and instead find a frozen wasteland. The mountain, the sign of your progress has In its place, an abyss that's opened in We plummet downward. The metaphor is impossible to ignore. When you were last here, you were climbing felt victorious, tangible. Now, in the same location an eternity later, The world of ice poses the harshest challenge And our reward for besting it? Access to a bottomless ocean. Into deep water. Into the depths. As the changes to the world become more overt, game is begging you to start pulling on its countless mysteries. But the challenge of Returnal, other than is that once you start trying to pull apart almost no way to stop. For instance, one of the most memorable recurring apollo-era astronaut, that haunts Selene with It is not aggressive, not an enemy nor an Menacingly. And it's that indifference that seems to make Who is the astronaut to Selene? Well to answer that, we have to answer countless Here's what we know about Selene, drip fed and rebirths. She grew up on Earth, likely in the very farmhouse Her mother, Theia, had aspirations of being crash- Selene emerged unscathed, but her mom to space. Selene then devotes her life to becoming an bring her closer to her mother. But in fact, this only further strains their Theia seemed to hate Selene for accomplishing Okay, so that's it, right? Selene's mom is the astronaut specter, dressed and indifferent to the plight of her daughter? Ha. Yeah, sure. Like it could be that simple. Later on, you'll play out a short sequence As Helios, you wander the house for a while, indifferent astronaut sitting at the kitchen It ignores you as you try to tell it a story, bedroom, where it bends to embrace you until Or how about when the astronaut appears as bring you back to life, its description reading Or what about when it appears for split seconds, Or what about when the final boss, a writhing an astronaut with shattered helmet, its grinning The astronaut mutates, as inconsistent as Always ominous, typically inscrutable. Most notably of all is the astronaut's role is driving Helios through a dark forest at As she drives across a bridge, the astronaut headlights. She swerves. The car veers off the bridge and sinks into Selene looks up and sees a bright white on the moon, white shadow. She swims toward it, desperately. White shadow, she breathes. You were how I escape. But the car isn't empty, as it sinks deeper Helios was lost. Helios abandoned. The astronaut is the cause for the message run. Back on the planet, if we can still call it The rooms full of holograms now show undisguised The bosses play Blue Oyster Cult and transform Her car, its headlights still on, sits at The realization may happen at a different Maybe it's the return to the planet after the endless descent, maybe it's the quote maybe it's the recording when Selene finally The eternal punishment of this world, the her own making. Selene stares at her hands and they change around to see her own car's headlights reflecting After one of the last trips through the haunted the porch as usual, but further back, in a gun. You watch Helios, her spaceship, plummet out A self-inflicted crash, the loss of Helios, Whether on earth or on the alien planet, Selene the horrible point of origin. Ever since that point, she's been living "He would never let us go...We were all We would be forever with him, with the cavern-filling soulless world he had become. He was Earth, and we were the fruit of that never digest us. We could not die. We had tried it.We had attempted suicide, But AM had stopped us. I suppose we had wanted to be stopped. But don't ask why. I never did. More than a million times a day... He withdrew, murmuring to hell with you. And added, brightly, but then you're there, Who deserves hell? It's a question that dances around the edges one it's uninterested in directly answering. Some of the five remaining humans are hinted These are fleshed out in the game from 1995, Benny executed and possibly ate members of god Nazi scientist. There are others, however, who don't seem "deserve" their punishment. Ellen, whose asinine treatment and "punishments" poorly written character, has no crime at Ted was...paranoid, maybe? A con artist or something? There are no crimes, however, that would justify to the story's credit, it doesn't even AM tortures them, not because of who they the plague, the thing kthat killed the world, million miles of wiring. And the surviving humans know this as well; really to blame for the artificial hell they In the last lines of the story, Ted, stripped of personhood, reflects that humans must have and we must have known unconsciously that Their hell too, is artificial. Theirs too, self inflicted. Because Selene's entire planet is constructed, data we have, it's impossible to form a here. There are recordings that strongly imply she the wheel, but even the veracity of these The crash almost seems predetermined, mirroring whole life a recursive cycle. If you wanted, you could continue to spiral every allusion. You could connect every name to mythology, Nemesis. You could attempt to contextualize the logs a real-life never-delivered speech by Richard death, despair, and pursuit of judgment. You could try and piece together exactly what she really is for the death of Helios. You could find every xenoglyph, translate kill the monsters of her planet again and You will eventually, ironically, master this Nothing will exist for long under the eye Except for you, because there is no amount the circles of her own mind. She may resemble, with her deadliness and named. But she is, in reality, much closer to Ted being trapped by a hell of her own creation. A soft jelly thing, unable to do anything just how much responsibility it bears. Do you think they know? Like, do you think sponsors know that I'm wandering hell" and then have to turn around Henson Shaving'! As a notoriously bearded man, you might think not the case at all. Whether doing deranged stuff like this, or care a lot about my shaving experience. And it is my genuine pleasure to report that heck of a razor. This, for people who might not know, is in ones that use actual traditional razor blades this stuff matters to me). Shaving with actual razor blades is cool because cheap- a pack of a hundred of them is probably gel things that most razors use now. I've been using the same $10 pack of 100 It's awesome. And Henson, specifically, is really making this thing apart from others is how precisely bit of the blade exposed, which means a lot I've shaved with this a couple times now my skin, it's just been a really nice, really It's a good weight, it feels solidly made- Personally, I feel like the best thing here or something- it's just a thing, a high forever. AND, because you're getting this advice If you use the link in the description and a pack of 100 blades totally free with the If you've never used a high quality razor shaving experience a little more luxurious, And now at the end- what do you think of this I'm thinking about keeping it.