66 million years ago, the worst day in the history of life was dawning. The killer came from the south, at three times the speed of a bullet. The impact carried more explosive power For over 20 minutes, the entire Earth became as molten debris rained down, igniting global wildfires. The resulting earthquakes volcanic eruptions around the globe, blanketing western India, in lava. The final blow came as giant clouds starving life of sunlight for up to 15 years. Charred landscapes turned to frozen ones. In the aftermath, 75% of But a lucky few somehow made it through. Crocodiles, which can go months and were mostly unscathed, Birds with teeth went extinct, but those with beaks used them as multi tools to access hardy food sources like seeds. Most critically, our tiny shrew like mammal ancestors survived by doing what they did best: hiding out in the safety of the shadows. How would we fare compared to them if we faced the same apocalypse? What if the same asteroid at the same angle? Would humans cling on or go the way of the dinosaurs? In a flash, central America and ithe southern United States would be vaporized by the blast. A hundred million people The sound of the impact to kill anyone standing Within minutes, magnitude 9 to 11 earthquakes would ripple across the Earth, stronger than any in recorded history. Giant 100 meter tall tsunamis and flood up to a hundred Enough to drown over 3 billion people. The bulk of debris would putting hundreds of millions more at risk. For anyone far enough away, the quaking would send a violent message: to get underground before There are millions of fallout shelters including hundreds of thousands in Switzerland alone. And underground cities around the world like Derinkuyu in Turkey, and Nushabad in Iran, could provide safe haven for millions. Between these and other makeshift it's conceivable that billions of people could survive the initial effects of the blast, but even assuming they weren't destroyed few of these shelters are designed to be self-sufficient for periods of months or years. Fiery debris and acid rain would fall from the sky for years after the impact, making any open air activity Only a small number of high-tech doomsday bunkers built by world governments in the The Raven Rock Mountain Complex in Pennsylvania, maintained by the US government, and its own water reservoirs, with enough space to house thousands of people. But the exact contents Other major nations are believed making it possible that major world at least in the short term. The ultra-rich have recently taken up citizenship in New Zealand, which is geographically and numerous luxury bunkers have some with years of provisions. But the biggest challenge to survival would be the long game. The all consuming dust to fail worldwide. Food stocks would eventually deplete, and fresh water sources would Famine would become the number one killer with a potential death toll in the billions. But even in this harsh we could find ways to adapt. Some could potentially which don't rely directly on sunlight to survive, and proliferate wildly after deadly fires. Over time, the climate would as excess carbon dioxide ejected With ingenuity and grit, small groups could live on, scraping by scavenging, and attempts at makeshift agriculture. But human existence would be Without any advanced warning, our hopes would be grim. But what if we knew it was coming? How would we prepare for the unimaginable? In September, 2022, NASA's DART satellite slammed into The impact was a massive success slowing the asteroid's orbit by 32 minutes. Both the Hubble and James Webb space telescopes snapped images of the resulting plume of debris, photo evidence that we now have the power to save our planet from catastrophe. But not all space rocks are created equal. The tiny asteroid hit by NASA was only a fraction of the size of the dinosaur killer. This asteroid was over Larger than Mount Everest. Deflecting a monster like Impacting them runs the risk of breaking the asteroid into smaller, High explosives could still do the trick knocking it into a new orbit. But more surgical methods Some have proposed using lasers to push an object into a new Others have suggested to drag the asteroid Thankfully, astronomers have now mapped inside our solar system, and none appear poised to it Earth anytime soon. And anything coming from the asteroid belt would give us years to prepare a defense. But what if we missed one? We have no catalog of large outside the solar system. They could arrive suddenly at high speeds with very little warning. Whether we had a few months or many years we would need a backup plan. Our first move would be to evacuate sparing millions of lives from the blast. We could then build a series of built to withstand raining meteorites Mine shafts and deep caves could be repurposed into underground cities, sustaining vertical farms. Places like Iceland could a renewable energy source, which could supply power There are over 20,000 kilometers of subway tunnels around the world. These could be transformed that could theoretically A trove of seeds, livestock, data, would be critical to preserve. Fortified vaults could be patiently guarding their treasures, awaiting the uncertain But the most important To preserve it from deep water silos could be dug to house vast reservoirs lined with then sealed to protect from the elements. To grow ample food with limited resources, humans could turn to a strange Algae farming. While not exactly appetizing, Algae would be the ideal emergency food source. It's highly efficient, can and can be farmed vertically With multiple years to prepare, there would be one last To leave Earth behind. From a small colony on the moon, a chosen few could watch unsure if they would ever return. In 2018, a former NASA engineer grew and distortions in the information landscape. So she founded Ground News: A platform that gathers related articles so readers can compare coverage with context about the source of the information. The Blind Spot Feed puts that are disproportionately covered by giving readers information that and help them understand The platform empowers readers to think critically about and take control over our relationship <b>(Subtitles created and timed by Anonymous)</b>