Hello Luca, thank you so much Hi, Jennifer. Thank you for inviting. Me. Absolutely. So you're a polyglot. Why don't you tell everyone? How many languages do you speak? So when people ask me. How many languages I? Speak, I always reply that I've And I am. Functional in 10 or 11, meaning that if you ask me at the drop of a hat to have Now I would be able to. Hold a conversation. And more in 10 to 11 languages, but. I've been learning. 15 in my. Language learning career, so to speak. Well, I know a lot of people on one language, so that's an amazing accomplishment. Now, just so everyone knows, English is Yes, that's correct. My native language is Italian. I was born and raised in Italy. OK, can you quickly summarize your experience Sure. So first, doom and gloom I started learning English when I At the ripe. Age of 12 My. Teachers decided to hire a an And that changed everything because until then. I could not even. Pronounce the word enough. I used to say E now. Because Italians are notoriously. Like we. We tend to read. In in Italian you. Read You speak as you, as you as you write. So, but in English. Which is a non. It's not a phonetic. Language. It's completely different. And then? She changed everything because I moved from having to do homework for school and with English teacher to. Watching movies, having interesting and who used to record, you know, movies for me. Back in the day, we didn't have the I started. Realizing that I could learn. English by myself and. All those limiting beliefs that I had. Both self-imposed and. Imposed by society. Then just melted like. Snow. And that's the moment. Where everything changed? At at 12 and then. You know, I started learning Starting reading books. Starting watching more and more. You know, movies. And then I went. Abroad to Ireland for the first time. And I remember that people call me the proud of that because just three years prior And then in the. Course of the last, I would I've been using English a lot with my. Friends and. You know, I've been living with the English. Language I've been, I've been, I've A lot so. Now I think I speak it decently. Oh, absolutely. I'm sure all my students would agree. And so for you, it seems like the moment a language learning approach that you Is that how you apply the same approach Yeah, let's put it this way A. In terms of techniques, but because I suddenly realized that I could actually. Learn English now one. Thing that really happens with most students Successfully is that they don't It and this reminds. Me. Of the time when at the ripe age of seven. I tried to. I was a. Seat of a bike and I tried to ride the bike for I ended up in tears that day and Patient. And you will learn how to ride the bike. Then when that magically happened? After a few days of trying, I started. Believing that I could actually. Ride a bike. And then I started. Riding A. Bike. Same thing. Happens when we acquire a Until you've reached fluency in Nagging thought that maybe. You're not good enough that maybe you don't you're you were not bitten by the Gods of the language. Gods that you don't have talent. So the reality is that every single person any foreign language for that matter, if they The problem is that unfortunately System, the education system Backwards, unfortunately. So people tend to. Learn. In a very inefficient way, and they Conclusion that it's their fault How many times do we have these limiting beliefs? So I. Think that what, really? Changed for me. Was the fact that I started This revolution. In terms of techniques, yes, that was the joy of learning, but I think the real. Shift. Was psychological more than technical. So to speak, and but, but then you know the. Combination of the psychological. Change and the adopting techniques That I really like. You know this combination was. Work wonders for me. That's the real difference, you know? Game changer, as they say. I'm happy you mentioned that because emails from students and they're just frustrated. They say, Jennifer, I've been learning I've been living in North America for 25 years And I can tell there's a lot of So how can these students change that belief if Do you have any advice for them? So first of all, I believe that. We all have limiting beliefs about Do but the past. Does not have to. Define our future in the sense. That yes, it did. It did happen. Like you've maybe you. Still finding it difficult. To speak English, even if you. Live in the United States or England or any. English speaking country. I do believe, though, that first of It matters how you live. If you take for example 2. Students one who lives in the Spanish speaking student one But always hangs around with other Spanish They get into the same. Old paradigm of I'm not sure I can actually learn. They stumble upon their And then you take another student. Who does not live in the United? States or. Any other English speaking country, Podcasts or like talk. Having. Interesting conversations, maybe on Skype or even. Meeting English speaking, you know, natives. In a bar around the corner. In a language exchange. So first of all, it's how you live, not where. And if if then. How you live, you know what you do in You also live in country, so you live in the. UK or the US? That's a great combination, but first of all. You have. To learn how to use your time The second thing I would. Say is that. Again, the fact that. You learned poorly before or That. You have to learn poorly There's always like what? When is the best time? To learn better, more efficiently. It's now doesn't matter how old you. Are some people say I'm all 40? I'm. 50 You have to learn a When you're in your teens, if you It's not true. I recently heard a story of someone who's learned a foreign language in their 60s Well, within. Three years, so recently at my language running. Academy an 80. Year old girl. And sent me a message, said Luca. Until I was. 80 I could not speak Spanish, and Matter of months. So. It's never too old. The third thing is I believe that the main Live in the. US or live? In in the. UK or whatever they do not speak The 1st is the the belief. That they're not good at. Language learning or they're not. Good at learning English. That's the first thing, the 2nd. Thing is that maybe they don't. Listen or they don't speak. Enough. They tend to use the same techniques. Or they tend to stick to the same Before meaning maybe they speak. A little bit, but they're. A little bit timid. They're a little bit shy. And maybe they don't. Listen enough. They don't watch. Movies they don't get. Immersed in the language, we can talk but there's capital a very Have to change if they. Want to learn a language? Well, the good news is. That nowadays with the Internet You learn how to use the Internet correctly. Instead of getting in like getting. Sucked in the rabbit hole of. You know, spending time. Scrolling the whole. Day you can do You can engage in So these are the three To take into account that explain why a lot of people do not speak English The US was very inspiring that you mentioned that Because I know that of course is one of the I don't have enough time. You hear these beliefs again and again. Now Speaking of mindset, one of the mindset This fear of making mistakes, And it prevents them from actually going out So they spend all their time but then they don't have the Have you experienced that with And what advice would you share? So let me first tell you that this is a very. Human being, a human thing to be. Scared of? You know, getting. Out of your comforts and when we. When we get out. Of our comfort zone. We're always scared. That's the first thing. So it's completely, completely Slightly anxious about the. Mere fact of having to have a So that's, that's the first The second thing to take into account is that. I I foresee like these three. Zones you have. The comfort zone at. The at the beginning. Right. So that's where you stand where Corner You're learning Venture out there and. Have you know? Talk to, talk to people. Then you have. Out like there's another layer which I call like it's called the Goldilocks. Zone, so it's slightly. Challenging, but it's not too challenging. I'll give. You a concrete example in a second Zone The panic zone is where you're completely out of your comfort zone so far that it's An example. So your comfort zone is, let's if you're you know, you're you've been And. Or for a long time for that matter. English and you still find it difficult, you know. You still tremble at the Or you're interacting. With someone but you, you, you, you. You know you don't. Express yourself smoothly because. Your mind goes blank. And you think, Oh my God, they're. Judging me I'm making. Mistakes you think about Rammer. All those. Things that make it difficult then. Think about this. Your comfort zone is sitting And making maybe lists. Of words. Or maybe watching something passively. Right, so. That is an. Excuse of oh, I'm engaging with the language. But I'm not actually. Talking to people. Then you have the. Goal what I call the Goldilocks zone. It's a good zone. It's a good zone. To be in and you tell yourself. OK, I'm scared. Fine. Normal. But I could have. Maybe I could. Hire a tutor. A very nice and friendly person. With whom I could have a. Conversation. It's a protected environment because Someone or you find. Someone, Someone you can have a There is no background noise. That person knows that you're a learner. And then you can have a. Conversation. You can prepare beforehand In and you can have a meaningful. Conversation. That's a Gray. Zone that you can get in. A Gray zone, but a good zone to be in. So that you can actually step out of your comfort. Zone progressively have a conversation. You realize, oh, that was not a big deal. The person was nice. I stumbled and I grumbled a little bit. But at the end of the day, I made it. And then you have the panic zone. The panic zone is where you get. Out and say. You go and buy. Something, let's say, you A train ticket. You go to the. Station, and unfortunately you come. Across a very grumpy old lady or a guy, we're And then they blurt out something you do not. Understand and you find Where, Oh my gosh, what do I do? Do I reply that I do not understand Or do I nod and I? Pretend that I understand. These are not easy. Situations because we think. Oh, you just have to buy a ticket. But in real life conversations and interactions, They go about their own business. That's the reason. Why? That's a panic zone. So my simple advice is try to. Build your comfort zone if The one thing that you have to Where you find yourself, find some comfort. A person who's. Friendly. Not necessarily competent, This again, because this is very important. People tend to think that when they have to. Prepare, prepare, or just interact with someone. They have to find a very. Competent person who? Explains the English grammar in detail. That's not true. You need. Someone to talk to. That's the main point. That person will listen to you, will Mistakes you make, but they don't have to explain. Grammar to you in. Detail, nowadays we have. You can do that if you want to but the main. Goal is to actually. Speak to. Have a conversation. Fluency is not just a matter. Of how many words you know? How many? Grammar rules you know or if whether your. Pronunciation is good. Or accurate or not, it's a degree Experiences that you have. And the first experience. You can have. Nowadays we can, because we Conversation with someone. That you find friendly in a protected. Environment. That's the first thing that I would Do and that's maybe even. More important is this the reason? Why we tend to stumble, we tend to. Think about grammar. Our mind goes blank. Is due to something. That, unfortunately, we were Well. You're from the United? States and from Italy. But all across the world, the At school, we tend to think. In terms of performance, not in terms of. Communication. Children have a great time using foreign Language. Because they communicate. They have fun. They just don't think. Oh, I'll be judged. But adults or adults, what They constantly think I'm getting a mark. Am I going? To get good mark. Am I going to get bad mark so someone You're not thinking about AI Mean I want to talk. About this because. I'm so excited. You're thinking, let me try to survive, you But thinking I have to conjugate To say this, the. You know that's the problem and. If you start. Focusing on communication. Instead of performance, it changes everything. So here's my piece of advice. Whenever you have a conversation, a topic that you really like, Get. Excited. It doesn't. Matter if you make mistakes or not, the most If I told you for example. In English I tomorrow. School you will understand perfectly. I. Tomorrow to go to school you will It's not grammatically accurate, but it's. Better to say something and. Make a mistake rather. Than not saying anything but this again you have. To you have to understand That the outcome. Police it's like. Oh, you made a. Mistake is there. If you change this. If you have experienced. This mind shift. Not performance, but. Communication. It changes everything. One last thing, I know I'm rambling a little bit. But I love this. I love this topic. There is a beautiful Ted talk which is called. Teaching English without teaching English. I think I I wrote it this year. Somewhere it's. By Roberto Guzman. He's a Mexican guy who's teaching Mexican kids to. Learn to. To speak English. Beautiful. It talks about. All the stuff in his own. His own way. You know and and I think some. These are universal principles. Focus. On communication and not outcome. You raised so many points. I hope everyone is paying attention because and this is something I've seen with my students. They well, they think that when they're it's the same as communicating with their teacher. They expect to be assessed, judged, corrected. They think it's an appropriate time to think about When really you're just having a conversation, So I'm so glad that you And everyone watch that Ted talk as well. I will watch it myself. I don't believe I have and you to talk words or their mind goes blank, it's because So it's just more of a natural thing. But I wanted to know if you could more specific advice because this is one I I know the words, I studied this, I know it. But then when I'm in the situation, Do you have any practical strategies to help Absolutely so. This happens to me as well and to. To go back to your previous. Question when you will. Ask me, does this happen to you as well? Did you get? Scared of speaking? Yes. Every single time and. Learn a new language. I am terrified when the moment. Comes of speaking. Even after all, so many years because. In my subconscious mind. Unfortunately. The, the, the, you know, the the influence Kid is still there in the So now to answer. Your question we're not going although I'm really passionate And if you understand how the brain Insight into why? We have these problems when speaking a Language for that matter. But to make it simple, this is the reason. Why all this works? All this happens? Sorry. In our mind we. Process language learning when we. Still do not. Speak a language well, so we're not we're talking about foreign language. We use what is called what this part of the This is our like this is. How we think consciously, how we plan things. When we try to retrieve words when we try to. Think about grammar. Etcetera, etcetera. Then we have another part of the brain. Which is called the limbic system that This is a. An. An. Oversimplification of how this? Works, but just to to show you a Two competing, let's say. Parts of the brain. One is trying to process to think. About words, to arrange them together to think. About grammar. And the other part. Which is the emotional. Part. Fights against this part. So if you're tense. And subconsciously we. Walk into a conversation, whether it's there's a level of tension. That. Unfortunately, where the amygdala Amygdala that keeps this. Part of the brain, let's say, keeps it from. Communicating well with other. Parts of the brain. So imagine that. This part of the brain wants fetch a word with a mechanical arm, but the If you're stressed, if you're anxious. If you walk into. Any conversation with the idea And. Everything. You know all. The negative things that you think. Concerning a conversation. This is bound to happen. This has happened to me. A number. Of times. Recently, just to give you a very concrete I had a. Conversation with my colleague who's. American, Serbian, American, and I've I understand it pretty well. We recorded a conversation for YouTube. I could not say the simplest things. Like he asked me, Are you ready? I was like, I couldn't. Even say yes, I am in Serbian and I. Realized. How is that possible and because the knowledge? Is there but. It's blocked, so it's something that happens all. The time our mind goes blank because we are Very negative mode. My suggestion is once again. What I said before is that. To establish if you're. Anxious about having a Find one person, a friendly person, not You are really excited. You know, you you think, oh, I'm going to talk to. Jennifer or Luca? Or Mark about? Whatever excites you. And when that happens. When you focus more on the communication than the Down and and then. Your mind will. Go blank because it's. This is inevitable. It's a background noise that you're. Not going to eliminate, but it's going to. It's going to happen less and less when you're. Talking with that person, If that happens, You can just say I I'm. Trying to say this word if the other You can. You know, either say I don't remember how Smile or look? It. On, on, on. You know, on the fly. But just be. Honest first with yourself and Once you establish. With one person again. A friendly communication Your stress levels will. Go down and you will be able to manage this. Conversation much better. And that is going to give. You confidence. With that confidence, you're going to walk into another conversation and Remember every time you have another So every time that. You walk into a grocery store to ask That's a new experience. It's old because you lived it in your own. Native language, but it's new because you've. Never done it in your foreign language. So a. Little bit of a level like the the level of Think, Oh my God, I'm just going to mess this up. It's going to be a. Disaster once you do. It you realize, no big deal. And then your confidence is going to grow. Step by step. Well, you shared a lot there. But I think for my students, just their brain works, it's normal, it's You still have that experience even today. I'm sure that made all my students feel those successes, getting those successes will allow them to build their Great advice. Thank you. And I feel like we could talk especially diving into how our brain works. That's so interesting. And I know you have more videos don't you just share with my students What's your YouTube channel? Sure thing. My. YouTube channel is just Luca Name. So if you write Luca Lampariello Will find my channel. It's all about learning how to learn. I do have some videos where or other languages in just one video, but. It mainly it's about. How to Learn How to Use your Brain to learn more. Efficiently and to show you that that is possible. And then everyone can do it. I'll put the YouTube channel in the Get those language learning tips and advice. Final question for you before we wrap up. If my students were to do only one thing what would you recommend that they do? I would say to focus on the joy of whether they're speaking, whether whether they're listening, whether Video like this one to have. Joy to to think. About. The joy. Of learning instead of. I have to do this because I have. To learn it's more like I. Want to do this? I think that once again, yes, They're important, but this? Mindset shift that you need to For further, is the one of the When it comes to success in learning. English or? Any other? Language for that matter. What an amazing way to end our conversation. Focus on joy. You heard it everyone. Focus on joy. Thank you so much for being here, Luca, My pleasure. Bye, bye.