This podcast is probably the first like, lay out a lot of this stuff. Welcome to VP Land, the podcast is getting faster, easier, and less production, and everything in between. I am Joey Daoud, your host. You just heard from Stephen Findeisen, Coffeezilla is a YouTuber exposing online scams. With over 3 million subscribers, of his work, from his three-part CryptoZoo, to his interviews with Sam But what sets Coffeezilla apart is the complicated information, from animated with Maxwell, his robot bartender. All of this is delivered inside office that Coffeezilla calls Welcome to the 10 Million Dollar Studio... The 10 Million Dollar Studio... The 10 Million Dollar Studio... And in this episode of VP Land, we went from a basic set in his bedroom, studio in just a few short years. I want to create something new. I want to create something original. I want to create a world that like sort of what this show is. We'll explore how Coffeezilla I want to be one of the people who really production forward in a practical way. The driving motivator behind Like, virtual production's great, but it Some tips and important lessons learned. Just a little high-level [Important Tip] And a whole lot more. Links for everything we talk description or in the show notes. And be sure to subscribe to the VP Land tech changing the way we're making movies. Just go to vp-land. com. I think in a space like this it's tell you guys a few of my tricks. So let's pull back the curtain and All right, for joining. I appreciate it. Let's nerd out about stuff that your virtual production setup, There was a comment I came across when you were still recording. I assume it was a room in basic YouTuber kind of setup. Um, but the comment was semi recent. The video's from 2019. Comment was recent, &quot; Only just found Coffeezilla, watching the truth into a grizzled, bearded, cynical a lore perspective, absolutely amazing.&quot; Sort of like, the comment captures this in a room to this elaborate cyberpunk So can you walk me through like were the motivations behind it? Yeah, sure. Um, by the way, thanks for having me. So, to just to back up a bit, I I had no production And it was very clear to me that, um, out and create an original style. I saw, uh- the YouTubers We all kind of copy each other But eventually, if you ever want any, um, want to go out and develop your own thing. So at a certain point I really I, I built like my first ever set You know, you don't have to You could just like set stuff up. Um, and around that time, I heard a TED Talk by this Um, it's about three ways to design I can send it to you and maybe you Yeah. Yeah. This talk absolutely changed my world can't, he's like, um, you basically have Essentially, he used this word, now because of recent events. He did a set design for Kanye. He's done set designs for, And he's like, the design of about what you're watching. And even for the creator, it tells So he talks about like, you explicitly he wanted to be a god. But as I talked to him in the process sort of we were actualizing who he was creation of a set and this world. Um, and then he kind of lays out you can go out and do it yourself. And I was so taken by this idea. He's like, he's like, you know, Kanye Again. It means something different But, um, at the time, at the like, pop culture icon, right? So I heard this and I You can't be, you know, And then I looked at my I'm like watching this video and it's a dude in a bedroom. And I'm like, oh, I want, and I'm like, I want to create something Like, I, I can't. And so how am I gonna do it? So I looked around at other YouTubers, What are other people even in film doing? And a few things tied together I saw Linus Tech Tips. He had built out this like and he had spent like $10 million. And he was able to fit like five like five different, you know? And, and I was like, dang, that's and he talks about like, you have to warehouse, now you have to spend even Like, I was like, I, I can't do that. Um, and then at the same time I watched which I think hit a lot of people. And I just sort of had this like you can do infinite things with this Like you can just, you And I was, I was, struck by that. I was like, man, you can create a whole like sort of cheat the whole system. Like you don't actually have to go like quest of convenience and like, Um, little did I know by the way. Uh, it's it comes with So, so I started this march down, like, I wanna create something original. I wanna create a world that tell, like sort of what this show is. Um, so I started obsessing sort That's when I sort of started down the 10 Million Dollar Studio. That started 'cause all these scammers would establish credibility is they So obviously, I'm just a dude in my it's funny to just kind of go way million, just, just my studio is $10 So like, for a long time, studio, which was a whole thing. Because all these guys they'd have these, like there's Like they'd have it in their front lawn. Like you don't actually have that, right? You just place it there for social proof. So I just basically stole what satire, like, like, um, pastiche. And then it sort of, which I kind that wasn't a joke anymore because, enough, it is almost plausible that Um, so that's kind of But yeah, that's when I started down virtual production and I knew nothing. I mean, I, I am like true, amateur I would shamelessly approach anybody better anything industry professionals Why does your key look so good? And they're like, oh, well, And I'm like, oh, okay, Um, so then they're like, you should Um, eventually, by the way, for a lot I, I now use Aximmetry for keying. I've, I've tried the Ultimatte, guys. I know You have tried- okay. Yeah, I saw your tweet But I don't like- I, dude, I'm, I'm I think Aximmetry is competitive a million times better. I think people who are still, you're on an old outdated system. I mean, it's not outdated in But the way you can like composite to explained to me the right pipeline, In Aximmetry, you can just So anyway, that's like a little aside. But yeah, like I start working on how are you lighting yourself? And I'm like, well, yeah, my it's lighting my green screen. And they're like, oh, no, no, no. Like, you can't, you can't do that. And they're like, how And I'm oh, like three feet away. And they're like, no, no, So, um, so just start to And I think what's interesting is like like three or four years ago, um, are had in my head then of like, sort of what are talking about like now, like, oh noticing the stuff that I started trying So I think that's been interesting grateful that people kind of dig it. Sorry, that was like No, it was great. And I mean, yeah, there's a lot of on and I mean, yeah, it's just been the video history and how quickly your I think there was like sort of the first maybe I, I assume it was like a photo board, uh, with the lines everywhere. You did the very first virtual And that was somewhat interactive where you're and you could display your computer What was the sort of first step from building stuff and what were you like, Yeah. I was really interested in building my create, creating this cohesive world. I didn't want to just take off At the same time, I didn't a live like simulation behind me. I didn't have the hardware to like So I realized I'm gonna have to do But the set will be 3D. So if I want to get any new angles, we out like a 5-second loop, and then I lucked out here because this is when I with like ever since the first, uh, thing. Ed Leszczynski, he's a We've kind of developed together a style. I got very lucky there. I wanna be clear. I have probably sketches of my original I'm like, you know, this is what it And then he turns it into But it's kind of amazing how much that stuff behind the scenes to make- 'cause we thought so much about- so many different things. And then it all just like becomes But, um, we kinda went back And we've had several iterations like modified little things. A lot of it becomes out of necessity. Like you want the set to be functional, Sometimes, like, especially when where we had like a screen The whole point of it was a way to display being like a little picture-in-picture. Because I, I just find that, you kind of comes off as like, uh, cheap. I mean anyone could do it. Everyone does it. Like, just put me in picture-in-picture that's that interesting. Um, more and more in my information like come in-world. This is like one kind of principle that's like found digitally, we Like the Internet Archive. I can just go to www.internetarchive- So since I solve like these, like, these like, um, internet scams, I wanna find a way to make them kind Uh, so we'll actually make If i know the audience is gonna ask completely fourth wall and be like, I know I'll go to the bar and talk to like kind of play the audience. So things like that, um, kind of have But, um, that's kind of one A new thing I think we're gonna Discord calls, like calls like this, I think it's so lame to just do and, you know, just like, here's I think it's cool to bring stuff All right, real quick. Just jumping back in here again. If you are enjoying this then you will like the VP Land Newsletter. Each week, twice a week, we send you articles, behind the scenes stuff about virtual production, AI and technology and news that is changing things better, faster, less expensive. From professional level to it's not professional, we So be sure to subscribe to VP Land. You can get the link in the YouTube or just head over to VP-LAND.COM. And now, back to my chat with CoffeeZilla. Yeah. Um, no, and you've definitely mentioned figure out the best way to navigate level questions and then, uh, nitty But going back to the high level, building out this space and delivering something that you really do really well. Going back to the high level view of this, mentioned, like you're, you're building Going back to your mood boards and as a way to more entertainingly deliver as like a competitive advantage for in quality versus like doing- I know but like, versus just, you know, Uh, so like, has that been one of Yeah, I, I think the big driving like some form of originality. Um, some type of self, I don't know, it's I really get a kick out of building I feel like there are two things these stories which come and go. Every video is just its own like And then I think it's fun to, as So it's given me this sense of, um, otherwise had, had I stayed stagnant I always find that channels that I won't say anything about it. But I personally would not wanna do- and my audience to feel like, oh, like mailing it in and just getting Every video, it feels like he's trying to push um, little bit farther. So may, may, maybe that's my motivation. I also think in particular with it's a fledgling kind of industry, On the indie side, we haven't application of virtual production. It's been a lot of tech demos basically. And I remember thinking really early on, pushes this landscape of indie virtual where instead of talking about the tech, the way, 'cause I'm a nerd, but, um, I It can compete with building out production and grips and whatever. Um, I wanna show that not only can in a lot of cases more competitive. Um, and people just sort of So that was what I was hoping to kind I kind of love, have a secret love for, I guess, um, is kind of just interesting and, and approachable. I dunno, approachable is the right word. I actually think virtual I think do it right is hard. But um, but yeah, show, show, Yeah, you have one of your videos curtain a little bit and you're and that video's about two YouTubers are sleeping on this. Uh, you know, you should Uh, this is sort of a game changer. But that was like two years ago. So, I mean, and I feel, I mean, I feel most sort of virtual production stuff that I mean, Mrbeast is very practical. They're using a lot more visual but I wouldn't call that- They do cool CGI stuff. Because everyone kind of- Everyone looks at like the top guy so I think he'll on bringing like set I just think it's great. Anytime someone uses these Like- I think it's great to talk great to just show it just invisibly. It's Right. Just to appreciate it and not, think of Right. Nobody comes to my videos thinking- don't come to my videos thinking, oh, It's just this invisible tool that just helps the narrative flow a bit better, and My other part of my question with that this possible MrBeast set extension or people adapt this as much as you have? We could set that as a bar, but even Well, I think I've kind of just I kind of just like, my whole, the Your Sin City- Coffeezilla Sin City- Yeah. I have no interest in, I've come to appreciate the benefits And I think there are limitations I think industry obviously understands it, can think we can paint everything green. That's what I thought forever. Like I was, I was like trying to were green, everything was green. That's a problem. Just a little high level Anything you touch on It's so exhausting trying to uh, you know, stuff you touch. 'cause you're gonna It's gonna be a nightmare. Just do yourself a favor, floors, you touch, like chairs or like, if please just make it practical. A, a cup. Make it practical. These things are supposed to help you. And I think if you get too overly zealous you're gonna be like me and trying arm's touching it and it's, you're It's a disaster. You don't want to deal with that. Last year I kind of took a little and built out some nice practical help myself out a little bit. And that has been a huge game changer. 'cause people will be like, wow, It's like, yeah, because the And so it really, your brain starts to What were some of the sets? Like your desk or what, what, what Yeah. So, my main desk, like at the main Studio that's now practical with like some That's nice because it adds some depth. I think sometimes, you know, when you're just kind of floating in air. There's no depth. It's just like sort of you are background plane behind you. And I think it always makes sense to have some like not illusion, but yeah, some scene, right, that we're not getting here. That's achievable a few ways. If your camera's locked off though, you a desk or something like in, you know, in I also did it in my bartender scene where bar top where, uh, we have like this All of that's real. There's like lexan plastic on it to that we shamelessly Um, And then it's kind of cool my robot bartender can like reach I'm touching the physical bar. And then like, it's just this cool- you can kind of just play Um, so, so those are some basic examples. But we've also like built out some floors. Like I have like a piece of plywood, So if I'm standing somewhere, we floor and try to pull context shadows. It's a nightmare. Um, it's a lot easier if you It's all there. So those kinds of things, There's another one where I'm like went out and like bought a rail A lot of it's so janky. Like, it's amazing how much, like, with props, things can be janky, but Long as it looks good. Yeah. Yeah. Like, it's like it doesn't matter. Yeah. Even if you feel like, uh, one As long as it looks good, you're good. Yeah. So, so the green screen has just to appreciate it as a, uh, a way I think James Cameron, like, is famous are hard in real life are easy, and things I think that's really true. If you want some epic sweep of could build it on Fiverr with a CG Or you could hire a helicopter for real on an Arri Alexa. So they're very two But if you wanted to go have a it, if you wanna do that fully And if you wanna do that So I always, um, took away from that like both for what's the best thing I think is, You use the CG stuff where you make stuff look awesome for cheap. And then you use practical stuff manually track this thing in my You know, get a cheap prop that looks Let's jump through. Um, let's just take more, some example, um, since you've got this But can you walk me through step what the, uh, development process Yeah. So, um, obviously we're talking a lot There is this whole other like research a lot to do with virtual production, So we'll research stuff, then I'll And then at some point we have Um, which is sort of where the virtual I've started to do this in pre-vis. I used to just skip pre-vis. Our shots were so simple I mean, it's like me standing, I of me standing in front of the Um, now we have, you know, So because our pipeline takes so put together like a simple render. I use this app on iPad It's like a Sims builder where characters, basic 3D world. You don't have to be a 3D expert And then you can just move a camera shots, pick some shots, pick some shots. The point is not to get some kind It's just basically, basically to create know how to animate or draw well. Like the, the days of stick figures are you wanna do more complicated shots, bit more precise in, um, how it looks. You know, many a time I've been on a are you doing with all these arrows? And I'm like, it's obviously a push in. And he's like, I dunno So, uh, so, so, so there's that. And then we go from storyboarding Then we send that to my editor we're shooting something, let's say we're shooting like a scene in the bar We are gonna shoot four We're gonna shoot probably the side, over-the-shoulder But we want my shoulder And so, we'll shoot all that, but we don't of render stuff by rendering all of it. We'll send it to my editor. So he edits some like finished And then we will kind of, I've at So like relevant camera data is like the the subject, the focal length, the, you gonna have to match in CG that he's not Are you measuring that yourself like your Mo-sys tracker? I'm measuring that myself. The Mo-sys tracker's great actually But I don't have a lot of I just have one. So, you know, when I'm shooting Like locked-off camera shots, I feel When you move a camera, obviously, But for a locked-off camera shot, I'll just shoot a little laser level we're at, kind of get a few basic book, and then I'll, um, send it over. Yeah. A a lot of this stuff is kind of manual. And then we'll get a We'll send it to my CG guy. He'll go render it all out. We'll send it back to my edit. Well, we'll send it to review. So then we will all kind of what's hitting, what's not? We'll do pickups where we have to, design and final editing to my editor. We'll do another review, And then, um, we're kind of Like, this doesn't work, this works. We need to cut away this sooner. But that's a, that's a way where I mean, basically, with CG, your artist's time and your artist's You know, we've tried to do like That's a whole other thing, but, yet, but, it's still a problem. Like you can't just render, you so you have to just manage that. So that's, that's our pipeline right now. And I will say to much to the chagrin there, we do not use Unreal Engine. We're still in Blender. I mean, we're Blender lovers here. All our scenes are That's how we've done it for All of the world, the Everything. Everything. So it's Blender. And then now's a good time, How did Aximmetry come on your it playing in your pipeline? So Aximmetry came on my radar. Yeah. 'cause I was exploring keying options and I was really not happy with hardware keyers because of how you I hate that. I was like, this is so- this Why do I have basically a computer the keying when I could just Like it- So you don't overload your computers. Yeah, that's right. That's right. By the way, that's actually true. That's true. uh, but Aximmetry, you know, they but they, they have a keyer that like So I kind of, uh, figured that out, They're like, all right, that's cool. So I got a license and then, And I was just amazed by how this If you guys haven't used Aximmetry a node-based editor but for video. And so instead of like I dunno with, OBS or stuff like that, you basically like pull in a camera input, but then you can apply like a node some camera correction or some blur. Then you can add another thing, then you can add a keyer, then you And you can kind of add all this So, um, I kind of jumped in that as so live, uh, production without- Like a in-camera visual effect. Yeah. Yeah, like basically in-camera, I dunno, I've just kind of always It never really runs fully So I'm like, if it's not fully real time, just, if we're gonna just have to do it Um, because I think the, like the renders So Aximmetry provided me a real So if you're doing locked-off shots, you And so I was like, for anything it live so I don't have to go back computation or post processing keying Um, so that's our pipeline for live stuff. And then our pipeline for not live stuff, where we're not confident the keyer is time or we, we want it to be a little and we're not sure which camera angle But anything sort of at the desk, the And that's just a way to save a ton of time because we used or to Primatte for like, keying in post, and that was just not good. Your main A cam, B cam shots where you're you're talking, you're kind of giving were saying that you used to just record Composite it later in post. Replace the background- No, well the first time was in Then I was like, I want So then we did it in post. I was like, this sucks in post. How do I do it live, but good live And that's when I found Aximmetry Sorry. Okay. So all of your Blender, the renders, the, layered with your camera, your nodes, And that is uh, final pixel in camera. You don't have to do Correct. Yeah. And yeah, and I'm super happy with that. And then recently we've kind of wanted you know, everything's locked off. I think, I think for virtual production like you can start guessing the world. You're like, okay, no camera's moving. You know? I kind of feel like this I could push it over with like the world would topple over. Um- Touch your background. Yeah. Yeah, I can just touch the background. So I really started to get obsessed if I can move the camera, it's gonna move, you know, it's just sort of like So I started getting obsessed with the I looked into match moving. One theme with me is I'm Like I'm always trying But then it ends up So, uh, so- I think that's the definition of life 50 hours to figure out how to do this task wouldn't take me five minutes to do it. Yeah. I have a joke with my friends. Like, I'll work all night just to just to not have to do the I will spend, you know, all to build a system for this. So I, I was like, yeah, I'm not There's gotta be a better way. Sure. Turns out there is, but it's, uh, And that's when I got into that. I feel like that's where a lot of the the forefront of virtual production is. So I started looking into You know, that didn't I really think like trying to solve camera all that kind of stuff is a fool's errand. Not a fool's errand, but- A lot of post product, like Yeah, And it's crap in, crap out. Like you need really high fidelity data. I won't go into the specifics of why time trying to- Aximmetry has all camera smooth, like motion smoothing. And I spent forever trying to You just need good data. Like that's what it comes down to. You just need awesome camera data And so I know they've actually improved, they are now with the Mars and stuff. When you, when you were using to hack when you had just had to So to clarify, this is not the VIVE Mars- No, no. And I wanna, yeah, I cannot- Okay. So to clarify everyone, right, if VIVE Mars- I don't think they, I don't they Like it was, it just- No, that was my, this was my first and then I like realized, it's like, I'm like, I don't want, I don't, I don't want the Find out you had to like jailbreak it I was part of that wave they tried like Antilatency. Uh, that was fine, but uh, I got the clearance to get the ceiling model. And what I found is as you walk on the like, even though you won't even see it. Like, there's some, like a little sensors, and I just wasn't getting So, um, eventually I was like, who's are, what is the industry using? I found there's not a The industry uses a lot of things. But one of the things the And I saw some of their demos and and it looks like a workhorse. And at that point, I was so fed up with Caveat, nothing is set and Nothing. But I want something that set and forget it. And so, that's when I I started talking to them Ever since I got that, that's to pixel perfect as I can get. The data coming in as really good. At this point, it's more about like lens distortion on different lenses the things that, you know, you take for are problems when you're just trying to But then you're like, oh, now But yeah, so that's been my It's super fun. It's super rewarding and it's super hard. I mean, it's like, it's And I still think, like, I just virtual production, indie virtual cameras, I think is 100% approachable. I think Aximmetry plus some rendered pipeline from every YouTuber. Mm-Hmm, and you can get final have to touch it afterwards. Indie virtual production for moving approachable for the layman YouTuber. And I mean that because I say that as my resources have sort of expanded. But I know when I started on YouTube, I could have never afforded Like there's just so much you need to camera, virtual production that I think And not saying like, oh, this is afford a camera and some lights. Like, it's not yet. You can do a lot with a basic green But you, but as far as like trying to you're willing to spend some time. I think match moving is maybe like a cheap workflow for that. But even then, it's, it's hard. Yeah, I mean I think the only viable if you're fine filming on your iPhone Even Aximmetry came out And so if you're fine filming on your these sensors that we need built into it. yeah. The, The kit's actually pretty good. Yeah. Um, so that, yeah, that's the most Um, but yeah, if you want to get it's gonna get more complicated. Yeah. It's a, it gets a lot more complicated. But it's fun to develop into that because try to build up to a workable pipeline. I mean, I still, I just And then you realize, oh, the I should have subtracts with this dolly. But the tracks cost like $2,000. I mean, it's like, this stuff is just the kind of world of, you know, world So, um, I always like to say that this world is becoming approachable, but I think it's just responsible to kind approachable as of now, where it's not. I think what's exciting is to the of the spoils, I mean, I think the this out, you know, get a lot of the I haven't seen it before. That's really cool because in doing now won't be as noteworthy Everyone will be in their metaverse Everyone's gonna do it and everyone's you're so lazy for doing that. And then it's stuff that we've all been Yeah. Well, I think, I think of the, the MKBHD studio tour, and he's has a robot camera, like a half You know, and he is like, it channel with these types of shots. ' cause tech reviews are easy and no one's- right no one's gonna do this to Um, with the shots that you are moving, and doing post stuff, um, afterwards, or are you doing post work to them? Nope. All of them are post. I am slightly skeptical of, um. indie virtual production final pixel. And what I mean by that is, I think ton of experts, you can do all that. 'cause basically, final pixel production to pre-production. And what I do is everything That actually turned out to be a really So when your problem is not time on just a lot because I, my, my problem I, I, I have all the equipment, Um, whereas, you know, if you're days, but you can spend as much as you moving everything to pre-production But, uh, I've been keeping an eye on comes with its own set of challenges. I think the green screen is a bit, it's So I think people are sleeping on it. But actually it turns to be able to solve all your and be like, oh, we can just insert this. Oh, we can change this. Oh we can do that. Um, and we don't have to pull talent like, oh actually in the edit we should What do we have to do? We have to put everything back, call sure that take matches with the old take.. I mean, final pixel is like cool when don't get it the first time, it actually It's final pixel. It's like it's done. So, um, yeah, all our like cinematic all- most of the work is done in post I'm, and I'm keeping This probably then answers are LED panels on your radar and going that route But you probably just Yeah. No- Just not enough- people power to do- set up ahead of time and like have- I I guess- uh, I guess the I mean, I feel like it's the same It's like there are points where these The point where, you know- I'm trying to create a second set for a unrelated project. Anyway, I'm trying to use a really distance from the, um, the wall. And I started realizing, LED panel that I could pull some bulk instead of getting a lot of spill on me. I could just have natural lighting. So there's like cool stuff to And if you get the right setup, I I forgot his name, the jet guy He built a set where his Oh, yes. I do know he had- he used windows he used an LED panel. And I think, I thought that was genius. I was like, this is the perfect And like it can cast real light You can have this curtain and all the lighting like looks nice. So I think everything's a tool. Right tool, right job. And you as an artist will find Like, uh, this is true with, uh, like, like building a house. Everybody knows some tools are there's those gray zones where I just like using it. And I prefer or I prefer this. So, um, I think that's true. You kind of have to develop kind of how these tools work. You don't wanna say no to any of this, I prefer this set of tools. I prefer, you know, Yeah. Two tools I sort of touched on dunno if they're on your radar. One was, GhostFrame. It was a company we Their solution was sort of for this they can display multiple images So like you can record But then you could also have a green background So you're recording like three separate or switch out things later on. And then, Kino Flo came out basically a super bright LED panel where you can feed it images like your lighting source. which actually leads me into The noir lighting that goes across the drilling in my background. Uh, the noir lighting that goes across Do you add those in post? Um, so sorry, I had to write That's cool. I've never heard of that. I'm probably gonna check that out. And then as far as, oh gosh, you got to a bunch of great stuff. But, but let me answer your the noir lighting is, The window- Looks great. Yeah. No, no, no. So, so that i thought of, 'cause I found Aputure had some, uh, gobos like fake Venetian blinds. I was like, gosh, that would sell I, I think, feel like they Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And, and then we, we were like, Venetian blinds in the background. And then it just works because light has sold my show so well. Because it, it creates this- in the background and so your mind goes, ah, it has to be, you know- that, like where you're, you have in that case, it's not from the back. It's actually kind of, you're selling it But, um, it's always worth it. Then the coffee steam is That's like CGI'd on I just realized, oh, if I put my boundary, so it'll never be a problem. Um, so I should just do this. Let's, I thought of so many It actually fun. These are like fun little- see if virtual production is for you it's con, sorry, I like, I have It's constant problem solving. Uh, um, so like one I created, I got a little fog fog machine. 'cause I was like, oh, I'll cut a hole through my desk I'll just kind of have it drip. It was a great idea. But then you realize, one, the fog doesn't Like it doesn't, it doesn't work. So then I was like, well maybe I'll put a boiling water to like create real steam. Um, no one's gonna have seen this level But then I, but then I started trying It actually creates all these its own layer of like, opaqueness. So it's like half opaque, which tears And it just created so many headaches. And then I was like, well, I you find me like a loop of steam? And I put it on and it just looked And I was like, all right, all this time trying to. So, um, yes, it, there is this to like, figure stuff out. There's like this fun problem Should I do it in live? Should I do it practical? Should I do it CGI? And um, if your brain looks like- just a really fun part of the Going back to the, the entire workflow research and everything done, how long say the script's done to, you know, So I'm just gonna assume you 'cause the, the script kind of But a, a workable draft- Enough that you're going to production. Are you doing your previs stuff? For a full like show, it's But that's like a full, we have the desk and we don't do a ton. We'll do maybe a few graphics. And then we have our, you know, more to put together like a full narrative. And those will take a month to two And how big is the team Just uh, myself. So I, myself, I have an And I am trying as hard as I believe in the power of small teams. I also believe in like, and working with super talented people. I'm trying to keep it small for now. Nice. and what other tech is on your radar like might be interested in? Um, this could go from AI even AI for helping research. Um, all of the above. What's on your radar? Uh, for sure not AI to research. I think that's a disaster. One hallucination is the like, um, analyzing documents or just like ChatGPT tell me this, but like, just a ton I used AI for one thing. I was trying to analyze like 50,000 emails And I was like, I could hire it out, figure this out, you know, with ChatGPT. I know a little bit of like a baby amount. Anyway, it helped me figure uh, to pull a bunch of stuff. So that's useful. Again. You can't- I, I, I don't believe I've found that for like mood boarding and up with some ideas, like for mood boards. Hey, I wanna create X, Y, Z, but I'm not a great, like, maybe I can't but I can describe what I want. If I can describe what I want, I board basically if I'm willing to There are a bunch of things There are some problems with all uh, I guess we won't dive into. But as far as like tech that's with trying to learn this craft. I mean, I don't think I really wanna learn. I'm trying to figure out what's next Like, like grip wise. I'm trying to figure out like, am gimbals, am I figuring out Steadicam, Gimbals not so much, but the other two. And I think adding that to my I don't think you ever also get of, you know, learning more about At this point. I think a lot of like the cool gear, I'm I'm like getting my hands near the gear. Now it's sort of about, okay, I, I am a big believer in the idea is never gets above the storytelling. Like you, like virtual production's subservient to the storytelling. I think tools are great, but to your skill with the tool. New tech is always sexy, and I'm like MIMIK lights and all that stuff. But I really believe this, like, all So, what I'm excited about trying to push like breaking new ground or, you know, kind of new artistic ways that hopefully Yeah. Um, We didn't really touch on it, the comments, but I'm gonna ask it. But what is the gear stack of like, just the tech stack behind everything Yeah. Shout out to all my- all these tech Um, so tech stack, I'm a Sony boy. Love Blackmagic, but I need autofocus. I need a snappy autofocus. I'm in the Sony world. FX3 I think is like the greatest For virtual production, Um, so, or not, not Timecode. You need Sync, which is different from I literally had to. Anyway, that's the whole thing. I tried, I tried forever to like, like do If you don't know what I'm into it, learn before you buy. Um, anyways, FX9 is my like camera ' cause it has Sync. It's also just an amazing camera because because you have the, I know people say dual-base iso, which is also a fun thing you learn. But generally I think the enough for everything else. Um, such an incredible camera. Like from the picture quality to the Because actually, one thing I should say, you want low light performance, guys, the fighting between three things, which You're fighting for a deep focus out because then you will have a the blurred out part will be green. It'll be like a mix of green So you want that. You also want as low of an ISO as you don't want a key noisy footage. And then you also wanna shutter speed So all of those things make So because of that, you, you So the FX3 I think is the right performance is good enough to where lighting to kind of get what you need. But that's, that's a hard lesson So that's on the camera side. Uh, my mics are a mix of like, uh, like famous shotgun mic is. M418- 416, whatever. Uh, and then like this is Tracking stuff, Mo-Sys all the way. Huge fan of them. I've heard good things production. I know like professionals use that. I would say if I was to do it all a lot of the indie options. I just don't think there are But I also haven't been in that can correct me in the comments. Maybe it's come a long way. I don't know. Software side, I'm obsessed with Aximmetry. I think Aximmetry is the Everyone's in the old I think software-based I will die on that hill. I don't care. Um, I I'm just, I'm serious. I- you got like, like Anyway, I think it's, uh, trash. Oh, lights, lights. Real quick, lights. Aputure. I believe in going into one ecosystem. DMX is also a, uh, great system, So I think the Sidus Link is like a Uh, I know other ecosystems do their own control, but it just saves a ton of time. 'cause I have all these like pre I can just like, press a button. It's like, hey, here's how you time, we'll just give it to you. You can change it later But um, you can always So, I, I think that's so good. Whatever you do with lighting, I really makes your life easier. I mean, sometimes you can't avoid getting- ecosystem 'cause they're just cheaper But I believe in going with one ecosystem. And then, um, I use like a little modif- see you and me at the same time, which is I think a huge thing. thing your scripts off a teleprompter Yep. Uh, mostly. Depends. Depends on the video. But I, I do like to, 'cause I, I think, like, you can't- you don't wanna like- Whoops. But, yeah, you're off by like a So, um, and I have been wrong about So that's something you don't wanna are great for making sure And then, yeah, I think that's mostly it. I recently got a treadmill that I use treadmill at work, but I think I'm gonna a new addition to- speaking of things you because I don't see how you that's actually the floor. So I think I'll have to pull that. But, so I think that'll be fun. Nice. And, uh, I know you're not editing, the software- We're in Premiere, but I Resolve has, I think there's It's kind of frustrating 'cause Resolve, like camera or anything color Like Dehancer, I think it's available tools for DaVinci is just so cool. So they're kind of screwing me over I don't wanna switch over. I've toyed around with like maybe then the Premiere, that's just I wish they would play nice One happy ecosystem. Yeah. Never gonna happen. Yeah. So I mean, I know you, uh, don't get stuff often, so anything we didn't cover worth mentioning or you wanna talk about? I will say, I will say, I think you get into this stuff, usually have figured a lot of stuff out. That's why you're watching them. But I think the great thing about YouTube specifically is you don't And I think my show is I think a lot of people's kind of I wasn't always polished and I'm still I think you spoke to that, kind of bring it full circle. People enjoy watching the journey. So if you're thinking about getting said a lot about, you know, where know, this technology moves so fast. Um, so I think you still very And you can figure it out as you go on I think in Hollywood, in kind of more a, you kind of have to have it all done. You can't be figuring it But I think that's the So if you're on YouTube, you're I think it's awesome. This, this work is super sick, and I'm take it on, not just from the tech side, just as a tool of, kind of building art. Yeah, just all about at the end interesting and better stories. Yeah, 100%. Yeah. Well, thanks a lot, Stephen. I really appreciate the time and, Yeah. normally I, I ask where But, um, in this case, just Coffeezilla. Go to YouTube. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, I just have fun talking about this. I never, I never get the I do kind of love keeping the Is it not green screen? But, uh, I think in a space like this, curtain, tell you guys a few of my tricks, working on, because I've gotten so much the people who are playing around with also pushing it forward 'cause they teach You know what I mean? I wouldn't be, you know, without people you know, kind of in the throes of there's these guys, CoPilot, I think, uh, yeah, Yes. Those guys helped me massively So the people who are building these, wanna poo poo on them 'cause they're for the rest of us to sort of take off. Um, shout out to those guys. Cool. Appreciate it. And that is it for this Many thanks to Coffeezilla aka Stephen peek behind the scenes of what goes his journey into virtual production. Links for everything that we talked about in the description or over on the show And again, be sure if you enjoyed like our VP Land newsletter, which like this, so go get it as well. Same website. Let me know what you Have you got any other questions see in the YouTube comments. Thanks for watching. I'll catch you in the next episode.