Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. This symbol, commonly called a Yin Yang symbol, is a taijitu meaning diagram of the supreme ultimate. The principal of Yin and yang, opposites existing in is associated with ancient Chinese But the very first use of the iconography, actually comes from a shield pattern Romans seven hundred years before its first known use in China. has yet to be found. the symbol was a bright idea. Well, apparent magnitude. Commonly used when stargazing refers to appears to us, say, when looking up from Earth. It depends on Earth-centric factors, to our planet. Magnitudes are logarithmic and arranged like golf, where a smaller number means a greater brightness. But today I'm looking for absolute magnitude, a measure of how bright things all over and far would be if we looked at them Absolute magnitude will guide light in the universe, irrespective of it looking faint to us here on Earth, just because it's far away. The difference is significant. A 100-watt light bulb placed closer than 8 centimetres - about will appear brighter than the Sun in the sky. But that's not fair. If you could see the Sun and the bulb from the same distance, the Sun would be That's bright. But the Sun shines punily compared to the rest of the cosmos. If you could line the Sun up with giving every star and cosmological a fair chance, the Sun's absolute magnitude would be 4.8. Not bad. But check out R136a1. This nuclear fuelled beast isn't the biggest star in terms of volume but it's 256 times more massive than our Sun. ever found and it's also the brightest. Remember that lower absolute R136a1 isn't 4.8, like our Sun, it is -12.6, which means it is 8.7 million times brighter than our own Sun. But R136a1 isn't the brightest thing out there. in what is known as a supernova or hypernova. As I mentioned in my video 'How Hot Can It Get?', radiation known as gamma ray bursts. the brightest electromagnetic events in A typical gamma-ray burst releases as much energy in a few seconds as our Sun will release altogether in its entire 10 billion year lifetime. If WR104, a gamma-ray burst future candidate, directly struck Earth with such a beam for only 10 seconds astronomers predict it could deplete 25% of our ozone layer and lead to mass extinction and starvation. The largest thermonuclear bomb ever detonated didn't do anything close to that and it here, in our atmosphere. Whereas WR104 is eight thousand light years away. or a pair of binoculars. events lasting only a few minutes at most, sometimes just a matter of milliseconds. If you want the brightest sustained thing, you'll paradoxically have to look at the darkest thing. Black holes. To be fair, dark matter is ostensibly darker. But because dark matter has been hypothesized to not even interact with light, with electromagnetism at all, calling dark matter &quot;not bright&quot; is kind of like calling your peanut butter sandwich &quot;a not fast airplane&quot;. Black holes, however, do interact with light; reflecting so little, well, they don't let any escape, at least not in a form resembling the way it came in. That's dark. But the intense energies created by things like stars is anything but dark. arcipluvian cosmic gallows known as accretion discs before making their final death plunge In the disc, debris spins at unfathomable billions of times more massive than our Sun. on a level difficult to fully appreciate. Just as hot things glow, the disk does too. So brightly it has its own name. A quasar. than even the brightest stars. I'm kidding, it's scarier than that. than galaxies containing billions of stars. The first identified quasar, 3C 273, of -26.7, making it four trillion times brighter than our Sun, about 100 times more luminous than the entire Milky Way. If you put 3C 273 33 light years away from us it would a mere 8 light minutes away. graph reveals that quasars exist in the that are larger than them in area, but are, nonetheless, drowned out by their light. Such galactic centres are called active galactic nuclei. The bulk of their energy spewing forth the length of which puts even our solar system to shame. in this photograph, for instance, is so to Pluto and back, one-and-a-half million times. Now, specifically, if a large portion of it's responsible for what we call a quasar. But if Earth is right and the active it's got a scarier name: a blazar. And it's blazar 3C 454.3 that clocked ever observed. absolute magnitude of -31.4. To put the brightness of quasars in yet another perspective, take a look picture snapped by the Hubble telescope. This is a star a few hundred light years away. And this thing looks just about as bright, but it is a quasar. 9 billion light years away. Why are quasars so far away? Well, a quasar is not forever. They are billions of light years away, which means the light we receive from are pictures of things happening They represent a phenomenon more common early in the universe's history, when all the stars around them to fuel their before those holes became too fat to be active. Neil deGrasse Tyson points out that in order to remain a quasar producer, a black hole must consume about 10 stars a year. Many consume more than a thousand stars a year, 600 Earths worth of matter every single minute. The more stars a black hole consumes, until, eventually, it no longer shreds stars apart to fuel an accretion disc. in one dimmer, but still terrifying, gulp. Quasars are some of the most If you could teleport instantaneously to one right now faster than light, it would most likely are just their ghosts. Light that left when they were active that traveled longer than they could live. But quasars can still be born. They can even be born right here, in fact. In my video 'What Will We Miss?' I pointed out that is headed our way. In 3 to 5 billion years it will collide with our own galaxy, the Milky Way. And the collision could rearrange stars near the reigniting a quasar right here, in our galactic backyard. Funny enough, right now very few of us even see Andromeda, even though all you Light from our cities drowns out the night sky like a quasar drowns out its host galaxy. Artist would look like if all their lights were off and the sky above them could be seen fully. New York, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Tokyo, Los Angeles. It's beautiful and rare. In the 1990s, during a blackout in the city of Los Angeles, actually called the police they were hovering above the city. They were seeing our galaxy for the first time in their lives. At night, artificial lights allow us to see what's around us but we lose what's above us. The brightest places have the darkest, emptiest skies. There's Yin and Yang again. A taijitu the entire time. The brightest things in the universe, quasars, are caused by the darkest things in the universe - black holes. The process that unshackles the most light is caused by the thing that best imprisons it. And as always, thanks for watching.