I always start the journey with a prayer for God. This is the road to abortion. If a pregnant woman A friend of mine fell with his bus into the ravine. There were nine deaths. Accidents are inevitable on such a dangerous road. Our lives belong to these mountains. We are Watch out, the rocks! I've taken care of a dead man before and brought him back to life. We're going to hit the jackpot! We're going to find kilos of gold! The road of the head cutters, Kalinga, Even if in the region, the heads It is said that the mountain spirits have The workers are already at work. Every day, it's the same fight against They must clear in record time the thousands The mountain crumbles every night. We have to clear the road so that In a few hours, the Bontoc buses will arrive. And we must not waste time, we must quickly clear everything. Further down the valley, the town of Bontoc. Without an airport and without a station, the road is a vital axis for its 15,000 inhabitants. If the Kalinga remains blocked, the whole region is paralyzed and even the serpent bone charms will not be able to do anything about it. Only means of transport in town, Please hurry up. For long distances, you have to take a 4x4 or the bus. It is a trying journey that awaits the passengers. The 532 bus, 20 years in service, will leave on one of the most dangerous roads in the Philippines, the Kalinga, on the island of Luzon. It connects Bontoc to Tabuk, the northern capital, An indomitable road under construction for a century. It takes almost a day, if all goes well, Here we go, let's go! Fernando, the driver's assistant, gives the starting signal. When his hand claps the cabin, The buses belong to the drivers. They don't hesitate to put passengers on the roof. A place sold at half price because the trip is at the risk of their lives. Roof passengers should remain alert if they Mind your heads. Each time he attacks the mountain, Ed, the I always start the journey with a prayer for God. It is he who watches over us. This road is very difficult. But I fell into the business when I was little. So I'm not too scared anymore. Terrible accidents have made the reputation of this road. Buses carried into the ravines by The rainy season has just started, I'm scared, especially when I see This is my first trip on this But travelers have a guardian angel to watch over them. Fernando, the driver's assistant, he scrutinizes At the first signs of landslides, he stops the bus. I'm the handyman on the bus. I take care of the luggage, the passengers, And I watch the road. I take them off To avoid wasting too much time, On the Kalinga, Fernando is not idle. The other danger on the road comes from An almost permanent roll which can Attention, here, it is delicate. The bus pitches too much. This time, the hands are not enough. To be a guardian angel on the Kalinga is Luckily, that day, workers come to their rescue. Me, I just watch. It is especially the The Kalinga is merciless with machines and men, and sometimes the mountain rumbles and demands its terrible tribute. 1 year ago, a driver friend of mine Yes, there were nine dead, nine dead and 50 injured. Accidents are inevitable on such a dangerous road. Since 2006, the Philippine government has undertaken But every day, nature takes back its rights. The concrete of the road is permanently covered Thanks to the government of President Arroyo, There have been changes. Before, the road was narrow, so the state widened it. He even concreted it in places. A fight between man and mountain Despite their best efforts, Christopher, the site manager, The bus will remain blocked for long hours. At the moment, it rains almost 6 hours a day. The water weakens the mountain, which slows down the work of the workers. At the slightest mistake, it's an accident. You have to know how to observe the mountain well, otherwise The mountain is really dangerous. There he is scratching the top And when the little stones start to fall, it And it makes a huge noise like that. One of my colleagues was buried. Watch out for the rock, come! Our lives belong to these mountains. We We have a duty to protect it. But We have to sacrifice some of it. Here, the mountain and the man live in harmony. We respect each other even in death. Some tribes even refuse to dig So they hang them on the mountainside, Before eternal rest, weary souls This is the signal that announces the start! That's it, the road is clear. Vehicles can finally pass. Come on, we're not restarting, we're continuing. The city of Tinglayan is in sight. It indicates the half of the trip. Before, people stayed in their village Travel to major cities is Villages remain inaccessible. So some have The tire must have been pierced with a nail. If the hole is too big, it is replaced and if it is small, a patch is glued. Wattari is the leader of the very official Team Unity. Quick quick ! Inflate the tire! Lookouts have just announced the imminent arrival of the bus. Go install the wheel. - It's good, it's fixed. After 45 kilometers and 5 hours of track, Some bus passengers are preparing for a new ordeal. ****, their village, is twelve kilometers away To get there, only one solution to take Especially since the motorcycles are loaded to the maximum. Road bikes on a cross road. Three Stone, crevices, ruts, to Without the motorcycles, it would take more than 4 hours With our motorcycles, we help the people of the village. It's a good job. They allow us Me, I really like this new job. Before, I was a farmer, I worked in In the beginning, we took bags of cement, And then, over time, we started transporting people. As the number of motorcycles increased, we This is how it works. If there are ten people It's one person per motorcycle, not two. We must all remain equal. In any case, with the girls, it works. These extreme bikers earn 8,000 pesos a month, around EUR200, more than twice the average salary in the Philippines. Christopher, the site manager we had Once a week he goes home Today, they are bringing back scrap metal to enlarge his house. The race cost him EUR7, 400 pesos. The price is reasonable, because if I had to It would take me almost a day to get home. Christopher brings food home Pasta, spices or even coffee. Everything else, like Two of his children came to help him. That's my house ! But Christopher has a little problem. My wife is working on the farm. You know, she harvests rice. Don't have the key? No, I don't have keys, we'll have to wait. In the city as in the mountains when you are I've come to borrow some coffee from him. Because my wife still hasn't arrived. **** has 850 souls. Most of its inhabitants grow rice. The lack of roads condemns the inhabitants to isolation. Christopher is one of the few to have He only dreams of one thing, having a good road so he can send his children to school and especially to university. We believe that if the trail that leads This would mark the beginning of progress for us. And we and our children would have a much better life. Here is my wife, she has finally arrived! A little surprise awaits Christopher. Damn, the window was wide open. In a corner of the main room, a treasure. Here is my motorbike. I will show it to you. I bought it in 2002 and it was the first As you see, I broke everything, the headlights, And the stones constantly punctured my tires. This track is hell! And above all, as I did not brake too much in Not everyone can improvise as an extreme biker. Here the only flat place is the village square. It serves as a training track Jeffrey, former grower, has been trying for a few days Watirry, the trainer, does not seem worried. I trained a lot of people here. When someone buys a motorcycle, he In the Philippines, the motorcycle license is not What about Jeffrey's conduct? I think now he is able to For Watirry, the instructor, balance cannot be learned Okay, so we're going to try this climb. Go first but above all don't put Watch out for my motorcycle! It is fragile. It's my livelihood. Look ahead and keep your balance. Stop ! I will block the wheel. Jeffrey smiles a little strained. He knows This part is particularly delicate and dangerous, Because the descent is really steep and the road very bumpy. There are quite a few cracks. So, I explained to Jeffrey how to find the balance. You have to play with the first gear and the brakes. Without a helmet, it's really very dangerous. So, do you feel ready? I'm ready, but for one passenger only. Be careful, be careful. There is a bend! In the valley, the bus continues on its way. It's been almost 6 hours since they left and they are They are late and above all very worried. A lot The recipe is not going to be good. Everything is fine, but we don't have many passengers. If he doesn't make a profit, he won't be able to pay Some people can't afford to pay This is not a problem for us. They will pay the difference on their next trip. Sometimes also, when there are not enough passengers, we Sweat as wages, every time That's it, we see the mountains of Tabuk. After 8 hours of driving instead of 6, the bus It's the end of a long and eventful journey. And for Ed, the It's a good job, But we don't make a lot of money Anyway the good season for us, it's not at the moment, it's from September to December that we work well. This time we didn't win big A bad day. They even have They will leave tomorrow with the hope of In Tabuk today, there are crowds. Ed, the driver, advises us to go see There is a healer in Tabuk. Many people He touches the diseased part with a little Under a makeshift marquee, several hundred He is revered as a saint. His name is Santono. In this very religious country, we come from afar To see Santino again, we traveled 230 kilometers. The first time, my husband had his neck completely blocked, And he was walking with a cane. Now it's already ok It's always the same ritual. Before accessing the miraculous treatment, men and women are separated. Men must appear shirtless, Then the assistants distribute for free This is the first step, the purification from within. On average, I receive 5,000 patients and visitors a day. The most people I have The second step is the mystical shower. Each of his followers to heal their pain. His gifts of healing, he would hold them since childhood. According to my mother, when I was a child, I even went blind. Yes, totally And then after that, I started self-medicating. I don't know why God gave me this gift. There are many journalists who come But they can't take pictures With water from its miraculous spring, Santino the demigod, Under the main tent, families For proof of his power before This woman is almost confined to a wheelchair. Accomplice or miracle, nothing stops Santino. I also take care of the dead. Once they brought me one. The secret of his source of life is right behind his home. Its miraculous water comes directly from the municipal network. The voices once told me to stop the water distribution because people tend to misunderstand things. They were beginning to believe that the water So I suspended the blessings for two months. Get up and walk. With this simple Santino's small business is not about to stop. And that makes Rolando, the town pastor, furious. The majority of people who come to see him never recover. Out of 100 people who went to his house, there are It is impossible for them to be able to cure them. I know And who have seen their condition worsen. They subsequently died. The pastor goes to the Banao gold mine. To get there, you have to take a jeepney, a 4x4 bus. 3h drive in a very uncomfortable position. It's very tiring. We quickly have pain in the legs or And then when there are a lot of passengers, that the The jeepney is made in the Philippines. But when you ask too much of it, its In a climb, a disturbing cloud of We have a small mechanical problem. A part is broken. Apparently nothing serious, but they are blocked. At the rear of the vehicle, they have what Luckily for them, a house is found Strangely, the driver is sure to find something to save him. Because all he needs is a simple rusty nail. That's it, we can go! After 4 hours of driving, the jeepney This place is called the Golden Gate. It's the In this Filipino Far West, the rules are strict, no one And before accessing it, a search I check the luggage to see if Here are the prohibited items in the mines. Our main objective is to ensure the safety of minors. Under the influence of certain products, The path goes deep into the forest. It's necessary The domain belongs to different tribes In total, about thirty more or less profitable wells. There may be up to 1500 men at work. Ramos has one of the most profitable mines and for The biggest mistake you can make with So, we have 6... No, ten sticks of dynamite. Lets' go ! We're going to break stone! We understand better why the guards confiscate Wooden cart, no helmet, a simple According to the miners, there would be few accidents. It takes more than ten minutes to reach the bottom of the mine. Watch your head! This drill is the only concession made to modernity. We drill holes in the rock to Ramos, the fearless, nicks every stick Once the fuse is lit, they only have Even sheltered in a corner, the shock wave is violent. The miners intended to check immediately if they were They have to get out quickly, otherwise it's suffocation. It's not easy to find gold! We're waiting outside cause the smoke from the dynamite is We will have to wait 4 hours before A little further down, the mine workers Have you seen how strong I am? Water not so clear because for Miners use a technique highly It has the property of fixing gold flakes. Mercury has been used here for 20 years. We are a little worried, but the only It is to prohibit access to the mine to As for us, we are going to die. We are old. Royce has worked here for fifteen years, he's the dean of the mine. Environmental problems, he puts up with them because gold, Mining activity helped to pacify the region. Before, the inhabitants of Balbalan were very poor Thanks to the mines, we were able to prevent the cultivation of Peace was restored through gold. This little wooden house and spring Because it is here that they come to sell their harvest of gold. 60 euros for three grams of gold, that's what In the Ramos mine, the smoke took more than 4 hours to clear. But bad luck for the miners, We'll have to dig some more, but Here we have a secret power. If we're tired, we have that power You do not know ? This Kili Kili Power is the smell of If you don't have the Kili Kili Power in you, you After 1 hour of hard work, verdict. Here's a clue. This stone contains what is called And that is a really good clue. If we dig In a month perhaps, we will hit the jackpot! Find gold, go to the central bank and sell it. That way, we'll be able to rinse off It is to remove the dust that we have at the back of our throats. At the mine, the men say that the fever In the Far West of the Philippines, At 62, Royce, the dean, still has hope. First I dug a tunnel ten meters deep But now I'm 120 meters away Everyone wants to be rich. It's the only dream people have here. If I don't find any gold, it doesn't matter. My tunnel is the legacy I leave to my sons, to Preserving the mountain and its riches is the But for future generations to enjoy It will also be necessary to discourage the arrival of foreign investors, Who are eyeing more and more on the