- Hey there guys. Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video we're going to be learning how three wire split work to get 120 and 240 volts. We'll look at how the electricity gets from the power station and then how it's connected and each of the main components. Now, this system is used in North America so we'll be using their If you're from outside this region, then you can still follow along but your electrical system We've covered that in a separate video. Do check that out. Links are in the video Remember electricity is You should be qualified and competent to carry out any electrical work. So, electricity is generated which is usually located far away. The power station generates and is connected to a step-up transformer. This transformer increases and is connected to the grid. The grid carries high-voltage electricity over long distances, over Once it reaches the towns and cities, it will enter a step-down transformer which will decrease the From here it will be distributed locally into smaller circuits on different streets or groups of properties. Connected to these distribution cables will be smaller transformers, usually pole-mounted which even further to a level safe On the property will which will quantify how much electricity has been used and the to invoice the property. The transformer will be connected by some cables which will either run above ground or underground. These cables will be two hot Inside the transformer we The primary coil is connected and the second coil will be The two hot wires are of the secondary coil and the neutral is connected Now, don't worry about We're going to look at this to understand it. So, if we zoom into the property, we find a main service panel a load centre or breaker box. If we remove the cover and look inside, we first find the main breaker. This is usually at the top of the panel but it might be at the bottom. The two hot wires from will connect directly to the Coming out of the main breaker These are basically exposed metal sheets which carry electricity Notice I've shown the current flowing backwards and forwards. That's because this is AC These bus bars as well as they are live or hot. The main breaker can be manually to everything downstream The main breaker will also to the property. It is rated to handle a certain passing through it, typically If this value is exceeded then to try and protect the property Inside the panel, we also have This is basically a strip and screws in it. The neutral and ground and the screws will lock them in place. In this example, we have a block on either side of the panel. As this is a main panel, the two bus bars can be joined together so we have a connector bar between them. That way we have a shared Sub panels must have their bar separated but that's a topic for a separate video. From the electricity metre, we'll have the neutral on the top of the neutral ground bar. Notice the green screw. This is bonding the neutral of the service panel. The purpose of the the used electricity It does actually get a little but we're gonna look at that in a more advanced complex video, this is just covering the basics. So, the two hot wires will and once it is used it will via the neutral bar. It is still AC alternating current but to make it easier to visualize, I've only animated the current so you can see the path it will take. Now, if we were to take our multimeter and connect one lead to the bus bar and the other lead to the neutral bar, we would get the reading If you don't already have a multimeter then I highly encourage you It's essential for any electrical Links down below for which If we connect the multimeter and the neutral bar, we would again get a reading of around 120 volts but if we connect the multimeter then we get a reading of double So, why is that? What's happening here? So, when we look at how the transformer is connected to the main panel, we have the two hot bus of the secondary coil in the transformer and then we take the neutral bus bar connected to the centre So basically, when we and the neutral bar, we're only using half of the coil. So, we are only picking up the transformer can provide. So, that way we get 120 volts. When we connect to the two bus bars, we're connecting to the So, we're picking up the full voltage which the transformer can provide. Therefore, we get 240 volts. If you want to learn then check out our video Links for that down in the Now, coming back to the panel we'll have our circuit breakers. These will look something like this with is black plastic casing The circuit breaker controls into individual circuits in the property. It can be manually but it also has two important features. The first feature is overload protection. The circuit breaker is rated to handle a set amount of electrical current. When appliances or lights they will each increase If too many things are then eventually the current will be more than the breaker can will automatically trip to cut and protect the property. The second feature is When the hot and neutral with each other, the current will dramatically When this occurs, it which will trip the breaker and Let's have a look at is connected to the electrical circuit. In this example, we will connect which is controlled by a switch. We take the hot wire and run this to the switch. We then run another wire from the switch and over to the light fitting. From the light fitting which carries the return current back to the neutral bus bar. We take the ground wire of the sealing box and the switch and we also join this as in this case it's shared. The purpose of the hot wire is to carry the electrical current The purpose of the the used electrical current and then back to the transformer. The purpose of the ground for a fault current. If for example, the hot wire came loose and touched the metal the ground wire provides back to the panel. Without this path electricity if you touch the metal box. As the current flows it would increase the current and that will trip the So, the electricity flows through the main breaker, and into the circuit breaker. From there it flows along the hot wire, across the switch and light then back along the neutral wire and into the neutral bus bar and back to the transformer. I've animated this using but to make it easier I've shown it flowing in We've covered lighting circuits in detail in a separate video. Do check that out. Links in the video description below. Okay, so what else might we find here? Well, we might find a which will let us connect to which we can use the like dryers, ranges and If we look at the dryer circuit example, we run the red hot wire which is connected to the and we run this to the receptacle. Then we run our black hot of the circuit breaker which and we connect that to In this case, we have the neutral wire connected between the neutral which will allow us to get from the outlet. Then we have a ground wire for any fault current. Now, we can either connect for our 240 volt connection or between the hot wire to get 120 volt connection. We'll also very likely which stands for ground This will look something like this and depending on the model you buy, you will usually have a connected to it. GFCIs are required on certain circuits where outlets are used for hot tubs et cetera. You should check with the for exact details. The GFCI breaker has both flowing through it. This way you can measure the and ensure they are equal. If we took a standard outlet, we would take a hot wire from the breaker and connect this to the outlet terminal. Then we take the neutral wire to the circuit breaker to a We then connect the pigtail This will provide the return path. And of course, we run the back to the neutral ground bar. If we look at this example, until the guy sticks a The electricity then flows through him instead of the neutral wire. The GFCI is measuring the and notices that these are not equal. It then automatically trips and save the man's life. We might also come across This stands for arc fault These are required for hallways, kitchens et cetera. Again, check with the for exact details. AFCIs work also by being connected to both the hot and neutral wires. Inside this circuit which is measuring the circuit and monitoring for patterns which indicate an arc fault is occurring. These are installed to how we saw the GFCI breaker. Under normal conditions, the back through the neutral into the breaker and through the pigtail and But if for example, a screw very close to the cable to expose the copper wires, the electricity could now potentially jump across or arc from the hot The arc is incredibly hot and causes most residential As the arc occurs, it in the electrical cable. The circuit breaker can detect this and will automatically Connected to the neutral ground bar will be a thick uninsulated copper wire which runs out of the bottom of the panel and off to the ground rod near the property. Under normal circumstances, will flow through this wire. Its purpose is to dissipate from things like lightning. This way the electrical is protected from damage. Additionally, we will to metal pipe work in the property. This is to provide a safe should a hot wire come into and this way will prevent if they were to touch the pipe work. Okay guys, that's it for this video but if you want to continue your learning then check out one of and I'll catch you there Don't forget to follow us on as well as theengineeringmindset.com.