Helter Skelter is arguably the most controversial tragic events that had nothing to do with the been polarizing for its unusual style. Whether that Helter Skelter is loaded with wild anomalies, years later. I'm going to explore some of these history. And as a fair warning: once I point them on the latter half of the Beatles' monumental Album. Like many songs on The White Album, Helter falling somewhere in between pastiche and parody, with scorching performances mixed with a loose structure that eventually collapses into to the occupational hazards of a brutal recording more buried in the chaos, too, which we'll get into by Paul McCartney in early to mid 1968 during the their extended trip to India. An early snippet film crew that had stopped by EMI during Paul's 11th. It wasn't until a month later, however, that in EMI Studio 2, the four Beatles worked for a bit turned their attention to Paul's new composition, Among this session's recordings is a legendary that is reportedly the longest Beetle studio bootlegs. A different shorter take from that night, on a few compilations over the years. Take Two of version. Here the song is performed in a haunting rhythm and multiple meandering guitar it seemed that the band was still experimenting After the late night July session, the band set of other songs that would eventually wind They finally returned to Helter Skelter on the session at EMI. The band recorded a series of and producer Chris Thomas, two young eager EMI the band's usual producer, George Martin, while when a substitute teacher steps in, The Beatles a session that was described by witnesses as Paul was recording his vocals, George Harrison a flaming ashtray on his head, channeling Brown. It turns out the undersupervised, chaotic some point between July and September, Paul contemporaries like The Who, Jimi Hendrix, Blue Cheer, Cream and others that were pushing the boundaries of sonic mayhem in rock. As the inveterate creative influences and rung out a fresh interpretation From the layers of distorted electric guitars, to the scorching vocals, to the aggressive bass, and Ringo's blistering percussion...literally. selected the final take from the September then spent the next day September 10th adding had recently set up at the band's request a for the very first time a few days earlier For Helter Skelter, the new harmonies, more guitar parts, a brief saxophone, played quite unconventionally by But that's not all. If you listen very closely, snippets through throughout the track. Some of these lines are buried so deeply among the other sounds, that it isn't Perhaps most bizarre is an entire bit son, I saw you do that, you little bugger, put your simply add to the song's viscerally unsettling spread across eight tracks, the recording was into the mixes. For a little context The White official release in mono. The mono format had been two channel stereo, which has remained the most Ironically, the white album's mono and stereo entire catalog, and Helter Skelter is probably of Helter Skelter which, was mixed first later stereo mix, including more prominent harmony mono mix is an entire minute shorter, fading out long only be heard on the stereo version. But within anomaly has sparked a heated debate among some know, Paul McCartney played bass guitar on back to their earliest hits. But in the September Beatles roadie, confidant and casual archivist Mal Evans session. He's referring to the slow July version bass guitar 'just for a change. In the October 1968 reiterating John on bass, Paul using Epiphone guitar, November issue, which includes summaries of a is finally mentioned by name with a final note unusual. Before The White Album sessions, there the final bass part on any Beatle song, and as Following Mal's account, most sources, including and even the The Beatles Rock Band video game, fender VI bass, a unique six string instrument with White Album sessions and later on during the Get Back sessions by John or George, typically while Paul was on another instrument. In 2018, however, a fans to argue that this might be incorrect. On disc of Helter Skelter was released that allegedly the final version. The debate springs out of Take shortly before the final take that was chosen for can hear two electric guitars and a bass guitar, one instrument each. Let's listen to the chatter one...&quot;. According to the new Paul theory, he's on the first beat of that opening riff. To help guitar. Next, Paul gives another instruction, Later on, it sounds like creatively with a tape rewinding sound instead well, at the end do that winding back the tape These with performance that immediately follows, have comments and Reddit posts. Fans have even dug Helter Skelter as &quot;a track we did in total madness shake out the jams and with that song Paul's bass line - and my drums - Paul started screaming and shouting and made it up on the spot.&quot; As far as from this specific session and neither Paul nor commented about the bass part here in the decades recollection, Mal's newsletter notes and the a few aspects of the actual recording to review John argument claims that helter Skelter's bass Fender VI, often described as being in between the Fender VI on another White Album track, Honey To my ears, it's not Helter Skelter's bass sound in the Beatles catalog, all of which were which were documented as being played by earlier. 'Why don't we do it in the road?' Or Glass Onion, recorded Why does this bass sound so different Paul had acquired a new Fender Jazz Bass guitar hence its regular appearance on the White Album, Next, let's turn to the performance. The John on part is too aggressive and too sloppy to have bass player. Then again, Paul's goal here was of control, the wackiest thing we've ever middle bridge section on Take 17, it sounds like part. Considering this sounds like a spontaneous him singing and playing. What about the other bass guitar, as the new theory suggests, then their usual roles on guitar. And I find this lineup sounds strikingly similar to Jon's opening riff weeks earlier. We also learned from the backing track are only playing basic chords throughout. plays the famous descending scale at this point unlikely that Paul would give such a critical especially John, who really didn't like to play auditory evidence from that day surfaced on the the band jumped into an ab libbed run through of To my ears, the spontaneous yet very bass player like Paul and a confident George. Because the band basically rolls into instrument lineup on both songs. Clearly archives that point to a fairly convincing case the original source of this long-standing bass sessions, was likely correct about John playing the session while Paul was still working out the session, perhaps Mal or the newsletter editor just fantastic new Mal Evans biography Living The these session dates and confirmed that Mal only John on bass in a diary entry from July. Mal's diary mention of the lineup, and no mention of John simply have repeated the July details by mistake. ways to corroborate details, a minor oversight like into the official narrative - that is, until recently. aspect to me isn't the answer, but rather that place. These organic little anomalies of the studio experimentation, are part of why the Beatles alive all these decades later. As a song Helter creative state during this period: unrestrained, off the roller coaster experience of 1967 1968, The Beatles as a cohesive creative unit was muster under the former Lenin McCartney regime diverse and polarizing album on which it appears, And that was intentional. As the loudest and point, Helter Skelter repudiated expectations of one written by Paul McCartney who had developed songwriter of the group. In reality Paul had avant garde and had been the impetus behind some though was perhaps the first time that this side Funnily enough, one early Skelter as a John Lennon composition, calling it invention.' Even today opinions of Helter Skelter tedious and even irritating, while others adore when the full band seems to be having a great that it marks a fascinating waypoint in their years earlier. As with many pivotal moments during contributing to emerging sounds, in this case heavy mainstream explosion from mega groups like Led there's a fantastic fan created mashup of Helter Definitely worth checking out. Sadly, soon after its release, Helter Skelter would involving Charles Manson and his cult of messages in songs on The White Album including the bestselling book recounting the saga. Despite the unfortunate association of the song with notorious than notable, and the original meaning of British amusement parks, mirroring the descending the way. Eventually the song's virtues began to for much-deserved reappraisal. Further help has released over the years, by artists including Crue, Oasis, Aerosmith and U2. After an understandable onto Paul McCartney set lists on recent tours, So what do you think about Helter Skelter? enjoyed this episode, and as always, subscribing.