When I was small we went to a Citroen dealership how odd-looking this French creation was. With the rear wheels half covered, my child's worked, and the car sat low like the suspension I poured over the brochure at home, and strange my young mind, amazed by this crazy space-age The CX was the last car produced by an independent With the company going into meltdown during it's another Citroen design classic that's This is the Citroen CX Story. (music) Citroen's DS had taken the world by storm, with its innovative magic carpet-like hydropneumatic suspension and headlights that turned with the steering. After its 1955 release sales had continued of the DS continued to climb, it became clear Work began on "Projet L" in the last few Robert Opron, who had designed the Citroen It was decided early on the car would use developing in conjunction with NSU. It promised to a be a lighter and more compact small engine bay. This would make it a more compact car - 16cm interior space. Projet L would also use the same cut-off teardrop for the SM and GS before it and it was styled The Citroen SM had shown that cars with a with rotary engines being thirsty beasts, Although not a direct copy, Pininfarina undoubtedly were contracted to do for the British Motor by British Leyland. Once the styling was completed the new car And with such a big focus on aerodynamics decided to name the new car the CX, after Although the CX looked like a hatchback, like But just like the DS before it, an estate A low roof design was considered, but with market it was felt the low roof wouldn't However, despite the roof being raised, European a lack of headroom. The DS mounted its engine longitudinally, to cater for the largest engine in the range. The CX would use a rotary engine, but it would models, and there was even a plan to use the By mounting the engine transversely, the engine But it also meant a new gearbox would have Engine noise would be kept to a minimum, from its base frame, which was itself rubber This gave a level of refinement not seen on The car would use an improved version of their that hydraulic system would also power the braking Citroen would use a conventional brake pedal, the DS and SM. It would use the innovative DIRAVI self-centring more expensive SM. But this would be an option, and without it, far too heavy. As development continued, it became clear The SM had been a sales disaster, and the The car needed to be released soon and it The Maserati V6 was dropped due to lack of system would appear a few months after the In 1973 disaster struck. After 10 years of development, Citroen proudly It made the car expensive - 70% more than Fuel economy was worse than with regular engines, It was launched in October 1973, the first month And to add insult to injury, the engine was After selling just 847 cars, Citroen quickly This had an even worse effect on the upcoming With its small engine bay, the car had been Citroen was about to learn the hard way that new technology, if that fails you are in deep, Ford would learn the same lesson when launching car functions could only be effectively controlled entertainment system. Citroen had to lean on the smallest of the and the car would launch with less power than Even if the Maserati V6 could be used, the was about to sell Maserati in 1975, removing North American sales were dealt a blow when adjustable suspension. Citroen had designed the whole car around was a non-starter. Even Mercedes had to alter their 450SEL that The rule was repealed in 1981, but by then In the summer of 1974, with Citroen spending dam finally burst and Citroen was forced The result was a partnership with rival Peugeot That partnership quickly progressed into a from Peugeot that Citroen would remain a (music) The CX was launched just a couple of months after the Peugeot partnership. It had been rushed to market, and it showed. The car's underpowered 2.0L and 2.2L engines Those 10-year old engines weren't very economical could make up for that. With heavy engines and the front wheel stored the car was up front making for an imbalanced At launch only the smaller 2.0L engine was reviewers spoke of a slow car with heavy steering. It's never a good idea to start customers because first impressions count! It clearly had its shortcomings, but there The space age design, the DIRAVI power-assisted science fiction dashboard - something of Despite their reservations, the press gave of the Year in 1975. A diesel version of the petrol engine, used delivering over 35mpg. But it was even more underpowered than the The promised CX Station Wagon arrived in 1976. It had an extended wheelbase that was also a luxurious level of rear legroom. And Citroen would also experiment with a seat up to 8 people. A 3-speed automatic gearbox was also available. And with it a larger 2.4L engine arrived, of 11.4 seconds. It was actually just the old DS engine that the CX's bonnet. The 2.4L was further uprated in 1977 with to a more respectable 10.4 seconds. Citroen took the CX rallying, and it had rally in 1977 that they won 3 times, and also They also took part in the gruelling 17,500 Sales of the CX we respectable, but not spectacular. Citroen didn't have the worldwide reach was no longer an option, and this limited But possibly the main barrier was some of The indicators weren't on a stalk like most switch, and they had to be manually cancelled The linear speedometer was a little unusual, handbrake where crumbs and ash could fall wiper blade which didn't reach all parts less overall visibility. Again, first impressions count and having on the all-important initial test drive could And car rental sales were going to be hard But to be fair to Citroen the car's design cars, showing the company was listening to The standout feature introduced on the CX an air freshener perched on top of the dashboard, Is it just me, or does it look like some sort Those outdated engines were updated in 1979 It was a joint development between PSA and but better fuel economy, and a more evenly And a 5-speed manual gearbox was made available The CX, like the DS before it, was customised The BBC used both the DS and CX to cover horse pictures over the bumpy grass terrain. And it was also popular as a small ambulance. PSA had two large cars - the Peugeot 505 third - the Talbot Tagora - with PSA's purchase But PSA's limited development and marketing cars, they were focusing on creating the new in the 1980s. PSA would slowly retreat from the large car continual relaxation of EEC trade restrictions The highest sales figures for the Citroen but by 1980 the competition was passing the CX designer Robert Opron had left the company on cars like the Renault Fuego. Citroen design lead Jean Giret, fresh of needed a styling update, so started Projet The update would be both a saloon and hatchback. But all this work was being done behind management's PSA had decreed that the CX would be the last When they got wind of the project they were In their mind the CX was old technology and The project was cancelled and PSA imposed By 1981 customer's love of the CX was dwindling. It rusted quickly, and Citroen did try to A small styling update appeared in 1982, but had been left out to dry. With a reputation as a slow car with high Even that class-leading drag factor of 0.36 But some small changes were made. 1983 brought the CX TRD, a 2.5L injected version The petrol GTi was boosted to 136hp, dropping And that time would be further improved with The 136hp engine got the car to 60mph in just it quickly back down to 0. The CX didn't have the prestigious 6-cylinder the slow tortoise it had been at launch! A much-needed styling update came 11 years The dashboard had a major update, with standard The heater controls moved to the dashboard, so it could get a dose of crumbs and ash rather It was a little more conventional, with parent that buyers seemed unwilling to put up with. On the outside the car got plastic bumpers ABS was still an option, but this was when Ford PSA were trying to get a few extra years from of the decade, and they wanted to spend a limited resources into cars that would deliver Over its life the CX was owned by many heads the Portuguese prime minister, Danish and Rainier of Monaco and his wife Grace Kelly. But it was also driven by more dodgy world and south American dictators Manual Noriega It seems everyone wanted to get their hands With the CX's successor, the XM in development improve it in the last years of its life. There were some small fuel economy improvements, give it a top speed over 120mph and a 0-60 the Citroen BX. Production of the saloon ended in 1989 with soldiered on in limited production for another The CX was hampered by a lack of finances an engine that ultimately couldn't be used, on power and handling. Once Citroen was bought by PSA the owner numbers game for them to try to maximize profits It's a shame, because the DS deserved a been available, and the rotary engine had A big thank you to all my Patrons for supporting To get early advert free access to new videos, supporting me using the Patreon link below button to get notified of new videos. Thanks for watching and see you in the next