Drift Trikes... absolutely amazing on flat But if You've only got grass, well it chews Let's do something about this! [Music] Furze drift, right now I think this is the the petrol version, this is the electric one, a neater, more symmetrical design as the one did all them years ago. Now, for today's challenge... so we can slide around on grass and not chew These wheels, very slippy, very good, have sharp edges, what we need is something the thumbnail you know where this is going. Right, and we're making these, okay we need to make some metal balls or some metal spheres going to use a process called hydroforming, up in the roof for nearly 10 years, so yes Basically, get two flat bits of metal, weld washer to it and expand it and pump it up. Now, I didn't think you could do sphears because I tried a circular one when all those years up and I kind of thought, yeah I can't really as possible before you start and then expand a circle, so that's what we need to do. Right stuff out. okay there's two ways we can make Bits of Paper and bits of wood or we can do it bit of a mixture of the two. Now essentially what we need to kind of square it up a bit, so need to put some straight lines in our circle like this, now you will lose a little bit circumference, obviously because this is a little bit shorter, join these up with some that will become the diameter of the bottom at the top of your cone and then you've got What we're trying to do is this... like this kind of uh, you like a weird bobbin sort of shape. Now then you can go online, there's all sorts of different craigrussell.co.UK put your bottom diameter your top diameter and then the distance between the two of them, obviously if you do a scale So once you've put those Dimensions into the calculator it profile and then the top and then basically something that looks a bit like this. Now of cutter, I have been to the barn I have cut ended up with these, very nice, but I know you're thinking... I haven't got a flash plasma cutter Colin, I don't use CAD software, how I get to this? Saw this on YouTube Ron Covell or conavel I don't know what his name is, is our pretend code there is our bottom diameter there is our top diameter it is spaced out this is our part of that Circle which is the top bit, piece of card place it down Mark in an edge it around, tracing where you want to be and as this and then you can cut it out with an it's not as good as this, but you'll get the Right let's go and put these through the slip roller bend them into cones, I've let's go TIG welding. Now, I'm using 1.5 mil stainless because I it'll Dent like hell, but it'd be interesting stainless is pretty hard stuff, so is this it going to be a little bit too thick? We shall see. beautiful [Music] Right that's got this sorted this end. Absolutely, perfect probably the best something not quite right, I don't know whether I've but we had a bit of a gap, now I've sorted our experimental one. we've got a few questions will the pressure washer pump it up and hydroform go a bit and a little bit wrong? now after Marks here, that's what I'm going to drill axle. Now this plate on the end is three mil thicker than that if that doesn't Bend, which Is it going to be Central or we're going to end just as bad as leaving it like this. Right [Music] This video is again sponsored by... you guessed What is a VPN? It's a digital privacy tool that masks your traffic, protects your identity and prevents Does it work on all devices? You can protect as many devices all at once available on Google Play and the Apple Store. Can it stop annoying adds popping up? Yeah, no adds, no trackers, malware, or phishing Can it help with gaming? surf shark uses encryption so keep camouflage mode even your internet service Can a VPN be hacked? a good VPN right surf shark is safe and secure it has to make it work. So to try Surfshark off and 3 extra months free, link below all right, let's do some hydroforming [Music] the pressure washer is time to get everything connected up ready began to build our bobbin shaped piece of but you know what, that is pretty good that! There's a couple of little high spots and stuff but only just, I reattaches the pressure and try tapping the high spots to see if I it just fell over and then it got wet. OK, will hydroform very nicely. now this top bit where the bottom where I had the slight issue perfect circle as the other side. now the things that was going to attach onto the axle that a curve to it so another idea we'll get this we'll do another two of them so we'll make we won't bother with a little axle thing straight and then afterwards we'll drill out a hole able to poke it through, get it right and kind of balance it so it's definitely in the center so we haven't got a wobbly wheel yes bobbin and this time I paid extra attention up absolutely perfect and also when I welded filler Rod I kind of melted them into each and consistent weld. right, let's see if this ah don't blink [Music] that's pretty good, and bottom, it's a little bit flat in the but I think if we make it generally a little bit bigger, it puts more pressure, more surface it's got a bit more force and it might have enough bit and make it into a perfect ball. now then a slight oversight! okay we've got our go-kart it and if we drill holes in here and put that not ideal so to get around this I've got a on it with the studs in there's holes so we to weld that on the end of our ball, very the next time Hydroforming, we've got this... bigger but not only that these are all equal 14 centimeters 14 centimeters it's all as right come on let you be the one [Music] That is perfect. why that's no moon! That is exactly how I wanted this to turn perfectly amazing! Right, now before we go and make another set up on it and then also we can try and Now, on the end of this circle here, there's cutter at the farm has its ability to like all the way through it just looks like a little useful so we can drill from the center of Circle and obviously the hole I drilled to so we should move too far off we're just lining between something and then spin it and see is then we can kind of move the thing around get that done look at it I am very pleased what would make me happy I want to live a games [Music] all I got is [Music] right that's slight High spot where the world is but I that and it's certainly no worse than the so I think I'll Whip another one up and then got one glove on [Music] March [Applause] ah there we have two perfectly formed balls! haha! right, very pleased with them, excellent now if you want to know more about hydraforming I did all those years ago, there's also a called Connor Holland who has done exactly the same things like this but he's also done I'll link him in the description and of course the beginning that's where I got how you can your computer, he is a master too also linked trike should match this so I'm going to make shine and buff the whole thing up and it looks [Music] [Music] [Applause] On wet grass you've literally have no grip it'll grip up. sometimes it'll barely move. Oh yeah the wheels are smoking! I'm doing a burn out on a drift trike! The lack of suspension is definitly hurting oh it to do, yeah it's been really good the axles that the hydroform balls have been absolutely apart it's all been good and of course they will mess of it now of course you've seen how I've my channel, I've got an electric one and I've weld or anything the whole thing's just bolted simple tools, so check that out give a subscribe you in the next project where I get weightless [Music]