Vsauce! Kevin here, with 45 chicken nuggets, that means you wait as little time as possible Almost. You've been grinding in the Mine all day and the only thing that you value right now chicken nuggets and some delectable, tangy get you as many nuggets as you want, but you because she canceled your Realms subscription. of nuggets that, due to available nugget configurations, that your new best friend is German mathematician In his late-1800's lectures, Frobenius toyed how we think about nuggets forever. The premise cannot be expressed as a combination of integers ya it was simple. The answer is the Frobenius Let me explain. Let's say, hypothetically, that nuggets common divisor is 1. If they only come in sorts of small nugget orders you just can't You can work out a table of possible combinations, who was so important to developing how we terms like "matrix" and "graph," came number you can't make from two numbers that - x - y. So, let's just plug in our 5 and our nugget Frobenius. Because look. 32 is 33 (9 + 9 + 5 + 5 + 5) equals 33. So is 34 is every other number after the Frobenius. Having a greatest common divisor of 1 is key is higher, like 2, there can't be a Frobenius in the nuggets. In the U.S., McDonald's 20. Because the greatest common divisor is -- presents an impossible ordering combination. nuggets. No! But as Brady Haran of Numberphile showed in in the United Kingdom. Since McDonald's 6, 9, and 20, Brady was able to stump the highest possible combination of 6, 9, and make. Because check it out, you can make 42 nuggets + 9 + 9 + 6. But no combination of 6, 9, and every number after 43. You can't make 37, number you can't make. You can work out all the possibilities for take too long. But while there is a formula those two numbers, there's no simple formula there's just an algorithm that ranges from But who cares about chicken nugget combinations? at a McDonald's half an hour outside of for canceling Realms? No -- but it matters in the world. The concepts that Frobenius and Sylvester tackled are really about what can you do with a given set of numbers, the heart of how we use coins and decide on in places like the US and the EU, we're We use what's called a Greedy Algorithm common sense way of approaching change. Basically, to get close to a number without going over, until we have the amount that we need. In and .25. A penny, a nickel, a dime and a quarter. quarters (.50), 1 dime (.10), and 3 pennies That seems like it has to be the best possible they really optimal denominations? In 2003, computer scientist Jeffrey Shallit American system, the average number of coins But by removing the 10 cent piece and replacing optimization increased markedly -- to just Knowing that removing a simple coin like the wondered what additional denomination would adding a .32 cent piece would reduce the average system, Shallit's addition of an .83 cent by about a coin and a half. But how easily can we even think about the difficult is it not to be greedy? If we had change would be 3 18s and not our go-to greedy Shallit's optimal denominations, we'd by half -- but how natural would it be? Is it possible that being can be more efficient in real life? YES. If you want to get wacky with me, it's possible between 1 and 100 cents uses no more than of 1, 3, 4, 9, 11, 16, 20, 25, 30, 34, 39, can make change for anything with some combination 4 common types of coins in the US, you'd or reason for their denominations. We even used to have a more mathematically simplicity's sake. The US used 2 cent pieces pieces between 1851 and 1889. Shallit's 2 or 3-cent piece reduces the average coins having to calculate with extra denominations some additional pennies. With fewer coin types coins and holding up the checkout line at It turns out that sometimes what's best In 1870, French military engineer Charles for the world to use with... well, nearly could streamline how we think about the world, "R3" shows up in the "1-2-5" system US and Canada use a modified 1-2-5. Is that heuristic, a basic set of rules to help us process our numerical optimal way to do everything? Well... no, not the best possible result in terms of math. of people. In most of my videos I like to extract the but for this one it turned out to kinda be don't always play nicely with how our brains practical limits to how we can apply our advancing -- and that's okay. Because whether it's chicken nugget boxes or pockets full of coins may not necessarily be best for the human Unless you really, really, really want 43 And as always -- thanks for watching.