Hit the Subscribe button on this channel and from chess talk. Hello Chess Friends and welcome to Chess Talk. Today I am going to share with you a secret opponent in 7 moves only. This trick can be played by black against In this video, I am going to show you the and win the game as fast as possible. I am also going to show you the solution to along with your comments and correct answers. Plus, there is another interesting puzzle Let's see if you can solve that. So stay tuned till the end and while watching free to post them in the comments section I will be happy to answer and help you out. I am Jeetendra Advani. You are watching Chess Talk. Let's get started. The trick I am going to show you now is popularly This is the Italian game so We start with White plays pawn e4, then black plays pawn Then knight f3, knight c6 and Bishop c4. This is the initial setup of the Italian game. This is a very common opening that you will You are playing as black &amp; it's your turn. Let's throw a surprise now. You will play knight to d4. This looks like a crazy move. I say this because of 2 reasons. Firstly, you are violating one of the most piece twice in the beginning and secondly, I am sure White will be licking his lips after If your opponent has not seen this trap before time and capture your pawn with his knight. Great, that's just what you wanted. Your opponent just got trapped. Now it's time to unleash your next surprise. You bring out your queen to g5, double attacking This seems like another blunder because White f7 pawn to double attack the queen and rook. If he plays this move, then he is gone. You will now capture the pawn and play queen White now has only one good move here. He has to prevent his rook from being captured Now it's time to finish off things. Black plays queen e4 check. The king can't move and If he blocks with knight. So the only move left for white is to block And now comes the killer move. Can you spot it? Yes, Black plays knight to f3 and says Thank Amazing. Isn't it? Now Let me just go back &amp; show you another Let's say in this position, white instead his knight. Then from here, you can take the rook with The king can't move so the only move white Now your queen captures the pawn on e4 and White cannot block with his queen because with his bishop. Now knight f3 won't be checkmate because he So instead you bring out your bishop to c5. Now no matter what move white plays, you can Say, for example, white plays pawn to d3. Then you will play knight f3 check. Black has only one move, that is, king f1. Now you will play the killer move queen h4. I call this killer because you are threatening Firstly, queen to f2 is checkmate and secondly White can try playing king g2. But then after queen f2, if white plays king king h3, then pawn d6 makes it checkmate by That's Awesome, right? So that's how this gambit works.Now the most How do you save yourself from this trap? Well, the best way to counter this is to play When black plays knight to d4, I would suggest This makes it a real good position for white His piece development is better and plus he So that's how white should play. So that was all about this opening trick - the Now quickly, let me just show you the solution I had asked you to find the best move for Well, the best move is rook to h1. Many of you got it right. Correct answers with perfect explanations I will be posting your names on my Facebook Do check it out and like our page for more So Coming back to the game now. After this, white will have to capture the Then black can promote to a queen and give And after a few more checks, black can fork gain a match winning advantage. Okay, so Now its time for today's chess puzzle. As you can see in this endgame, white is looking to do the same. The black pawn has no obstructions whereas bishop. This looks like an easy win for black but It is White's turn now. There is a beautiful sequence of moves that Can you find the best move here? Let's see if you can. Comment with your answers. I wanna see how many of you get it right. So That's it guys, Hope you enjoyed this video! Don't forget to like this video if you find Hit the subscribe button to watch more such If you have any questions or video suggestions, For some interesting chess tips, tricks &amp; puzzles, Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you soon!