TOMMY: Fortnite's Storyline is 6 YEARS in a journey that ties every single event, season While key moments come and go, there is one It has stood the test of time as wars have to steal it, and it has destabilized... way too often. From the FIRST appearance in the Butterfly is the ENTIRE Fortnite Storyline Explained. So many things have changed since our first All of this began millions of years ago when It formed every single universe in an instant, It's here where the Big Bang left behind it out, the energy compressed itself into This is tethered to every single reality in and that's what makes it so incredibly powerful. As a result, it needed to protect itself from is where the Island is created... On the surface, it appears as a powerful storm in space and time. Anyone who tried to visit this island would or manipulated by the Zero Point's strange Against all the odds, he captured control know him as Geno! He's a scientist who is obsessed with perfection as the Oathbound. During his time ruling as the Champion, Geno We're not sure how he discovered the Zero realized its full potential. His long term vision was to create the perfect just phase one of his true destiny. With the orb, he knew that if he could see about each one - he could use that information One day he left behind his homeworld but Geno In his place, he left behind a clone of himself There is still more research to be done into created when someone leaves... the Loop. Originally, the Loop worked differently, but sculpt it for his own evil intentions. Along with a mysterious inner circle, Geno as The Imagined Order. Their headquarters were built around the Zero The Bridge. With this new-found power, the IO were able people's memories - even: unlock immortality. To recruit people for their perfect society, It's a program that forces people to fight it removes your memory, ability to speak, again. Sounds like a great way to judge people, but no one would ever agree to this - so they realities. It was working perfectly, as more fighters in return for joining the Imagined Order. Not only that, their whole family could live - its why we see towns and houses on the map. Not everyone is as lucky... in fact, some life. Their memories get wiped as they are forced Order. Thousands of years later, the organization the radar... until they kidnapped the wrong Those who were way too intelligent for the This unlikely group of vigilantes are from very different, they have one goal: destroying Point. We know them - as The Seven. On March 20, 2018: people living on the island They rush to grab a telescope, getting a closer It's... a meteor. Panic ensues, as they try to predict where aliens or an extraterrestrial visitor - If In April, TVs around the island begin to show collision. As the meteor gets closer &amp; closer - they A huge crater is left in the ground, as the They build a facility at the crash site, disguising Unfortunately for them, they weren't fast A mysterious character breaks out of the meteor introduction to: the Visitor. He's on a mission to test the capabilities on protects them from the effects of the Loop! It's a success: as he steals a rocket from This was supposed to be a harmless mission. Instead, it began the Fortnite storyline as invite pure evil to the island... and kickstart Before the Visitor's rift can close, a dark it's: a Cube? While this may look relatively harmless, it blow. It's bright purple, flowing with corruption, This Cube begins to roll around the island, target: The Zero Point. Eventually, the search leads it to Loot Lake, The Zero Point is barely able to defend itself, it's already facing a new threat. A huge shard of ice crashes into the island, castle of unknown origin. It belongs to a power-hungry Ice King, who One of them is trapped in blocks of ice, and he's able to break free. With the chains gone, he's revealed to be Both of them want to take the island for themselves... as opposite elements, they can't survive The Ice King covers the island in snow, cooling His archnemesis responds, stealing dragon a small army of Hybrids. This is enough for him to fight back, and Peak. Before his plan comes to fruition, the Ice frozen in the ocean for good. Unfortunately for them, the volcano still biggest cities - And, of course, the castle. It breaches the iceberg, unleashing a monster It IMMEDIATELY breaks free, and the Imagined don't really care. They are perfectly fine with the monster damaging the zero point. Their solution is to create a doomsday weapon the monster. That's when a prisoner of their own speaks The Paradigm, a member of the Seven, explains She offers a better solution: to pilot a giant They reluctantly move forward with the plan, volcano. It's time for the Final Showdown. In the ULTIMATE Live Event, Paradigm slays corpse on the island. She knows that if she sticks around, the IO flying directly upwards into space... Her new mission - investigate where the Monster When they learn about this, the Seven are They think she betrayed them by working with it's radio silence. Quickly, they learn that her robot has crashed The temperature is simply way too cold for made it. Back on the island, the IO has bigger problems Before the Monster was killed by Paradigm, Grabbing the orb, she used it to stun the And it was destabilizing FAST. As it begins to implode, the Imagined Order else does: The Seven, Our sworn protectors Time itself is breaking down, bringing the the island. Out of the new meteor emerges our latest member: plan to save reality. He builds Rift Beacons around the island, prepare the other members of the Seven for Together, they will use rifts to unpause time, For that to work, they need the meteor... The island has now been reshaped by the Zero sandwich the orb for extra protection. The Imagined Order needs to re-establish control They send agents to survey the area, but quickly: Only one problem, these snapshots are... different. Altered by an evil mad scientist known as This scientist belongs to a secret crime syndicate greedy leader. His true power is in the form of the Golden he tried to steal the treasures of an ancient Despite this, Midas' organization is taken grab power. With his vast wealth, Midas makes a new organization Instead of committing crime, Ghost becomes activities around the island. Quickly, Midas learns about the Loop and the evil plans. This causes him to recruit his daughter, Jules, To distract the IO from his plans, he wages building a device that'll destroy The Loop He believes the key to doing this is The Storm loop, by bringing it in every 22 minutes to So, by pushing it back, he'll free everyone What he doesn't know is that the Imagined John Jones is a field agent who has dedicated Under their oath, he has done covert work snapshot every time he re-enters the Loop. Before Jones can figure out Midas' plan, Midas' plan works... - until things get He didn't account for the fact that The it's alive, and controlled by the Zero Point. In a defensive reaction, the storm protects Midas has failed, and overtime... The wall collapses, flooding the island and It isn't long before Agent Jones has to Turns out that when the Zero Point created amount of energy. In a case of extreme unluckiness, it got the one that we are very familiar with. It's here that crossovers enter the storyline, other than Galactus, Devourer of Worlds. He is drawn to this massive energy surge, contains it. Of course it's the Fortnite island, and it also brings a whole cast of characters If he's able to devour the Zero Point, it This kickstarts a plan from Tony Stark to his lab to the island. Every day the island's residents see this the plan is revealed. Tony spent all this time building custom battle and lasers and now the day has come! We're able to fight him off and ultimately we rifted him away for good... but this causes With Galactus exposing the Zero Point, it's We know this time period as The Zero Crisisand it. Right now, the Imagined Order is panicking, They don't care if reality breaks down, the Zero Point and escapes the Loop. So, they send Agent Jones on a task. He travels through 88 different realities, best bounty hunters so they can hunt down After spending months on this task, he returns than when he left it. He begs his boss, Doctor Slone, to do something, Time is running out, and Jones refuses to Instead, he takes matters into his own hands, He breaks into the Bridge, searching for a So he does and With this newfound knowledge, for the island - where the Zero Point is on He rushes through all of the hunters he spent Finally we are introduced to the Foundation, with Geno for centuries. Now that Jones has offered to give him Geno, As it starts to break down, the orb blooms Jones has studied it his whole life, but this this. There's no time to admire it, though, it's save. The only option now... is to contain the blast. The Foundation seals himself in a tower of Jones to overload his portal gun... leaving The Spire encases the Zero Point, with reality state. It's overtaken by a Primal biome, as the They bring in Spire Guardians with powerful secrets from ancient hunters such as Raz. He claims that the Spire has been calling on a mission to learn its mysteries. While tracking down the island's artifacts, by John Jones. Raz immediately begins searching for the Spire's to the ultimate artifact. Before we can stop Raz, one of Jonesy's are people who think the Spire will make them It will, but it will also exploit their every Do not allow the Spire to corrupt someone Or Jones does not stand a chance. Go now, before the Spire attracts any more It's already too late. Raz has found a crucial artifact that is way This shard is all too familiar: it's a piece with the corruption still intact. Upon wielding it, Raz succumbs to the darkness, We're able to take it away from him in time, Before we can discover just how important amount of secrets hidden underneath the island. As a DC crossover, it revolves around Batman, a rift in Gotham City. As the world's greatest detective, he is With help from Catwoman, he escapes the loop the final seconds. Now free to roam the island out of the loop, They form an alliance and decide to get out Only problem is... they can't just swim And now they've escaped the Loop, there There's only one way to get home, and it's Point. The group is able to unlock one of the metal in search of an escape. The room is extremely ancient, protected by It's a tough battle, and in the chaos, Fishstick It becomes apparent... one of the group... The others, in shock, decide to carry on. The further they progress, the closer they Eternal Voyager, in his desperation to escape, split into a million pieces. The Zero Point cycles through countless realities "He got his wish, he'll be voyaging for After hours of discussion, the group figures goes home first, before one of the members Deathstroke has been working with the Imagined Fishstick. They break out into a fight, before tying through the Zero Point, as the Gotham City Once the Zero Point has finally been calibrated City, as Batman and Catwoman go after him. Once they're home, the memories come flooding Loop, but in their previous lives they were More importantly, both of these events have the story to progress. Heading back to Raz, his use of this dark This is what Jonesy's snapshot warned us As we look to the sky, UFOs begin to abduct theorist named Mari starts broadcasting about She warns the people of the island that Aliens for the IO. More importantly, Doctor Slone, Agent Jones' But their invasion had already begun. Slone has no choice but to fight against them, Order. The mothership sends a huge army down onto Their goal is to annihilate everyone while It moves around, taking Slurpy Swamp, Coral The Kymera also scan our minds in an attempt epiphany. She's figured out that the Imagined Order to the enemy. This is a perfect situation that can be manipulated, Of course, this gets into the hands of the of operations is at Corny Crops. And yes, this is true, but what they don't with a huge bomb. Right on cue, they move to Corny, and abduct Imagined Order. Only, this is part of a secret plan known aka us, to sneak onboard and make sure everything We break out of prison, making our way through of guards and obstacles. Eventually, though, we make our way to the Complex, and all the bombs attached to it, Satisfied that Operation Skyfire is a near There's only one problem, the Aliens have We're able to shut it down, but with 2 minutes Slone delivers the bad news. The loopers are panicking, desperate for a We approach the dying Cube and collectively restore its purity. Now, glowing blue, it's on our side - until We've been standing on an elevator this higher into the mothership. Turns out there's one final reveal, a plot Order's ranks... and change our perspective The Kymera didn't bring back the Cube from Kymera. That was just an enslaved army - the true It's here we meet: The Last Reality. We may have taken down their mothership, but cubes have crashed onto the island, and one to date. Sure, these are corrupted by a dark evil, character known as The Cube Queen. Exiting her Golden shrine, she summons her off the IO's forces. The Last Reality are very different to our Each threat has wanted to take control of Galactus. But their motive is extremely worrying. The Cube Queen and her minions want to use has ever lived. Because it's tethered to all realities, instant - making them truly, The Last Reality. The Queen's plan is already coming to fruition, back home in order to make it work. She sends her army of cubes to the center where They create a Pyramid, known as the Slone was fooled by the Last Reality during up against: it's finally time to put together Except... she doesn't. Instead, the Imagined Order are more distracted After being stuck in the Loop, he was arrested else has been discovered too. The Foundation, trapped at the bottom of the Months have passed since he was ejected from is. Leaving the ocean, he stumbles across Gotham calibrated to. In this strange world, the Foundation is immediately a threat. After fighting, they talk it out, where the with the Imagined Order and has nothing to They want to take down the IO and liberate He explains that the Seven have always had the ability to create Sideways Rifts. This is a way to traverse different realities This technology was experimented with in Chapter is: it takes a long time for the rift to close, On the other hand, the IO doesn't know how basically the ones opened by their guns. Learning all of this, Batman agrees to help Once back, he realizes that he needs to find A lot has changed since being thrown from the other members of the Seven and figure Slone and the Imagined Order have never cared maintain control of the orb, everyone dying It's happened time and time again, like the Seven, as usual, have to swoop in and The island has flipped, The Imagined Order have been caught by total surprise, Their plan to take back control of the island the wall and because of this, their hiding This whole time, they were living on the other where they could keep friends close, but enemies Now, this peaceful retreat has been exposed already planning their counterattack. The Seven and IO have been at each other's against each other. Until now, where the tension has reached boiling As the Seven recruit as many loopers as possible, Other members of their team join the fight, plans to push back against the army. He has one of the most interesting backstories he ultimately realized that their dark energy So he escaped, leaving his identity behind He was captured by the Imagined Order shortly but one day, the Seven broke in and rescued He walked out of that prison with a new name: ever since. But he's not the only member with an intriguing The Order and the Imagined are the sisters We don't know how they were reunited, but war against... their father: Geno. The Imagined has been spending her whole life As children, he genetically modified them super strength. Reality was their playground, but one day... things changed in an instant. One of the members of his inner circle offered Could the sisters become the first to ever Geno was confident, but his obsession with The sisters escaped the loop, but not fast Loop had created snapshots. Only, these versions were more brutal, and He replaced his own daughters with more powerful backs on him and join The Seven under new However, despite being twins, they have very The Order wants to help destroy the loop and simply wants revenge. Despite all of this manpower, there is only and she crashed onto the Ice Moon years ago. The Scientist is adamant that reaching Paradigm As far as the others are concerned Paradigm always held out hope. He's in love with her, and is desperate After breaking through to her, it turns out To convince the others, Scientist tells them instead. At the same time, Slone is busy on her counter-attack. With the loopers rallied behind the Seven, and decides on a more... destructive plan. Instead of wasting resources by fighting on and begins work on a device known as the Collider. The same one that was gonna be used during them out of it. If it destroys the Seven for good, Slone will The Order hears about these plans and tells Their rescue mission is a go: not for Paradigm, to destroying the Collider and winning the Before they can do that, they need a powerful the Zero Shard. In a secret mission, the Seven sneak into explores the wreckage. He finds his old office, which is now upside It's of his wife and kids, which he left When you join the Imagined Order, you swear Your family can also take this offer, but family refused to do that, despite living As a result, they were not immortal, and only They lived to ripe old ages, as Jones was As his kids got older, too, he told the Imagined dying with his grandchildren that he barely But he was too useful to Slone by then, and would lose the protection on their homeworld. So he stayed... for descendents he's never Now, that is eating him up inside, and as They continue their search for the Zero Shard, ON the Ice Moon - Perfect, they can crush Until they approach a frozen castle... something As the crew walk inside, they find a room in pillars. And at the end of the corridor... the Ice King. Who reveals his true intentions after all "Greetings, visitors. To reach my throne room alive is an achievement "Uncounted ages ago, brave allies and I Things and beings too dangerous to exist." "My worst fears were realized when my staunchest realities to our liking." "I was forced to freeze him, my other knights This explains why the Ice King and Fire King they used to share a roundtable. He wasn't a Prisoner because of a small reality this whole time. The reason the Ice Moon is so uninhabitable could be isolated for all time. Now that they are standing in his impenetrable are too dangerous to remain free". But before they can be wiped out by the Ice Paradigm. She grabs them and destroys the castle. "We're headed back to the island, one The Zero War is about to end." In the wreckage, the final battles commence. Doctor Slone is the Seven's last obstacle With Slone out of the picture, The Order and father, Geno. He's here to personally face off against "This is ridiculous, you're still my blood. Just ask and I'll let you live... send you Little does he know, the Imagined isn't "I have a better idea, we'll send you Everywhere." In one last sacrifice, the Imagined decides She gets her final wish, tackling him straight countless realities, they are both ripped Jones and the Foundation chase Geno, not expecting The Imagined has died in his arms, and he's Geno has one final message for the Foundation. "You always believed my methods were abhorrent, Congratulations, now you get to prove it. I genuinely hope you were right, because if I have to go now. I have to admit, it's good to lay my burden It'll be nice to rest." He fades into nothing. Geno is dead, and the Imagined Order has been The Zero War is over. They won. Celebrations across the island spread like Now the Zero Point is finally liberated, it But not everything is as it seems. The orb is sending out distress signals, and island. The Scientist is confused, and can't understand But it's all the work of a villain hiding using the Zero Point to search across the In her search, she finds... The Nothing. This is a TRULY evil presence that gifts her to be unleashed upon the island in the name With Geno out of the way, and the Seven caught The Scientist, Origin and a whole lot more Paradigm is the sole survivor. The only thing She can do is return to her her friends back and save reality. Except, chrome is too powerful. The Herald destroys the island to expose the swoop in and take it. Lucky for us, in a surprise turn of events... the mothership and fleeing. It's here that Paradigm comes into play. Using Zero Fusion, she's able to work with Grabbing from countless realities to form everything is pieced back together. With the Seven turned to Chrome, and the Imagined It's time for: a fresh start. On this new island, the Scientist's robot from Paradigm. She asks us to deliver a mysterious kinetic castle. We do so, learning that its ruler is The Ageless, Their reality was brought to the island during actually is... Judging from the banners, his appearance and at Geno - Well, a snapshot of him. This is the ruler of the Oathbound who was homeworld. His right hand man is Stellan the Rift Warden, It wasn't possible with their medieval technology, discovered Kinetic Ore. With our refined version, they have unlocked Pure Portals. The origins of the Imagined Order are replaying big help... but Stellan can't make this A voice that guides him every step of the He kept this to himself, terrified of what The final step in building this bridge to vault made to protect The Zero Point. Of course, you need this power in order to head shows him the way. Except, it's quickly becoming obvious that It's a portal leading to... The Shapeless Man. More importantly, this voice in Stellan's could already be known. Only one man has the overwhelming power to The REAL Geno. Turns out after the Foundation and Jones left And while he remains shapeless, he is directing the island. At least, that's the intention. AMIE begins an investigation of her own as They return disfigured or corrupted by darkness. It seems that everything AMIE sends through him, as he is her creator. When they return, they give us an update on The Foundation once said that their armor the Nothing beyond them. But after being devoured by Chrome, they're to the darkness. AMIE, as a robot, is programmed to protect power to save him. She prepares a rescue mission with a new body, This would be the last time we see AMIE. Instead, the portal begins to destabilize, breaking down and closing. The resulting earthquakes cause the ground world. The Shapeless Man's plan failed, but there's will change the storyline as we know it forever. Before that happens, we look deep into the In the wreckage of a crushed tank, Doctor She survived the Zero War, and is confused However, it's not long before she gets her ancient world. In the ruins, she finds markings that predict along with an apparatus used by those who She had no idea what happened to this society: the stars to project the future - And yet Their markings seem to show an incoming eclipse with further research, Slone realizes that How could the Ancients predict this with the There's only one explanation: it's already They are warning us that soon it will happen... again. Slone realizes the signal is all too familiar, And just like that: it's time for the Eclipse As the daylight is covered, and the island Kado Thorne makes himself known. He's a vampire who's made a whole career On the surface, he runs a successful hotel has a time machine. He uses this to travel through history, collecting collection, such as Oro's skull, Midas' seems to have ties to the Seven. Now, he's arrived in 2023, at the perfect heist. She has abandoned the Imagined Order, or what's Or so we think, as she keeps to herself and Phase one of this operation involves stealing nose. She hires a group of professional thieves sneak into his mansion and get away without Before Kado can retaliate and feast on his As a time-traveling vampire, he's made a who've spent years chasing him. Now, without the time machine as an escape her archnemesis once and for all. With Kado dead, and the device in Slone's It's time for phase two. They experiment with the machine at a temporary to their front yard. It functions as intended, and Slone is confident She just needs a helping hand... from an old Agent Jones. He's laid low after the Zero War, but with go on her secret mission. To go - to the past. His goal is to extract an unknown thing or They set the date: July 12th 2018, and Jones All that's there to guide him are audio from the future back in time with a deadly Despite this, Jones has started to alter the The Ice King and his Prisoner never arrive The Mech never gets constructed. And in order to complete his extraction, Jones rocket. The future... for the first time, is unknown. Thank you guys so much for making it to the have followed for years and while things feel joy to piece it all together like this. This month the creator of Fortnite's Storyline this video to Donald Mustard for bringing