In this video I'm going to show you HOW to OVER your attic insulation, primarily for Now this is a follow-up video to an earlier a radiant barrier. That video covered the mechanics and exactly If you didn't see that video, you can click The over-the-attic-insulation method is primarily hot climate, you've got a couple of options: like this, or you can do the staple-up method, This video I'm going to talk about the over-insulation questions we get: 1) what happens to dust the radiant barrier and 2) concerns about and potentially getting trapped under the Before you get started, there's a few tools and pretty easy. The first thing you're going to need is a box cutter-type knife with the throw away Don't use scissors, a box cutter is the way Secondly, a measuring tape - you might have to have this. A roll of foil air conditioning tape - this air conditioning/duct work department; do - it's made to be in an attic and it sticks Also, a good quality dust mask or, this is is about $20 and it includes what's called This is especially important if you're around want to be doing is kicking up that fiberglass well-spent. Also, a couple of clamp lights, these are them around so you can see what you're doing. You always want to have good lighting when Finally, you're going to need to make a little (you can use a broom handle, a PVC pipe, pretty nail and just tape it to the end. This creates what's called a &quot;poker&quot; and what get that foil out, just stab the foil (the the corners, that way you don't have to crawl This is kind-of like having an 8 or 10 ft I recommend making a couple - maybe one at on how far you've got to reach back into the Installing AtticFoil radiant barrier directly simple. People tend to overthink it and make it more not that complicated! This video is going to be more kind of a checklist, to do. In the big picture, there's really two rules First thing is cover as much area as possible. Radiant barrier has a cumulative effect, just the better. Don't worry about little gaps or cracks, you The second thing, when you're installing the the AtticFoil more than a couple of inches. AtticFoil is perforated so it will allow moisture you double it up, the chances are that moisture So, when you over lap it, just an inch or shouldn't have any problems. The first thing is you're just going to lay insulation. There's no need to staple it down to the ceiling You want that insulation ABOVE the ceiling it's just going to lay on top of the attic If you want to staple it to a rafter in a and you want to staple it there, that's fine, The next thing to understand is that AtticFoil attic insulation. You should have a good amount of attic insulation the ceiling joists, you need more attic insulation. Ideally you're going to be at least a few to look down and see no wood. If you don't have that much attic insulation, Lowes (they'll actually loan you the machine) their attic insulation, or you can hire a If you do that, what you may want to do is can walk through later so you can install Then you can come back and as you install use something like a dustpan or something your paths. Ideally you want to start in the far corners You can either take the roll of foil up, and handle or hang it from a pipe or something Or you can pre-measure the pieces and just That's where the poker we talked about earlier Just stab that foil and you can push it back the top plates of the wall. You don't want to push it down into the soffits, in from the soffits, but push it back as far of the rafters. You may have an attic that's big and wide ductwork in the attic, if you've got an attic to cover a lot of area fast. What you want to do is take two pieces of in the driveway so you can get like an 8ft air conditioning tape and just seam the pieces Make yourself a big piece, maybe 8ft by 20 it in to the attic, use that poker - just push it along out to the outside - and you Eventually you're going to get to a support around. You can just take your utility knife and cut a cleaner install, where it lays flat, you You want to cut two slits about 5&quot; wide and come from the bottom and cut all the way up, just tuck down real close to the support. It's a nice, clean, easy install that goes the supports or the penetrations. They don't have to be perfect, a few gaps When it comes to overlapping the AtticFoil, so simple and it works great! You don't need to tape the seams, and in fact seam while you're in the attic. So what you want to do is, take the foil air a little &quot;L&quot; shape, tape it on one side and if you will. Then, when you lay that other piece on top, you only want it to overlap an inch or two, that stick, come through, just reach over the other side, then it's perfect! It's not going to slide apart and you're not that's all you have to do for the seams. If you've got a truss-built attic, I'd recommend Normally, trusses are on 24&quot; on-center, so it will overlap just an inch or two, which It's actually pretty simple. What you want to do is go in to the attic, to the top plate of the wall. Say it's 14ft. Once you get that measurement, go out to the 14ft long. That's going to go from the top plate of the Roll them up, just like a bunch of posters, attic. Then, all you have to do is take your poker, out to the top plate of the wall, between And then do the other side. In fact, you can actually put a nail on both piece and push to the another side. Go back one rafter, do one, do the other. That's all you have to do for a truss attic. Just like before, if you want to take a little reach out and tack them together and that's One common question I get is, &quot;Can I lay the I have in the attic?&quot; and the answer is, &quot;Yes!&quot; AtticFoil is super durable and tear-proof; is not going to damage the AtticFoil. You're going to get the main benefit in the are going to reflect it back and in the winter heat loss due to its emissivity. If you do this, I'd do one of two things: that plywood decking ends or 2) take a piece The last thing you obviously want to do is That's really all there is to it when installing attic insulation. Just remember the two big rules: 1) cover the AtticFoil a couple of inches. In most homes, given a typical size and complexity, day, maybe even just a few hours. We've had people do whole attics in just 2 Remember, it doesn't have to be perfect or If it's wrinkled or crooked, it works just Next I'm going to talk about the two most 1) How does dust accumulation on the top of 2) questions and concerns about moisture being One of the common concerns we hear from customers top of the AtticFoil and reduce its effectiveness. Now think about this for a second, how can First of all, it's got to be light enough it's got to become heavy enough that it falls Most dust either never gets drawn in to the and go through the attic and out the top. I've been in a lot of attics that are 20, dust accumulation as people would think. Now if you live next to a dirt road, yeah than a typical attic, but normally it's really Let's say though, that you are getting some AtticFoil is very reflective and it's pretty to look dull or not shiny, then obviously Most likely this is going to be after 5 or However because of the double-sided AtticFoil, on this side and the emissivity quality on Now, I'm going to explain because normally attic insulation, you're going to have minimal the top of the attic insulation. So, even if you get a lot of dust on top, called EMISSIVITY. If you're familiar with radiant barrier decking, etc. they are actually installed on the bottom space. The way radiant barrier decking works is it when the roof gets hot the foil doesn't allow So, even if you get a ton of dust, say it basically it becomes radiant barrier decking. So it's still working off the emissivity quality. However, say for example that some day it enough dust on it that you want to clean it Really all you need is something like an air it off and it's probably going to get back Once again, dust accumulation is really not The other common question or concern that directly on top of the attic insulation, is moisture below the AtticFoil which would cause mold or cause damage or something like that. AtticFoil is perforated so it's NOT a vapor Basically, if you made a bag out of AtticFoil later it would be dry; the moisture would it was a brown paper bag. It's a pretty good air barrier, but it's not In the attic, moisture is passing from wet In the winter, when moisture is inside the the sheetrock; if it can get through the sheetrock, and through the foil. Basically the bottleneck (or the choke point) However, moisture (or condensation) can only relatively warm-moist air comes in contact Just like if you breathe on a cold window, a glass of ice tea, even though it maybe 85 moist, it's coming in contact with a cold form. In an attic, the attic is cold and foil will Now the question is whether or not you have foil. Once again, the moisture will easily be passed that allow that warm-moist air to bypass the condense on the bottom of the AtticFoil. These things are like light fixtures, can can bypass and accumulate on the bottom of If this happens, you can potentially have There's a couple things you can do to keep One, seal up any penetrations in the ceiling: want to seal those up. You want to do that anytime for your home, If you're not sure if they're airtight, then a hole in the foil above any holes in the Say, for example, you have a can light and a hole in the AtticFoil, that way you're giving the AtticFoil. Finally, if you are concerned about moisture the permeability of the AtticFoil. All you have to do is take your whole role 1/4&quot; drill bit and you're going to drill all do maybe 30, 40 or 50 holes per roll. Then, when you unroll it, essentially it's going to have little holes every now and then, (or the ability for moisture to pass through). You're still going to maintain a great AIR for that moisture to pass through. If you have any questions or concerns, you We'll help you with any questions you've got, on a phone call or by email. If you enjoyed this video, please LIKE this Also, please share this video with your friends so they can help make their home more comfortable Please SUBSCRIBE to our YouTube channel - you'll if you want to watch some related videos, For any other information, visit AtticFoil.com.