Imagine that you are on a long drive, when you You decide to head to a fast food joint, They're put in similar boxes and You have no way of knowing which box has Obviously, once you open one you will immediately know that This means that the hot dog and the This is roughly the idea upon which follows the rules of Classical Mechanics. accordance with the general principles But what about objects that Do they also follow these same Believe it or not, the answer is NO! When things get that small, and things start to get extremely weird... Quantum mechanics is the language of tiny make up light--and particles inside an atom, such a rough idea as to the size of these particles, that it could fit billions of electrons. THAT'S Now that you have a general idea of the If someone were to ask "Who are you?", what Now, let's assume that an anthropomorphic raccoon from another planet asks you the same Perhaps..."I am Peter Quill, a human from Earth." In this case, you specified Similarly, in a 3D space, x,y and z coordinates as no two objects can have the If you consider a 4-Dimensional space--with time (t) as an additional dimension--then no two In the same way, an electron has 4 levels of Every electron within an atom has no two electrons can share the same Electrons can be identified using these Principal quantum number Magnetic quantum number All of these quantum numbers are very electron configuration of an atom and the However, for the scope of this video, we're only going to talk about The definition of spin is--the intrinsic value of electron can either have a positive spin (called Now this is where things get bizarre. When we say an electron has a it doesn't mean that the electron is ACTUALLY and proper magnetic orientation, it's not in a state of superposition--when it You may find the idea of superposition confusing, because this doesn't seem to go along To help explain this a bit better, here's a You might have heard of Schrodinger's Cat; it is a famous thought experiment devised by It goes like this... imagine you put a cat inside substance, a vial of poison and a Geiger then the Geiger counter triggers a setup that decay of the substance is a random process, so And that is why, before opening the box, you can say that the cat is in a superposition In the same way, when a coin it's in a state of superposition Similarly, electrons in their natural state spin. Only when measured do they give a definite is referred to as the "collapse of the collapse occurs when a wave function, which was reduces to a single state due to When a pair of electrons are generated, interact, can get entangled, which is what scientists Once the electrons are entangled, the two that is, if one is measured to have "up spin", Now, we know that the two electrons, but a superposition of both up and down spin. arbitrarily far, say, we put one in a Physics somewhere in the Andromeda galaxy, and we we will immediately know the measurement For example, if we measure the we immediately know that the This information traveled instantaneously, As one can imagine, this idea greatly It was such a disturbing realization, "spooky action at a distance". So how can this Well, let's start with one of the most Having a common synchronized clock They keep things like stock markets we have extremely precise clocks, known at the U.S. National Institute of Standards and nor gain one second in some 33 billion years (which is roughly the age of the universe). Entangled atomic systems would not be preoccupied measure the passage of time, effectively bringing adding 100 times more atoms into an entangled Entangled clocks could even be linked to form independent of location, vastly expanding the Then, of course, there's quantum cryptography. As a kid, have you ever made up a secret friend could understand? Imagine that, but randomly polarized photons entangled with Today, some tech companies use to design ultra-secure networks. In Quantique product to provide a tamper-proof This system promises to be highly secure, any changes to their quantum be immediately apparent to Researchers at Japan's Hokkaido University microscope using a technique known as differential photons greatly increases the amount of as measuring one entangled photon How about quantum teleportation... is it possible? Yes, teleportation is possible in the world different from the way teleportation is Quantum teleportation involves the transportation matter, which is the type of teleportation Physicists continue to delve the capabilities of quantum entanglement. it could potentially revolutionize Until then, we will continue to try and make sense let's face it, it's a strange seem to make any sense in the REAL world. Basically, as Nobel laureate "If you think you understand quantum mechanics,