My name is Dr. Adi Jaffe, and I'm an ex-meth-distributor who sold hundreds of pounds of meth, and this is how crime works. sleeping in bed with a and a gun right to your right and with hundreds of thousands is an insane end point. It's not normal. It was like my life got a hard reset. I mean, I had to go I started selling meth wanted access to meth, and so I started out from street dealers So, an eight ball, which The labs I saw in Southern compared to even the makeshift labs that Walter had in the They were using pots and pans. They were using cups and glasses. It looked like a more typical that you would see in somebody than an actual lab. They rarely had glass beakers or flasks or anything of the sort. The easiest way to describe is an incredibly strong ammonia smell that will literally feel like it can burn the hairs inside of your nose, right? So you could tell the moment where somebody was making meth. Sometimes you would cough right away if you didn't have a mask on you, or it would make your eyes water. Even the smaller labs really took care to put these small kind of hoods or fans right above their main reactions in order to port out the gases, and you'd have the cook and then the one or two make sure that this was done. So, Airbnbs and short-term rentals are incredibly easy places because really all you of setup, manufacturing, and You wouldn't really leave much of a mark, as long as somebody had enough and the smell wasn't there anymore. The other thing that is incredible about using things like Airbnbs is you get to move from place to place, which is then really hard to detect, because even if a neighbor a pipe out of a window or if it's only there for a day nobody would know. All the labs that I saw were for a very long time, but when in earnest in the late of drug labs everywhere people started moving and they gradually moved closer and closer to some of the supply sources they had for some of the ingredients, right? And so it was well known for a while that you had to guard your nitrogen-rich fertilizer supplies because meth dealers and manufacturers would go and steal kilos and kilos, if not truckfuls' worth of the stuff, and then bring it back in order to be able to go manufacture their meth. The people that I knew that I'll call it a lab, but what it really was was either a van that was or a full RV. The idea, in a way, then nobody can detect the fumes. The only thing that a lot when you're driving, nothing is stable. A handful of them actually and one actual explosion that I know of. Everybody that I saw manufacturing meth was using the ephedrine method. And one of the first things get the ephedrine out of And so then that ephedrine into additional chemical interactions. In the end, what you end up with is essentially a large pot, in most of these, of a clear liquid that and then the next step is in order to get the end powder that is what everybody consumes. These were highly detailed, that were guarded by this cook with the same sort of zeal you hear about Coca-Cola guarding their Because this was their leverage. The secrets were in about how to do what was In a world of drug addiction and crime and sort of the underbelly of society, these cooks had standing. A Smurf was the name given essentially to a Most small-time dealers 10, 15, even 20 Smurfs. So they would go out to they would go steal whatever it is that was required for the manufacturing, especially going to pharmacy to secure individual packages of Sudafed. The idea of being able to go run around, get some ingredients, and make $10,000 or $15,000 And so everybody was always trying to get their hand on a good recipe. There's absolutely a connection between the method of cooking the meth itself, the impurities that exist in it after, and actually the quality So, when I was starting out in the &quot;meth game&quot; in the late 1990s, there was this lore about That was the stuff everybody wanted. That meth had a blue tint to it, so everybody was always which was what was so when they started introducing supposedly created by Walter. That was what I knew as from the stories of my dealing days. The demand among my customers grew. My dealer couldn't so what ended up happening is we would go on together on deals. And we ended up going a woman named [beep] in a massive warehouse At the time, a pound went so they were pretty expensive pounds. I would come in to buy as I would leave there with if they had really done a and so they would be left There was a hierarchy. [Beep] always got paid in Once [beep] got paid, you a couple of other people and the rest of the on free meth supplies to do the work. The labs that I knew didn't get robbed. The drugs came in quickly, because there was the in the moment that they were made. What did happen much more would actually get robbed, so after the drugs would get delivered. Because they're going to So the risk of being robbed actually happened much more often. Obviously, the dark web to make it so much more track, let alone apprehend any of this manufacturing or distribution. The supply was really, really unreliable. And what that would mean is one month, there would be all the meth I it would either be or they just wouldn't have any. Back in the day when they were making this with ephedrine pills, crack down on ephedrine pills in the US, as restrictions started coming up about being able to buy eight-packs, and then four-packs, and then two-packs, eventually one pack of Sudafed at a time, which really choked the supply. And so like any good salesperson legal or otherwise, I started and through a person who was I got introduced to another contact. So I had to drive down to Orange County to go to a strip club, and then somebody walks up to you, makes sure that you are who He gives me an address, and he tells me to get back in my car. And eventually, we find This was my first meeting and it was the classic meeting you've seen in every single movie in your life, which was, I got out with the money, they got out on the other side, but they had three guys, obviously with weapons on them. And we walked into the middle, they gave me the bag of drugs. One of the big things about dealing with the cartels directly is Every single time that I contacted them letting them know that I needed product, it wasn't a problem. I 'cause they could always At this point, over 90% sold and used in the United States has been manufactured I believe that given the of these superlabs south of the border, it's become almost redundant The manufacturing is the product is cheaper at scale. They can absolutely employ real talent, so they can hire real chemists and people who really know what But as you go downstream, they're offering sometimes given what else is available You need a lot more money in the US to buy your way out of We all know it's doable, it's In Mexico, it's much, much cheaper to buy enough police So, these meth superlabs, they're relative superlabs, right? They're making thousands of pounds a year. So, there's been a huge in the United States and in Mexico. P2P meth actually ends up being stronger than ephedrine-based meth, mental-health issues, larger incidents of things like psychosis and that's creating a bigger crisis around meth use right now than The honest answer as to is I didn't see a way and still live a life Everybody that I knew who sold drugs ended up either dead or I never saw anybody get I got in my motorcycle accident in 2001, and I got found with, it was cocaine, but I got found with a half and police knew that somebody in their jacket knows somebody They obviously searched And started looking through the walls, looking through the ducts, the AC ducts, and they found toxic chemicals, 'cause one of my friends actually left some of the I had a lockpick kit, and I had a gun that was loaded by my bed. And you get a violation for And I actually, even on top of that, picked up two charges of methamphetamine and at my place where we So initially, I was looking and my lawyer immediately &quot;It's clear you're Everybody can see it on you. If this judge doesn't about changing the direction you're going to get the full thing. You're going to get 15 I think that was the only way to sell me on treatment, honestly, at the time. And so, I listened to the in Pasadena here in Southern California. So we did something called an open plea, which actually meant I had to plead guilty to all nine felonies, but if I pled guilty to the nine felonies that were still on my record, the judge could make whatever decision he felt like was right, And he came out, and he gave in my opinion. And the sentence was 364 days, one day less than a year. &quot;If when you get out you or I see you here again, is going to have seven years added to it.&quot; And in a way, it felt, there about a king with a sword just right above his I had this hanging sword that actually was kind of my guardian for a couple of years while how to get my life on track. I just want to say publicly, I also recognize mass And so, I may be from the Middle East and I may be actually a to the United States, but nobody So standing in front of that court, I was a relatively young adult white male, and so I think there was a by that reality in that moment as well. When I got out of jail, I couldn't get hired for anything. I tried for mall jobs, I tried to become a pizza-delivery man, and I couldn't get hired. The only next thing I had available other than a job was to go back to school, so I got to get into Cal State Long Beach, which was the first place Then I went back to UCLA to get my Ph.D., where I ended up teaching. And so I ended up taking this route that seems blessed at the end of the road, but it was in no way, and there were many, many times along the way that the idea of going to money and power was The million-dollar question is how to stop meth production The problem is that the to try to use prohibition Ways that stop the supply When it comes to every drug, what we've seen over and over is that these methods don't work, and so they became this public campaign to make kids, aware of the meth problem. So you would see the and what meth does to you, That's when we started seeing the opioid problem and it was as if we and then all of a sudden a and everybody had to turn their attention to opioids for a while. But in the interim, while the supply and demand for again and again and again. we've seen a massive in the use of methamphetamine. They are going to meet the need, they're going to meet the and they're going to I think that focusing on ways to stop the supply of chemicals and it's not something we And the real game is to ask why is methamphetamine use going up? About 85% of the incarcerated population in the United States either have an active or were arrested for drug crimes. Add to the cost of interdiction, which is in the trillions of dollars, add to that the cost of lives, and on top of that, the that we don't consider because it's actually part of our overall crime-fighting measures. When you add all of those I think it's pretty safe to can be considered one of of the law-enforcement community 10% of the population in the as diagnosed by the DSM. Even that number has gone and Mental Health Services has just raised its own estimate of the people who struggle from 24 [million] to about 40 million. So this is a problem and yet somehow we've that &quot;those people&quot; are But we're here, we're Addiction, as we all know, does not discriminate based And we need to get it out of our heads that the people who because they are all of us. And so the war on drugs has and that is us. I was selling to my friends so the idea of having to be secretive, A, didn't dawn on me, and B, 'cause they all knew me. They were all my friends. Everybody in the drug so I would meet people like just, you come up with a name, and that becomes kind of the moniker that you go by when you're selling. I used to drive, when I 250 or 300 miles a day in But really the moment I moved out of that, everybody came to me, and And so even though it to end up being a guy with a gun walking into a cartel there were these incremental that got me there. And if I put my attention and my and I just give it enough time, five, six, seven, eight years, just like my drug-dealing career grew, I could actually achieve some but now, doing them on the right side. I was really scared of telling that I used to be a drug dealer, that I used to be addicted to meth. It felt big. And so my really, really close friends. But what I did instead is, this is 2008. I started blogging about it, and I started speaking publicly, but to people I didn't know, right? Blogging is kind of safe. I then ended up running in a treatment center here Eventually, I opened up and I've pretty much dedicated my life now to helping people with addiction problems. And so, in Igntd, which is what I do now, which is an online I've also written a book relying on the fact that you in order to get your life in order. If you're ready to do something, you should start acting now, even if you're not ready to quit. This is my life's purpose, and I'm incredibly motivated and grateful and humbled that I get My name is David McMillan. I've smuggled over $17 million worth of heroin internationally. And this is how crime works. The heroin world is very Involves hundreds of thousands of people, mostly down at a very low level. And you're passing by heroin traffickers without even thinking about it. I was a smuggler for over 35 years. Been arrested around about 12 times. The three main producers have become Mexico, mostly to serve the market in the United States. In South Asia, it's Vietnam and Laos, the remnants of the old Golden Triangle. And, of course, Afghanistan, which tops all of them in sheer volume. And that comes from different provinces which over the years have and sometimes interference. The Taliban actually stopped almost all of the heroin production. But they changed their mind One of my first trips to When finding and making a it's best not relied upon Because the person who's introduced you, he could be an agent for the DEA. So it's better to go from the ground up. And that might mean going meeting the farmers. I've traveled out into the and lived with the farmers for a few days, perhaps a week. Got involved in something Come to know something about their lives. And they make their own judgments. People in the village because I wasn't in a hurry. You don't need an awful lot of opium to do quite well if you're a farmer. They get at least $50 a kilo. Now, for a farmer, that's quite good. The opium poppy has a and that's about the size of a golf ball. The farmers, when it's mature, scrape the sides of it, and overnight, little beads of white sap are produced. That's scraped off to form Now, that is the opium base. That contains a very, very 15%, 20% sometimes. Beyond the farmers, every part of the heroin cultivation, processing, and handling None of the people connected are really connected in any group way that you might expect with crime. They are simple people in the countryside. You would buy perhaps, say, We'll call them chemists, but they're really just, who would take that and do the processing. Now, don't imagine some when it comes to that. You'll see a couple of old tin pots, five or six plastic buckets, some cloth for filtering, Oh, and maybe an old The opium base is mixed with ammonia, then washed out dried out into kind of a black gunk, and then it is cooked It smells like a really The rest is cleanup, because it first comes out There are really only two The brown is the half-processed and only half-as-strong version. The white has been purified, cleaned. The brown is smoked, whereas the white has traditionally been injected or snorted. But there's been almost no white heroin sold around Europe for years. And people who inject have A dangerous thing to do, and a corrosive thing to do on The police agencies have their own way of determining the purity of heroin. There really is no better and I can tell within the texture, and the taste of heroin where it came from and very I would first have to get it's a landlocked country -- and shipped through to Pakistan. That had its own complications because any kind of commerce there, whether it's smuggling or not, involves a certain amount of lubrication of the border area. Bribery. Everything has a price, whether it's refrigerators The smuggling of heroin is limited by the fact that it into looking like something else. It can be packed flat into In fact, books were often used. The hardback covers, front and back. I suppose I'd have to smuggling out of Thailand as The quality was right. It was the big bags that where they're in plastic, with the brand name of the local warlord or chieftain who guarantees safe passage. I would press it down and conceal it within the wooden surrounds or a piece of electrical equipment in your in-hold baggage without I would make it pressed within the sides of the wood and veneered around the outside. Almost all of the heroin very rarely goes above half-kilo slabs that get concealed in or even made into the I used to carry it around But at least I knew if I did it myself, I'd be in control of my own destiny. But I relented. I found couriers. Couriers were chosen by their look -- that had to pass the first test -- their stability and reliability, and also their ability to And that was very important. I had one guy that was a kind of recruiter and another one in London. My recruiter in London had been kicked out of Southeast Asia. Ended that the government used who'd been kicked out of other countries. It was a gold mine of couriers. Somebody who's not relaxed and operating out of their own volition makes a very poor courier. I don't think people always have completely selfish motives. People who have families to support sometimes consider it. Poverty might make that final little push. To pass through airport security, it was important to know the I would spend quite a bit of time traveling through those airports, knowing what kind of what the staff were trained to do, whether shoes had to come off or not, how sensitive the metal detectors were. As years went on, customs teams would be trained particularly well in detecting certain kinds of things. They have some for cigarettes. They would move those teams around at different times of the day. It was important to know I would use multiple passports in ensuring the safety of the couriers, so that when they left a source country, they would arrive in Europe and be able to take out of which showed only travel in Europe. And they would have tickets to match. I got birth certificates for people who had died either in infancy or very young, pre-traveling age and then built up the identity around that and get them legitimately issued. Arriving passengers were told to go to some arranged point, perhaps a hotel in town or a restaurant. I would watch them to see because it's always possible Then they would be paid off immediately, and the bags would be taken away. Then it would be put I like to think of it sometimes as looking at one of those phone apps where it shows in the world that are going on. You see thousands of them. And in a way, you can say that every one of those little maybe four or five people on board who are carrying some amount of heroin. During my smuggling criminal career, I've been arrested around about 12 times, and it resulted in four convictions. The first one, that was resulted in a 10-year sentence. I'd been under an investigation and I was running couriers at the time. My own lawyer had told but I stuck around. &quot;No, I can deal with that. They'll never catch me with anything.&quot; I was sentenced to 15 years, of which I would ultimately serve 10. There's no lawyer in the trial. Anything can go. It seems everything's fair. I would say this: one of the reasons that I think the deterrent the super-harsh treatment. My wife at the time, Clelia, was arrested; my business partner's and they were put in the women's prison. They put an informer in with the girls in the women's prison to try and get some Unfortunately, little That's what she was in for. She set fire to the prison, and five women were killed, including Clelia and Mary. That was a ... oh, I don't have to say, I felt guilty, and so I should. The police had moved into Every possession I had was After that, next came my time in Thailand, where I was arrested on a drug case and escaped from there. That took two years' doing I found myself arrested in Pakistan, and that took almost two years, again, to get a not-guilty plea. From there, I found myself and then, lastly, a In my early 50s, around 2004, I walked away from the last deal. I'd been giving bits of advice but even that was too close for comfort. I'd run out of time. I was getting simply too old. The price for this is jail time, and I'd promised family And also, based on that the reward was never enough. When it comes to the larger amounts, then it's all by shipping. I've known people to take and pack them into oil drums or even in the pallets of So, a technique would through an existing and reputable firm that had agents all around the world. Table lamps or even cab doors or cabinets, so that when it arrives back in the West that's being cleared as Sometimes, customs will intercept quite large shipments. People have asked me, &quot;Would this make a dent in the market?&quot; The supplies are built up at least three months in advance. So. Besides which, the intercepted cargo never amounts to the So those seizures, though a 10 lost here or even 5,000 kilos there won't substantially make any difference. The shipment routes for illegal and legal heroin never overlap. The approach is different, and the mechanism's entirely different. After a shipment comes bagged up into whatever whether it's in bulk in kilos or smaller amounts, ounces. It gets taken out to customers. Within a month, all would be gone. In the early days, it was so profitable. A kilo of heroin back in 1980, just personally, I could get back a And this was in Australia, got inflated prices there. Expected purity was only at about 15%. So if I took it down to 18%, it would still be considered good. I used only dextrose to do this. But that still meant 1 kilo became 4. In the beginning, even put because there were a couple which were notorious for it. Then come back to base and reload, as it were. There's been some changes The retail price of heroin It's now at about its most base level. Purity's not great, but price-wise, I can't imagine any factors that would make it any cheaper or Is it more available? It is, but there is no market The popularity of heroin goes in waves of different fads and fashions. There's a solid core of and they don't change much. Street-level heroin is, It would be dangerous if it were. It's usually at about 15% to 20%, and that's considered strong. The cutting agents for brown heroin, usually mannitol. It's In recent years, heroin's been cut with It's a synthetic opioid, but it's a very dangerous drug. It's at least as strong as even heroin. So how would anybody measure it out? A tiny amount of fentanyl is often mixed with heroin to keep the strength up, but that can quite often be misjudged and end up with fatalities. But when there's a shortage or when somebody's simply greedy, the retailer can cut it again. And this can be potentially dangerous because it will seem weaker, and people will adjust to using weaker and they'll use more, so that when they get what it'll be quite a bit stronger, and there's a potential for overdose. But it has to be kept in mind, very few people die directly It's usually when mixed with alcohol or sleeping pills. It almost never happens that finishes somebody off There were political elements to opium and heroin manufacturing and distribution. Until 1911, heroin and from your local pharmacy or druggist, over the counter, just by asking for it. In fact, heroin was promoted Little heroin pills were But after 1911, the Harrison Act was passed which turned attention to addictive drugs. When the Vietnam War took hold, heroin became something during their downtime. They took those habits home with them. So we have a legacy from the Vietnam War. It's called a war on drugs, A war suggests that one side Drug traffickers and smugglers know that they won't win every they don't have to win to be successful. They've just got to keep out But still a high price to pay. From the authority's point of view, there would never be a situation where they could walk out and say, &quot;Right, we've done our job. How can that possibly happen when the nature of business and it replaces the fallen soldiers? The authorities could catch more smugglers by acting on their intelligence but they're kept by the amount of money, the resources they're given. In 40 years, I've only been taught one thing, that the only solution Legalization would require, of course, some control measures so that somebody wouldn't be going into a shop and without any sensible reason On the other hand, to take the control has to be very light. And, of course, spend some for people who can't manage their drugs. Different countries offer different but generally all poor and also not very effective For example, in the United Kingdom, Somebody reporting or presenting has to take a place on the list, and to get a substitute, has to wait several weeks. That will force them back into that world. It might reduce the harm. It'll save them some money because they've got a fallback position of, say, taking methadone There are programs for harm reduction that are good, welcome, such as needle-exchange programs or offer safe places to take drugs. Of course, that doesn't but any of that assistance There's very little that can be done, because you are hoping to make a consistent, standard product that won't risk overdoses, yet won't be so rubbishy that people will move But I don't see any way of doing that other than legalization. Also, in a world of legal drugs, there'd be fewer prison inmates on minor or any drug charges at all. And that would have the effect of allowing more police time to be and crimes that affect To help source countries, we would have to do more than which, so far, hasn't worked. It's not much better than which has left a lot of farmers destitute. I was 18 years old when I first became involved in the drug trade and not much older when I began smuggling. I can never say in any way that I've ever been a victim of anything. I've walked headfirst. Even as a teenager, I was selling bits of hash at school, whatever, from an early age. So when I met some safe crackers and they were retired from that, they were already a little bit in the local drug-distribution network with some local marijuana. But they didn't know And it involved travel. and it seemed good for me. And I went out and did it on purpose. Something we don't is that a regular human And you haven't got so many years. Only looking back on the drug trade, from an how plain and clear it is that it is not just the danger, but it is the pointlessness and the futility of the undertaking. Since I've been out of the smuggling game, these days, I put up CCTV cameras, which involves a certain amount of trust. I've also written a couple of books, one that seemed to take years because it was involving in Afghanistan and Pakistan and the troubles there and That took about 10 years to write. That's &quot;Unforgiving Destiny.&quot; Of course, I regret kind of everything about the life I walked into. People ask me why I didn't after my first major arrest. And the answer is that I where I wasn't running around underground. It didn't seem to me at the My name is Pieter Tritton, aka Posh Pete. I smuggled over 5 million pounds' worth of cocaine internationally. This is how crime works. I've been in prison with people there, capos from the Sinaloa cartel, bosses from the Colombian cartels. And even when they were in the amount of fear and paranoia that they had to contend with, people trying to kill them, people trying to take And then the end, what They ended up going to and losing all of it, pretty much. I am extremely lucky to be alive. In my opinion, the risk Cocaine is farmed in, well, farmed and produced in Peru, Bolivia, and Colombia. The farms will generally out in the countryside. The farmers themselves They have to farm an acre of bushes for 1 kilo of cocaine. Once the cocaine is processed, I know in Peru you can should we say, $700 up We had to basically make a fake company, a fake profile, have a number in order to be able to go to to then buy the chemicals from them. Because they wouldn't sell to You had to be from a business. Ether is one that's Acetone as well, in South America. Ether is the big one, it used to be the best type Sourcing tanker-loads of It's virtually impossible there now, so they're having to use other chemicals, which aren't quite as good. And that's one reason cocaine, if anyone out there has been they will now be able to tell is not the same as cocaine 20 years ago. Because I've been around cocaine so much, I can, without even taking it, I can just rub it between my fingers, look at the color, smell it, and I can tell you pretty by the chemicals that My most successful method of smuggling was a form of impregnating Through a Colombian connection, someone in Cali would buy the cocaine. They would then give it to, like, a basic chemist over there. So the cocaine would be put into liquid, and then into liquid latex, which would then be set in We would then put those latex sheets into the ground sheets of tents. So we would employ passengers, basically, to go and collect the tent after it had been to then bring that back through customs. I kind of set some ground rules when it came to recruiting passengers. I would try and find no criminal record, or fairly collected, you know, reasonably well presented. And just people that were fairly sensible, preferably someone that And then we would pay them on their return to Britain once the drugs had been extracted. Or sometimes, if it was enough we'd pay them as soon as and handed the tent over. First tent that we brought in, I flew to Quito in Ecuador. The tents had already been manufactured and the cocaine impregnated into it. I'd managed to get through unscathed, got back to Britain, landed, it's done. Fully expecting to be So, yeah, I mean, I arrived and walked straight I mean, I was, to be honest, I was in shock that nothing happened. There was nearly 5 kilos And having gone through that experience, I realized that this of impregnating the cocaine into rubber, was definitely a good method. Because it, you know, I'd and got through three customs checks -- one in Ecuador, one in and come through with it fine. During the time that we were trafficking, we never actually lost a single shipment. The great thing about that method was that it wasn't detectable by X-ray. You can't detect it by a scanner. The dogs couldn't detect it, because obviously the cocaine I mean, that pretty much that they can do on you. But there were definitely countries that we avoided going A lot of the South Americans try to avoid trafficking in America. The DEA have got powers to come down to Colombia or Ecuador, and arrest you and then and try you there. Places like Thailand, Indonesia, where they have the death Saudi Arabia, anywhere that's got the death sentence for drugs. Also countries with really harsh laws, high sentences. As far as other forms obviously the cartels use to bring in the largest Tons at a time. This is normally done using corrupt port officials at both ends who facilitate the I didn't like the idea, personally, because I'd realized, having seen other people do it, and when it went wrong, the police officer or the customs agent involved and inform on all of the Recently, I've seen newer methods of smuggling cocaine across borders. I had a Russian friend when I was in prison in Ecuador, who was captured with 42 tons of cocaine, which was in barrels of molasses. It had been liquidized and I mean, there is just it can be impregnated into. Once we managed to get the tents back through customs we would then have to extract the cocaine using chemical processes. We would normally cut 40% phenacetin, and then repackage it and sell it. An early associate with whom I'd traffic drugs within the UK, so he put me in contact who was already importing via a contact of his in Cali, Colombia, who was operating with the Cali cartel. That became our source of All of the cocaine we'd pay for up front using various different like Western Union, MoneyGram. We would always try and keep the transfers under 1,000 pounds at a time. We would use various people because obviously we couldn't. Really, you can't use one person more than two or three times in a month. We had some underground that were a bit corrupt, should we say, that would allow us to send I did some workings out on the train, on the train journey down So, from every $100 or 100 pounds' worth of cocaine that you buy, I would estimate that goes to the farmer who's Probably 35% to 40% goes to the cartel. But the cartels are, really, they're controlling the lab and then the shipping The remainder, we'll just say around 60%, would probably go to the dealers on the street. Much the same as OPEC the cartels control the The problem with drug trafficking is you're only going to be before you get caught. In the operation that I was carrying out, we tried to keep the to as small as possible, the less people know, that somebody's going to The group that we had, and a Chilean who were the key players. And then, obviously, we to bring the tents back in. Well, after the Colombian in a laboratory that was the Colombian was turned and became an informant. We then started to see police activity around us quite frequently. So it became very much between them and us. I was arrested in Ecuador in 2005 and ended up getting sentenced to 12 years in prison in Ecuador. I was diagnosed with complex PTSD, which is post-traumatic stress disorder, after having seen so much mayhem and death and destruction I would say that the levels are greater than ever these days. Even though there's the purity of cocaine has also increased, I think, because of the We're now in the internet era. Encrypted technologies, encrypted messaging services, and dozens of them. Nowadays, there's so of transferring money around the world, such as bitcoin, ethereum. These are definitely being for facilitating large movements of cash. So it's a lot harder for the authorities to keep on top of all of this. In order to keep up with it, that you're always pure cocaine quicker The sort of mafias, like the Albanians and the Russians and the Chinese, they are now sending their own to just buy the cocaine and then basically say goodbye to them and then facilitate So then that means they, then, have the whole share of the profit. The Albanian Mafia's of the whole trafficking And I think it's become very much more monopolized There used to be smaller Those smaller players have by the fact that the Albanians and the like of the Albanians have just got it stitched up. In my opinion, the government and they're fully aware that they can't win the war on drugs. And if you talk to a lot they will definitely tell you that the war on drugs is unwinnable. And in my personal opinion, the only way that the war on drugs will be won is to legalize all drugs, manufacture them under and then tax them heavily in order to offset the Really, the key element in this is the financial gain of criminals. If you can take out the financial gain from the whole equation, then there's no incentive for So I don't think that at a border force and and, say, eradication of crops. I mean, they've tried eradicating crops, and that only had a detrimental effect on the people on the ground, because it destroyed other crops as well and led to disease and illness It's huge business, it being kept illegal, because it actually and more monetary gain, overall, for law enforcement, for for healthcare, for these drug companies making drugs that help with treatments. I got into selling drugs at an early age. I always had sort of an but drugs was, at that and a lot of people seemed to be doing it. There were illegal raves every weekend, and loads of the people started going to these parties. So, you know, instantly Until I was arrested at 17, when I was at college, which put a stop to everything. You know, I saw how upset my family were, and I was worried about and jeopardizing my future. Trying to survive on a student loan, I realized that they don't go very far. That's when I first came Started selling cocaine Before I knew it, I was then selling cocaine and then I was selling to their dealers, and then I was selling and before I know it, I'm And then ended up fanning out and spreading out into and supplying loads of people there. The first time that I went I mean, yeah, I did But, yeah, I suppose you I mean, they are the Anywhere you go into prison, you will end up making contacts, because that's the nature I'm now going into schools, trying to educate people on the harm that cocaine, and drugs in general, do. It'll only end up with you And the effect that that will have on your family and friends is devastating. Since getting released from prison, I wrote a book called &quot;El Infierno,&quot; which is published by Ebury Penguin, which is all about my I'm currently writing the and I'm hoping to get the two in order to make a Netflix I have set up my own company with a view to making my chocolate drinks and bars, importing cacao from Ecuador. Not cocaine, cacao. So, yeah, we're going straight this time. My name is Shaun Attwood. I smuggled over into America from Holland. This is how crime works. At the height of the ecstasy ring, I had about 200 people working for me. Largest-ever shipment was 40,000 pills, and we were competing against an underboss for the Gambino crime family, &quot;Sammy the Bull&quot; Gravano. When I was active, the capital for ecstasy Five of the most common ones back then were white doves, Mitsubishis, euro dollars, Teletubbies, dollar signs. A pure ecstasy pill should of MDMA and clay. So, they put the powder into the press, and it comes out with a logo on it. The recipe for ecstasy has changed because the government has clamped down on the original ingredients for ecstasy. So, you've got these cartels who don't care about the putting all kinds of mixed chemicals in. People sometimes put food coloring in them to make a distinct branding. Most of the pills that had were not the pure presses, the base presses from Holland. Every time a new pill came out, people would say, &quot;This is the bomb,&quot; &quot;This has got double-stacked MDMA in it.&quot; But generally, if it's 100 you're going to get the same hit. At the height of the ecstasy operation, we could commission a pill to but we opted not to because we believed it would On the website DanceSafe, they had all of the pills, photos of them, and they gave the exact So we were already in very good standing for the quality of our product. I was there when the rave I knew everybody. It was all the local little to invest in the parties and the E deals. The first clubs I scored individually from was a little rave called Chupa and the Silver Dollar Club. We were getting them for, This is 1996, 1997. So we set up a deal whereby, I can't remember if it for just over $10 a pill. So that's when we meet demand to get greater quantities and to get them at reduced To source pills from Holland, I had to put people on flights with the testing kits They would find the people and they would come home with the samples. And if the samples were good, then the person would go back out and we would establish It's very covert. It's all done in hotel rooms. People show up. You got your testing kit. They hand over the pills; you hand over the bills. You don't know a lot of as to what's going on, and that's probably to that are running it. Once we started to source we were getting tens of but we didn't have to do it as often then. It might be every month, every couple of months, Wild Man, my best friend from childhood, became my main bodyguard in Arizona. When Wild Man was on his first stay, he opened the door into contacts I wouldn't have made. And I got to meet all these characters. And one of them in particular, he was in a situation with the cops, and we protected him, and he said, &quot;From now on, me and my And that was the New Mexican Mafia. We were schooled by the New Mexican Mafia. This is the most powerful, dangerous mafia in Arizona at the time. They tried to assassinate the head of the Department of Corrections. They said to me, &quot;Shaun, if you get pulled over leaving our house, the cops don't have a right unless they have probable cause. They're going to ask you, You can say, 'No, I'm in a hurry.' And if they insist on and they find something that is the fruit of the forbidden tree. We will post your bail bond right away, we will have a lawyer come and the lawyer will tell what kind of trouble you are in.&quot; The reason I wasn't bumping and I wasn't bumping heads they had harder drugs locked down. I was never in competition with them. So, in the beginning from Holland, we were doing it through the mail. We hollowed out stock and we used some edible And then they'd be put in a box and FedExed to an address in Arizona. And we had various addresses. I flew people over from the UK, built up credit in their names, rented houses in their names, and bought cars in their names, all for use within the We would go from Hermosillo Airport. We would fly over to Mexico City. Then you could take Air France to Paris, and then you'd get the Back then, this was before 9/11. This may sound really but you could just throw in, like, pillowcases, thousands Now, it was more strategic than just them getting off and then coming over the Arizona border. We rented properties in and the smugglers who would take them to those locations. Then the pills would be and smugglers that had, for University of Arizona stickers on them, diving tanks, all kinds And in particular, if it was spring break or one of the student holidays, the checkpoints were so backed up. They were so overwhelmed. You know, you got so We never, ever got caught bringing them over the Arizona border. It was flawless. &quot;Better Call Saul,&quot; these people exist. They may seem like stereotypes, but they're based on what's I mean, there's so much money in drugs. So, I was No. 1. I was coordinating the operations. Wild Woman was No. 2. She's from Liverpool. Wild Man was No. 3. Three English people at the top. The rest were all local Mostly, people originated in Arizona. We had it structured like a corporation. I divided it into factions. So then you've got the they've got middle people, and they've got runners at the street level. In my enterprise, the not snitching, passing If you found anything out at that information gets I chose people primarily who My right-hand man, Cody he hired cars and rented houses just for cash and pills I'm living in a million-dollar the most beautiful place in a gated, guarded community. As more people work for me, I realized it was in the best interest to spread the product out amongst various factions. So, as soon as a shipment came in that was tens of thousands, we'd want to get that out right away, spread out to the different locations. Because if one gets hit, with 2,000 pills, that's no big deal. That's the cost of doing business. But if we've got 40,000 in one house and that gets hit, that's a serious loss. At the height of it, we had people from other Even people would fly from Chicago and states on the other side We had pagers. Never spoke about big deals Cody Bates, he had the house where the cash was that nobody knew about, and he would do the rounds. So, he would drop off to pick up the cash. If everything was going If there were problems, that's where we'd bring and they would handle the With the shipment that was 40,000 pills, let's say I'm getting $10 and I'm paying $2 to $3. I'm making $7 or $8 on 40,000, which is a couple hundred from one mission. To launder the money, I opened stock market, bank accounts, and credit accounts in their names. Slowly built all this credit up and kept all this money whereby I hadn't done But once the enterprise was massive and I knew I had to burn and these names, I just in rave clothing and music stores. Now, if you're a store that throws raves, then when you've thrown you've got tens of thousands in cash going in the bank on Monday. You add my ecstasy proceeds to that. We're getting the money Before Sammy the Bull I had a reputation for getting the white and beige And that was the primary to the raves and to the clubs. What you've got to bear if Sammy the Bull Gravano this is the Italian Mafia, But that's not true. Sammy the Bull is a formidable He murdered people, But he was the highest-ranking to turn sides and testify and cooperate. And he went against Gotti. I did something that was silly. We found a property that to Sammy the Bull's people. And we all got strapped up and kicked the door in and held the people and took all their stuff as an act of, you know, showing that if something's going to happen to you guys. But I regretted doing that. I shouldn't have never put because kicking someone's door with a gun where they and just shot us all, that was drug-fueled insanity, It made things worse. There They were offering $10,000 for In prison, Sammy the Bull Gravano's son told me that someone had called it in in Phoenix, The Crowbar, it's called. I was there with G-Dog, Wild Man, and some of my crew, Wild Woman. A strip-tease woman had spotted me. There was a bounty on and they were in a car coming G-Dog, Wild Man advised me to leave because they'd sensed the And I got out of there just before Gravano's son Gerard arrived. He said that if the they were going to kill me, and that would've just Sammy the Bull's enterprise came up, did big numbers, lit the scene up, had all the runners running saying, &quot;We're the biggest drug barons in the history of the world,&quot; these steroid-head jock characters, which totally brought And that's why he got popped So, I mean, I was thanking basically, in my mind. But all of those resources It was May 16th, 2002, I thought once I quit the importation, I got away with it. I thought they had catch All it takes is someone from the statute of limitations, they've done a deal with Don't need the drugs. We used the lawyer from He was a loophole lawyer. And that's how we got to 9 1/2 years without snitching. My first jail was Towers Jail, where the neo-Nazis come up to me. To join the gang, to be a member, you have to murder someone for them. There are very few members. There are a lot of probates, associates, people putting work in for them that are running the system for them. Arizona, the four major prison gangs, it's all racially divided. The whites is the Aryan Brotherhood. The Blacks is the Mau Mau. The Mexican nationals have their own gang. And then you've got the Chicanos, which are the Mexican Americans. You've got the Native Americans as well. And then anyone who doesn't because it's just raw Being deep in the Arizona jail system, the absolute priority of all of the gangs is to keep the drugs You've got the staff You've got the visitors They do not want anything to disrupt that. I've done some PSA videos, Be careful what you say. Don't brag. Don't let them Don't let them know you've got resources. Two months after my arrest, there was a story in &quot;English Shaun's Evil The neo-Nazis caught wind of this, and then they were pressuring to smuggle drugs in through visitation because I must have all Fortunately, there was a race riot, and those guys who were trying and I cliqued up with and that pressure on me ended. I end up in a jail run by a famous sheriff Over time, you just saw Young people coming in becoming harder criminals. It is a college of crime. The conditions in that jail, the cockroaches, the the guards murdering the prisoners. For the vast majority of the there was no hope. But that's what keeps The illegal black market in drugs created by drug laws is so vast. And now we've got hundreds of and all this knife crime in London. This is what the cops are telling us revolves around young people competing for the black-market profits I was operating during a of the introduction of ecstasy to America. Now everything is monopolized and it doesn't matter who gets They always have the resources to keep the drugs flowing. I lost absolutely everything. Spent six years incarcerated. There's a clip where I'm I think it's Gatwick or Heathrow, and I'm all shell-shocked Mom's crying in the Stayed at my parents' house for a year. The dole was sending me on, like, telesales interviews and stuff like that. I'd tell them, you know, Couldn't get a job. Dole's telling me you've telling them you've not or you're never going to get a job. But a year later, I Lived with DJ Mike Hot Wheels, Lived in his bedroom for 10 years just doing my blog, building my socials. We started the blog in 2004, started the YouTube channel in 2007. It was the first prison YouTube channel. I'd go up and down the the most interesting people. So many wonderful people came into my life to give me a leg up and And I feel it's my karmic destiny now that we've got this platform to help other guys share their story. It was the late 1980s, and all of a sudden, on there was these stories young people who were wide-eyed, wearing baggy jeans with, like, acid, LSD logos on them and stuff. In my economics class, I had a mate. He's like, &quot;You need to And then we went to the Thunderdome, Oldham Road, Manchester. So he was like, &quot;Bear with me. I'll go and get you the stuff.&quot; So, I took the pill, and then once I started I never wanted the party to end. And I was like, &quot;Whew, And that's how raving became my religion. So, going back generations of my family, some settled in Chicago, some retired in Arizona. I had two aunts. Two of my dad's sisters and one of them I would visit as a kid. When the airplane comes and you see all the swimming So I was already thinking, &quot;Hm, I might want some of this That's what I did. If I could go back and tell it would be stay on the path of slow and steady progress in life. I started following the I was worth a couple of million in the stock market in my late 20s. That was before all this drug activity. I didn't need the money. It was ego. My ego was as big as the Grand Pablo Escobar was worth billions. His brother said, &quot;Let's and kick back and not get and not spend the rest Pablo said, &quot;I put the president in power. I've got 10,000 people working for me. You want me to kick back It's not money. It's ego and being a I'm Neil Woods, a former I used to infiltrate And this is &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; Drug crime is entirely different from any other forms of If the police catch a drug because there is an wanting to take that opportunity. What happens over time is, at every level, is where police catch street drug dealers, they help create monopolies. So if you catch a dealer the dealer who's most able is the guy that controls the other half. In essence, it's an because only the most controlling and hostile gangs are the ones who are the most successful. Policing drugs has made the heroin and crack cocaine markets in the UK and around the world much more hostile, but Because people get arrested, And if you consider that which controls a quarter of a city, then the gang that is most capable and able to take up that opportunity and take over control of is a gang that already controls another quarter of the city. So it makes for a very combative and competitive marketplace. The target customers of is the most problematic The most hardcore 10% of heroin consumers consume 50% of the market So you can see just in dominating or exploiting You can make an with dealing with relatively few people. I realized that I had to which meant understanding that I'd previously had a And I had to readdress that quite quickly, because I had to know about -- I had to function like them. But I quickly realized that those people were in a pattern of behavior that was out of their control because of what had happened to them. And that was important to understand, because by understanding that, I could understand how organized and how I could appear and therefore get the buy increasingly large amounts of drugs, and network with the right people. The most significant dealer, or the most significant and at the bottom rung of organized crime, is the most exploited person And that is the user-dealer. It's somebody who is supplying drugs to fund their own habit. More often than not, they're doing that because they've been forced But they're the most important because they are the person Or, nowadays, it's quite often children who are the dealers to rely A user-dealer, from they would go where they're to where the next-rung-up dealer would be, and they would be given the package. And more often than not, that package would already be and sealed up, heat-sealed in plastic, and given to that dealer, and there would be an agreement that he could take a percentage of those as long as he sold the total number. Now, if you were to for the person running that gangster running a quarter of a city, say for example, most of those people I've met have been quite professional. They haven't used any drugs, they have been efficient, they have got up in the morning early, and they usually do it in shifts. They'll split a morning and they'll do it in rotation as a team. They will check which SIM or which phone they're using for the day. They will have a separate SIM which are of most use to them. They will check in with their companions, and they will meet up with the person that they're working with for that day. And what that would normally mean is that they will have a driver. They will sit in the back and they will be driven around where they will be either doing sometimes meeting in the back of that car, or sometimes meeting at remote locations, which will change on a rotational basis or on a whim. They will keep a careful eye on locations where there is a stash, where they are stashing They will also keep tabs on people who are doing the measuring-out to make sure that they're They will constantly be in contact with whoever is tasked in the policing of those people to make sure everyone is staying honest and working according to the team ethos, shall I say, and that makes sure that In essence, it's an extremely but I have to reiterate, it's the presence of people and it's general drugs policing and the use of police informants which creates that desperately The gangs that are the most successful are the ones who are most able and willing to use immediate violence. And so that threat of becomes one of the most So they need to give tighteners to people, they need to constantly So if there is a group of sex workers who are committed to buying the heroin or crack from that gang, then they will remind them of that, and they will use violence to do so. I had actually given up undercover work just before the Burger But I was manipulated, because two other undercover operatives had tried to get close to them, and they'd not got close, dangerously not got close. But it was an extraordinary and it had really serious ups and downs. So, I went to Northampton and I picked on two vulnerable And I decided these were the people who were going to eventually introduce me to the Burger Bar Boys. Because I knew they I knew that they'd been And after lots of work, I eventually persuaded to the Burger Bar Boys. And that was a terrifying experience. And so I was directed to their little headquarters I was directed to the and this hooded figure went and stood on the toilet and looked over, and he said, &quot;What's this?&quot; And he kept asking other questions and then rephrasing the questions, trying to catch me out. I knew the guy looking was implicated in seven different murders. In particular, I knew he was the person who'd sourced two submachine guns for a multiple murder of two women. Then four hooded figures came in, and as the door bashed open and they started walking around me, every so often one would headbutt me on the side of the head on the ear. And I was getting jostled And then all of a sudden he said, &quot;All right, then. What do you want?&quot; As soon as he said the words, &quot;All right, then. What do you want?&quot; The four hooded figures had walked out. And I said, &quot;I'll have which meant I'll have 1.4 deal of crack. And I handed over my 40 pounds, and he gave it to me looking down on me. And then I got his phone number. He put Woody, he actually put my name in the phone, his phone. And I started to buy increasing and gather evidence of I was in. The most important task that I had, to get that phone number, to get that beginnings of trust, I'd got it. That was it. It was just the most intense operation. There was always something, and there was always It never went away. Never went away, not for one minute. And, anyway, seven months, it lasted. And I was pleased to think by the end of that seven months that I'd gathered evidence the six main gangsters And I knew there was no one else to meet. There were no new phone numbers, there was no names I I'd caught everyone. There were police from hundreds of people involved Loads of doors being smashed in. And a week or so after the event, I spoke to the intel &quot;Yep, we managed to interrupt the heroin and crack cocaine supply in Northampton for a full two hours.&quot; All of the belief I had that had been eroding and it had been eroding away, I had to give in to the and realize that this is futile. Now, what this does is If you have allowed a dealer or a gang or a cartel to increase their share of the market, then they are richer, which means they have more In Mexico, there used to be 20 cartels. Now there are three. Each one of those three are Sweden has an extraordinary and they're not just using machine guns, they're using grenades. They're using IEDs. They're There's literally hundreds between drug gangs competing to control drug markets across northern Europe. This is something that we especially as Sweden takes pride in having the toughest Cause and effect, I would say. The most significant has been the shift of online. The dark web, the dark markets. The lack of physical contact so that's a good thing it's moved online. And also there is a way of having self-regulation, because there's reviews left, so people can increase the likelihood of better-quality commodities. Claims by FBI agents or whoever it is that they can crack codes and use hackers to bring these markets The dark markets will continue as a response to policing. Since I've left the police, and that's called &quot;Good Cop, Bad War.&quot; My position is the position which is the Law Enforcement We advocate for the full to take control away from organized crime. And, increasingly, we're becoming the most important voices for reform.