Alcatraz, one of history's most notorious prisons housing criminals like Al Capone and Machine Gun Kelly, was also Infamous for its food. Yes, as heinous has the reputation for the prison was at least dinner on the Rock was something the inmates could look forward to. So thank you to Bright Cellars for sponsoring this video as we recreate a dinner on Alcatraz this time on Tasting History. So there are several menus from Alcatraz from I saw something I didn't really expect and that's that the inmates ate pretty well. For example in 1946 in September on one random Monday dinner which was actually the midday meal, they had split pea soup, roast shoulder of pork, sage dressing, brown gravy, mashed potatoes, stewed corn, apple pie and bread and coffee with milk, not bad. And the food was supposed to be pretty good because not only was it for the inmates but the guards ate it as well. Now there are no recipes from the kitchens at the time but as it happens in 1952 the Alcatraz Women's Club which were the the wives and families of the guards and other people living on the island. They put together a cookbook of dishes that were served there. So using those recipes I'm going to make a full meal fit for an inmate albeit a smaller meal than that random Monday dinner. I'll make Mrs. Viola Delmore's stuffed pork chops, Mrs. Mildred Kaeppel's cucumber salad, and Mrs. Ruth Langley's quickie apple pie. So for the pork chops she says &quot;Cut pockets in chops and fill with mixture of 1/2 cup bread crumbs, 1/2 cup chopped apple and 1 teaspoon minced onion. Season with salt, pepper, and sage. Fasten with picks. Bake in moderate oven 350 degrees about one hour.&quot; Now you want fairly thick pork chops, at least an inch so you can slice a deep pocket in the chop almost enough to slice it in two. Then in a bowl add your 1/2 cup of dried bread crumbs, and a 1/2 cup of finely chopped apple, and 1 teaspoon of minced onion and some chopped sage. Plus about a quarter teaspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of pepper mix all of that together and then stuff it into the pork chops. And the finer your ingredients are the easier it will be to stuff your chops. Then fasten them shut with toothpicks, set them on a lined baking sheet, and put them in the oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit 175 Celsius. Now Mrs. Viola Delmore says to bake these for one hour and I can tell you that is way, way too long you're going to have some dry chops. I would say almost about half that time like 30 maybe 35 minutes should do you pretty good. But that is still plenty of time to have a glass of wine and I'm not talking that rank prison wine, no I'm talking a nice glass of wine from today's sponsor Bright Cellars. Bright Cellars is all about making it easy to find This starts by taking a simple seven question quiz online to help Bright Cellars get to know your tastes, and then voila a box of curated wine arrives at your door so you'll always have a bottle ready for a dinner party or a summer evening out by the pool, or in my case always have a bottle open when your mom and dad come because my mom and dad are coming next week, and whenever they're here just always seems like a bottle of wine needs to be opened. Brights Cellars has a wonderful selection from all over the world and with each bottle comes an education card to let you know a bit about what you're drinking and how it's best served, like this bottle of Cabin 5 Montepulciano is a medium body red best served 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit with hints Cheers! Hmm, juicy. I like that. And thank you to Bright Cellars for continuing to support Tasting History and for giving viewers of Tasting History their So just click the link in the description to take your quiz and get started with Bright Cellars today. Now while you sip your wine and your pork chops bake you can get started on your cucumber salad, good to have a little bit of vegetables with your dinner especially if you don't get a lot of exercise time in the yard. So for Mrs. Mildred Kaeppel's cucumber salad she says to &quot;Whip evaporated milk until stiff. Add vinegar and sugar to make a sweet-sour dressing. Add a dash of paprika and salt. Pour over sliced cucumbers and onions&quot; So I took a can of evaporated milk and I whipped it for a long time like 20 or 25 minutes, and I'd expected it to get to the consistency of like whipped cream and it did not. It frothed up and it did get thicker, but not really like whipped cream like I expected but then she does say that you're supposed to pour it so I guess I shouldn't be that surprised. I also wish that she was a little more specific with exactly how much vinegar and sugar you're supposed to use to make this sweet-sour dressing. I started with a teaspoon of vinegar and then I added a tablespoon of sugar but you might want to taste as you kind of go along because I ended up adding a little bit more of each of those to get a sweet-sour dressing. Then add in about a quarter teaspoon of paprika and a quarter teaspoon of salt. Mix all of this together and set it aside. Then slice up a couple of cucumbers and an onion. Then mix those together and pour the dressing over them and toss it until it is coated. So that is two of the three dishes we're going to make and the last one is a quickie apple pie, and it really is a quickie but before we get to dessert I wanted to share if that's the word for it, recipe in the book. The thing is it's not really funny like haha it's more funny like [awkward laughter] It's Mrs. Robert Murphy's recipe for well &quot;bread&quot; children. &quot;Take 1 large grassy field, a 1/2 dozen children, 2 or 3 small dog, and a pinch of brook and Mix the children and dogs together and put them in the field, stirring constantly pour the brook over the pebbles, sprinkle the field with flowers. Spread over all a deep blue sky and bake in the sun. When Brown, set to cool in a bath tub.&quot; What the- what. What even is that? Are you okay Mrs. Robert Murphy? Maybe living on a prison Island just isn't really good for one's psyche. And she was the wife of a guard, just imagine the effect that it had if you were an inmate. The island of Alcatraz once the site of a military and by 1937 had earned the nickname 'Uncle Sam's Devil's Island' and being an island it was rather small for a federal penitentiary only being able to hold 336 prisoners and typically only housed about 275, but they were 275 of the most notorious and dangerous criminals in the country, like Al Capone, &quot;Machine Gun&quot; Kelly and who ironically was not allowed to have birds while at Alcatraz but most of the prisoners were really not famous they were there because they were extremely violent and very able to live in the other prisons without trying to escape. It was notoriously difficult to escape from Alcatraz. The facility was maximum security, minimum privilege, but food was not considered a privilege. As an inmate on Alcatraz you had 4 rights: medical care, clothing, shelter, and food. And of those four the food had the best reputation. This was in a large part due to the prison's first warden James &quot;Saltwater&quot; Johnston. Saltwater because he was as salty as the water that surrounded the island. He set some of the rigid rules that gave the For the first four years he employed a rigid rule which prohibited inmates from speaking in the cell blocks at work and even in the mess hall but the warden wasn't all for punishment just for punishment's sake rather he was all for punishment as a way to keep order, and that's why he wanted good food because he felt that bad food led to disorder, led to prison riots so if there was good food there'd be order. And not only was the food good but he allowed the inmates to have as much as they wanted but you had to eat what you took. &quot;We fed the inmates cafeteria style. They'd go in and put their food on a tray- you have to eat what you take, if you leave any you don't eat the next meal.&quot; Then you go and sit ten to a table, A guard stood at the end of every table.&quot; The reason for the watchful eye was because the mess hall could be one of the most dangerous places in the prison. First of all it was one of the few times when all of the inmates were gathered together, and they had access to spoons forks and knives for eating, and at the end of the meal they had to take all their silverware and put them in precise places on their tray so that the guard could count them, make sure nothing was missing. Even so the mess hall every year was the scene Tables would be flipped and silverware along with hot coffee would be used as weapons against the other inmates, and against the guards present. But there were ways of quickly putting down a mess hall riot. First of all the mess hall was sometimes referred to as the gas chamber because there were 14 canisters of tear gas in the ceiling that could go off with a remote control but that usually didn't happen. They didn't need to take that kind of action because most of the guards outside of the hall were carrying Tommy submachine guns, and so a few little rat-tat-tat-tats and you know order was restored. But most days no rioting took place at all and &quot;When the inmates got up the guard counted the silverware- a knife, fork, and spoon for every man and then they all went out. The officers ate the same food.&quot; So as strict as the setup was the food was pretty good. In fact it was often considered the best in the entire U.S prison system at the time. One former inmate recalled &quot;The food in Alcatraz was as good as you would get in a good restaurant that specialized in home-cooked meals, better than most.&quot; And so what were some of these restaurant worthy meals? Well breakfast included things like applesauce, fresh oranges, shredded wheat, and hot griddle cakes with honey. Dinner always came with a soup like split pea, potato chowder, or minestrone. Then had an entree of meatloaf, corned beef, or breaded rock cod, along with sides like coleslaw, fresh green beans, or corn on the cob. Then supper in the evening would see the same soup from dinner along with another entree like meat croquettes with bechamel, spaghetti with meat sauce, or jambalaya. Then a dessert like cupcakes or even apricot pie. I gotta say I was pretty shocked at the variety in a pleasing looking manner, and then later on the menu actually had to be worded in a way that made the food enticing. &quot;The 'June peas' was an excellent choice and this trick of menu making should be exploited as much as possible when certain foods are in season. Other words that come to mind are 'baby, young, various color colors (such as mashed yellow turnips), colds (such as chilled tomato), juice old fashioned, home-made etc. The title of a dish can do much in creating That was the supervisor of culinary operations at the prison though all of this, the good food and the pleasing descriptions, was only if you behaved, if you followed the rules because should you break the rules and find yourself in solitary confinement then you could expect to a half bowl of soup with four slices of bread Though on Thanksgiving even those in solitary got a full Thanksgiving dinner, pumpkin pie included. Now while that may seem a small amount of food it was actually a lot better than most of the prisons at the time because yes it was a meager ration but you still got three meals a day in solitary where a lot of other prisons were giving two, or even one a day to some prisoners. At Alcatraz there was actually a conserted effort to stop corporal so rather than harming the body through lashings, or cold hoses and stuff like that. They sought to damage the will and the spirit of the inmates which I guess was an improvement but it led to many of the inmates describing Alcatraz as &quot;The toughest, hardest place in the world... the mausoleum of the living dead... lifeless automatons [on the] rock of despair.&quot; Some sources actually say that a way to break the spirit was by feeding them well. There were times when inmates would be receiving upwards of 5,000 calories a day and they received Nobody wants to start a prison riot after a That's why rather than the prison Alcatraz using food as a punishment it was the inmates who used not eating food as a way to to protest against bad conditions in the prison, there were several hunger strikes on Alcatraz. Warden Johnson said of one that &quot;So far as I can judge at this moment the men seemed to be making their annual bid for attention and perhaps came to the conclusion that striking was not the way to do it but going without food, ala Mahatmi Gandhi,would be a better sort of protest.&quot; You know he didn't pronounce it Gandhi. Now yes the prisoners would use food as a way to to protest but if that food quality suffered then they would One of the most famous incidents was in 1950 and it was called the Spaghetti Riot. Now spaghetti was nothing new to the menu at Alcatraz but in 1950 over and over every single week a little worse finally one inmate called it noodles with plum sauce, and another inmate basically said if we we're flipping tables, we're going to start a riot. Next week there was the spaghetti, so a riot broke out putting the lives of the the guards in the mess hall in danger but the guards on the outside still had those Thompson submachine guns. &quot;I jammed that actuating lever back Everybody heard it and knew what it meant. You look at that big muzzle staring down in there and it's just like staring down the mouth of a cannon I said: Lieutenant blow your whistle... the inmate started to get up and walked out of the cafeteria just like lambs.&quot; Now spaghetti riots aside working in the kitchens was actually one of the most coveted jobs at Alcatraz. Up to 10% of the prison population worked in there at any given time. Partly it was because when you were a cook you got to take a daily shower which not everyone did. Also they tended to be treated better by the guards. First of all, they were making the food that the guards were going to eat and second of all they were the most trusted of inmates, they were just given a job that had knives, and early on before the 1950s and regulations kind of tightened, they had a lot of freedom in what they were making, and would even make special little dishes just for themselves, just for the kitchen crew. Former Public Enemy Number One Alvin Karpis nicknamed &quot;Ceepy&quot; Karpiswent to work in the kitchens in 1943 where he'd bake himself and his friends all sorts of special little pastries, and with access to yeast and fruit would whip up batches of prison wine. He was actually written up in 1945 when he was found staggering around the yard drunk on his own brew but he was not the only one. Many of the inmates would would take out scraps of potato peelings or little pieces of fruit, and yeast and would make their own wines and other batches of who knows what in other parts of the prison, in fact they would take little match boxes and fill them with baker's yeast, and sell them to prisoners who didn't work in the kitchen for five dollars a pop. Now there are a multitude of reasons why in 1963 after 29 years in operation Alcatraz closed as a prison but the number one reason was cost. It was three times as expensive to house an inmate at Alcatraz than pretty much any other prison, because everything on that island had to be brought over from San Francisco by boat. Every gallon of water, every bag of flour, and every apple. Like the six apples that you'll need to make this quickie apple pie. Now there are a few things that Mrs. Ruth Langley cuts out to make this apple pie quickie but the most quickie making thing of the apple pie is that there is no crust. She says to take six tart app apples then peel and cut them into slices, then place them in a deep pie pan and cover with cold water. Then you set that pan on the stove and bring it to a boil for about five minutes. While it boils take three quarters cup or 90 grams of flour, and one cup or 200 grams of sugar, and whisk them together. Once the apples are boiled spread the flour and sugar over the top, pressing it down until juice comes up to cover the top, but don't mix it into the apples. I guess this is her version of a crust. Then take about two tablespoons of butter in little pieces and dot the top. Then sprinkle that with cinnamon and pop it in the oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit 175 Celsius for 15 to 20 minutes, or just until the top starts to brown, and that's it. That is your three dishes. So add a cup of coffee or a dinner fit for an inmate at Alcatraz prison. It looks pretty good except for the apple pie. Apple pie does not look good but it actually smells really good smells like an apple pie. So maybe it's just not the prettiest of things but [chomp] Yeah... I overcooked that pork. Still good though, tastes good even 35 minutes was too long on the pork, I Even if it was a huge pork chop it's just way too long but the flavor is really good because there's nothing particularly special about the pork chop, but the the stuffing is really nice. There's just a little bit of spice there from the pepper but the sweetness of the apples- the apples is really what comes through. It tastes a lot like- like a stuffing I guess with that the bread crumbs because they- with the apples giving moisture to the breadcrumbs what went in as sort of a dry filling is now nice and stuffing-ish. It's good. I have to admit I'm a little more worried about the cucumbers here with onions... let me get an onion, but here we go. [chomp] Hm. It's not bad. You get that sweet and tangy kind I think that would just kind of liven it up. The main flavor is still the onion and the cucumber, I think the but it's it's nice and refreshing and would if you spent your entire day inside of a cell. Finally on to the part that I'm most excited about this quickie apple pie because it smells really, really good. It almost looks like- some of the apples kind of totally disintegrate into like an apple sauce but then some of the apples are still kind of whole, and it does look kind of like a crust We'll give it to Mrs. Langley. [chomp] That's delicious! It tastes like apple pie. It tastes like just the filling though because I guess that's kind of all it is but I didn't think it would be quite as good as it is because you're not mixing the apples with the spices, and the sugar, but I guess when it's in the oven it all kind Nice and soft. That's good, it's like apple pie pudding. Hm! So if ever I was in Alcatraz that apple pie pudding, quickie apple pie that would be something I would definitely go back for, and I would I would clean my plate for that. Everything else about Alcatraz kind of sounds horrible but... that's good. So I mean nothing here is like oh yeah I gotta go make this but it is cool to eat foods that they would have eaten, you know in the world's most notorious prison or one of them but if you are in need of an apple pie, and don't want to make an apple pie make this quickie apple pie it's actually quite worth it, and I will see you next time on Tasting History.