Hello everyone, this is Showtime112 and exploring the aerial operations of the Second 1956 Suez Crisis. While the conflict also involved Israel and Egypt. The first Arab-Israeli War ended in 1949 but the animosities between Israel and its The Israeli Air Force had to be built from could purchase. Czechoslovakia became its main found a new ally, France which began supplying the Initially, France's military industry was so they weren't able to provide Israel significant contribution in 1951 by delivering surplus stock of the Armee de l'Air. Although this the Israeli Air Force still needed jets. To fill this Israel received 11 Gloster Meteor F Mk8s and four trainer aircraft. Over the next two years, additional seven Meteor fighters and two Force entered the jet age but even by 1953 Israel modern swept wing fighters. Their first choice? The sell the aircraft to Israel and even blocked Canada Swedish SAAB J29 Tunnan and the French Dassault Mystere II. Despite the fact that the Mystere II was still under development, Israel chose to proceed with French had yet to deliver, so they offered Israel temporary solution. Israel accepted, even ordering for the Mystere II in favor of the more advanced Mystere IV which would be delivered in 1956. This time, the French kept their promise and by the time the advanced fighter. Meanwhile, Egypt was undergoing toppled the monarchy and brought Abdel Nasser Initially, Egypt's main supplier of weapons was country in the Middle East to operate jet fighters, with another ten delivered in 1950. The Egyptians F Mk8, but the complicated political fallout from In fact, some of the Meteors originally intended Egypt finally received the Meteor Mk 8 in 1955. British de Havilland Vampire, having placed an order 20 of these were delivered. Egypt then turned Vampires under the guise of delivery to Syria, The year 1955 also marked the dramatic with Israeli arms purchases and cross-border raids, to provide military support, Nasser began The result was the landmark agreement in September supplier. The deal included 80 MiG-15 bis fighters, aircraft and 25 Yak-1 trainers. This agreement as it signaled the beginning of Soviet influence full-scale conflict of 1956 which saw an invasion a look at some of the aerial clashes that took By the spring of 1955 tensions between Israel and Egypt were rising. Both countries kept their aircraft on their respective sides of the border, but on One of the aircraft flew lower than the It wasn't hit. The first real jet-to-jet combat between Two Israeli Meteors from number 117 patrolling the Negev region. While on patrol. ground radar. The two formations met and engaged Perry managed to get on the tail of the lead Vampire, but the Egyptian wingman Israeli wingman Weiss however was in and he took aim scoring several hits on the second Vampire. The Egyptian plane went into a dive and disappeared into the clouds. Perry, determined to the first Vampire which had entered Perry and Weiss returned to base but of hard evidence. On the Egyptian, side there loss on August 20th, but there is a mention of Meteors on August 29th. In this engagement, though details remain sparse. This may have On August 30th and 31st, Israeli ground causing heavy casualties among Egyptian troops. Vampires to attack Kibbutz Karmiya on September by Israeli radar and two Meteors were scrambled The Israeli pilots, captains Aharon Yoeli and Yoash Tsiddon were patrolling the Ashkalon area at 5,000 ft when they spotted the Egyptian Vampires Yoeli dived from the sun and attacked the first The Egyptian plane crashed in a cornfield. Vampire which was trying to escape at Yoeli closed the gap and scored direct hits to the cockpit, causing Both Egyptian pilots were killed. The battle marked the first officially The final air combat between outbreak of a full-scale war occurred from number 31 Squadron were sent on a As they neared the Sde Bokker kibbutz, they were One Vampire piloted by Flight engagement and was forced to make a belly Lufti was captured and spent nearly a year as announced the nationalization of the Suez Canal Anglo-French company. This bold move prompted a military Israel, but that's a story we'll explore in future Thrustmaster has given me a commission my Creator Code is applied. I have decided to give get the discount directly in the web shop but amount to your PayPal account. It's mostly between whether it's for flight sims or other. Thank you