- In popular culture, the - Do IQ exams do that? - You probably need 120 points of IQ. - Don't know what my IQ is. - And IQ. - IQ. - Low IQ individual. - People who boast about - When people say IQ, what they mean is intelligence, an objective, rigorous measurement But does it actually work? Well, in this video, I want to find out: Where IQ came from. What does it actually measure? What can it predict about your life? And I guess, what is my IQ? I have never taken an Honestly, I don't think I've always kind of considered my IQ to be maybe just a little above average. - Exothermic or endothermic? - I feel like that should be exothermic. - Good job, science guy. - There are a lot of IQ tests online, but I am very skeptical Still, I figured some of for the real thing. Tomorrow I'm going to Before I do that, I want and so I'm going to try to do a I think this test is trainable. But tomorrow we're going to The idea of intelligence testing goes back hundreds of years, but the first concrete English psychologist Charles Spearman was studying students' and he wondered how their like English, would relate in another, like Math. One option would be that the the worse they would do in English, maybe because they spent and so had less time to devote to English. So performance in different subjects would be negatively correlated. Another option was that would be completely unrelated After all, different subjects so maybe marks would be The third option was that the the better they would do in English. In other words, their marks A correlation coefficient can vary anywhere from negative A correlation coefficient of negative one indicates a perfect negative correlation, meaning an increase in to a precise, predictable Similarly, a correlation of positive one indicates a perfect positive correlation. A correlation of zero indicates no relationship between the two variables. And any value between zero and one indicates a positive correlation, but the data has some random spread. The square of the correlation coefficient tells you the amount of that can be explained by For example, if the then 25% of the variation in one variable can be explained by the other. When Spearman analyzed his data, he found a clear positive correlation. Students who did better in math also tended to do better in English, and the correlation coefficient was 0.64. But Math and English the students studied. They also took Classics and French. And when Spearman looked between all of these subjects, Students who did well in one subject tended to do well in them all. So how do you explain this observation? Well, Spearman proposed that each person has some what he called the g-factor. This construct was meant students could learn new and think critically regardless which explains why students' scores across subjects are correlated. Those with high g, score and those with low g, score Spearman published his &quot;General Intelligence&quot; Objectively But the correlations weren't perfect. So on top of the g-factor, Spearman proposed subject-specific A student's performance would depend on their general intelligence plus their subject Subject specific factors could increase or decrease performance on Spearman believed that specific but general intelligence was fixed. So he wanted to find a general intelligence. At around the same time in France, Alfred Binet was tasked with figuring out which kids needed more help in school. Together with Theodore Simon, he developed the Benet-Simon test. Students were asked to name define abstract terms, And there was also this question asking which face is prettiest. There were 30 tasks in all. Their performance was benchmarked against other students of different ages in order to assign them a mental age. For example, if a student performed about as well as the their mental age would be eight. This mental age was then and multiplied by a hundred to arrive at a so-called intelligence So the Binet-Simon test was It was translated by Goddard into English and brought to the U.S. At Stanford, Lewis Terman standardized it using a large American sample, and with some modifications it became the Stanford-Binet test, and for decades it was in the United States. But this was just the start. Many other IQ tests were developed and they all had the same goal The way they did this was by assessing many different mental abilities, including memory, verbal, Each one of these areas might But by averaging them all together, the idea was the subject-specific leaving a decent approximation of g. Of course, there would But that's why psychologists with upwards of seven to 10 to try to minimize All the different IQ tests differed in the number of questions So to standardize the scoring system, each test was given to a large Raw scores were normalized, usually so the mean was a hundred and the standard deviation was 15, and that's how it's This is known as IQ, and it's meant to be a measure in comparison to the The way it's scaled, 68% of people have an Only around 2% score over 130 or under 70. (tranquil music) 11 lions, four cats, and Oh, boy. As I was studying for my IQ test, I practiced all the that appear on modern tests. One section will almost They give you one word like sanguine, and you have to pick which of is most similar in meaning. Is it gloomy, asinine, recalcitrant, optimistic, or reflective? They might also ask you to pick a word with the opposite meaning. So what is the opposite of perspicacious? Is it canny, obsequious, Another section tests your ability to spot patterns with numbers. So pick the number that 3, 5, 8, 12. What comes next? Originally, I was looking but as I familiarized myself I discovered the patterns A good technique is to find the difference between adjacent terms. So in this case, the first two the next by three, and then four. So the logical next term should The answer is C. Sometimes the numbers grow rapidly, like in the sequence three, 15, 60, 180. What comes next? In cases like this, I look at the ratio of one In this case, the second The next number is four times bigger, and the next one is three times larger. So the answer should be which is 360, answer B. One of the best known are Raven's progressive matrices. These involve a three by three grid with symbols in each of the cells, and you have to select the ninth cell which follows the pattern. I found that the bulk of these puzzles obey one of only a few One is translational motion. So the symbols move from in a predictable fashion. The second is rotational motion. One or several objects rotate The third is missing symbols, where in each row or column So to figure out which symbols you just have to spot And the fourth is addition, where the first cell plus the second cell equals the third cell. In this case, lines but a line plus nothing equals a line. In most modern IQ tests, all the questions are You may have only around 10 Okay, this morning I'm and I got to say that I'm pretty nervous. I always want to do well on tests, it's something I pride myself on. But at the same time, who I'm not allowed to take you in there, because obviously people don't want the questions getting out, and they don't even want video of what it looks like in there. They're very strict about these things. So I'm going to go in, do the test, I'll come out and I'll Wish me luck. What's remarkable about IQ tests is that an hour or two of numbers, and arbitrary shapes can predict a surprising For one thing, the higher your IQ, the larger your brain is likely to be. A large meta-analysis from 2005 estimated a correlation of So high IQ is literally big brain. IQ is also predictive of school success. In 2007, Scottish psychiatrist Ian Deary measured the IQs of 13,000 11 year-olds. And five years later, when national school examinations, Deary compared their - Their performance on an correlated with their performance five years later on the GCSEs, about 0.8. That's an extremely high correlation. - It means about two in national school examination scores could be predicted by IQ Now, the correlation is at the high end of the 0.2 to 0.8 range found in similar studies. But research supports the claim that IQ is a good predictor of school success. It also predicts how much Maybe this shouldn't be so surprising since some school tests It's been argued that tests are basically IQ tests. They correlate with standard Now, on my SATs I got a score of 1,330, which of corresponds So it'll be interesting to see if my official IQ score matches that, or if I was able to increase my score by familiarizing myself I don't know. But IQ also has predictive One of the most robust findings is that IQ can predict job success. - Particularly in technical - How do you measure occupational success? - You ask people's bosses to rate them. You ask what people's income is. You measure productivity use about the output generated. - The correlations typically and the effect is most which makes sense. The highest effect is In fact, the U.S. military with an IQ under 80. They also limit to 20% with IQs between 81 and 92. During the Vietnam war, in order to increase they relaxed this last requirement. But what they found was that were 1.5 to three times as and they required between as much remedial training. Taken together, this added so much strain that the military ran more efficiently without the extra recruits. In total, 5,478 people recruited at a fatality rate three times higher than ordinary recruits. So the military reinstated and today anyone with an IQ less than 80, that is about 30 million Americans, would be ineligible to join the military. Even outside the military, IQ seems to play a role In a Scottish study, scientists uncovered IQ tests from kids when they were 11 years old. Now 65 years later, they check was still alive at age 76. And they found that on average, for every 15 point you would be 27% more likely A large meta-analysis confirms that people with higher IQs during the timeframe The last major thing that IQ This study shows a clear tendency for income to increase with IQ, and it found a correlation But the variance is huge. In fact, the top three all had IQs below 100. A large meta-analysis of 31 studies found the correlation between That is significant but small. It means that only 4.4% is explained by IQ. Maybe one of the reasons why we don't see as high a correlation for income is just because economically intelligence is not necessarily in that maybe there are jobs, like just doing a real estate-type scheme, maybe that doesn't require a Simultaneously, you have all these very highly intelligent people who maybe become college professors, but that doesn't - Yeah. - A lot of people who have don't have the same interest - The relationship with It hardly seems to correlate with IQ, even though people with higher IQs are supposedly more intelligent and on average they make But this apparently doesn't translate into saving or accumulating But if IQ correlates job performance, income, and longevity, why don't we hear more about it? Why aren't more people tested? I think it's because When Henry Goddard brought its use and interpretation In France, Binet believed intelligence could be improved through education. He designed his tests so could be given more help to catch up. But in the U.S., the modified to rank them by intelligence. And researchers like Spearman believed that g was unchangeable, that whatever general you would have for the rest of your life. And many thought g was inherited, passed down from parents to children. These days we would say There is some evidence to IQ appears fairly consistent - So they had tests done when They found all those and followed those people up and gave them the same test much, much later. - Their scores 80 years apart were correlated at around 0.5 to 0.6. There's also evidence for - You find, for instance, that if you get two identical twins and give them an IQ test, they have a very strong correlation. It's actually about the same as giving the same person - Henry Goddard used the claims that intelligence was to put IQ at the center of the Eugenicists wanted to prevent from having kids. In many states, laws were passed to enable forced sterilization of people who failed to meet a certain The constitutionality of these laws was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1927. - Even words that we moron, idiot, imbecile, were - In his judgment, Justice &quot;It is better for all the world if instead of waiting to execute degenerate offspring for crime, or to let them starve society can prevent those from continuing their kind. Three generations of In total, over 60,000 people as a result of these laws. In fact, they served as Hitler himself claimed to be inspired by American eugenicists. - These have been used for - At the Nuremberg trials after the war, some Nazis quoted from the Given this awful history, I think it's understandable completely disregard IQ today. On the science of intelligence, those early researchers got wrong. One is that IQ is not entirely Can you quantify the effects - When you look at twin studies, on average, across the whole to heritability and environment. - You simply can't, for ethical reasons, estimate it in humans with a reasonable degree Given my reading of that literature, it's a pretty broad range, probably somewhere between 40% and 70%. - Okay. And since education can improve IQ, it is not completely Plus, intelligence might as initially imagined. These days, scientists recognize fluid and crystallized. Fluid intelligence is process information, and Whereas crystallized intelligence involves the knowledge you've Both types of intelligence but fluid intelligence and then declines. Whereas crystallized But IQ has been further misused to promote the idea of racial There is, for example, an observed gap between the average IQ of Articles have also been of different nations around the world. Many of these nations average IQs below 70. That's the cutoff for How could this be? The conclusion that some draw is that there are genetic differences between races or nations in intelligence. But I think that's a gross The problem, I'd argue, is that IQ tests don't necessarily measure what And the proof is that there's of white Americans whose average IQ is 70. Who are these people? Just ordinary Americans who lived around a hundred years ago. Researcher James Flynn of IQ tests over the past century, and every so often, the tests to keep their average at a hundred. Now, what Flynn noticed was that each time they got re-normalized, the scores had to be by about two or three And if they didn't do is that the average IQ was increasing at a steady rate for the last a 100 years, adding up to around a 30 point increase. This is known as the Flynn Effect. - Were our immediate ancestors on the verge of mental retardation? Because 70 is normally the Or are we on the verge Because 130 is the cutting - Now the genetics of the population haven't really changed So what caused the increase? Well, there is some debate but one of them is probably improving childhood nutrition and health. - You know, height also increased People got taller, and taller, and taller. - Another cause is better education. - There's lots of evidence that school makes you more intelligent. - You become better at problem solving if you have more knowledge. Because it's easier for if you have more things to - A third proposed cause is a shift in the types of work that most people do, from mostly manual labor to much more abstract thinking these days. And that shift may have made us better at answering the types of questions that are asked on IQ tests. Rotate again. The point is that IQ tests appear to objectively measure Even in the same country, cultural changes can affect So why shouldn't we expect between groups at the same Some tests go so far as to meaning the questions for all cultures. But the truth is it's impossible Does that work? - No. - Okay. - No. I mean, that's just a title, right? That's just a marketing term. I don't think there is such a thing as a completely culture - Culture fair tests geometric shapes and patterns, ignoring the fact that cultures differ in, for example, whether they or spatial relations. These differences influence and use categories. It's also debatable whether cultures without printed materials in the same way that we do. What culture fair tests don't assess is ethnobotanical knowledge, or surviving alone in the rainforest. Arguably, these forms of intelligence are more important for survival than knowing, say the next But since they're less and we don't have good we see IQ puzzles as the definitive way to quantify intelligence. And the people who make these tests agree. There are stringent validated for one population can be used with a very Even in the limited forms of intelligence that IQ attempts to assess, there are factors other than like motivation. How much someone is incentivized can have a marked impact on their score. Many studies have tried paying subjects to complete an IQ test. In some studies, they're offered a little, say around a dollar. Other studies offer between $1 and $10. And the real high rollers A large meta-analysis showed in this way increased IQ. And the larger the dollar amount, the greater the average increase. At the high end, IQ The effect is largest for So in addition to g, IQ tests But it doesn't stop there. They do rotate. Training and coaching for an IQ test can boost scores by up to eight points. I just completed the test (mumbles) I can barely talk after that. It seemed pretty fair. There were lots of different sections. The math section in particular, Those questions were easy. I would say having done the test, I feel like that should be trainable, like you should be able to Test taking strategy is also important. Some people are just under time pressure than others. I think the hardest thing about the test was the time limits. Looking for the patterns I mean, it just normally and so I feel like I didn't finish those. You have to know when to skip questions, how to eliminate clearly wrong Anxiety also plays a role. Apparently a small amount but past a certain point, it I guess the overall review and I think the training That's my prediction. Let us fast forward to the future and see how I actually did. I actually got my results from the author of the IQ test I took. - Those are three areas, - For the math one, for the numbers ones, I think that's where I and got there before the time was done and then I could go back - Yes. You blew the roof off On the quantitative, it was 143. Whereas on the crystallized The fluid intelligence index was 118. - Hmm. is a higher score than 88.5%. - It's not, bad. But it's interesting that that one is significantly lower, I guess. - And that's not an unusual difference. Around that concept of g, people have strengths and weaknesses. If we were to look at the on this set of tests. And it'd be different if It was at 134, which is higher - Wow. - Hopefully you're not - No. I wanted to do well. I feel like my motivation was high, possibly higher than the average person. So what is IQ good for? - My clinical practice now and about 90% of my One of the most common issues is what's referred to as the Atkins defense after the name of the that eliminated the death penalty for people with intellectual disability. - Can't the criminal Can't they just intentionally - No. - We'd know that. I mean, we include, just like there are embedded measures of invalidity. It's detected using various We're better than 95% accurate in detecting people who are attempting to fake poor performance. - Oh, wow. - One thing that we may is to boost people's cognitive so that it takes them, even if they go into cognitive decline, it takes them longer to reach the point where they'll have sort of functional actual everyday problems whether it comes to or whether it comes to whatever it is that people struggle with when they get into later If we could discover a way to lastingly boost people's intelligence, that would be massively helpful. - Maybe its best use is with strong intellectual abilities who haven't otherwise been - Teachers would recommend that a kid gets put in the because generally they'd observed them doing well in the classroom. But if you replace that an IQ test, you find a higher and kids from minority ethnic backgrounds in the gifted and talented And the reason is that you're You're not just relying Getting into a good school or who your parents knew, or how much money your parents had, not so much about how you were doing. The idea that you could try to develop an objective-ish measure all those social biases was - IQ is something that but the general public has a - Tell me about that. - Psychologists hate to and people's intelligence test And I've had parents, when as part of a neuropsychological they'll say, &quot;Well, yeah, but you know, we don't What was it?&quot; (both laughing) - And then I also think you extremes on both sides, You have the extreme of people who say this is the most important thing ever, people's IQ is a majorly important factor that we must know about them, and then we can classify or particular ways of That's a one extreme, and I think that's totally unproductive. But there's another extreme. The other extreme is the which is that these tests they don't tell us anything, that they're only a tool of I think that's wrong as well. And there's just this massive firestorm on both sides happening around them. And the people in the the people have more moderate So I'd recommend that people look for the more moderate views on this. - I think the big mistake in some way determines someone's worth. What's much more important, in my opinion, is how you interact with and Which is why I think Stephen Hawking said, &quot;People who brag about While IQ tells us something, it doesn't tell us how We have the ability to by building knowledge And if you're looking for a then you should check brilliant.org. With Brilliant, you in everything from data science and math to programming and technology. Just set your goal and Brilliant designs the perfect learning path for you, equipping you with the They also helped me understand how IQ and net worth are related by creating some amazing Want to learn how to think Then Brilliant's latest is a fast and easy way to get there. It requires no coding skills, and instead you'll focus and analyze real data sets to In today's world, data skills they're essential. Brilliant is more than It's your path to understanding data and computer science. And what's great about Brilliant is that all the lessons are hands-on. So you build real intuition so you can put what you've One thing I didn't include is that the only aspect of personality that correlates with IQ The more you're willing the more you'll learn and So to try everything for free for a full 30 days, I will put that link and the first 200 of you to sign up will get 20% off Brilliant's So I want to thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.