A property tycoon has been Guilty of embezzlement, bribery, This is Truong My Lan. The 68-year-old Vietnamese businesswoman is the mastermind behind one of the biggest fraud cases Remember crypto entrepreneur Lan's fraud is $4 billion bigger than his. More than $12 billion. The case has sent shockwaves through Vietnam's business community Lan has denied many of the charges So how was Lan able And what does the case say as the country looks to attract destination to China? Truong My Lan's sensational case as one of Asia's fastest Truong My Lan's journey to riches began in the late 1980s inside It's the main market in the And these days, one of the city's And it was here that Lan's cosmetics and hair accessories. After the Vietnam War, but was financially ruined By the 1980s, Vietnam was and it needed to reform by liberalizing and opening up to the rest of the world It attracted foreign direct investment to leverage all its cheap labor costs. During this time, Lan's family in property and started Then in 1991, Lan founded VTP rapidly became one of Vietnam's Over the years, VTP built up including office But Lan's empire didn't stop there. By 2011, she had become a well and was the driving force banks into Saigon Commercial Bank, or SCB. Vietnamese law bans individuals from owning more than 5% of shares in a bank. But prosecutors say Lan ended up owning more than 90% of SCB. According to the court judgment, than a thousand businesses, and register for collateral to withdraw Once loans were approved, to the bank accounts of the ghost companies, or were directly picked up in cash. All of this was unfolding during Through an export led model, Vietnam created one of the fastest growing economies in the region for two decades. The number of millionaires in Vietnam but the rapid accumulation of wealth also created challenges for the government. Alongside the economic revival, a culture of graft was also developed. The anti-corruption campaign but it was after the reelection of Nguyen at the 12th Party Congress in 2016, The late Communist Party Chief likened the campaign to a blazing furnace, in that anyone linked to corruption, and business executives, The crackdown has been widely by Vietnam to bolster its appeal in the midst of the US-China trade war One of the people caught Lan was arrested one evening initially on bond fraud charges. The detention had an immediate impact. SCB customers rushed and investors sold financial stocks. The state Bank of Vietnam spent The court ruled SCB disbursed $43 billion to Lan and her allies. That's equivalent to about 11% In all, 86 defendants were They include Lan's husband, and her niece, who was All of the defendants were found guilty. This included 17 officials in charge They were accused of taking bribes The crackdown has brought down three deputy prime ministers, and seen hundreds of other government Truong My Lan is the highest profile as part of this anti-corruption crackdown. What's not clear is how much further But the campaign hasn't come The investigative and legal process The US State Department says Vietnam's noting that the chief justice While the anti-corruption crackdown the government's commitment to ensuring critics say it's also been According to Vietnamese state media, such claims and insisted Trong defended the campaign to promote Vietnam's long term stability. But the departure of so a significant impact One of the core criticisms that it's just slowed down decision making and led to a form with officials being too scared the next ones to be caught. I've been in Vietnam for almost 33 years. I've witnessed, I've been an enormous amount of change in Vietnam. Now we have, I think, that we have either developed, The anti corruption campaign What used to take three months if not longer, and there are But it hasn't discouraged us and move forward here. Ryder is not alone in his enthusiasm. Despite recent political instability, to attract foreign investment Even before geopolitical tensions have flared between the US and China, very high for production in China Vietnam has been a favorite Not only is it next to China, sectors such as manufacturing, prioritizes policies that pull You've got companies pledging to boost investment Earlier this year, we saw Tim Cook in Hanoi meeting the prime minister as he looked to highlight the country and its role as an emerging But as Vietnam's economic so do the demands for greater transparency and a more robust regulatory framework. While Vietnam's short term growth challenges are looming, to geopolitics. And to deal with those challenges, will need to be very nimble Otherwise, the challenges will be very, For now, Vietnamese stunning rise and fall, who once seemed to embody