Late in the morning of April 28, 1958, the USS off the coast of the Bikini Atoll in the Pacific launch a high-altitude helium balloon. In fact, launched from the ship. But this one was a little some instruments and dummy payloads, attached to code named Yucca. The ship, balloon, and a series of nuclear tests conducted by the United nuclear blast in the upper limits of earth's balloon was launched, it reached an altitude of peacemaker bombers loaded down with instruments Of course, the research team collected including the speed of the shock and the magnitude of nuclear radiation they were also measuring the electromagnetic known since the first nuclear explosions pulse or EMP, mainly because it kept frying nobody had ever measured the waves generated from recorded was so far beyond their expectations, All that appears in the report is a casual mention at one of the monitoring stations being around It wasn't until 5 years later that the US a theory for electromagnetic pulses from the widely accepted explanation for why they are from blasts on the ground. Since then, our fears a warhead hitting a populated area, destroying the possibility of one detonating far above our enough EMP to disrupt electronic devices and even the best and most comprehensive research on of energy organizations and government entities EPRI) funded a study to try and understand exactly altitude nuclear EMP. It's not the only study those who think it leans optimistic, but it has research I could find. And the answers are quite believe. This is a summary of that report, and about large-scale threats to the grid. I'm today's episode, we're talking about the impact This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream A nuclear detonation is unwelcome in are inherently dangerous and the physics of especially true in the upper atmosphere where field and its atmosphere in some very unique EMP actually has three distinct components that can have significantly different impacts EMP is called E1. This is the extremely fast and The gamma rays released during any nuclear atoms and creating a burst of electromagnetic but when detonated high in the atmosphere, free electrons to produce a significantly stronger denser air at lower altitudes. The E1 pulse and the energy is somewhat jokingly meaning it's spread across a huge The E1 pulse generally reaches anywhere and for a high-altitude burst, this can height of the Yucca test, that's a circle at 200 kilometers in altitude could impact a not everywhere within that circle experiences from the blast you are, the lower the amplitude of the maximum amplitude occurs a little bit south creating this pattern called a smile diagram. they are within the affected area Although a weapon like this wouldn't be felt by humans, or probably even be visible on electronic devices. You're probably familiar voltage and current within a conductor. Well, for of frequencies, essentially any metallic object into massive voltage spikes that can overwhelm so quickly that even devices meant to protect with just about everything having embedded implications. But on the grid, there are really concern. The first is with the control systems communications systems used to monitor and record focused primarily on the third hazard associated Most folks have seen the breakers that protect similar equipment used to protect transmission circuit or fault. But, unlike the breakers in your the circuit breaking all in one device, those disconnecting of a circuit under load is done in oil or dielectric gas to prevent the formation current for problems and tell the breakers when to in a small building in a substation to protect these days are digital equipment full of circuit those components are particularly susceptible most countries have strict regulations about radiation you can foist upon the airwaves, rules This is a pulse generator I bought off eBay electromagnetic radiation can have on wave through this antenna, and you can see it has some strange effects. The and sometimes I can get the backlight to turn of E1 vulnerabilities here. An EMP can couple to an EMP can radiate the equipment directly. strong enough to cause permanent damage to the what's possible when high strength fields The EPRI report actually subjected digital would be. They used a Marx generator so I decided to try it myself. A Marx generator charge in parallel. When triggered, the spark generate very high voltages, upwards of 80 or 90 Electroboom has built one of these on his Mine generates a high voltage spark Don't try this at home, by the way. I didn't design an antenna to convert but I did try a direct injection test. This cheap Just to clarify, this is in no way demonstration to give you an idea of The E2 pulse is slower than E1 because this time from the interaction of gamma rays roughly comparable to a lightning strike. powerful than those that could be generated by the grid's not entirely immune to lightning, technology. Most equipment on the grid is pulses such that lightning strikes the E2 pulse isn't as threatening to our power The final component of an EMP, called E3, It's really not even a pulse at all, because When a nuclear detonation happens in the upper and distorted. As the blast dissipates, the state over the course of a few minutes. This is on the sun disrupts earth's gravity, and large than a nuclear EMP to the grid. In both cases, earth's magnetic field. You probably know what a conductor: you generate a current. We call that And in fact, antennas work best when their size For example, AM radio uses frequencies corresponds to wavelengths that can big waves. Rather than serving as a place to AM radio towers are the antenna. The entire metal tower by looking at the bottom because that electrically separates them from the ground. larger an antenna has to be to couple well with see what I'm getting at. Electrical transmission them the ideal place for an E3 pulse to couple All along the grid we use transformers to change side, we increase the voltage to reduce losses we lower the voltage back down to make it and buildings. Those transformers work of wire generates a magnetic field that to flow through an adjacent coil. In fact, the grid is because it allows us to use these relationship between how much current flows and this relationship breaks down at the saturation create much further magnetism to drive can induce a roughly DC flow of current through which creates a bias in the sine wave. If there's saturate when current moves in one direction but That can lead to hot spots in the transformer that expect a nice sinusoidal voltage So what are the implications of all this? For the a big deal. There are often redundant paths for why it's called the grid. But the more equipment the remaining lines, the greater the likelihood tests simulating a one megaton bomb detonated that about 5% of transmission lines could have resulting EMP. That alone probably isn't enough but don't forget about E3. EPRI found that the blackouts encompassing multiple states because between supply and demand of electricity. damage to the actual transformers, and that's a expensive devices that are hard to replace, sitting around. All that being said, many believe that an EMP could result in far When you combine the effects of the E1 pulse and grid could be seriously disabled. It's also easy aren't that significant, the widespread nature systems like computers and telecommunications, getting things back online. A multi-day, isn't out of the question in the worst-case hollywood-style return to the stone age for causing a major disruption to our daily lives. But if you have trouble waiting for you should know that they go live on Nebula without any ads. If you haven't heard about by creators that uses a different model than you just pay a small subscription fee. That sounds huge distinction in content, including videos of original series from your favorite creators And, we're super excited to continue our thousands of big-budget documentaries on pretty Stream loves independent creators, so they're up at CuriosityStream.com/practicalengineering. the streaming services out there right now, but even consider it. You pay one time, 15 bucks, to PLUS you get a free year of access to Nebula too. the How Cities Work series on CuriosityStream has Or, catch Sam from Wendover Productions traveling Jet Lag, on Nebula. It's a great way to your other favorite educational creators. Plus click that link in the description. Thank you