[Music] Welcome everyone who's joining us on this room we'll let you in as they come in. Colleen if I appreciate it. My name is Lynn St. Louis and at ELG Estate Planning here in Washington state are Revocable Living Trusts and the five to their Revocable Living Trusts. If you have any in the chat and I will answer your questions to the end then we are going to be offering excited to have you here, thank you so much for So we're talking about Revocable Living Trusts very popular Estate Planning tool. So I'm but I think what would be really helpful as understanding of what is a Revocable Living of different kinds of Trusts, Revocable Living RLT's. Sometimes that term is used. Those are the to be talking about but keep in mind there are are those different? Well just like the name says, change, amend as opposed to a Revocable Trust, ended, changed, it's revocable. So It's a Living your lifetime and it comes into effect during your that is the kind of Trust that is created by your through your Will, through a Probate process. in addition to that. There's Special Needs Trust, a different Trust, Medicaid Compliant Trust, I just want you to be aware that when you hear the is okay well what kind of a Trust is it? So we're These are the easiest most common standard Trust start and they're very, very popular. Why are they idea with a Revocable Living Trust is that and for a lot of people that's really through Probate for a number of reasons and I know and for that reason a lot of people are very let's talk about a little bit more detail. So Revocable Living trusts, at least in the state so then you can understand the mistakes people Living Trust is a legal document you sign if you online form, you can create it with the help of a you're signing the document that says this is they're named or your name and Trust. So or the Trustor, they mean the same thing, If you manage the assets that were are within if the Trust benefits you, you are the Beneficiary wrapped into one when you create your own terms of the Trust and again any questions anybody answer those at the end or as we go if I'm able Revocable Living Trust now that I've described. bit confused about is okay well I've created the if you've done things right which we'll talk about different, having a Revocable Living Trust because nothing feels like it's changed at special tax returns, you still use your social really nothing seems to have changed and so it's that the Trust has a purpose and to be effective they forget to do things with regard to the Trust So if you have a Revocable Living Trust if you don't understand it, please reach out you know a qualified Estate Planning Attorney people get confused about their Trust and how they feels like it was before they had a Revocable this is where some of the confusion You may have heard that having this Revocable but you'll get all these other benefits you because you have your assets in a Trust. That is Remember it's your assets, you're the no creditor protections from any assets that you may have heard that having a Revocable Living Estate taxes are what are imposed on Estates of now it's 2.193 million. If you're a single person Trust then on your death they go somewhere you if you're a couple and you have a Revocable Living Trusts then you might be able to minimize Keep in mind that under our tax code when the first spouse dies. So as you can see this how to do that that gets a little confusing that people don't quite understand how their Trust Living Trust is that you lose capacity, meaning The Revocable Living Trust does provide a the person who steps in after you and then the should be managed and they should be managed aspect of having a Revocable Living Trust, it does Now a General Durable Power of Attorney provides Trust. I want you to be aware of that that a assets. If you do have a Revocable Living Trust, You need all of those documents. Sometimes people a Trust may help against that because if you they're going to make sure your assets are managed exploited because you if you've lost capacity are One last thing I want you to be aware of as to a are popular is that for the privacy reasons. So I we're going to get into the mistakes people make. reasons of privacy. So let's think about that, Trust, but you use your own name in identifying let's call it the Barney Rubble Trust. That is not used his own name. Sometimes what people do is they name it after I don't know something like you going to call it that for obvious reasons then that might help with privacy concerns, at You know the tax records show the name of that If it's the family's name, it is not protecting has died and there's a probate. Isn't that Revocable Living Trust and so upon death having a versus having a Will that does go to Probate, concerns. We'll talk about that. Another reason property in a number of states like California, It might be a really good idea to put those other and that way you're avoiding Probate in all of to have a Revocable Living Trust. Now that you a Revocable Living Trust. What are the mistakes funding the Trust. So the Trust, the Revocable but it's not. You see the key step is implementing Trust. So you have a bank account, you have an name and your spouse's name you have to rename and now put it in the name of your Trust which and you name your Trust something differently. How about when it comes to your home or Those assets are by weight of a deed and a deed they might need an attorney or a title company or in the county where the property is so if you'll you have a Revocable Living Trust, there must be a your name, or your name in your spouse's name, Trustees of this Trust you have so that's one realizing that there's more work to be done. need to fund it. What else should be put in the You know should you put your car in the Trust, in the Trust. Basically the answer to that is Irrevocable Trust because a car and RV those are generate liability and lawsuits but recall this creditor protections. Anyway, so putting in Make sure you have ample liability insurance. A Personal Property List if you want to make you want it to go upon your death, make a Personal you'll see Revocable Living Trusts have what's to list what all the property is in the Trust as that successor Trustee is going to have some might assume everything you own is in the Trust always good to be specific and give guidance as fund the Trust. Trust won't work like you want another asset into the Trust. So fully fund that it'll work like it's supposed to. Now I cause liability and I said fine, it's okay to put if you are talking about an Irrevocable Trust, a liability causing asset into an Irrevocable and also you put your house into the Revocable to have a problem with that. Again, if you were company might say no you can't put your house ability for recourse against the loan and so it go into an Irrevocable Trust. So whenever you're different rules apply. It's much more complicated guidance if you're dealing with an Irrevocable not funding your trust. Second biggest mistake is because certain assets cannot go into your Trust. everything in my Trust and now you're telling me true. The situation with Estate Planning and Revocable Living Trust is your 401k, your 403b, allow you to put those assets into your Revocable Trusts to specifically hold retirement accounts, Revocable Living Trust. So you cannot put might be your biggest asset and so you might has effect over my retirement account and then So what do you do then with a retirement account You have to make sure that your retirement and your beneficiary designations on your people and not to a Trust and so here's that a lot of the reasons you can't put Living Trust is the IRS rules? Well think retirement account. If you're age 72 you know out of your retirement account because the IRS take that money out then you're going to be paying Well when somebody inherits your retirement but there's a different period of time over our inherited retirement account, depending on your retirement account, they take out their gets your retirement account they take it over a because of the cares act in 2020. If you pay your or to an Estate is that it's a five-year So the retirement account and where it should what the level is of the account, how tax how important is it to get a stretch out of the Trust because it's more important to pay it to a lot of lingo about your retirement account is guidance about where it should pay but just don't assume that you can put it into your Trust. are contracts that you get from financial it into your Revocable Living Trust, it depends institution from whom you bought that annuity. whether it can be titled in the name of the going to determine where that asset goes when terms of the Trust or is it going to go according Don't make assumptions, find out specifically paying to one person where you thought your remainder beneficiaries. So that is the Revocable Living Trust is simply assuming that it Alright let's talk about really I call it not so much your mistake if you are the client, not pushing you far enough to answer then yeah it would be your mistake and So this Trust is going to control during your to say where your assets go. A Trust on your death out right to your beneficiaries or you can person. So sometimes couples will have you know their assets then will go in and create a new now it becomes Irrevocable so it'll be for the and the surviving spouse can even be the Trustee those assets will go where that first spouse an Irrevocable Trust, the surviving spouse really will split in half on the death of the first still have a Revocable Trust they manage and the that the surviving spouse can be the Trustee through the consequences of the what happens next So sometimes what we see is it says okay, when and then it might not say does it go to if one kids or does it go down to the deceased kids think through that and especially if you're not or you're naming somebody else where it's not so somebody dies or down to the kids you want to say does it lapse the gift or what happens and a lot especially if they're doing their own online you would think about every day. What if thinking through in detail, see one of the things is that you don't leave things to chance, you about what happens if and so one of the problems is if it isn't drafted with that crystal clarity or to litigate or for all sorts of problems. So do in the Trust and that we know where assets are the what ifs, what if you are the Trustee and in line. Trusting you always have to anticipate car accident and neither one of you can act as and you want to go at least two three levels deep okay if I can't be the Trustee my spouse can't and you might say well in my child's spouse well go another level deep you can always name a keep in mind that most professional Trustees have won't serve and typically that's at least 500,000 details, make sure the Trust clearly reflects Let's move on to the fourth mistake people make I discussed this, people think that their Trust So you're driving a car and your car is in doesn't matter you get in an accident. You will be that is the first defense and I also recommend an dollar access policy, they're pretty inexpensive is assuming hey my house is in the Trust, my creditors can't touch them. Wrong, it's as if the you're in charge of it, you're the beneficiary, I'm sorry between a creditor and your assets. So the Trust. So if somebody says to you oh you want you, please ask the question in what way will have a Revocable Living Trust is so that you avoid where the laws are far different than what perhaps you can get creditor protection and I'm talking about the standard Revocable Living Estate Planning firm who is providing your creditor protections. The one exception to that and you're losing capacity and now you're getting your own assets. If you've named a successor they see what's going on that you know you're then maybe that successor trustee will step in really the only time that they're gonna, there's is if a successor trustee steps in and you know if want to step down. So that might not be the best their Revocable Living Trusts are going to protect Again, no your Revocable Living Trust gives long-term care costs and that's true even if you died and they through the revolt of the Living you through your Revocable Living Trust. The if you want to protect the assets for your spouse is through a Will and not through a Revocable a Revocable Living Trust type platform so to against long-term care costs and that might be you know a long-term care event or you know. For a lot of people that works fine don't care about long-term care costs, but you worry about or consider or see an attorney that will protect you and your assets from will not do that. Just a little bit of a mention Planning we do help people qualify for Medicaid, At the start I talked about you know there's you know, Medicaid has a five-year look back. assets so that they are protected after five years Irrevocable Trust that protects assets within the a Will that has an Asset Protection Trust in it assets of that first spouse are protected against those assets are there for their in terms of any kind of Medicaid or long-term are a concern, really reach out to an Elder Law an Elder Law Attorney because there's probably a assets and make sure that your wishes and goals thinking that your Revocable Living Trust protects especially if you're doing your Revocable Living everything else that you need. If you have a other Estate Planning documents. You still world would I need a Will? The whole reason my Will doesn't need to be Probated, right? That's online form you likely will get what's called Over Will? It's a Will. The reason it's called a people have Revocable Living Trust they have not in the Trust. So what happens on their death is Probate. The Probate is so that the assets that the Probate process. Probate is your Will is any assets that aren't in the Trust and that and now put back into your Trust. So you've but a Probate. The whole reason for the Revocable So that is a very common situation is that So if you have a Revocable Living Trust, you Planning Lawyer does it for you, they just know Don't forget about your very, very even if you have a Revocable Living are your Durable Power of Attorney and that will that somebody can manage your finances. You go why Well a lot of times people don't have things in can't go in your Trust, your 403b the 401k. That person you've appointed authority to manage those Financial Power of Attorney. You'll also need That's so that person can speak to your medical care when you're not able to do so I name these as two separate documents. Durable Attorney for health. They don't have to be two them into one because of the nature of the work you know long-term care costs, protecting assets, comprehensive so we find that it's easier to sometimes you would name maybe your daughter for your health care and maybe your son will be separate documents makes it easier to designate your Living Will or your Health Care Directive, deemed to be at end of life in a permanent physicians have put that in writing in your chart or would you prefer to be given comfort all of those documents are important to have. of the Estate Planning puzzle. You need also that the beneficiary designations of an Estate Plan is it's really not an Estate on how should you set up your beneficiary to your Trust or to your spouse and the alternate an Asset Protection Trust for a different type overlooked and sometimes people think well my may or may not know this but retirement plans, their own set of default rules unless somebody it might say that it pays to your spouse. Maybe they'll get all of your assets. Your kids will the assets even if it's your separate property. and beneficiary designations are critical part Living Trust isn't going to handle that piece of Estate Planning documents you need and that is overlooking those documents. So I'm going to can be a really good idea, but it's not as those other documents, you need to have guidance It requires a lot more upfront work, but things may be easier for those folks excellent idea to have a Revocable Living Trust, otherwise you're going to create more work than if Also a Revocable Living Trust might be a terrible people protect their assets and that they qualify for. Oftentimes how that's so to speak that's based on a Will with an Asset to protect one half to a hundred percent of and we can't do that if we're using a Revocable Will. What's what the state of Washington requires to be a Probate. So you know when people say It's like that's a little too simple, let's your concerns. What are you trying to achieve? situation or it might be a really bad idea because Probates cost money, absolutely, but if you can well worth it. People don't like to pay lawyers if they don't see the benefit, so in order to see meet with them and go over your situation because that's why we seek out the help from experts. One trying to avoid you know attorney's fees on your whoever you set in that role of administering hopefully they'll do it right, but they they might not do things as you had you know Your Estate you worked hard for it, you're trying it's hard to know what the right thing is want to take a look at the questions here and then inheritance rules the same for IRA's and Ross? No Roth accounts you paid the taxes before you put are different rules than for a typical retirement that. So Roth have much greater flexibility, any other questions so I said that if you stuck a free gift and what that is, is we will send you We know that people have questions and we want so we'll reach out and see if you qualify. So if certificate for consultation I encourage you to of $375 but we're going to waive that for you.