We shoot the new. New speakers get the option of having a shot, Dank. Can we please thank him for giving his first All right. It's a bit late to be worrying about drunk Can we flip the slides on? Thank you. So, for a long time... Would you like some? Fuck it. To our fallen brethren, Kaminsky, Rober, Tuna, They're family. We love you. To them. All right. So, damned if you do, the risks of pointing the emperors' dingus. Legal stuff: Opinions expressed are our own. Please don't sue us. We do not represent employers in any way. Do not pet, eat or taunt the super happy, Yeah. You probably know who I am. Every DC since seven, except the play years. I think I'm at like eight or nine talks. I measure badges by the pound. A Black badge holder, three time hiker jeopardy, hero to some, pain in the ass to most. Yeah, I'm way shorter than Rend. I'm going to load this way down here. But I'm Thomas. I'm mostly here for the politician jokes. I'm a recovering politician. I promise. It's my second DEFCON. I was 28. This is my first one, post safe mode, first As you saw, I currently work as a security Canada, and I once did a thing with the government, I'm here for the vibes. My goal is to not be so hungover that I sleep And here's a very serious picture that looks I definitely don't represent my employer here. My views are going to be my own. So yeah, I think my director is in the audience of them. So, why are we here? So, there's this whole mentality of if you hackers are going to hack. And generally, we do so to try to make things Pointing out problems in systems nowadays it needs to be. We've both had run-ins with these issues with done researcher, and an actual elected politician, There's a problem here. We are Canadian, so sorry, but this applies So, let's learn from some mistakes, fix the can now get back to the bigger problems we So, why do I care about things like this? So, I was employed at a bank called ATB Financial of a dream job I got to say &quot;I hack banks And in the evenings, I hack sex toys.&quot; Who gets to say that? September 2018, at our local B-Sides, I gave things. The first day of the conference, the CISO and says, &quot;Oh yeah, we scan our stuff all Well, I'm in the audience. I get on a Shodan on my phone. I'm like, &quot;No, you don't.&quot; So, I put some of this into my slides for I gave them a heads up saying, &quot;Hey, I got Are you okay with this?&quot; He's like, &quot;Sure.&quot; I threw this stuff into my slides last minute. There was open printers, where you could see end of life servers, servers 10 years behind I sent them the data. Immediately afterwards. I thought all it was well, met with him a He's like, &quot;Oh yeah, that was cool. You ruffled some feathers, but it's all good. All is well.&quot; But ATB Financial is what we call a Crown the government. It's run like a regular corporation, but the It's supposed to be arm's length, but that's Service alberta, the department, owned the but they basically handed out addresses like They would hand them out to other ministries They had absolutely no oversight or control There was no central policies for security This caused an absolute panic across the chain I had pointed out that the emperor had no Emails were sent, calls were made, meetings a job. They got me a code of conduct violation of which I find very humorous concerning some didn't fire me over. So yeah. They suddenly gave me a lot of time on my can attest. So, I began to dig into the problem on Shodan in the audience. 150 hosts, 3,200 vulnerabilities later, just F five admin console login pages, publicly There was a land sweeper default installed heaps of unpatched servers and end of life It was like embarrassing to be from Alberta I documented as much of this as I could, with Ethically and morally, I still felt I had these systems too, and I'm legally obligated But there was no official reporting channel every ministry and everything like that was The buck stopped nowhere. I knocked on a lot of doors to get attention of different departments and agencies, but I got the public interest commissioner involved. They're the ones that look for fraud and graft They didn't really take me seriously until in their secure reporting website for whistle-blowers. That got their attention. They leaned on the government to do something. I think it was a case of either we have you for six months, or you acknowledge, yes, there's this. Finally, got a paper letter from the Service vulnerabilities to this email address, and promptly did in February 2019 and waited. Their publicly available policy said they Now, whether or not that policy was meant I don't think so. But 21 days later, we're a couple of weeks they hadn't done anything. So, I'm like, &quot;Hey guys, just so you know, going public with this after 30 days.&quot; Well, they took that as a threat. And, I mean, one can debate my judgment and That's a whole other talk. But they called the cops on me. The city police computer crimes investigators been making. I agreed finally to be in a public coffee caffeine. I walked them through everything. They learned a bunch of stuff, because most hacked my Facebook account.&quot; I walked them through everything. GOA never told... The government never told them that their So, they're like, &quot;Oh, that changes the context They were thanking me at the end because their they wanted to see it fixed too. So, at the end of this chat, I said, &quot;No one me. It's always been these letters or this indirect Just have somebody call me. We can sort this out.&quot; And they did. They passed that along. CISO for Service Alberta, a different person had coffee with him. It turns out he was the guy who actually called it was a case of, &quot;Well, if we don't report and liabilities and weird stuff...&quot; He's a good man. It's a tough position. Governments change, priorities change, budgets Explained to me a lot of the systemic problems The hatchet's buried, fortunately not in anyone's So, I'm trying to play nice, but I am a strategic need to do things like vulnerability disclosure and also to keep up on this stuff. I mean, there was a lot of things here that and such. Lack of a vulnerability disclosure program, was nothing. Whistleblower statutes don't apply to the It's like, if you are employed by that department, protections, but the public doesn't. There's anecdotal evidence and some documentation out literally that the emperor had no clothes. But instead of slinking back to the palace [inaudible 00:11:41]. Some exaggerated and untrue claims of breaching this was on Shodan. And I had the links. I can show you. It's all behind me. Better job, better life now. But this was a thing that happened and it's So, let's fast-forward to this case in Mississippi. Some of you may have heard of this. October 2021, St. Louis Post-Dispatch journalist, looking up the licensing status for teachers. You put the teacher's name in. And it would say, are they licensed, how long Well, if you actually looked at the response number was in there amongst other information, just the JavaScript was rendering just the This is a brain-dead simple vulnerability professor saying, &quot;Is this as big a problem And it's like, hell yeah. The department reported it, held off on publishing The Department of Education was drafting a and getting it fixed and everything. Then, the governor stepped in. Yeah. And I think this is a good part to talk about The governor claimed that the reporter was agency and trying to compromise teacher's But, I mean, you all know that when you request and it just sits in your cache. And they're sending you things you didn't This is very much, I think, showing that the It was viewing the source. It was looking at the request that were already in proxy servers and cached in their web browsers That's not a hack, in any sense, right? But the case was referred to prosecutors, So, it was sent to investigation. And five months later, lo and behold, surprise, But the issue was that it's the governor's in question. So, it's something that we look at and we It's funny to think about somebody going after basically hell for somebody, to have to have really problematic. Oh, do I... Oh, yeah. So, let's talk about what happened with me. It's September 2021. It feels like year 345 of the pandemic, even out in most areas. We're not out of the woods yet. People are getting their first dose ish. And in Alberta, the premier, Jason Kenney, And he rolls back all COVID restrictions. Now, we know how that goes in most jurisdictions. It's not different in Alberta. And by September, things are worse than ever. I'm an elected official at the time. And the premier Kenney had stated that there So instead, in the fall, they bring in the So, everyone still needs proof of vaccination. But in the REP, if you do that, now you can to go to if you didn't have your proof of So, it's not a vaccine passport, it's just have your vaccine. But everybody needs this proof. The online health records portal that we have, records, was slammed and without working. So, they needed to build a portal that could And that first release left a bit to be desired. So, it basically required three things to It required your Alberta healthcare number, or year of any of your doses. And most people, at that point, don't have So, the original site, when you put in your PDF, no way to verify, no QR code, nothing. And people were on Twitter basically immediately that they received, whatever, all over the It was just anybody could print it out. But looking deeper, there was some other problems. There was room for things like maybe some birth and dose dates, if you do any [inaudible Most people are posting their doses on social They do those videos of them spinning their And there's only one thing that's unique here. And it happens to be a piece of PHI, right? It happens to be your Alberta healthcare number. The Alberta healthcare number is... I think it's nine digits, but it has a tech So, that space is actually quite a bit smaller. And I received some concerns from an Albertan and said, &quot;Hey, I think this type of attack, I decided to take a look. And I wrote a very simple script. I think I described it to the cops as a high It was a little python script. The site had some IP based street limiting, That's a pretty simple solution, right? You just pipe it through the tour proxy you And what I did is I decided, &quot;Well, you have When you go and do this type of investigation, PHI that could be dangerous to leak. So, I tried to use the premier's date of birth, page, used a vaccination date month and year, a couple of days later, got a hit. Script just ran by itself. It wasn't him. Point proven. So, I reported it to one of our staff members, And I basically forgot about it. Within about a week, or a week or two later, put in some controls on things like geofencing, Then comes December of 2021. I'm away on a ski trip because it's December My sister's isolating. She's traveling home to visit us in my house. And the RCMP decide, at like 6:30 or 5:30 they've got a search warrant. They're going to raid my home. So, not a very happy sister when they're in morning and the RCMP flash badge at the door. But I do have some very nice doorbell footage And they were serving an investigation under basically says, &quot;No person shall knowingly in contravention of the ACT.&quot; Attempt. Attempt is going to be a keyword here. There's no wiggle room or anything or understanding records and things like that. And it becomes a bit of a problem, obviously, But we can note that, of course, the Health affiliates of custodians of the information the regs to maintain the technical administrative threats, right? So, this is something that they should have A reasonable person would say, &quot;Yeah, this There should be types of controls against But basically, it concludes, after a year of lawyer fees, no criminal charges, and I American or something for breach of the Health access records part. I did step out of my caucus. And I didn't seek re-election when the election So, what are the problems that are existing You have governments advocating for people out of abundance of safety. They'd rather have a bunch of false alarms, But they'll say, &quot;If you see something, say and this and this and this.&quot; But they're not making that very clear. There's no proactive planning for, not if, because many eyes make bugs shallow. People will find things, lack of vulnerability chilling effect from laws that have no exceptions In Thomas's case, it's like, if I ever found else's health information, I'm like, &quot;Nope, I am not going to say a thing because I access Therefore, I'm in violation of the law. I'm screwed. There's no whistleblower attacks... protections against the government retaliating In our case, there was no major oversight government systems. There was also problems we've seen and partially understanding the laws and where these landmines So, somebody could be looking at things for the danger they're putting themselves in. You also run into situations with governments Your parties change. Your leadership changes. And it's like, &quot;Oh well, this thing that we going a different direction, which means we So, nothing ever gets done. You lose institutional knowledge from those Reporting to companies is equally fraught. And I've done a lot of this. If they have no vulnerability disclosure program, It's never clear what's safe. Companies are often described as more lawyers I Am The Cavalry has this wonderful graphic the protectors, those who look at as a puzzle, some people are in for the money, other people of protest. Those are not understood by business very They'll realize that most of those are actually Some of my other research, these companies They don't understand the security problems, We do need to educate them. So many others really should know better. So, let's talk about some of the problems And like I said, I'm a recovering politician. I know all about ego and bravado, but it's It's a real problem because this lack of transparency no VDP, vulnerability program, means that unintentionally crossing lines, right? So, we have to understand that there are instances understand what they should look at, and the if we look at the Malta case where four students put in it that they wanted to see if there it, and they also had this disclosure timeline. They used this type of very aggressive wording, investigation from that. Those are things where we look at researchers way to work with government. It's not a cooperative way that's going to So, there's this desire for that publicity, It also is a problem when researchers just They don't understand which types of information types of information. And the other thing with researchers is sometimes organizations are oftentimes genuinely either You're talking about a security team of only I think the Alberta government one is still And you're looking at an organization with across multiple departments. It becomes a real problem. So, there's this reliance on this sort of no nuance for how can we work cooperatively improving these sort of issues, because the cookie cutter response, right? They're going to be forced to call the lawyer, And the lawyer says, &quot;Well, we have to report And then, the police go, &quot;Well, now we have It becomes a whole issue. So, some government agencies and businesses May 2022, DOJ announced a policy not to charge They'll still investigate, but the prosecutor good and they're following rules and everything the line, but you choose not to prosecute.&quot; This is a good thing. I was reminded yesterday at B-Sides that, he said, &quot;What do we need to do to get more And somebody shouted, &quot;Stop arresting researchers.&quot; CISA has been doing some amazing work on this, of days. I wish I could have updated the slides till templates for all the federal agencies. It's like you'll fill in blank, and boom, CERT has a guide to coordinate vulnerability Many organizations have vulnerability disclosure &quot;If you report things through this method like don't go public with it until we fixed you.&quot; I Am The Cavalry has done amazing work in Initiatives like the Security.txt RFC, this where security researchers know they can look So, you don't have to have a big thing in you know where to look and can get the information Amit Elezari, I actually spoke to her yesterday, And apparently, she actually knows a bunch to be leaning on them fairly extensively to So, yay. But yeah, I think this is one of those issues, actually work from government. And government needs to also put out that We talked about things like reporting paths When I was an elected official, I had direct officials. And I still didn't even know who to report I had to get the staff person to figure it So, you need that VDP that spells out things like who are the people you should be reporting You need information on who owns what systems reports. And we need to look at things like legislative We need to look at changing some of the laws If you do any type of research, any type of going to be prosecuted, right? The HIA has that attempt to access clause, Those are the types of issues where we need to make revisions that are more fitting with We need to work with law enforcement, right? Law enforcement needs to understand that they researchers are trying to do when they have Oftentimes, researchers, especially if they're this type of information, they're trying to for money, they're not asking for anything. They're trying to do free research work for And we need to have those established procedures of, &quot;Well, I got a report and I don't know So, the first call is to the justice lawyer That's... or the relevant policing force, And that's going to be one of the most important and the governments to understand that these and they're going to increase in volume as data, right? And there's lots of ways you can do that. You can do things like Canary records. You can do test systems like a CTF style flag. That's like if you find this person's healthcare you're actually inside, right? But if you are going to do this type of research, think it was that enjoyable to have the RCMP to do it, you should probably try to figure Who can you give a heads-up? Maybe they're in a Security.txt, maybe they're If you look through the staff directory, you're Identify yourself and say, &quot;Hey, I want to problem&quot;. They might say, 'Don't.&quot; They might say, &quot;Here's a unique header to we can identify the traffic.&quot; But those are the types of conversations that as they work with researchers. So, this is a really fundamental capitalist a vulnerability report and wants to make your you, let them, right? This should not be hard to understand. Expect that reports will come in. Again, many eyes, people will do weird stuff emojis in various fields or whatever. And if something happens, you kind of want Assume positive intent. Unless they actually say, &quot;Give me money, trying to make your product better. A vulnerability disclosure program does not You don't have to pay. Right? It is just having a pathway to ingest those You don't have to pay out. Right? That's a whole other thing. It costs next to nothing to do this. I mean, you could even just have a kudos page Thank you very much.&quot; I mean, hell, PornHub, for certain levels t-shirts to people, stick figures. It's like, &quot;Oh, what are you doing?&quot; Looking for holes. Takes out a whole new meaning there. Vulnerability disclosure program also allows to establish the legal lines and the rules So, you know you can say exactly when a line You can say, &quot;Well, please rate limit to five take this down.&quot; But somebody doing 5 million requests, it's Helps your case too, if you're going to law attack. It's definitely not a researcher.&quot; OSSF, vulnerable disclosure working group, for taking in vulnerability disclosures. Outsource this stuff if you want. Hacker one, all those kind of companies, you It's just a matter of having a way, a pathway, Just think about the reputation damage from them out and stop their message and everything, Being a dick is way more expensive, right? So just, this is going to happen. Just make sure it can, easily. Researchers are part of the problem too. There's a lot of you in this room, I'm assuming. Choose your targets carefully. There are some radioactive data types, like really need to be careful with. Minimize your impacts, rate limit, be reasonable, to grab the entire database or anything like can go to them with a preponderance of evidence the exploit, that could be enough at times it to you to execute.&quot; Maybe get legal counsel on retainer. The phrase, &quot;Well, talk to my lawyer&quot; will because suddenly it's going to cost them money And hopefully, cool heads will prevail in If there's a known exploit, like there's a execute it. Just say, &quot;Hey, your server version identifies There's this proof of concept or this exploit.&quot; Preponderance of evidence saves you from accidentally than you thought it would. Watch your language. No threats or demands of any type. Don't ask if you can get a free t-shirt or It's... Anything that could be blackmail or extortion, It's like &quot;Here. I'm giving you everything. So, I have no leverage at all if you choose to ask for anything.&quot; Document the hell out of everything. Expect that you'll wind up in court someday, lawyers or prosecutors. You want to have all your ducks in a row on Be very formal in your communication. It may become public. I did a bunch of freedom of information requests And looking back, yeah, some of my communications it that way. That was bad idea. Keep your ego in check. If somebody just doesn't want to hear from It's all on them now.&quot; Pick your battles, but consider this whole You have federal, state or provincial. Help municipal governments as well as at your Big or small, a security text file costs you Because we've got bigger problems to solve, everything like that that are actually trying Again, free labor. So, I think we're going to skip this one, But anyways... So, to our stories, there's this rather wonderful So, like we said, all those things eventually They added that secure QR code. They added the capcha, a couple controls. Alberta now has a cybersecurity community engage with the GOA, and all these things. They have sort of a reporting method now. There's a web portal anyways. It still needs a bit of work, but we are working my performer colleagues, to see about having And we're hoping to continue engaging, as agencies and all those types of things to So, since 2018, I scared them enough to open The threat intel team was massively shaken missed a bunch of things. A huge reorganization in the IT department, maybe didn't have the budget or the resources And while they couldn't be told that they own policies, they're like, &quot;Here's a bunch fix this because it's all in our best interests.&quot; And I have to say, it took them about a year, It's way better than it is. Occasionally, I'll throw a report at them than it was previously. In that subsequent time, reconnected with When things hit the fan for him, wrote a letter He violated the letter of the law, but the then there's this chilling effect that nobody out the emperor has no clothes.&quot; I wrote a letter to the court, which was really It's like, really, the court's going to listen Do they know me? And while he was in MLA, because he had stepped member, he just wasn't part of any party at of our legislature. And he saw the opportunity for a glorious So, for those of you not in a commonwealth was last year, which is 70 years of being So, all the provinces and the federal government In Alberta, 7,000 were made. A bunch of people got them automatically: people. But MLA's got this opportunity as electeds service to the promise. I think you might be able to see where this So, why don't we nominate somebody who found Alberta government in 2018/19. They gave me a fucking medal. I will point out, Render originally thought Well, it was like, &quot;Hey, you've been nominated Please give us all this personal information.&quot; I only asked for birthday, social security give out an award. But the same government that didn't need Render's this distinguished medal. And then, you can see how he dressed. Yeah. Yeah. So, that's a joker inspired suit, by the way. And we had the opportunity to... I had a certain number of guests that I could And Thomas was kind enough to put on letterhead, Service Alberta, who had called the cops on He was unfortunately in Vancouver giving a He couldn't attend. But he appreciated the whole humor in this Evil mug, the Church of WiFi's Bishop, a friend So, two of us have this service award. But Yeah. Since Medals are being given out quite generously, Yeah. So, we have the church of wifi, DEFCON Medal service to others in the community. I made these on my CNC at home. They are janky as hell, but made about 220 the weekend to those we see doing cool thing. So, if you've got a really cool project, or the hallway, or you buy us a lot of drinks Don't buy the drinks all at the same time. Oh, God. 200 is too much. Yeah. So, the outline ones are new service. The solid ones are going to people who've really are the ones that pull off DEFCON, They're going to get those. So... Wow. Five minutes left. I guess, questions? Well, I think, Thomas, you should get the and excellence is service to my ego. So, there you go. No questions? I think being the troll... Sorry. I think being the troll was why Render knew Oh, yeah. Oh, hat. [inaudible 00:42:51] Yeah. He's saying that, as a researcher, the thing do nothing. The problem is I have unfortunately burdened Exactly. So, I see something like that, and it's like Oh, I agree. The second least risky thing is drop it on Yeah. The second least risky thing is to drop it And I'm like, &quot;Yeah. But again, it's the, will it ever actually I think the one thing to think about though, talking about government organizations, that's your information is in that system. Right? So, that's a real issue for you and your friends Yeah, I'm protecting my own ass. And I like my ass. So... [inaudible 00:43:45] Yeah, just basically putting it out to the come to them with a report is better than You're quite right. So... There is. Oh. As someone from the Midwest, specifically 00:44:21]. I must inform you that it is not Mississippi. It is Missouri, in that case. So, he's correcting me on which state that I mean, you guys have got way too many of I'm Canadian. So, I'm just going to claim ignorance or something So... [inaudible 00:44:43] I mean, keep track of batshit insane states So... I got one more, time for one more. Let me go here. [inaudible 00:44:55] So, do we think there's something that can or higher levels to bring in VDPs and things I think that a big piece of it's going to saying like, &quot;Hey, you need to have these You need to have the policies in place that Yeah. And if law enforcement steps in and says, this stuff, anybody who doesn't, it's much Their malicious intent actually might make But also, I mean, never underestimate a barbed Just browbeat them into doing it because in We need thousands of security experts. Well, there's people lined up to do work for Let them. Thanks guys. Thank you. Thank you.