[Contribution By Tengen MK-2] While browsing through NES games,you'll occasionally come across some that look...different. They're black, they have a slightly different shape, and they're all made by the same Sometimes you'll even come across the same game in a grey cartridge, as well as a black Tengen cartridge. So who was Tengen? And why did they make these It all revolves around a big legal battle between A case that would not only re-define laws, but change how third-party developers made video games on home consoles. Let's take a look. In 1984, Atari was in trouble. The video game crash of 1983, brought on by a flood of consolesand poorly made games, devastated the once prolific company. At the end of the year, Atari had lost $539 million. Massive layoffs soon followed. Business deals were cancelled. Entire divisions were closed or consolidated. In May of 1984 alone, Steve Ross, president of parent company It was time to pull the plug and He came up with a plan to split the company and sell them for as much as possible. Atari was split into two: Atari Corporation and Atari Games. Atari Corporation handled the consumer products, such as their line of personal computers while Atari Games had control of the On July 2, 1984, the majority of the founder of the computer company, Commodore. Although Tramiel could have purchased he had little to no interest in video games. His background was in computers. Warner continued to look for a buyer, as Atari Games was losing money and suffered more layoffs. The next year, Atari Games finally found a buyer. It was a Japanese man Who owned a company named... Namco. On February 4, 1985, through his US subsidiary, For Nakamura, it was a long time dream realized. Atari was once the dominant game company in the industry And now... he owned it. But his dream would be run by another man, the same man Nakamura sent to the His name was Hideyuki Nakajima. In his book &quot;Game Over,&quot; David Sheff He was a spark plug in a world In short: the perfect type of man Nakajima even had a history with the company. Back in 1973, Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney were looking to Thus was born Atari Japan. Nakajima, a veteran of the Japan Art Paper Company, was named the general manager. In the beginning, it was a disaster. Atari Japan struggled to find They turned to another company for help: Nakamura Amusement Machine or... Namco, for short. Nakajima asked Masaya Nakamura to help distribute the games Nakamura agreed. However, Atari Japan kept losing money. Nakajima even had to use some of his own personal savings to keep the operation going. In the end, it was his own employees In a last-ditch effort, Nakajima flew to the United States begging to let him keep going. But Atari was losing too much money and decided to sell Atari Japan to the highest bidder. At first, that was Sega, for a measly $50,000. But Namco saw this as a great and agreed to purchase Atari Japan for $550,000 and the rights to distribute Nakajima kept his job and within a few years, Namco would utilize the resources it gained from the transaction to become one of the biggest They churned out hits such as In 1978, with business doing well, Nakajima convinced Nakamura to open a subsidiary company over in the United States. He agreed, and Namco America was born. Their location? A few blocks away from the old Namco America licensed their popular with Midway getting two big hits: Galaga and Pac-Man. Nakajima also struck up a Pac-Man memorabilia was everywhere nationwide, and Namco America made a ton of money. Now in 1985, it was up to He reduced the salaries of froze salary increases for a year, and laid off 30 employees. Nakajima himself took a 20% pay cut. While he was able to get Atari Games he had disagreements with Masaya Nakamura on what direction to take the company. Nakamura was hesitant to put seeing them as a competitor to Namco. He also didn't enjoy the fact In 1987, Nakajima and Nakamura Nakajima, along with several employees would purchase 20% of the Nakajima would become the president, and resign from his position at Namco America. For Nakajima, everything had come full circle. He was once working for Atari, and now, he was running it in America. He soon turned his eye which had recently seen a resurgence At the time, Sega was not licensing And the Atari 7800, released by Jack Tramiel's Atari Corporation, was barely doing anything. The NES was the way to go. But there was a problem. Atari Games couldn't actually as Atari Corporation own the To get around this, Atari Games formed a new subsidiary, known as Tengen. Nakajima came up with the name &quot;Tengen&quot; Bushnell and Dabney named Atari The word &quot;atari&quot; is used in the same way Nakajima chose the word &quot;tengen&quot;, which represents the center of a Go board - the origin of Heaven. Getting your game officially licensed by Nintendo Nintendo wasn't taking any chances, not after the video game crash of 1983. Poor games littered the market, and this was their version of quality control. To become a licensee, you first had Nintendo had the right to make changes such as removing blood or religious symbols. Once approved, you had to purchase The cost ranged anywhere from $9 to $14, With a minimum order of 10,000 cartridges. Companies were only allowed and were to be exclusive to the NES for two years. Some companies formed subsidiaries Konami published several games under Ultra, while Acclaim used LJN. However, the most brilliant move by Nintendo which prevented unlicensed games Both the console and the game cartridge that spoke to each other with a program called &quot;10NES&quot;. If they could communicate successfully, the game would play. Nakajima wasn't a fan of the licensing agreement, but he met with Nintendo of America and vice president Howard Lincoln anyway. There was mutual interest between the two companies. Nintendo saw Atari Games as a recognized brand, with a slew of great titles Nakajima pushed hard for a better deal. This was Atari, who basically Arakawa and Lincoln wouldn't budge. All licensees had to be treated the same. Although upset, Nakajima reluctantly agreed. On January 18, 1988, Tengen officially became a Nintendo licensee. Their first three games were announced that same year at the June Consumer Electronics Show: Gauntlet, Pac-Man and R.B.I. Baseball. After the agreement, Nakajima and or play a round of golf - a nice gesture between two business partners. However, Arakawa noticed Nakajima was quite chatty, asking many questions about Nintendo's business and its distribution strategy to retailers. Not wanting to seem rude, and having good faith in Nakajima, Arakawa shared information. He had no idea that behind engineers were working to A year earlier in 1986, Atari Games was aware of the strict Nakajima, along with other executives, were not fans. Nintendo was new to the video game world, and their demands seemed arrogant, attempting to control the market. Said Chief Operating Officer Dan Van Elderin: &quot;The way Nintendo did business... ...was like Ford introducing a car that could only use Ford gasoline.&quot; Lawyers for Atari Games to see if there was any way to make games for the NES without going through Nintendo. There was a way, but it all hinged on being able to get around the lockout chip technology. Engineers were given the After many attempts, they found no success. One engineer, Pat McCarthey wrote: It was clear that in order to They would need access to the &quot;10NES&quot; program. However, Nintendo had copyrighted the algorithm. Now, it is true that anyone can walk into the copyright office and ask to look at copyrighted material. But for certain materials such as &quot;10NES&quot;, you can't take a copy with you, or even take notes... ...unless that material is the subject of litigation. Atari Games came up with a plan. Atari lawyers filled out a form, falsely alleging that they were the defendants in a case regarding the algorithm In no time at all, Atari Games suddenly had a copy of the &quot;10NES&quot; program, obtained illegally. With access to the program, Atari engineers had no trouble at all They created a similar chip that contained their duplicate &quot;10NES&quot; program and tested it in a cartridge. It worked. They dubbed their clone &quot;Rabbit&quot;. Atari Games' plan to circumvent the Tengen may have picked the worst possible time to become a Nintendo licensee. In 1988, the entire electronics industry simply due to high demand. Nintendo was hit hard. Because they manufactured every single game, they had to let all of their licensees know they would be getting fewer Some companies were furious. The loss of sales would cut deep into their profits. Dan Van Elderin, asked if they could just find surplus Nintendo agreed, but only if Tengen The chips also had to pass their standards. After finding a supplier in the United States, Tengen submitted the chip to Nintendo for review. It was denied. One Tengen spokesperson claimed that due to the chip shortages and Nintendo's policies, they were only able to satisfy Nakajima saw this as the final straw. Nintendo's licensing policies and they had finally found a It was the perfect time to strike. In December of 1988, Atari Games and unfair competition for a sum of $100 million. At the same time, they sent out their new games containing the &quot;Rabbit&quot; chip to retail stores - the very first unlicensed games Tengen games are similar in size They have a curved end and two tabs Each game has the &quot;Tengen Seal of Quality&quot; and came in a box with it's very own dust cover. Tengen only made three officially licensed games, but they also made unlicensed versions of them as well. The Tengen library was notable which is considered the best baseball game on the NES, as well as some good arcade games They even published a few Sega on the Nintendo Entertainment System, who would have thought? There was also the close relationship with Namco, which resulted in ports of Pac-Man, Ms. Pac-Man and Pac-Mania. Tengen even made their own before a court ordered them But we'll save that story for another time. After the 1988 Christmas party at Nintendo, Minoru Arakawa and Howard Lincoln received the news that Atari Games was suing them. They were completely blindsided. They quickly contacted Nintendo of Japan. President Hiroshi Yamauchi was clear: Atari Games and their unlicensed Nakajima met with Arakawa to discuss the lawsuit. He told him he never wanted it to come to this But due to Nintendo's strict rules, he felt he had no choice. Nakajima offered to withdraw the suit. &quot;Let us do our own manufacturing,&quot; he said. Arakawa said &quot;No.&quot; The lawsuit would continue. Atari Games went to the media, accusing Nintendo of creating a chip Nintendo vigorously denied the claim, For Nintendo vice president Howard Lincoln, It was a total betrayal of their initial He stated, &quot;I thought to myself: you have no idea what you have taken on. A tiger... who will skin you... piece by piece.&quot; Nintendo quickly countersued in February of 1989, stating that Tengen had entered the obtaining technical support for the sole purpose of They also sued for Tengen sales of as well as patent infringement Later that year in November, they amended their suit, adding that Atari Games unlawfully obtained their copyrighted &quot;10NES&quot; program from the US copyright office. All of the allegations and suits It was only the beginning of a long, The media took their sides - The majority rooting for Tengen. &quot;Whom should the average consumer If it wins, certainly more cartridges and If Nintendo wins, the negative consequences for the rest of the computer industry could be staggering. If the makers of hardware had veto power over what software gets made, consumers would suffer. Fewer programs would be available The Atari Games suit is an effort - Dennis Lynch, Chicago Tribune. Nintendo employed a strategy of threatening retailers with legal action or cutting them out of supply Nintendo products sold consistently throughout the year for retailers, sometimes making up 50% of sales. For some, it was simply too risky Retailers such as Toys &quot;R&quot; Us, all stopped selling Tengen games. Atari Games filed an injunction in order to Judge Fern Smith, who would oversee the entire case, ruled that Atari and Nintendo could Both companies appealed, and the injunction was lifted. Nintendo continued to contact retailers. Despite the legal battles and retailer threats, Tengen was seeing good Sales were up by 40%. In March of 1991, in the U.S. Judge Fern Smith would decide whether or not Tengen had a legal right to sell their unlicensed games. It all boiled down to the &quot;Rabbit&quot; chip Did it use an exact copy of the &quot;10NES&quot; program in order to authenticate with the chip inside the NES? Atari Games argued that they because it was ridiculous to think someone could reverse-engineer a chip just by looking at papers. They felt they were entitled to, quote, &quot;self-help.&quot; They also claimed that the as they had already cracked the &quot;10NES&quot; program. But evidence suggested otherwise. The copyright on the &quot;10NES&quot; program was dated 1985. However, in 1987, Nintendo made Deleting some unnecessary code. The &quot;Rabbit&quot; chip contained the deleted code. &quot;10NES&quot; also had some other functions, beyond just unlocking the console. The &quot;Rabbit&quot; program contained those as well. It was clear to Judge Fern Smith that the program contained inside Tengen's &quot;Rabbit&quot; chip was a direct copy of the &quot;10NES&quot; program. She ordered Atari Games to immediately cease producing, distributing, and selling their unlicensed games, as well as recall all product Smith also harshly criticized &quot;If Atari did not need copyrighted then it should not have deceived the copyright office in order to bring the &quot;10NES&quot; code back to the lab. Atari decided to make its cartridges functionally indistinguishable from Nintendo's own games by admittedly copying more than what was needed to make a game work on the NES console. A preliminary injunction is appropriate.&quot; - Judge Fern Smith. Atari Games would appeal, claiming the decision would force laying off 39 employees - a huge financial impact. Judge Fern Smith agreed and suspended her decision. Tengen games would remain on store shelves... for now. On September 10, 1992, a case went to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C. As a defense to their copyright infringement, Nintendo had misused its copyright giving them control of games They asserted that Nintendo's misuse of copyright should prevent copyright enforcement. They also argued that reverse-engineering The court disagreed with copyright misuse, stating: They did, however, rule that Ultimately, the court agreed with Atari Games had stolen the &quot;10NES&quot; program code, and ordered them to stop making and selling their unauthorized Tengen game cartridges for the NES. After 4 years of litigation, the battle was over. Tengen ceased production of NES games and shifted their focus to other systems, mostly the Sega Genesis, Atari Games' accusation that Nintendo violated Although Nintendo won the battle, Atari Games' lawsuit ultimately The case helped establish It also reformed how the copyright office Their anti-trust suit also Jack Tramiel's Atari Corporation also sued Nintendo for $250 million for violation of anti-trust laws in 1989. Tramiel claimed Nintendo's practice prevented Atari from getting good games. The case would ultimately be dismissed. In December of 1989, urged the Justice Department's anti-trust division to investigate Nintendo, citing: &quot;Unreasonable tactics to restrain competitors.&quot; This led to an investigation, A year later, in October of 1990, Nintendo announced they had decided which included the two-year exclusivity rule. In 1991, the Federal Trade Commission Nintendo was ordered to send $5 vouchers to any person who had purchased an NES game Between June of 1988 and December of 1990. Nintendo dealers were now allowed to sell games, cartridges and accessories at any price they chose. The case even reached In 1989, Namco had to renew their which originally gave them special provisions Nakajima's old boss, Masaya Nakamura, met with Nintendo president Hiroshi Yamauchi refused to give Nakamura Nakamura was furious, and spoke out publicly against He also declared that Namco for Sega's latest console: the Mega Drive. Hideyuki Nakajima would In 1994, Time Warner decided to fold both Atari Games and Tengen into their new company: Time Warner Interactive. Around the same time, Nakajima announced he was changing his role within the company. But friends, family, and co-workers knew the truth. He was battling lung cancer and simply couldn't handle the responsibilities of running the company. On July 11, 1994, Hideyuki Nakajima passed away in Tokyo. Under Nakajima's leadership, Atari Games aggressively attacked Nintendo's business practices. This eventually led to Nintendo which allowed developers to make This helped systems like the Sega Genesis gain a stronger foothold in the market share, creating a more open market. Without the battle between Nintendo and Atari Games, the video game industry wouldn't be what it is today. That's all for this episode of Gaming Historian. Thanks for watching. [Bradinski music from Tetris plays]