Transcriber: Denise RQ I've just had to mention this that I interviewed That's it. (Laughter) (Applause) Anyway, Paul McCartney or Paul-- (Laughter) I'm just saying-- went to Liverpool Institute, that was where he went, I went to the [Liverpool] Collegiate I asked Paul McCartney-- I helped a little bit of Mark Featherstone It's a fantastic school by the way. I asked Paul McCartney And he said no, he hadn't. I said: &quot;Did your music teacher He said, &quot;No.&quot; He does, doesn't he? One of the other people a couple of years younger, And I asked Paul if he thought He said, &quot;No.&quot; So I said, &quot;Well, look...&quot; is that talents are often buried, you have to go looking for it, so I said: &quot;Well, would this that there was just one music teacher in Liverpool, in the late 1950s, who had half the Beatles in his class-- (Laughter) and he missed it?&quot; (Laughter) He said, &quot;Yes, that's right.&quot; Well, it's a bit (Laughter) I'm just saying-- Elvis Presley, went to school in Tupelo, Mississippi, and he wasn't allowed They said he would ruin their sound. Elvis! Well, we all know to what great heights (Laughter) once they managed And that's the point, isn't it? Your life is, you create it according to the talents You mentioned the Dalai Lama, I hosted a session and he was the guest of honor. We had about 2,000 people in the room. It was a session called So we had about an hour (Laughter) We were just killing time (Laughter) I had to introduce the Dalai Lama. I mean Herb actually introduced me-- (Laughter) Buddhists as you know, Buddhists believe in reincarnation, So it's a lot to get in (Laughter) if you are going Anyway, I then realized because I thought if your name (Laughter) you can relax socially, (Laughter) &quot;Excuse me, which Dalai Lama are you?&quot; (Laughter) &quot;That would be &quot;the...&quot; (Laughter) Anyway, he said and may I say, a lot of the great truths and they are very simple. But he was asked a question and we were all sit at 2,000 people There were 10 of us But he was asked this question --you've got a picture, I did actually asked Herb (Laughter) Anyway, we did get a sofa He was sitting cross-legged and with a baseball cap on, and he was asked this question, and pondered this for probably And we were all thinking This man has so, he's going to wait And then he leant forward, and he said, &quot;I don't know.&quot; (Laughter) I thought: &quot;What do you mean, (Laughter) You are the Dalai Lama! You have the definite article He said: &quot;I've never thought about that. What do you think? What do you think?&quot; You see, I love that. It's been the theme Knowledge is not about what you know and being prepared to say, It ran through all presentations; what you said about the restaurant, It's not over as long as you are alive And the great teachers are the people It's a big problem of education, we're all supposed to know, All the great questions are knowable The other thing he said, by the way, he said: &quot;To be born at all is a miracle. So, what are you going to do And this really resonates to me, and my brother John, who's sitting I had an arm around him I just want to explain (Laughter) It's so easily misinterpreted. I don't mind if it is by the way, John has been doing our family tree. It's not much of a tree, truthfully, All fungus infection at the roots But he discovered that seven were all born in Liverpool within two miles of each other. That's how they met. That's how people used to meet. People didn't travel People just went to work and came home, it was as far as they could walk So, that's how they met. You might say: &quot;No, that's not the case, there is a cosmic theme here The cosmos arranged things at the same point they should meet and procreate that has led to the miracle that it is me! (Laughter) It's a way of thinking about that, I just think they had lower standards (Laughter) I think people ran into each other (Laughter) &quot;I can spend my life with you. I'll be constantly embarrassed, (Laughter) Because they didn't know Angelina Jolie they didn't have TMZ or People Magazine, But here's the point, you see. They went on and had kids, and then our parents were born, and 50 years later, and there was that night in the pub, and here we are, But, the thing is, because if you think of the chances that's pretty remote, statistically. All the people --think how you met those circumstances are remote. Think about what you do your life is composed by choices you make, the turnings you move towards, the chances you all are prepared to risk, and in the process And it's a miracle and it's amazed me They go through their lives thinking: &quot;If I try it, it won't work.&quot; Anyone who ever achieved was prepared to be wrong that's how culture progresses, how you build a legacy Everyone makes his own choice And I just feel that's been one of the great features of the afternoon I wasn't able to be here, of people who've created and they're affecting people It's in the way we do that, and if we got the culture right, My final thought in all of this is that's the difference between human We are jeopardizing life on Earth is human culture is always progressing There's a big difference although we're intimately connected, If you've got a dog, your dog probably has and may have some kind of imagination. But it doesn't manifest it You don't see your dog, starring out (Laughter) You'd say, &quot;Do you come for a walk?&quot; (Laughter) &quot;No, you go out, (Laughter) Because we live in a virtual world, in a world of thoughts, and feelings, It's the old maxim:&quot;Nothing is so powerful Nothing is so influential And that's really, I think, and, I want in your behalf, Mike for a wonderful round-off and especially Herb, so please welcome Herb Kim back to stage. (Applause) Herb Kim: Thank you. Let's give a round of applause for guest housing this final session. (Cheers) And of course, I have to repeat which have been amazing. I should also add of course, Rob and his crew up there have been busy making sure all the stuff things like microphones and the such like. Is Marie around? Marie Burns, (Applause)