Day one. and NASA has to accept a simple fact: Back in 2004, an asteroid named Apophis was and Roy Tucker at Kitt Peak National inspired by the Egyptian myth of a demon serpent seemed to pose a terrible threat to thought it was on a collision course Further observations took place. were confident enough to state that their initial Instead, it would pass just 19,800 miles above it Still, NASA couldn't be certain. That's why it was in 2016 to track the asteroid and provide more did just that. But it also delivered some It was going to hit it. NASA is scrambling. It hasn't told anybody the to run some calculations. They need to confirm trained on the asteroid's course, including and Hawaii's Pans-STARRS1. Take as many photos of Apophis as possible points. These images, taken several minutes the stars and galaxies that the telescopes are fixed - their position is the same in all of NASA to track Apophis as it moves beyond them. They don't know what happened. They went through the asteroid was going to miss. Attention space-borne threats. But now, something has NASA's fears - it's going to hit Earth. NASA knows that the asteroid is coming. Bill of the group since May 2021, now instructs planet is going to be dealing with. What does When and where will it hit Earth? Apophis is shaped similarly to a State Building is tall. Measuring about 1,110 believes is comprised primarily of silicate As for when it will hit, NASA already That gives Earth 300 days to prepare for Further calculations reveal an impact location. land. Instead, it will plunge into the Atlantic than anything ever produced on Earth. Armed with his new data, Nelson only has one man A meeting is set up, including Nelson, the The president asks for details, and Nelson It's heading to Earth. It's going to touch down in The president wants to know more. First, the good news. Apophis is a large Apophis won't represent an extinction-level to NASA's calculations, the asteroid will 1,000 megatons of TNT. That's 19.2 times more is the largest ever created. That bomb was around used during the entirety of World War II. "is that this asteroid is going to strike "In a manner of speaking," Nelson replies. equivalent to most of our nuclear arsenal But it's not a planet killer. The president Nelson was telling him - Apophis will hit the president can't rely on the massive hit the coast. That water is going to hit land. Nelson shakes his head before continuing. tsunamis measuring hundreds of meters coastal cities caught in those tsunamis will be Earth is that the impact will release enormous having a massive impact on the planet's climate. says. For now, we need to come up with a plan. several of its asteroid monitoring partners, UN-approved International Asteroid those organizations will have to devise a Day 20. On November 24, 2021, NASA, in collaboration Redirection Test, or DART. The goal was to see if the kinetic impact generated by the The test was a success in relative terms. Measuring 525 feet in diameter - around half that asteroid named Didymos. NASA's measurements told orbit its parent before its strike. By the time it was traveling at 14,000 miles per hour. And NASA's measurements showed that it had an was reduced to 11 hours and 23 minutes, suggesting its parent asteroid. An orbital change had been change that NASA wanted to see in the context of send Apophis further away, not bring it closer. sure if DART will work to change Apophis's preferred to have several years of testing It has 283 days. the owner of SpaceX. Musk has been informed of the situation. NASA strike an asteroid that is on a collision course spread the news on X at NASA's insistence, and Why did NASA want Falcon Heavy? generating a staggering five million pounds most powerful rockets. It can weigh up to 64 significantly impact Apophis - and it's capable The good news for NASA is that Musk has take several days to transport the Falcon conduct checks and prepare it for launch. After Day 40. The good news is that NASA and SpaceX have done launch of the first Falcon Heavy rocket, so they few days maneuvering the 230-foot-tall rocket Center's Pad 39A - the same pad from Heavy - and the math has been completed. from Earth. However, that may seem like a vast at 45,000 miles per hour. It's making up distance Earth about 263 days before the collision. trajectory carefully. It's not anywhere near has to hit the point where the asteroid will be moving at 10,000 miles per hour, it's going to are days that NASA can ill afford. Every lost and there is less chance of Falcon Heavy diverting lost days. The classic math puzzle involving two how many. With the total distance between Apophis the asteroid and the Falcon Heavy rocket are miles per hour means it'll take a touch over That's just over 215 days. have traveled around 232 million miles, leaving success of the plan seems unlikely. Even when much of an impact it will have and whether that But the launch is the only hope. Nelson, observing the launch from mission silent prayer to himself. Sitting in the Oval the president does the same. Even Elon Musk takes rocket not being up to the task. Mission control is enveloped in a heavy silence. and its calculations are correct. Here it comes--Earth's one great hope. Falcon Heavy's 27 Merlin engines roar into aircraft. The rocket lifts into the sky every speck of data coming back from the craft. finally leaving Earth's atmosphere and adjusting The launch was successful. All NASA, Musk, SpaceX, if it works. But in the meantime, the president U.S. people and, by extension, the whole Day 50. podium in the James S. Brady Press Briefing Room, Behind him stand Bill Nelson, Elon Musk, and a journalists in the room are confused. They don't and SpaceX collaborated to launch a rocket ten concerned, the launch was just another test. about it in the days leading up to the launch. in an intense debate with his advisors. He knows coming. The question was simple - when? Some now when there are still over 250 days before the Others told him that they could use the the U.S. can handle a mass evacuation of Florida by the tsunamis the asteroid will generate. It can Heavy failing to divert Apophis - rather than evacuation orders. Besides, it's only a matter telescopes. And there's always the chance that asteroid is on a collision course with Earth. relief and evacuation efforts than to The president agrees with the latter group, front of a crowded press room. Waiting for he starts speaking into the microphone. the Apophis asteroid revealed that its initial would pass by Earth, were incorrect." Some of the journalists already anticipate of silent horror break out over their "Apophis is currently on course to strike Earth that the point of impact will be in the Atlantic The president continues. He explains what will as will Cuba and the Bahamas. Mexico and Louisiana asteroid creates. But the United States has a for the launch of the Falcon Heavy 10 days prior. They come in droves. "Why "We needed time to prepare plans for attempting "What about the rest of the world? "I have. The relevant people in Cuba, the by the impact have been informed and are making the IAWN and the European Space Agency, they formulated this plan. My priority is to Apophis has should our diversion plan fail." is spinning, but he makes it through the press know what's coming. Sitting in the Oval Office, he Did he make the right call? "KILLER ASTEROID TO WIPE OUT FLORIDA." and repeated by practically every news outlet in is in panic. But the president is only focused on It's something he's been working on since Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA. He's who was newly elected in 2026 after Ron DeSantis to reveal rolling evacuation orders for Florida's orders down over the next 200 days. Websites AlertFlorida, to deliver the evacuation orders, news conference focused on the evacuation. The president relays the plan to the American He highlights that evacuation is necessary, even will succeed. Massive shelters have already been leaving Florida if they have nowhere else to go. All the president can do now is execute the plan, 200 days while hoping that the people listen. If only the evacuation plans had gone Panic naturally ensued in the wake of the asteroid and trying to flee the state before they'd first few weeks were chaotic. Traffic lined with families and everything those families president appeared on television almost daily to out that everybody trying to leave at once was Slowly, his message started to get through. plan was in place and started following the president's tactic of appearing on television and social media was still a scourge during this of evacuation. Small parts of Florida's asteroid at all. Rumblings about "control" started among the population elected to stay. All the while, he'd been handling questions including them in the SpaceX launch was often these sentiments. But he also notes, to every is -and always has been- in the best position is set to touch down on American territory. But it's Florida that will absorb the brunt of Still, the evacuation went about as well as he evacuated. There are still stragglers. People who asteroid is coming or because they simply don't to be obliterated should the rocket fail. world - can do now is wait. In three Day 255. Bill Nelson, like everybody else in NASA, data is streaming in. The rocket it'll hit Apophis and, hopefully, do so with The moment comes. traveling at around 10,000 miles per hour, with flying in. Once the dust has cleared, NASA will to check the asteroid's trajectory. The data is in. Using photos from the telescopes Apophis's course has changed ever so slightly. But changed the asteroid's trajectory, it's still It's not going to touch down in the Atlantic. Nelson grabs the phone and calls the president. they'd anticipated. When it strikes land, Apophis weapons in one go. NASA anticipates that the spreading for several hundred miles in all of dust into the atmosphere. That still has the with global cooling becoming a possibility. possibility that the kinetic energy created though they would at least move away from earthquakes, hurricanes, and other potentially The president hangs up the phone and to deliver the news. There's nothing more he with the president hoping that the measures he's will be localized to Florida. Apophis is clearly visible to the naked eye. ground. They still believe NASA is lying to them on the road and driving as far away as possible. Day 303. Using Neal.Fun's asteroid launcher simulator, like. Apophis hits Miami at a speed of the impact angle being about 45 degrees. 1,500 feet deep and 1.3 miles wide. The impact over an entire day, and it creates a tsunami Those massive waves hit the Bahamas and Cuba. Measuring 6.8 miles wide, it can set clothes with all trees that are 54 miles away from the it not for the president's evacuation died in this fireball, with many millions more Then comes the shockwave. the impact will receive substantial lung damage, impact zone experiencing ruptured eardrums--large the pressure generated by the shockwave. Smaller destroyed, with homes outside of that immediate It doesn't get much better for them. with all winds within 13 miles of the impact zone their peak, the winds will hit 14 kilometers miles per hour. Anywhere within 38.5 miles of the to those generated by an F5 tornado or higher. will be knocked down, as will any surviving Finally, the asteroid generates an earthquake. will be felt up to 14 miles from the impact zone. surrounding the city experience the same fate, generates doing untold damage to structures to still be in Miami is burnt, torn up by winds, Day 304 and beyond. to enter Florida yet. It won't be for many more relief efforts - to be sent in as soon as possible of the strike. So, too, are many of the surrounding towns. take years of rebuilding and extensive structural that weren't destroyed. Miami may never be has survived the Apophis asteroid strike. And another strike in the future. If it hopes to use DART, it'll rockets and with much more time on the clock. a giant asteroid - specifically one that we know hit. The reality is that Apophis is far from the are multiple miles wide could be planet-ending. can hit Earth in the near future? What world's other space-focused organizations then check out "Events That Will Cause the End