Hello, dear friends, I am Brother Hu San. Today we came to Jinan City, Shandong Province, China and took pictures at the Lanxiang Market and Jingshan East Road Market here. What they are selling are multi-grain pancakes. These pancakes look like paper and are very thin. This kind of pancake looks like paper. The ingredient of the special pancake is millet noodles. It costs 5.5 yuan per pound and 9.2 yuan for a bag. Fish is being fried here. What kind of fish is this? The five-flavored mackerel is 25 yuan per pound . There is cumin powder. I am making vegetable burritos here . Please help me spread the word. The leek stuffed ones are sold out. There is only one vegetable pancake stuffed with pumpkin. 4.5 yuan. The dough needs to be rolled out very thin. This restaurant makes crispy small pot helmets. I want one filled with meat, two filled with pickles, and one durian . It's 10 yuan for 5 pieces. You can choose any flavor. Tianjin Bank collects 10 yuan. New arrival. Crispy small pot helmets are 7 yuan. 3 pieces are 10 yuan. 5 freshly baked and cooked ones. Is there any filling in them? How much do some cost? 5 pieces for 10 yuan. You can choose any of three meat-filled flavors, as well as bean paste and durian flavors. This is pot cake, an authentic Shandong specialty delicacy, crispy and delicious. 5 yuan a pound. The meat buns are being made here. Pay 5 yuan via WeChat. Ordinary meat buns cost 5 yuan each and add an egg for 6 yuan. Pay via WeChat for 6 yuan. Pay via WeChat for 5 yuan . Pay via WeChat for 10 yuan. Pay via Alipay. 6 yuan. Diaolu Shaobing. Shaobing has two flavors, spiced and red bean paste. 2 yuan. One boss's method is quite unique, with lace and beautiful appearance. Tianjin Bank's payment is 11 yuan. Egg-filled pancakes are 6 yuan each . It's a big pancake. It's economical and economical . The tenderloin can be sandwiched into the pancake. You can also use sesame seed pancakes to add the tenderloin. 5 yuan each. Tianjin Bank charged 5 yuan. This shop mainly sells croquettes and deep-fried cakes. The ones in the pan are carrot meatballs with pumpkin fillings. Payment on WeChat is 3 yuan. Get some of both types of meatballs. Get some of each with pumpkin flavor. 9.3 yuan from this shop. Selling scallion pancakes, the WeChat payment is 15.4 yuan. The WeChat payment is 6.6 yuan and 7.8 yuan. The boss makes strong steamed buns and pies. Does the boss have 4 kinds of fillings? The green one is fennel filling. The vegetarian one sells for 3 yuan. The meat filling is 6 yuan. This store in front of me sells it. The one who sells tofu puffs adds more chili pepper. The customers of this shop are all people who live nearby. It is slightly spicy and adds more coriander. The soy milk can be taken away and eaten. The place is relatively small. The braised duck meat is out of the pot. The WeChat payment is 27 yuan. This shop is doing it. Each sticky cake must be weighed to ensure that each one is the same size . Rice dumplings, glutinous rice dumplings, glutinous rice dumplings, two yuan each, 4 of each, 1.25 yuan each , millet pancakes , fried fish, including fish, cod, and anchovies . What fish? All kinds of honey from Nanshan Bee Farm. Here is good honey. This is Sophora japonica honey. Buy a jar and try it. Take my business card. This shop mainly sells green onion pancakes and chive pancakes. Try them freshly out of the pan. Tianjin Bank Collection 9.6 yuan Tianjin Bank received 4.2 yuan 8 yuan 8 yuan, a total of 11.5 yuan This is sauce-flavored pancake Teppanyaki pancake Teppanyaki pancake 10 yuan Six WeChat receipts 5 yuan are making pie 2.5 yuan vegetarian, 5 yuan fennel for meat The freshly made pancakes stuffed with eggs, chives and eggs are very popular. They cost 5 yuan each and are topped with fried dough sticks. This store mainly sells fried dough sticks. The egg buns are paid on WeChat for 3 yuan. The fried dough sticks are 9 yuan a pound . Take an egg bun for 4.8 yuan and fresh peanuts for 4 yuan. Fried grasshoppers are 3.5 yuan per catty. Fried grasshoppers are 5 yuan per box. Small sand fruits are 5 yuan per box . The grapes sold in the truck are grown in Daze Mountain. 5 yuan per catty. This one is grown in the open air. Alipay payment is 7.2 yuan. 45 yuan. Sold here. Guokui steamed buns and pancakes are sold here. Fresh walnuts cost 3.8 yuan. This guy is a kitchen knife sharpener and is called Zhangqiu blacksmith. My name is Han Dadao and I have been making kitchen knives professionally for 40 years. I never need to sharpen this kitchen knife in my life. It is very sharp. This fish and meat market is charcoal grilled. Yes, the spiced ones are 68 yuan per pound. 80 yuan. Braised pork and rotten eggs are 10 yuan. 5. The spiced ones are called rotten eggs . They are called &quot;rotten eggs&quot;, but they taste very fragrant. Wild sea cucumbers are 7 yuan each. Ordinary sea cucumbers are 100 yuan . One pound of yellow peach is 2 yuan, 12.3 yuan, one pound of mangosteen is 9.9 yuan, one pound of pomegranate is 5 yuan. This stall sells mutton soup and fried fish. Take 4 of them. It's only 10 yuan. There are many delicious green onions . WeChat payment is 7 yuan per pound of duck pears. Live Ganoderma lucidum is sold here for 2.5 yuan per pound. Ganoderma lucidum is a precious Chinese medicinal material for 20 yuan. Is it alive? Chives are very fresh . Winter dates are available for 8 yuan, 5 yuan, and 10 yuan. I want the 10 yuan one. Just 15.6 yuan. Various small goldfish and ostrich eggs are sold here for 135 yuan. An apple is 2 yuan per pound. 11.5 yuan. Grasshopper oranges are 2 yuan per pound. Good oranges. Salt-baked quail eggs are 12 yuan per pound . 12 yuan. A portion of sugar-roasted chestnuts is accepted via WeChat. Hairtail is sold here for 23.6 yuan , 18 yuan per catty, 23.6 yuan, WeChat payment is 8 yuan