- Hope you're having an amazing day. It's Mark Wiens, I'm in take you on the ultimate I'm gonna meet up with The Hungry Tourist. He's an amazing food lover with one of his friends knows Jerusalem especially of his hand so we're gonna Jerusalem food tour. (exotic music) - My name is Rafram Hadad, I up here in Jerusalem and I - And David, The Hungry Tourist. - Just travel for food without people is nothing. (uplifting music) - Okay so actually we're city right now and we're meal in Jerusalem. (police sirens) (speaking foreign language) (foreign language) - So what's the name of this place? - Acramawi. - Acramawi. - Yeah, the origin of this called Vincarin which was a of Jerusalem and (inaudible) and the family moved opened this place. - We're starting off this some legendary hummus, to dig into this. He whipped up that hummus and and he added some chickpeas on First bite of the hummus. Oh it looks amazing, you can texture, look at that texture. How fluffy it looks. Oh that's a sizeable first bite. Oh wow. Hummus is a relatively where you really notice different textures and of the ingredients. That is one of the fluffiest, you can actually feel the in there, and then even olive oil it doesn't feel oily at all. That hummus is absolutely awesome. Mm, and that pepper is That heat starts to build, goes up your nose a little bit. I love it it's wonderful. This guy has to be the - This is actually one of - Okay I'm going in for an onion next. And onions are the perfect scoop. You can get a lot of hummus The onion is very mild, And just load it with that hearty hummus. Basically anything that will be amazing. They have a separate bowl full to add to your hummus as well. That chili is spicy though. That hummus was absolutely insane. The texture I've never entire life and you know he whipped that up, that Almond will be great. We're stopping next for Look at how foamy, frothy this is. Mmm, oh yeah that's very has that kind of like That's refreshing. We're moving on now to a all sorts of interesting things. (upbeat music) We're at this very small shop are known for having some (foreign language) Wow. - So fresh, huh? - Oh it's so - It has like a fuzzy outside than a regular cucumber. - [David] Yeah it's amazing. - Wow it's great. It's so good, yeah. - [David] Very rare to find. - You want to eating, - Oh it has a little shell. - [Shopkeeper] Taste this. - [Mark] Well thank you very So you take off the little outside shell. Oh it's almost like a soybean. A little bit drier. Mmm, so this is like a snack. - [Shopkeeper] Yeah. - The owner at that shop 15 minutes just like sampling and then he gave me a little thyme blend with sesame so that's really kind of him. What an amazing fresh And right down the street we're coming to. Oh! (foreign language) - [Rafram] The bread here is very very different from Jerusalem. - [Mark] Okay. - [Rafram] Very thin, very in the area that's using which is actually, you eat you know, you don't feel heavy. It's very consistent with paper. And it's amazing bread, you know, like upside down one of the best tastes. I will take a bite because I need to. (laughing) - [Mark] There's some some onions and then he This looks incredibly good. I'm gonna grab over there Oh that's incredible. Oh the tahini in there. You can taste that nuttiness. And the beef almost has a jerky taste to it. The bread is almost a burrito. Absolutely amazing. What I really liked It really was like a tortilla. It wasn't like the thick and yeah it doesn't make That meat inside was delicious of those cucumbers, oh. Food is amazing and We are now walking to the (exotic music) Wow, this is absolutely incredible. The ancientness, the Okay we are in Old Jerusalem now. And greeted by some bread and vegetables. I already love it. (exotic music) It's so ancient, just look you walk through here, you you can smell freshly baked bread. Oh man this is amazing and the staircase. It's so incredibly good today who's guiding us through the ancient city of Jerusalem because passageways and alleys. Look at this place we are What's your name? - Amir. - Amir, nice to meet you. Do you also blog? - Yeah. - You do? Oh okay, Mark M-A-R-K Wiens W-I-E-N-S. Bye Amir, see you man. We just walked down this some narrow passageways to a kebab restaurant. - He's starting everything for us now. He's lighting the fire. - Oh he's lighting the fire for us? - We are first customers. - First customers of the day. Wow, it has like a cave, outside, this stone in here Oh is there an AC? (laughter) (speaking foreign language) - [Rafram] I asked him He asked me to taste it. - He is about to start he has a bowl of hummus yeah they're just opening so he is making the food lighting up the grill right now. And is this lamb? (speaking foreign language) - [Rafram] It's a mix of - [Rafram] Lamb and beef, yes. - [Mark] Oh, okay. (exotic music) And he's been making the kebabs that I've ever seen in my life. He mixed up that meat a giant sword, he added put them onto skewers with I can't wait till that meat hits the fire. That is gonna be one of the I can already guarantee. He's busting out the sword again. - [David] The sword is coming. - [Rafram] Some swords cut our meat before they make a salad. - There's absolutely no than with a giant machete. I'm not gonna say you have to but that is the next level He just rocks that sword back and literally in just minutes chopped vegetables to a really cucumber and all that parsley in there. A lot of spices. (exotic music) Just straight up sesame. - (speaking foreign language) - Taste test. (laughter) Oh that is the most insane Oh wow, it's so creamy. (laughter) oh, that's almost undescribable. You can taste the sesame the nuttiness, that parsley It's almost foamy. Oh that's amazing, he's a beautiful man. - [Rafram] He is a beautiful man. - That meat is sizzling when the little driplet down into the coals you get I'm at that kind of like hardly wait and the food strongly right now. (sizzling meat) The wait is over, the meat out some hummus and then saw him prepare. He actually bought the from the baker. That meat just looks insane. Little meatball shapes and actually see all of that how it's caramelized, the edges where it was grilled. Oh, oh that is just wonderous. Oh the meat just collapses in your mouth. You taste onions in there is that slow grill over the fire. Giving it that wonderful smokey, - Oh my god. - That's insane. Oh wow. Next level. - Try this. - This is the type of restaurant around the world just to eat at. This is some pickled turnip. - [David] It's Iraqi in origin. - Mm, really juicy. Amazing. I'm gonna get one more You can just see how thick the sesame seed paste, the tahini. The vegetables are so into a sauce that's just It's a little bit like pasty, Okay next I'm gonna try some like a totally different we had earlier this morning. And you can see that this smooth than the hummus just from looking at it. It's all ground by hand. Mmm, whoa. - [David] It's amazing hummus. - And definitely it's more than the hummus we had in the That salad is award winning. - (speaking foreign language) - He's from my city. - That was special, that is right there. - Nobody but Rafram can find these places. - That is a restaurant where to eat at a restaurant like to Rafram for taking us there. (upbeat music) Next up we walked over to a And this is another ancient, But he only makes one thing. - (speaking foreign language) (foreign language) - [Mark] So it's called Zalatimo Sweets. So he really slaps out the then he folds it over and and I think he has another and then he folds it up, he bit of olive oil and it's him make this art. (pastry crunching) His family has been here for same dessert, 200 years! And ours should be coming but starting with a cup of coffee. Aw yeah, I love that cardamom in there. I love it. We got two different one with cheese. And you can just see that he bakes it and then he tops or honey and then dusts So it's cheese. Look at that crispy, crispy Wow, the dough is so, so and crispy but then you have cheese with the sweet honey - Listen to it, it's crunchy. - Mm, it's so crispy and the but I'm like really impressed subtly contrasting the It's really really impressively good. If you look on the inside of this one, oh yeah you can see I up walnuts that he added in here. (pastry crunching) Listen to that crunch! That is amazing. I'm not a huge lover of After 200 years, they know It has that beautiful mix The nut one is good, but - [David] Cheese wins big time. - Thank you very much that was amazing. That was amazing. Wow that was just So delicate, so refined, what This entire old city of Jerusalem and ancient lanes, it's a whole bazaar. You have modern shops and clothing and kitchenware mixed within here, you could these alleys if you just around the old streets of just incredible things and of the city and if you keep whiffs of coffee, you'll the different spices as you're it's just an overdose of and smell and hear. (exotic music) We are walking back out and we're gonna now drive What's up man. - (foreign language) - How are you? - Fine. - What's your name? - Tem. - Tem? Nice to meet you. - (foreign language) - Nice to meet you. - (foreign language) (exotic music) (speaking foreign language) - We're stopping just to entrance, right at Damascus a sample before we buy. Mmm, oh that's so juicy Mmm, that's incredible. - Good, good. - Eat a peach, okay. - Good, good. - Mmm. - (speaking foreign language) - That's delicious too, Kinda a little bit starchy. Getting a kilo of those too. - Good. - Thank you. We're leaving out of the is the walled in city, Old and so the different gates that went to the different cities. So this gate actually leads And then also onto Damascus. - We go to Mathneola Market of West Jerusalem. (upbeat music) - We drove over to West have lunch at a market over here now. (street performer music) - (speaking foreign language) You wan to get inside? - [Mark] Is it okay, just for a few shots? Just to get some closeups - [Chef] This is akima, onion and (inaudible). You have meatballs, you You have meatballs, in fresh tomato sauce. - [Mark] Wow. - [Chef] Now you have beef sofrito. Mousaka, great dish, You have the koubleh, you - [Mark] Yeah. We're eating our third There's some tahini. - [David] Fresh salad, they just cut it. And falafel. - These are sort of the we're getting here. Then after that we'll be those dishes that they cook down there. Third hummus of the day. Mmm, oh, that one is incredible too. This one is nice and kind Tomato salad there are onions, there's parsley. Oh lots and lots of lemon in It's so refreshing. Some house pickles, wonderful. We didn't do any ordering. Since David knows them. - I just told them, That's all I said, just give us good food. And let's see what will happen. - Dish of kebab, potato and spinach. Okra, green beans. Azura, rice and lentens. This is the mousakka. White beans, potato and beef and onion. - They brought us enough food We've got some of their incredibly good, oh I can't And just those appetizers as well. Azura, oh this is the - [David] A dish - [David] Turkish in origin. This is gonna be so amazing. - [Mark] It just slices it's so tender and then Oh, man, wow that looks good. Oh wow, oh wow. That eggplant is ridiculously soft. And then it has a real kind - [Chef] It's a stuffed eggplant with beef and tomato sauce. - [Mark] Oh look at that that inside, it looks like - [David] Burger inside. - [Mark] It looks like a eggplant just surrounding tomato sauce drowning it. You need a spoon to eat this. - Yeah just a spoon, - What I love about that very tart, they have a And then again you have creamy eggplant. - [David] Kima. - [Mark] Kima. Okay this is called Kima. (crosstalking) Oh potato, forgot about the potato. - [David] Look at the color of the potato. - [Mark] I've gotta - [David] This potato he's and hours. - [Mark] Caramelized. The entire thing is just onions melt in your mouth, mouth, the meat melts in your melts in your mouth. The flavor is a little bit on the main ingredients. - [David] Probably only pepper - [Mark] Rice, lentils and onions. - You know what it is, (crosstalking) back to your We're going now to oxtail, falling off the bone. It's been sitting on the fire. - [Mark] You can actually fallen out already. The little oxtail bones. One my personal favorite every single time you eat oxtail Oh, it's the red chilis Oh yeah, and that meat is Sofrito and there's meat - [David] Yes, and sofrito, carrots, cooks for a long and garlic, potato. - It's really good, it's again, the meat is tender, the potatoes - That's another sofrito. - [Server] This is the chicken sofrito. - Chicken sofrito. - [Server] It's a little bit spicy. - Wow, one more dish, like almost a slight curry powder aroma. Oh side of the drumstick, - [David] I know how my mom gonna be exactly the same. - Falls apart. - [David] It's so sweet, so - [Mark] Those potatoes I'm loving all of the food, bite of this, this is a masterpiece here. It's like an eggplant on the inside it's incredibly good and it's so saucy as well. But probably my absolute is one of their specialties that the name of the restaurant this is the eggplant with Oh man, this is an award winner here. The texture of that eggplant Thank you very much. Walking out of the restaurant out of the restaurant, That was a meal where I next hole on my belt. If you love to eat, this is to come for sure and have a feast. (inspirational music) We're just walking through the market now, there's everything you can A lot of fresh produce. And some serious desserts, These are all Iraqi desserts? - No just this one. - That one over there, okay. - [Mark] They look So the dessert is called zengoula. - Zengoula it's Iraqi (inaudible) here. - Like a coiled, deep a syrup on it. - [David] Exactly. - Alright. Yeah, it is like crispy, floral tasting syrup, it's (upbeat music) We have just come over to the Western wall of Old Jerusalem. And this is one of the holiest and it leads up to the Thank you very much. This is the Western Wall built On a spur of the moment off some of the amazing food, fascinating Western Wall Tunnel. While above ground you can see underground you have a chance of the original wall built (exotic music) We're walking through this pretty long, right next to the wall. (cheering and yelling) - Do you have a YouTube channel? - I do. - Groovy! What's your name, what's your name? - Mark Wiens. (crosstalking) (cheering and yelling) (laughter) This, this is unbelievable, people walked in these same like two and a half thousand years ago. Whoa, this is really really way to the aqueduct. That water is extremely clear. And there is even some fish down there. And there's water That was incredibly cool tight tunnel. After emerging from the unfortunately the Dome of the the evening, but luckily we were able to get an impressive A sacred site, and a breathtaking view. (exotic music) Finally, before heading to of the Mount of Olives to against the beauty of Old We had a nice, relaxing afternoon. We worked off a little Jerusalem food tour and the top of Mount Olives, now to complete this Jerusalem And this is a place that I really hard to get, so again he knows everyone we're gonna have dinner here. - [Chef] Be careful. - [Mark] Alright, thank you very much. - [Chef] This is the grill station you know like fish, (meat sizzling) - [Mark] The aromas coming out Oh I can't wait to see out for dinner tonight. Yeah. (cheering) (laughter) - Okay guys, fried seabass which is kind of like an crispy pita bread and lemon. - [Mark] They just brought and it's served on a block different little appetizer dishes. Oh and I think that's some Oh, okay. Oh that melts in your mouth. (upbeat music) This is burrata which is a type of cheese. (inaudible) Another signature dish, is a polenta. It's a giant scallop. That blend of spices is amazing in there. - [David] Very bad. - [Mark] What is that, foie gras? - [David] Yeah. - Oh, rossini with foie gras on top. Oh that just sliced effortlessly. Oh that is tender, juicy supreme. Oh and ridiculously creamy and rich. - [David] Last bite. - [Man] That's a bite, open your mouth. (applause) - Yeah, that is unbelievable. We've come to the end and dessert is just insane. I love the hand of the I may as well go for the Oh yeah, that's like a cheesecake almost. What's up man. - Yeah, what's up man. - How are you? - Good. - Good. Just finished with dinner amazing restaurant the generous and so, they all as they're cooking. The food is top notch, the quality, it was very loud but really really good food. And today has just been an I still can hardly believe And everything from the all the way to the kebabs, that giant feast at lunch fantastic in Jerusalem and most fascinating cities in most important cities in the entire world. And it was really a privilege, to visit Jerusalem. A big thank you to David I'll leave his link in Big thank you to David showing us a couple spots very much for watching this Please remember to give it a and I'd love to hear from you and if you're not already now for lots more food and travel videos. Goodnight from Jerusalem, video, thanks again for watching.