Facebook Privacy Settings Hi everyone. I'm Leo Notenboom for askleo.com. have is about their online privacy. Now, actually is a fair amount that is under your What I want to do in today's video is walk and what decisions you might want to make about have to throw out here at the very beginning other places, seems to change a lot. What that it's possible that the settings that I'm going to it's a slightly different place. Please don't get Facebook's settings and user interface to find it's a massive change I'll hopefully have a new that you'll still be able to find the same kind I want to throw at you is simply this: use the Facebook on a mobile device. On the website, more settings are available more easily. I'm the mobile device on the app but it's just that you'll care about if you take the and use the website on a full-size screen. So believe it's important for you to consider Do you want it to be easy for people to find Facebook to be easy to find, easy to share, or do Even though everything you post can be copied have control over what your intent is. Making the other hand, like me, one of the things I on Facebook to be public, and then I know before of my personal information, before I do anything I know that it will be by definition public. It's actually color how some of these settings are let's go ahead and have a look at some of the place to start is in the drop down menu. Here and then click on settings. This brings you Next we'll click on privacy over here in the various privacy shortcuts and tools. The upper Manage Your Profile, and Learn More. The privacy settings and also include security app access and some individual settings below, but if what I is a good place to come back to. This is a good Back at privacy settings and tools. Manage your information that shows in your profile. Like live and where you went to school if you want any With Privacy Basics. That's really just in-depth privacy on Facebook. Now the rest of the settings How People Find And Contact You, and How You Get of the most confusing things. This where you set I've said that on my personal account I've ahead and change it to public here. But this you share on Facebook. When you share a comment this controls who can see it. Now there's a gotcha In other words you can say, yep you know, it's to only be shown to my friends. The catch is that this setting. So the reason it was already set post earlier. But I posted to only on my it's very easy to overlook this. It's very easy that it's been set to public for every post it to public all the time because that way I know because it's always going to be public. Reviewing really just a shortcut to the activity log that In this example account I apparently haven't been shared with friends of friends or public. This you've shared in the past with it for example you like I was talking about to be restricted to back and fix some of the privacy of things see the people pages and lists you follow. If or you can keep it private. Once again this is and so forth, that allow you to control exactly How people can find and contact you section is or you can make it easy to be found. You can let You can let other people see your friends list or be found. For example if somebody knows your email being able to find you. Same thing with your phone you can determine whether or not people should know your phone number. And of course you can So in my case, for example, if you actually search search results should in fact be my profile page my default setting my personal default setting That means that it's easy for me to be found. might want to change the setting to be no. How you messenger. This is all about Facebook messenger a Facebook friend of yours can message you. of friends to contact you directly in chat as if area without notification. Or you can specify that is an important one to realize and understand. to message me but I won't get notifications. check those message requests to see if anybody has an important setting for me since I'm a, I'll out to me via whatever means they can even though for people to try and find me by name on Facebook the right way to do it. It's not how I want to a messaging link with people who aren't actually Like I said there's plenty of ways to contact me side of what I do somewhat closed again. Your indicate that Facebook and Instagram messages discarded. And that's fundamentally the privacy what happens when you post something on visible on Facebook and how easy it is for people If you have more questions one of the first to this Learn More With Privacy Basics feature. It you to control your privacy on the platform. a fair amount of pushback and feedback on how well that and does a pretty reasonable job of walking One of the things that I've noticed, and I think yourself, the very wording of the Facebook mission this indicates their rationale behind open public and permissive as they are. If you this privacy settings page is the place to go. For visit askleo.com/22689. I'm Leo Notenboom.