Go! Ambient light has dropped a lot... Should we do some horizontal ones? Yeah. Because otherwise I think Yeah, let's bring the other girls in. Okay. So, show me your positions. Alice, hands. When you come in, you're in the middle. Alice, come this way a little. And go. Did it print? I think this was the last day, So, they had to take Great. Now, all that's left is This exhibition is truly exceptional in how it has been unfurled This exhibition covers about 3000 square meters, and all the spaces for the museum's temporary exhibitions were grouped together to form a single space, undoubtedly the largest ever organized in Paris. Where are you at with the Louvre? So, at the, Louvre I visited the Vincent Rondot, extremely nice, and I showed him all of the He was really excited about it and he told me: "I'm going to send There's one absolutely astounding piece, a seated statue with a ram's head, And it captures, since the it captures this idea of a head that's In relation to this collection And the bust that we found in Galliano's research portfolio? Yeah, they have it, and I think that we insisted so I said it would be There's the Torso of Nefertiti, which is a very important piece in their collection. Very good. And for the rest? Yeah so that's the next room. I think everyone's tearing their hair out over what order we're going to make this happen in... The project began with a kind of structure for the exhibition. From this, Olivier started doing research into works of art, paintings, furniture, art pieces... And on my end, I worked on accessories, basically Well all of this hasn't been finalized yet but we mostly have and then this famous Raf Simons For this Trianon idea, are you thinking... Well, we looked, but we have some similar things. We did it in tandem, meaning two different sensibilities, two different paths, and therefore also two different views on Christian Dior himself, on Christian Dior's successive eras. And so in this way, we chose to share roles and, at the same time, These pieces are very much it's going to capture too much attention. And anyway, I think since the theme But there are plenty of small jewelry... you know. It could be very dynamic, small enamel sewing kits... It's very much the taste of 1) Monsieur Dior and 2) his clients. No, I'm not worried, Christian Dior had a very close he undoubtedly learned a lot about decorative arts and textiles through our collections and exhibitions. In the 50s and once the brand was successful, Christian Dior became a And so what's interesting is that Christian Dior went on to loan a certain number that the museum organized in the fall of 1955 dedicated to 18th century Parisian cabinetmakers. And what's even more extraordinary is that, in the museum's archives, we found that the museum's management announced to the newspaper and magazine editors of the time that, as part of the a presentation of models would be offered to those attending. This is, I believe, the first in a museum as part of a temporary exhibition. In Dior's case, there has always from a historical point of view, I thought that Perrine and and documents in the ecom area, because I don't know... Yes, so we can get a head start on the whole section about the Yes, that's it. You could also display some sketches, maybe in the atelier section, for example? Yes, absolutely, that would be great to show a bit about how it works, how a collection is created, to Monsieur Dior's sketches, to the finished design? So, that would be great. In that case, there may also be some charts. Yeah. This is wonderful, because you All of the codes, which are already Exactly, yes. Is there any chance I could see Gianfranco Ferre's or Marc Bohan's sketches? Yes! Ferre's sketches are very interesting, they're very colorful, Yeah, we can look at them. This is a very important dress. This could be something we could keep, yes. And then the Prince of Wales, They're very lightweight All the names of the models, and the runway order numbers, and how the collection is composed. It's a shame we don't have It would be really great to have... Yes! But then we'd risk So, you'll narrow it down? Yes, depending on the dresses selected. Once we finish selecting the dresses. Right. Do we need someone here to hold in the middle? Maybe. I'm not very strong but... Watch your fingers. I speak French! I'm just the translator here! No, it's just when we go to put it down. Yeah, I'll move my fingers. Is it good here? Yeah, well is it good for you? Oh, it doesn't matter to me. It's Venus coming out of her shell! Today we were able to furnish, thanks to our own pieces, but we also found where the other pieces were, since there are other museums So we were able to assemble over 300 pieces. There was a considerable number of loan options meaning the dresses from the Dior Museum as well as all of the other dresses coming from the Metropolitan Museum in New York, the de Young Museum in San Francisco, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Museum of London, and the At the Musee des Arts Decoratifs, related to Dior, including It's a proper restoration site we've got set up. The idea is to keep the shape of It was essentially all closed up. Instead of using heat, which causes up the chemical reactions that methods, ultrasound that transforms liquid water into tiny are virtually the most fragile Surgical spatula, scalpel... You find them in the and in science. We'll borrow things from all you think: &quot;Hang on, that We also use glass plates when we to keep the fabric in the Some small holes have appeared, If we don't do something, it'll only get worse. The aim is to be able to display these pieces now, but we must also look after them in order or in a couple of centuries. to share with others and to conserve. At times, it's a bit of a contradiction. I've got a 66 waist size here. I myself like to describe the Restoration also provides a special an opportunity to look it That offers an obviously for determining the characteristics of a collection. Personally, I enjoyed working on the Bar suit. Creating the shape of the this silhouette characteristic sort of small cushions, little this area here. So, it's fun to see The Bar suit is an icon, not just of Dior, but in the history of couture It is very rare in fashion history to have such a definitive break, a revolution brought into play in one collection. It's so rare, there are Oh, wow! Amazing. It's stunning. The Bar suit is effectively It is the emblem of this fashion that appeared revolutionary, even though Christian Dior saw it as 'retro' He used this word, it's quite In fact, he wanted to bring back an elegance that had been lost Couture was very badly affected quite a few fashion houses closed of the Nazis to relocate the to another city, Berlin, perhaps. The world of couture obviously suffered greatly. Wartime fashion was it was effectively designed It was very masculine, very military. He went against that, reinstating curves. With an undulating line, depicting the flower woman. - The position of the hands is perfect. like it's dancing with the arms back like that. Actually, with the pelvis tilted forward, that everyone has seen. dancer's stance. It's exactly that. Absolutely stunning. I love Yes, they unfurl. the one we worked on, is there. - What about the issue with the belt? No. The issue with the belt has been remedied. Totally. We noticed that the style of the buttons on this dress from 1947, is actually the same as that. - So, remember what could be seen here? - We'll add that. the draped shoulder some more, it's perfect. - It's good, isn't it? Really very pretty. Amazing. Using mannequins involves adapting bodies to clothes, rather than clothes to bodies. When using mannequins, we add padding, and volume, to try and recreate the original silhouette. The teams work from archival photos, allowing them to see from whether the dress is accessorized or not, so they can add the necessary volume, until they are as close as possible to of the original design. What I would like to do is which has a huge underskirt. I'll show you! An underskirt with panniers and boning. There. As the dress is very, very big, it weighs a lot, so you have to find a way of... of keeping it on the shoulder, like that, and ensuring it sits properly on the chest. So, as we can't add a tie because the back is beautiful, what I am doing now is sewing black twill in certain areas under strain, but which won't change the shape of the dress, 1, 2, 3 here. It mustn't damage the dress, and be reversible, so we need to ensure they are resilient, but not overly so. - Have you given it... - Oh, OK. You haven't put anything in? I guess it needs hips. I don't remember, I thought it was tighter on the model. Yes, I think it actually Midriff and buttocks? Personally, I wouldn't do the Then position it lower there, it should be low. But there's space there as well. We could maybe insert a small strip - Straight. she shouldn't have a shapely bust. You should add hips and It's actually like sculpting. It takes a lot of work to showcase the dresses, this slightly hopeless of recreating the magic of the fashion show, and the magic of a dress worn by a living model. You'll have noticed three types of mannequins: we have the dressmaker's dummy, like that one, bespoke. So, that was painted the color of the dress. The full body mannequins in black: each mannequin comes ready posed, they can have various head positions, various hand positions, like this, like that. So the position is taken So, Olivier Gabet and Florence Muller, did you present the selection to them? Florence came up with the idea of starting with the toiles It would be nice if it was with absolutely all the Women's accessories, but with that sort of feel, like a cabinet of curiosities Do you know how many pieces there are roughly? You'd need a tenancy With everything in the colorama, the small dresses and the Awesome. - That's by Raf! Spring-Summer 2013, yes. This dress is from the second collection. Along with... Jennifer's too. However, this dress might be a bit big, it'll be hard to get The display cabinets? After that will be others in these colors, so we could possibly focus on plain items, as well as those with two colors. - Is that Marc Bohan? That works really well in the green. Will you have those in gold? - That would be great, yes! Kouka's, and, so classic. They're a customer acquisition. Awesome. They're beautiful. Yes. - Is that a Miss Dior bottle? the Miss Dior dog from 1952 with this doghouse. It's important to have lots of fragrances, as another way of showcasing Shall we see what else there is? It's breathtaking! Good, we have the Lady Dior, that's great! Hi! Very Saint-Laurent! Touch it, touch it. Feel it. They're all padded, precise, We were saying that it's absolutely wonderful that people can see the details up close. Because usually with haute couture you just see images. We have no access to all of these. That's the case for many people. That's a gift. - Did you see this, Maria? Look how cute they are! Look how well-made they are. They're perfect... So precise... We are ready to move to Mattel! You know what? When they saw them, This was Lauren Hutton's dress, right? That's Monsieur Dior. This is John for Charlize. This is Raf Simons. And this is Monsieur Dior. This year is the company's 70th anniversary. I think it was important to of course show Monsieur Dior's work but also the work of his successive designers. It's impossible to speak about Dior without mentioning all the designers that worked in this company for so long. The artistic directors, who have taken over the reins of the company since Christian Dior, are those who have paid homage to the founder but also those who had very strong personalities, that often contrasted each other. Saint Laurent, Marc Bohan, Ferre, Galliano, Raf Simons: they are part of our heritage. It all started with Yves Saint Laurent. He truly opened the doors to Avenue Montaigne and beyond, to Paris, in all of his diversity. And he let in all of the vibes and all of the richness and He did it in the most spectacular way with the "Beatnik" collection, in reference to the movement It was highly acclaimed by magazines, not many people could quite but they went on to understand that it When Marc Bohan came in, it was the beginning of the 60s, and he presented himself as someone who would create based on what women wanted. His first collection for Dior, "Slim Look," says it literally in the title: the look slims you, the clothing helps slim the figure and make it look younger. He said it in his interviews, "Essentially, I'm creating a And in the context of the time, this One of the most dominant ideas at was the whole post-punk movement. So taking this classic position was pretty risky. The young women who went, for example, to the Bains Douches show up dressed in a super plain suit, almost in an act of Instead of showing up in that post-punk style, they could come dressed to the nines with a pearl necklace, it was quite rebellious. Gianfranco Ferre came in at the end of the 80s, and he had an architectural background so for him the garment had to be, But he also added a very, I would say, He had a very flamboyant style, which is part of Monsieur Dior's tradition, but even more extravagant and certainly tied to the baroque style that's typical of Italy, We just simply mounted the sketches on neutral card stock, and so there's a border all the way around. Here you can see there's a which lets you attach it to a support, And over here is a question of choice, mainly so this doesn't come in The only drawback is that people may think this Can you cut this? - Around the fabric? The architecture of Avenue Montaigne completely blends in with the architecture so in the end, you don't really That's what's pretty you use the strength of the other And we felt that we could really So in recreating Avenue Montaigne, Dior is truly at home at that's whats rather extraordinary. The layout of the Musee des Arts Decoratifs as the spaces we have and so we need to figure In the rooms, the different themes I think that if this exhibition it would be completely different because the architecture Here, we use the space as a force, I think that that's really You're in a progression, in a scenario, and each time there are so in the end, each room is a twist compared to the other, because we and in the end, each room invites them And then we worked with La Meduse, a bit more life to all of this. We work together on a very regular basis. For almost a year, we worked on Audiovisuals can make the dresses more dynamic, as they're presented in a static way, while what brings them to life is being worn. So we mapped the architecture and decided the first thing to do was transform which dates from the 19th century, So in the nave, we have 16 enormous projectors and each of them projects a bit of film, onto the architecture just right. There's an artistic and creative design aspect that's also linked to a technical aspect. In our field, the dialog between is very important. It's vital so that the film is the best it can possibly be, projected the best it can be, It's always tailor-made. What's interesting is that we in the same way Dior dresses women going to a ball and enhances them, so we needed to work on the architecture. It's like a night at the ball in the nave. I would say the audiovisuals help give life back to the dresses, which can be missing And at the same time, that concerns us particularly, and highlighting what the wants to highlight. The audiovisuals or even the exhibition design aren't at the forefront, they're a backdrop. In this part of the garden, we developed what we call &quot;invasions.&quot; They're the different types of As for the manual work, we need and fold it to give it volume. I think that Christian Dior loved the city, he was a Parisian, of course, but he was someone who needed nature to unwind. There are actually photos in the middle of sketching designs, which he would then bring So he needed the city, but when he was designing, and feel nature around More, more, more... Woah, it's cracking! It's definitely unstable because the toes were cut off and then put back on inside How is it actually supposed to be standing? Yeah, that's it, that's it. That's how it's supposed to be. Yeah, exactly. I think the shoe is crooked. We may have to install it... yeah, from the foot, and to a structure that... Because like that, the The position of the legs is very awkward. - No, no, because... Okay, wait... how is it...? No, I think it's the leg, Oh yeah, you're right. One of the biggest difficulties is that when you arrange it's very difficult to appreciate what A dress can have thousands of possibilities on a structure that was designed for it and all of this is evaluated At a fashion show, the audience is seated. At an exhibition, the audience The visual aspect is the first thing that's going to capture their attention. So you need to look at it from every perspective. Should I recenter it? Fix the placement? I'm not sure, because there's - But I'll keep the distance there. The other one is pretty big, Yeah, it's not bad like that. Rather than cut the picture down, - Ah yes, OK. because sometimes we're constrained by... that. We need to think about wheelchairs, when you're sitting down, it's like that. Then even when you can read the there's a bit of a choice to be you can see the difference. Do we prioritize the view the view looking down? For the texts, it is vitally it's really annoying not to be able to read them. So, personally, I think it should A visit takes between one and two hours, and the visitor may get tired after a while. So, we really need to think about that. It is vital that their curiosity is aroused, that they ask questions and can find the answers. Could you help me stand it up, Anything else, sir? No, that's all right. It's fine! Christian Dior was drawn to couture because he was enthusiastic about textile history, because he liked visiting and that's what makes him and makes it a real museum Let me get in position. Go on. We reached out to French museums first and foremost: the Louvre, the Musee d'Orsay, the Jeu de Paume, the Musee Picasso, the National Museum as well as the museum at Versailles. Closer to the platform, in line with the platform, is that dumb? That's a bit much, a bit too far It's better in relation to the case, isn't it? From Monsieur Dior to this day, engagement with art has extremely rich, almost intrinsic to the image of Maison Christian Dior and couture designs from the It's not just PR, or ultimately a sort of guarantee of good taste. The idea is not to suggest that fashion is interesting because it is inspired by art, or that art inspires fashion, it's how, sometimes decades, centuries apart, even millennia, the active constituent of a work of art can be reinterpreted in the context of couture. It's really the idea that each has its role, and for me there is no hierarchy, a haute couture design nowadays is in a museum because of that, it is on a level with a very beautiful painting or a great piece from the ancient world. I'm very proud that the hat which and of stress and of is the hat that I've created for the In fact, I was making many, many I think this took three weeks to make The pattern was made here in France. The resin was cut in Belgium, And then final assembly was So, it was a big logistic adventure to create. We really need to demonstrate in the workshops, at all levels, in the embellishments. Such a would develop around him to The transition with as journalists were accustomed of Gianfranco Ferre. But John Galliano could still surprise, because his points of reference were different, his culture was completely We even nicknamed him the punk couturier. In the early years, he went and the history of art and fashion, focussing on figures. Very strong women, like Marchioness Casati and He needed to stage his collections and to dress real figures, as you would on the stage of a theater. It really was pure creativity, almost without limits, because in fashion design there is always a limit, but he tried to go beyond this limit. I think there were roughly a Anyhow, on the fashion side, until we got to around 300 dresses. This selection is not entirely finished. When we install the exhibition, there is more deliberation that goes on, which allows for adjusting things, and adapting the selection Would it be interesting to have a piece with a significantly more exaggerated shape, like panniers? With a lot of volume. Ah, yes. How is the shape maintained underneath? I think there may be... There aren't any panniers but there are huge amounts of tulle, there. - There's this one as well. - Well, we don't have it yet... if the Costume Institute will agree to the loan. Even in the photo there, you can clearly see... Yes, yes, absolutely. Perhaps especially if you think about works of art to be featured alongside the dresses, reflecting the gilding... It'll be amazing because we'll have a theme that actually presents the huge court dresses, with their immense panniers, that the queen and her So, we'll have something very and an overview of the 18th century. We'll bring them back, so the design. When Raf Simons became the head of Dior, he had this identity of a Belgian designer who came from the Royal Academy of Fine Arts, He was someone who was often perceived by journalists as a minimalist, but in fact he was very, very simplistic because it was more than that. The collection he designed as an in the way you can re-read history without it leaning towards the look of a costume. Even from a distance, you can clearly to the &quot;habit a la Francaise&quot;, This idea of the 18th century that had absolutely nothing to do with this era. The structure of the garment, which slimmed down the bust. For men's clothes, it was the same thing. The frock coat emerged and was worn over a turtleneck sweater with black pants, so it's something that's but in a very casual outfit. What's interesting with Raf is that when he references moments in history, such as David Bowie or the 70s, for example, it's never literal; it's always something that you have to understand, He keeps some elements, which This shows that you can rich in history and culture, yet 47. That's good, that's good. Turn it. Let me check... right there. 42 is all the way up there, next to 75. All of them need to have the All of them? Yeah. You see, over there, there's one that's not Those are straight forward and that one's a bit... They all need to be super, super straight, all of them. Facing completely forward. Thank you. I think it's nice to see this kind of... That we see something black And white as well. She wants to see more of this effect here... Couture, for me, is timeless in any case. Couture deals with craftsmanship, it has to project a fantasy. You have to maintain the same of the couture house. I never forget it. But at the same time... the audience is different. I think when people look at this exhibition, they will see the different types of expression of humankind through the ages. For example, just after the war, Monsieur Dior created fantasy clothes. He loved the idea of formality, this idea of dressing up. It was beautifully romantic, exactly what women wanted to have. And it's interesting to see how that has changed all the I think that the New Look but at the same time, it's important to innovate because the lifestyle is completely different from the 50s. The essence of what he still holds today. What we don't have is that formality. Clothes have an ease modern lifestyle. Honestly, today I think that it's not possible We are speaking about women, people. My dialog is with my time. So I think it's very important to And we have to support people in It's all even. Done! Fashion is close to the body and that's very important, because it's something very personal. There are some lopsided Sheherazade is lopsided, I know that for sure. - Really? Okay. Wow, not bad. A bit less. Can you make the hat straight? I just want to see it straight. Tilt it more. One second, let me look. Yeah, what centers it from - The hat? And tilt it again. The mannequin's leaning. No, no, the mannequin needs to be further back. I'd say about another centimeter, yes, definitely. - That's good. I think we're good. We're not No, we're not doing it again. Good, isn't it? It's good. We have the exhibition, It's perfect. - It's not bad, is it? And the Museum? Were they happy? Yes, they're still doing Great. You can't really see the It's too small, it gets lost. I think we should keep this one. And there we have it, great! The Musee des Arts Decoratifs is very pleased to have you All of this work by the dressmakers, by those who work on the feathers, the beading, which are skills sought-after all over the world, as Mayor of Paris, I can only say thank you! Such an incredible, expansive, All the color and the variety over the years, and the different visions Different fabrics, different years, different silhouettes, different waist sizes... I think just the rich history of Dior, and getting to see my dress. I haven't The history of this company has but it continues to be imbued with its mission. And here, you have a dress named Monaco. And then of course, the relationship between my family and Dior is alluded to very subtly, but in a beautiful way. It's better than any kind of I don't know! I could stay here for hours and do another tour. I think I'm going to come back. It's a bit like Stendhal syndrome, I have to say. I'm a bit in shock. That's the dress I'd like to get married in, if there are any takers. All these dresses, enormous It might be a bit passe to use this word, but the modernity of these pieces is truly fierce. The crocodile dress. In the exhibition, it's kind It's kind of incredible. I don't know, I'm so bad at talking about this! He actually started out for about six years, and then afterwards he learned fashion design. Florence, who's been with us for many years. Jean, also; he's a tailor. These are the famous toiles or &quot;muslins&quot;, because the design is first made out of muslin, like this, and after the sample... - Right. The design is made out of muslin? - Is this the first...? And we work on it for a few weeks. - Right. And is there a big difference Not now. Why &quot;not now&quot;? Because before, the finished product There you have it, she has an - I try! Eh? That hasn't been lost on us! Thank goodness there are women in the world, huh? To inspire all of this, right? Because it's really us women who inspire all of this beauty, So long live women! Beauty needs to be shared, it's a must! When I work on a large exhibition like this, I really feel like I'm working on a film set, it's just like that! All the different professions needed to contribute to this joint Everyone has to work in the same way, like on a film, and we work in sequences. Meaning we step back and consider whether we need darker tones, lighter tones, calmer, more subdued rooms or something stronger, all of a sudden. It's a progression until the end, It's very moving, and it transports you. I'm so disappointed this isn't my closet. I would love to wear one of these dresses one day, maybe in one of my lifetimes, or every night in my dreams, rather. Between the gold and the silk taffeta and the... The work you don't realize that goes into it. From the fashion show to the museum, that has a much more universal value and can also speak to a very diverse audience. What interests me is the beauty of the garment, how it's made, but also how it was worn. The sociology of the garment I find that it's an object and with Christian Dior it's truly that, because sometimes the dresses are But it's also interesting to try and understand how what they meant at a given moment, what the context is, how of a way of seeing the world