-Are you preparing for a Well, tune into this video because I'm going to give you some project management interview tips that is going to really set you apart. So if you're watching this video for interviewing tips for then you definitely have to sign up for my free webinar on that every project manager And what a great way to ensure you have this additional advice for your interview. Go to the link below this video and you can sign up for the free webinar. Save your seat. Hi. If you're new here, welcome. My name is Adriana on the best, practical, out there in YouTube world. Obviously in my humble opinion. I'd also love it and appreciate it so much if you'd consider subscribing this amazing community. Now, on that note, I know you're looking for those project management Communicate well, like a PM. Okay, so what do I mean by that? It's not just about Yes, having really good You want to have some active listening but you want to communicate so they can see your style. And what I mean by that is you want to be able to really listen. You want to summarize You want to be able to like you would anyway, in a I have this great idea, this initiative. Here's the background. What do you do? You listen really well. You do your active listening. You then summarize what they're saying. If I heard you correctly, what we're going to be working And then what you also do Ensure that you do that as if you were a project manager doing what you would normally do anyway. Now, as well as part of communication is how you present yourself. 'Cause again, this is an we're not just talking It's an interview. So you really want to show yourself in the best, positive light. The way you sit or interact, on that call, with the You want to be straight You don't want to be slouching like, Hey, I really want this job. It doesn't look that good, right? Hey, I'm really excited about this job. And as well as this part of communication, it's not just you listening sorry, not just you listening which is very important. It's you asking the right questions 'cause that's what good with communication, is you're to vet things out. So you would've done your research. You want to have some to ask them back like, how do they see this a couple years from now? What's the strategy of the organization? And even more importantly, why is this project management You want that other information. It's really going help you and it shows that you do the and really, part of communication. Highlight your experience. All right, you're in an interview. So of course they're going to Now, if you're an this is a no brainer. Just talk about the past They're gonna ask you What were things that worked What was your greatest challenge? You can really go to your and pull out the answers to Now what if you're not an or you have very little And you're like, oh my Don't fret. Don't forget, you probably without realizing it. Or you were a team member on a project. You can pull out the while being a team member. Think about those that had a definitive and a deliverable. That's deemed a project. So you can look at those to pull out your experience so that you can highlight Just make sure that on the organization and what and ensure it all ties in. And if you, by chance didn't but if you didn't, make sure and get some clarification so that you can tie in your answers. So it really is laser beamed towards that particular Emphasize your training You're in your interview. So you know what? Your education and the is going to become important. Individuals or organizations, particularly if you're going to a new one, they want to know what what training do you have? How were you educated? That does become important and can sometimes be the as to whether or not you get hired. Again, I'm not in the but sometimes it comes that can distinguish So think about the workshops you've done, the training sessions you've been on. Maybe you even did some formal education. That all becomes very valuable. Now, what if you don't Uh, do not worry. I have you covered. I actually have an online, practical project Slay Project Management. And this is an awesome course because it's going to teach you not only the theory behind things, but also tons of the practicality and you actually can use You're going to know a That's why education and understanding fundamentals 'cause it shows and you may have practical experience but you also have this knowledge which is going to help when that someone else may Practice answering common project management It is about practice. And particularly when you do want to ensure that your feet but you need to know how you're gonna I have you covered. I actually have a video solely dedicated to project management interview questions. So if you go to the search bar, Adriana Girdler project you will definitely pop that up. So go check that out. So ensure that you practice. When you practice, think You may also wanna practice Give them the questions and then you can just how did that sound? You may even want to if you feel that scripting But again, you want to know Because when you're in like an interview, even if it's too scripted, you and sound more like a robot or So, you know, kind of, don't but again, do what you have to do. The key is practice. Know how to make a good first impression. First impressions can be really critical and can make or break you. It really is the one time you have that someone meets you for the first time that they can go, wow, I don't like this person. So the way you come So number one, don't be late. That is like a worst, worst, that you can have. It's really hard to make up for that because they're going to think, wow, what else are they Are they going to be late They're going to be late for meetings, even though you were late. So really try not to be late. In fact, I like to be like an hour early, if that's the case. And maybe drive around very so that I know I'm on or really think about that. Think about the first not only for the interviewer, but as soon as you walk in the door. That receptionist, the Who knows? That person who overheard you 'cause if you weren't that nice and you made a really bad first impression could be a really good or could be someone else that you're interviewing for. So it becomes really important. Your best face and your foot forward is really going to be critical here. Everybody is important, And you wanna treat everyone So, interview or not, that should just be generally speaking, is treat people the way But when it comes to the interview, you do have to be a little when it comes to this. So really think about Okay, now you know, and you for your project management job. I want to remind you again to on the five fabs that I feel are the five key It's free. It's going to help you. Think of it as part of your training. Go underneath this video to the link below and sign up and save your seat. Until next time, see you later.