[music] - [David] Hello achievers, I'm Brian Tracy. Hello Brian, again I am - [Brian] [foreign language]. - I would love to know, according to you, - Well, there's lots of research recently The first quality of all is hard work. The the reason was because of hard work. The they were able to discipline themselves to day. The third was persistence in the face failure, loss and so on. So if you took is first of all hard work, second of all - And let's talk about discipline because very inspiring. And a lot of people are the morning, what they can do to achieve disciplined every day? - Well, the starting point is to plan not have a written plan, then it will be all over the road. The second thing to do each day that account for 90% of your Sometimes, I teach it as the law of three. for 90%. Everything else you do accounts yourself, &quot;What are the three most And then you have to discipline yourself work on that task until it is complete. is the beginning, and Decide on your most important task, begin self-discipline until it is 100% complete. all success comes from completing tasks. completing tasks. It is only when you then you have to ask what are the most - And you do - Every day. - So the tasks - Yes. And the rule is do not check your because if you - You'll have new ideas, - Yes. And it will be 5:00 or 6:00 o'clock your email. So the email should be used danger for distraction, and distraction is that you control electronic turn them off. - TV, Skype, Facebook. - Turn them all off, activities that - Okay just to understand, you wake you ask to yourself, &quot;What are my three TV, Skype, Facebook electronic in my three actions or - The most important key to success is to first thing in - Eat the frog. - Eat the frog. If you try to do many make a list of all your work before you one thing on this list which one activity that activity only that until it's completing a task, you will - Okay, great. Some people will maybe have to be disciplined. I have to know they will not do that, and they will ask, know what I have to do, but I don't know - Yes. Well, that brings us back to our to have written goals as well for your and poor people they find that 85% of rich all the time. Only 3% of poor people have biggest goal. If you're in business, personal income, business income. So that you say, &quot;What are the activities that I right now which is the most important for always think in terms and what we There's another interesting study that has that there are three rules for success in quality rather than lower-cost. Most lower the price. But the true reason for to improve the quality of your product. generation rather than on the costs of that things cost. Focus on revenue there are no other rules. Two rules: focus - It's what we do. You improve what you do, - Yes. You improve the quality of your fastest growing companies in the world the number one place where they invested that if you had a certain amount of money advertising, or machinery or That's the - As a speaker, teacher, improve the quality - Well, in my estimation, if I am take actions that are different from - Yes. - So therefore, my job is to study and best ideas that they can use immediately to research on every subject and sometimes that's better than an old idea. - So you are updating - The reason people come to a seminar, you It has a problem to solve or a job to do. other words, like you hire a carpenter, or job, all right? They hire the speaker, or audio because they want it to do a job. or book to do a job. So the question you to do for them? Now, it may be socializing like going to a restaurant. you say, &quot;Well, people want to increase business.&quot; that's very simple. So say then sales and profitability immediately So some people will do a seminar and they about themselves. Well, that does not do increase their sales and profitability. It fulfill the commitment. It does not do the problem to be solved? And in all businesses, the one major problem is low what is the solution to low sales? The problem to be solved is to help people sales or to - I see. It's great answer. I love that. something. There is lot of book of about Simon Sinek who talked a lot about the is your &quot;why&quot; if you have one, and if you people can - Well, the whole purpose of the business, estimation, is to help people is to help something that they could not achieve or the &quot;why&quot;. And for me the &quot;why&quot; is very I had no education and no money. And then development. I found you can learn successful in that area. You could learn to you. You could learn to repair an prepare a dish in the kitchen. You can skills. You can learn all sales skills. I couldn't believe it because it meant more you learn because of the way your you can learn more If you make your - You can do more - Yes. And so I practiced it myself and began to tell other people this is how it changed their lives. And so I began to then I realized I needed to learn more. So studying and going to seminars. I took MBA degree. I took hundreds of hours of - To train yourself. - To learn new ideas, to help people would because I had that experience. I experience. Even when I'm talking to you I want to help - Yes. So do you think people can find - Yes. But what you have to ask is if you were rich but you had to do something you vacation, what would would you like money? And you ask that question you think like to do this. You know I spoke to one build schools in India wanted to do. He's - Wow, great. - I know two close friends of mine who build hospitals in Uganda. They saw Uganda, and they realized there was a big work, and they raise money, and they go hospital in Uganda. It is something that yourself, &quot;If I had all the money what thing you can ask is, &quot;What if you only say, &quot;If I only had a short time left to What would I want to leave behind? What - It's helping to focus on the - Here's a very important story. They growing businesses in the world, and they business?&quot; And all of them said, &quot;I choose product. I wanted the product for myself, the founder of eBay was looking for a way collection, and there wasn't anything. So internet at the beginning. And then he auction. They built eBay, one of the most started it because he wanted it for if you create the product or that you want and - You have a burning desire to buy it. So - Yes. Well, there's a great story. One study of fast-growing companies grew 4,200 times in three years. Well, what was was especially programmed for children to children's programs from television onto the school on the iPad. So if the child program. When they'd do more homework, - It's cool. - So children became motivated to do their little family, two or three families, got straight up always did their homework and do your children get such good grades?&quot; we developed for our iPad,&quot; and they said, they began to tell other people. They grew to help their children - Wow. - And you - They fulfill - Yes. They solve a problem. They - Great. You have so many studies. I don't Because it's a great way Where do you - I read two to three - Morning? - I read all the time whenever I have time will fly to Georgia in Southern Russia all have to sleep of course, but I will I will take books, and I have books on my magazines, and I will read and take out 9 hours or 10 hours. And then flying back, 10 hours of reading. But each day I read city a little in the morning, a little in continually reading. It's very much like one meal. - Your week - Yes. And people think well, I will wait my books and magazines. No, you have to learning, by the way, it's very you hear is the pauses between the sounds the pause bom bom bom-bom. So in learning, information. If I say to you, &quot;The very to improve the quality of your business,&quot; is a good idea. That's a very good idea. improve your marketing, quality and then to take time to think about what you're than that, it's like having a hose with cannot learn anything - Digest everything. - Digest it, yes. you'd have to chew, and - And another question I would love to imagine this is the last day. When you the three things you - Well, number one is my family. I have married, and the others will be married. grandchildren and, of course, my wife. But always has been happy and has had a good everything else. I would say number two say that I helped a lot of - Me too but - Yeah. But probably the third thing is Tracy was a - And what is - Pardon. - What is a - A loyal friend, a person who always who is helpful, who always supports their upon him for anything. I have, an interview, you know - I know that. - I came out of my studio this morning. But I have a rule that if with my friends, answer is yes. [foreign language] It's - How do you maintain the relationship? something for me not easy everyday because saying, &quot;Oh, I'm not giving news to Brian, for example, and I want to. So how - Well, if you can imagine the pistons in down. So let's say you have an automobile as your priorities. They're constantly goes down, and go up. This happens all the no simple explanation. It's always have to just keep setting priorities. What when my children would come to speak to me everything. My wife wants to speak to me I important. And now my grandchildren come everything to pay attention to my the people in my life. So whatever is - And how old is your - My granddaughter - Three. She is three years old. Let's speaks to you and that she wants to play her before to say, &quot;Okay, now it's the - Usually my grandchildren have very short only a few minutes two or And then they want - Okay. So you take the time come back to - Pistons chain. - How do you do to create true Yes, what is your point - Well, again, I am working a lot in the business model innovation. A business they're very much like the pistons in an successful business is happy customers. secondary to happy customers. So the customers to make more sales. The second so whatever else is always secondary. So now top priority, so that the customer you again. That's the most important thing computers, emails, are all secondary. The that this is true? Is all successful And unsuccessful companies think the customer always asking for too much. And company is important. But the rule is that There are no results inside the business. with the customers. So the reason that you can focus on the most important things you Everything else is secondary. Some human not, and this is just a fact of life. Just there is a connection sometimes no Sometimes the customer likes you. cannot change that. So the opportunities to meet as - How many employees - About 22. - How do you do to find the the mission and - It's like finding someone to marry. You thing and I teach an entire seminar simple way is to make a list of everything [foreign language]. - The perfect one. - And then when you meet people, compare down will improve your ability to hire You make much better choices. - You mean in an - Yes, in an interview. Just write your mind what - Okay, do you have - Yes. - And how did - First of all, I have a lot of experience clear about what I wanted a personal previous experience she had. So when we perfect. She fitted the list - And did you find her in posting - Probably. I don't do that myself. I have then I will make - Okay. So at the end, Okay, a last question how to - Well, the reason that I became an produced several video training programs languages. And as a result, the companies would like to bring him to Germany, and second way is that I wrote books. The is because of my books, and - If you have to advise could be the one - One book? - Yes, one book. - I cannot answer because to ask what subject it - Business developments, - Business development, my book &quot;The Way of the best books ever done on business step practically of what you need to do to to sell, then you would read one of my &quot;The Art of Closing the Sale.&quot; If you want of my time management books. So the should you go to?&quot; it depends upon your of food. Well, it depends upon the subject - I see. Do you want to say - Yes. Well, the word entrepreneur language], is dependent [foreign language] create new products and services and future of France and fortunately, learn to become an excellent any financial goal you - Cool, a lot of people, entrepreneurs, introduce them. Let's imagine that they what is the best way to introduce you? imagine that you - I would say that Brian Tracy is the most leader in the world today. What people say more practical ideas in a seminar with me and that has been my goal for many years. that if you want to learn a more ideas on any - Good. A good way to introduce and learn it. - Thank you. [foreign language] [music]