This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries using the link in the description. By the 1960's, the idea that a jet could the stuff of science fiction, and freeing going to revolutionize their use. While the British led the way with the first something even more ambitious. The world's first vertical jet lift transport, more lifting power than just about any helicopter This was a plane that would revolutionize A truly versatile machine that could even But developing the world's first VTOL transport It's called Vertical Take Off and Landing, And getting a jet to do it would prove to aviation history. Without forward motion, a plane's wings VTOL jet must rely entirely on its engines But making enough power to lift off vertically Jet thrust must also keep the aircraft stable Because while hovering, conventional control And a VTOL jet still needs to fly like a conventional And one approach is to use dedicated lift conventional forward flight. Another approach is to develop an engine that Vector thrust downwards for vertical lift A third way is to combine dedicated lift jets These were enormous engineering challenges. But throughout the 1960s, several countries Because freeing jets from needing runways major conflict. During the Second World War, a grass field needed to get airborne. Grass fields are hard to destroy and easy And a World War Two-era fighter needed only But in little over a decade that all changed. Because jet aircraft needed thousands of feet a strategic vulnerability. In the opening hours of a conflict, runways destruction would render an entire air force During the Cold War, nowhere was this vulnerability most air bases were just a few hundred kilometers Within easy striking distance of aircraft But VTOL jets could operate without runways. And for West Germany, the technology seemed Because aircraft could be stationed throughout Kept hidden under the cover of forests or country's Autobahn highway network to stage In 1960, West Germany set out to build an Starting with the development of a supersonic engines. A year later, work also began on a VTOL strike as the mainstay of West- But critical for supporting these aircraft A plane that could deliver supplies and personnel And in 1962, West German aircraft builder of developing it. Getting a jet to lift off vertically was difficult A VTOL transport would also need to lift several And to do it, engineers would need to develop engine layouts, to avionics. This is the Dornier Do-31. The world's only vertical jet lift transport. Using the combined power of two vectored thrust pods, the Do 31 could generate an incredible More vertical lifting power than just about To keep the aircraft stable, engineers developed Working around the limits of 1960's technology hybrid computer. In forward flight, the lift jets would be would fly like a conventional plane. And it could reach speeds of over 700km an nearly six tons of cargo. An unprecedented combination of speed, range But developing the world's first VTOL jet challenges. And it took Dornier almost five years to develop But by 1967, confidence in the aircraft was that Germany's jet lift transport was more And as Dornier moved closer to a production jet lift technology to revolutionize commercial Because VTOL airliners would operate from from building rooftops. But VTOL jet travel was going to have to wait. As the 1960s drew to a close, the Cold War An all out war with the Soviet Union now seemed And it meant the development of VTOL capable And getting a jet to reliably take off and and dangerous than originally anticipated. By 1968 it was clear that Germany's VTOL meet it's design objectives. And with rising development costs the program And that put the future of Do 31 in doubt More than anything, what west Germany needed to help shoulder development costs. And while Dornier managed to get the attention partnerships never materialized. Like other VTOL jets, the Do 31 had some serious Sure, its ten jets could lift more than just Much of what they were actually lifting was Ten jet engines and the fuel needed to keep complex and heavy. And the noise would've been a deal breaker Dornier tried to impress crowds at the 1969 harrier jump jet in a coordinated aerial display. But excitement over VTOL was starting to fade serious interest. And without a development partner or buyers, cancel the project in 1970. The attack aircraft it was intended to support Of the many VTOL projects launched in the Unable to overcome monumental engineering jet lift technology The world's only jet lift transport promised the versatility of a helicopter. A machine designed to address a pressing strategic Decades earlier Japanese engineers were also And their solution would be to combine the of an aircraft carrier. Japan's underwater aircraft carriers were out of the Second World War. And you can learn their incredible story in Which you can watch right now on Nebula, a top educational creators. It's a platform without advertisements, And it's where creators are free to experiment