Those swords are made really well, because they're layered I think it would have to for that to actually happen, seeing as how these aren't very sharp. Hi, my name is Thekla Hutyrova. I am a stuntwoman and and I've been doing in general for about 18 years. Today, we'll be looking at and judging how real they are. It's very traditional nunchuck style. Has a lot of the which is super cool and more old school. The longer chain ones The longer the chain, the This is about the length, I think, that they were in that last clip. 'Cause the ones I compete so you can do more Not only did he hold it normal grip, which is your thumb facing but whenever he switched his hand, he had them backwards a few times. You don't see that often. It's a style. I think you have your regular standard grip, and then you have ice pick, So I guess that'd be like which is cool. This is the normal grip, but it's neat to see it this way, 'cause obviously it works the same way, but it's just cool. You don't have to start under the armpit. I think that's another They usually spin it, and then shoot it back out again. And I think maybe that's as opposed to being loaded here, right? You're here, and then everyone's like, &quot;Oh, there's no way,&quot; and then shoop! Traditional weapons especially This was just for smacking grain out of hay and wheat and stuff. And then someone's like, I wonder what it'll do to someone's face.&quot; I can't rate Bruce Lee! 10! All right, maybe 9, 'cause he You can kind of see a where maybe the actress isn't completely that well versed with the nunchucks. They're a little bit slower. She's kind of using more of her body and more of her arms and stuff instead of just moving the but obviously she's quite skilled. There's a few cool moves, though. The neck, sliding under It's pretty cool. But it's definitely not as realistic to think that she wouldn't She's being a lot more calculating and choreographed with it. The last move, where she puts I've seen actually done in form. I'd say, like, 7. But I still love it. Oh, double! There we go. He's just doing the same I love it. It's funny how, often, it's just, like, the especially with nunchucks, is the bit that is so highlighted. He did a good job. Like, obviously it was him doing it, and the move where he crosses If I were to be in a fight with nunchucks, I think I would just try to The best one's probably from You could do a side to Anything else ends up Also, I mean, groin, knees, those are always defaults and a nunchuck to the kneecap So that'd probably be a good one too. So what he did, you know, was probably a really good default. I want to say they're foam just by the weight that when it bounced back. &quot;Real&quot; nunchucks are made out of wood. They're illegal in California. It's just always such that people ask that kind about, &quot;Are they real?&quot; If you're training with a sword, if it's made out of metal, it is. But if it's not sharp, Like, these are real, they're just foam. So it's like a weird, you know, like, what the definition He just did the demonstration, But the actual fight bit and the nunchuck bounced back. So, like, a 5. Yes, concealed-carry nunchucks! So cool. I've been known to just keep 'cause I forgot that they're there, so they are very concealable. Whew! That's dope. I love that he used it to take on a bunch of 'cause I feel like that's just 'cause if you spin people aren't going to want to attack you. I think that is a really If he had a stick, someone might grab it, disarm him, or, you know. It's an easier thing to But when it's a nunchuck, it's terrifying. It's scary for the person wielding it, much less the one in front. Those swords are made really well, because they're layered I think it would have to for that to actually happen, seeing as how these aren't very sharp. But it's Donnie Yen, so, If they wanted to swarm him, they could've beaten him. But I think it's a really the efficiency and the So, I don't know, 9. A fellow chucker, eh? Yeah, I mean, rolling it over 'cause it involves and just letting it roll over your hand and get to the other one. It's hard to do with the longer chain, because you have to be able to get that. So I'd say straight and then something with a spin, and then something with a release as far as difficulty tiers. So that difficulty scale are pretty good signs of expertise. You gotta love &quot;Ninja Turtles.&quot; It's like the dueling pianos thing. Keep practicing! See, this is where They're like, &quot;Oh, no one's actually doing anything with them,&quot; and comes in and beats everyone up. But if they actually got close enough where chucks would hit someone, maybe the guy with the bo staff They showed some good but there was zero fight, so I'll have to give it a 2 or a 3. But again, for the demonstration All right. Ooh, pass Again, with this, you see a not so much fancy stuff when you're actually which, again, it's the diagonal strikes, the sideways ones, upwards. Hitting the guy out of the air was probably the least practical thing. I still liked Donnie Yen's version better, with everyone attacking this was a little more choreographed, where, like, all the bad guys come in at their designated time, which is plausible, of course, but I think if you're a mob trying to end up hurting someone, you just go like, &quot;One, Finishes them off of a kick. He used a lot more martial arts kicks and other movement as opposed to just swinging because obviously someone should have some It made it feel more realistic The strikes were awesome. But then there were a few of like when he wrapped the guy's arm, which I feel like took a little longer than it probably practically would. Like, if someone's punching, you don't really have all It's plausible, of course. While it still felt very it was lot more believable where there were just Would really suck to get cracked Obviously, a sharp weapon is if you're actually wanting But I do think, if you they end up being like a stick. I used to think that they're because I thought they'd bounce back. But, again, if you don't hit it just whips by a little bit, and then you have a lot Maybe not the easiest thing but I do think they could if you know how to use them right. Maybe, like, a 7. That would suck! I feel like the physics of but it's a cool move, you know? I liked the Bruce Lee character dodging. He's very skilled to dodge but I liked him going, stepping off line, and punching the guy and which is what you want to do with disarming a weapon of any sort, right? You want to kind of get in past it and get past that end There was one bit where he hits the pipe and then hits the guy's hand, which is really a cool take on it, because hitting fingers would suck. Whereas you're not out of someone's hand. Important muscles for using nunchucks, one of the main ones for the more intricate movements, and then obviously your arm and your back, and power comes from your hips. Range of motion is very important, arguably more important than muscle mass. This one's tough, 'cause I liked this one. It showed a variety of styles, but if we have to rate it on practicality, 7 or something. Nunchucks. These people need to start holding on to their Yeah, it's funny to keep seeing that theme of just people taking in all of these. I've never noticed that, until You're like, &quot;What is going on?&quot; I don't know if I would just because I'm not and how heavy, and it's So it's not unlikely There's also other blocks. This ends up actually because you're here, and then you can also kind of block if you just hold them, their stick on your arm, so that's a good block as well. Again, I don't think they're the most secure things to block with, but that's not a horrible move. Especially if you're just to ensure you're going to not be hit if something does happen. Probably parry instead of I don't think it showed off the practicality of You'd have to be very skilled and very specific with your movement to be able to pull that off at all, and I wouldn't recommend it. So maybe, like, a 5. But it was a cool little scene. Ooh, there's that move again. I mean, he obviously knows what he's doing based on our criteria from earlier, like the intricacy, he's switching hands, and the speed at which he's moving them and the spins and everything. So that's really cool to see. I grip it maybe a thumb width away because that's where you over the other stick as well. I guess for distance and you might grip it a little lower. And then also depending on the sometimes for some moves, you want to grip it a little bit lower so that you can get or you want to grip it a little higher if you're doing a finger But generally speaking, you want to be close to the chain on top. And then all you have to worry about is where the chain is So it's a lot more controlled. I don't do the eyes-fluttering thing. It is kind of indicative and location of the nunchucks, I think people do that and stuff as well, even if it's just foam. If I throw it and lose track of it, then I do that, obviously. But I do know where they're But you definitely hit especially at first when and if you're not being smooth. A lot of times it's funny back of the head, which, I'm not even sure but that's a good one. Also makes a really good sound. They're definitely special, but I've never knocked or anything horrible. So, practicality-wise, I mean, just 'cause some of the strikes didn't look like they hit exactly. Oh, this is the quintessential scene. I can't rag on this. Canceled immediately. I feel like it is realistic how few times they hit and how much more it is Like, that first move he did, he does, Bruce Lee does a distraction move and then kicks him in the So that stuff's more practical, I think. It felt maybe not, like, gritty-realistic, but it did feel realistic within, like, if you're sparring with someone, you're going to show off and kind of test the which they were doing a lot during the demonstration periods, and just kind of showing off. Very simple, straight-across But yeah, I think that's we've seen for sure. I'd say that's the 10. So, the spear kind of beat the even though she won. Definitely less intricate movement. It was kind of nice that there wasn't a demonstration of skill in this one. It was just like, it Maybe the nunchucks for that girl to use in It wasn't bad. I just think the other ones showing the benefit of nunchucks and the practicality of 'cause even in this, she hit but there wasn't a lot of impact on how that would actually feel. And I think the distance, again, looked a little off So a lot of her strikes ended up being a little weaker-looking. The distance felt a little off, and the filming didn't as well as some of the so maybe a 4 or a 3. Can you imagine? I'm like, &quot;I've been in 100 nunchuck fights.&quot; Like, what? Thanks so much for watching. If you enjoyed this, click the link above.