hey everybody! today I want to give some love the microwave oven. now for most people, these and for that they're pretty decent. but for people microwaves are useful for a lot of in fact, my parents microwave was probably my first unfortunately that oven uh mysteriously the nice thing is that microwaves don't even aside, the transformer and capacitor inside are the glass tray and turntable motor can be used to itself is useful as a disposable blast chamber. now in this channel, but today i actually want to focus i think there's some room to make some so yeah i hope you enjoy this video. oh yeah, crazy stuff you're about to see was done if you were to try any of this stuff at home, you'd alright so what kind of stuff can you even do with but this isn't super exciting by itself and it's this with an ordinary oven as well. but this isn't boy cooks food with a huge electromagnetic field . of my low pressure gas tubes. has this plasma with a tesla coil? a quick run in the microwave how about these cheap neon indicators i'll take that as a yes. microwaves are great for ovens have been used in chemical synthesis to actually cooking food, there's still a lot years since the first microwave ovens, yet the it turns out the people who make these things have what happens when you use the 50% setting for slow the oven to simply run at half power, but check out oven runs at full power for an amount of time, then sure it averages out given enough time, but it's of a deal, but it does lead us to the light that's hundred percent setting? most people don't question but let's take a look at what that looks yeah that's right, even at the 100% setting, the because the oven is only producing microwaves half knows that half power just isn't gonna cut it for so i've taken this thing apart to expose the in a microwave is not for the inexperienced. projects, it's almost always because they're anyway here's the reason why the oven's only is actually the source of microwaves in the high voltage transformer into this half wave of the circuit means that the magnetron is cycle. now if the transformers in these things you could just throw in another capacitor and but you can't. so that means i have to but before i do that, let's start with a quick all, sort of. i'm going to start by ripping this will still stop microwaves from escaping, but now i actually learned this thermal camera well he's not really a youtuber. i've just known years, but he does have some cool vids on youtube degrees celsius in a minute, which also suggests quite fast enough for my liking. i went ahead and transformer, as well as some more diodes and but wait! won't a microwave using double the little bit of copper wire duct tape can't fix. just i was too lazy to use the original controls on to power it. now the nice thing is this actually just plugging that abomination directly into that the oven is indeed working. slow-mo video microwaves on the full cycle. sure there's some a benefit of the new setup is that it bypasses door doesn't even have to be closed for it to to need to irradiate large objects with kilowatts react inside my faraday cage with the open oven, amazingly it actually survived this. now i should extensive shielding will lead to the fcc and let's go ahead and redo that water heating original microwave drew a little under 1200 watts watts this time. over the course of a minute, the probably due to the toasty magnetron filament the full power microwave heated the water in one minute. some rough calculations show giving about 40 percent efficiency. how about an apple is heated to deliciousness in half the i know what you're thinking, what happens when i cooking this banana at four kilowatts. okay let's oh come on it clearly arced over in there, but i'm not even plays a role, but i think the geometry i'm thinking it acts as a lens and or which causes dielectric breakdown maybe laying the banana on its side will prevent hmm that doesn't sound very good maybe i can just give it more power and nope the magnetron is definitely dead pocket sand. unfortunately this puny little now it's not like i can just throw in a bigger thousands of dollars. so why not use a bunch of then you introduce a bunch of phase matching and thinking? why are we using this dinosaur technology food? well there's a few reasons really. it takes due to water's high heat capacity, so a laser that have to be ridiculously powerful and dangerous. i do best. in fact i already have on hand some of these are integrated laser diode arrays. they of tens of thousands of times as much power as a how dangerous each one of these can be, and the a bunch of them side by side at full power to pull part numbers and lack of documentation, i'm going these. so how am i going to turn these things into so i'm just going to start smashing all right so this is what the completed laser oven on top and that's powered via this power supply now I also added this water cooling loop here this thing that i simply couldn't get away laser equipped oven draws about two kilowatts at out as laser light. in fact, that makes it the most now in order to visualize this ridiculous power, the beam looks like. i've actually had to turn just washes out my camera's sensor. just to give highest danger rating a laser product can get is power. since the output on this thing is 700 watts, a thousand times. that means you probably won't so the beam's flashy and all but how good is it that smells so good! as you can tell this laser oven is really more of a laser but that's not really that big of a deal well that looks interesting. i wonder what that's really good! wow it's like a carbon foam toast like this in a regular microwave. popping experiments to try on this channel. let's hmm that isn't doing a very good job. the beam the kernels are vaporizing off faster than the let's see if i can fix that with a okay there it goes. some turntable oh yeah look at that it's doing an awesome job now. way of cooking popcorn. is laser popcorn as good that was wow that is incredible. it has like a definitely beats microwave. again with those one of my favorite flavors. it's funny because have been working on inertial confinement fusion with a laser oven. i guess i can do that as a set of optical amplifiers from a government for a different video though. i've had campfire never had laser smores. perhaps the secret to the oh yeah check that out, it's making the chocolate a bit of crisp to it as well. yummy. all right of hard to tell whether they're melting or if the okay yeah it's definitely melting there wow. these things taste as good as they smell because wow yet again i am very impressed. this laser oven i'm finding is that man i love carbon. it's a shame that you store, because man you guys are missing out. make s'mores without also giving hot dogs is that leaving the door open won't jam however my eyes would be destroyed in a fraction i probably should have spent more time designing mmm that one's actually really it's like a char boiled flavor but i don't even yeah there's this like really distinct aftertaste really a lot of things from this laser how about a laser cooked egg? is it even cooking in lot but it might just be reflecting off all that hard-boiled egg here but i don't know what's going maybe i can do better with a different i'm usually too lazy to heat these things up, fun fact, when i was a starving college student of energy i could buy for a dollar in my school's it's a little um a little on the crispy side um yeah being so toasty i guess. how about some double oh those give off a ton of smoke in there. it must oh oh no oh oh that's terrible yeah that is i've had enough appetizers today i think it's that nothing can beat the flavor of a microwave off. wow i just can't get over that incredible sure it gets the other side. yeah that thing is i can't have a steak dinner without some laser is a bit reflective to the blue laser light. i okay yeah i think that's good enough for now that is instagram worthy. let's all right might be a little on the uh might be you know not used to cooking with lasers but man that like carbonization of well that was delicious i mean what should i mmm nice and sweet. you know i didn't get any char um that that's amazing wow i that's so good. man i love the future. all right i am to go over some of the pros and cons of my laser one is it's a laser oven. i mean cooking food with uh has a good way of like adding a smoky flavor to a lot of has to come down with the oven likes the first few millimeters of the surface of the so that's why it like charred absolutely i were to use like red or ir lasers for this like job at cooking food more uniformly and having a helped too but uh so i mean this was just like i i feel like you could do a laser oven that like you know comparable to a microwave so maybe or maybe i'll just make a mega microwave with a an interesting experiment and this was probably channel, at least cook food with lasers. so yeah i'm i decided to make a shorts channel if you like bite-sized science demos in like the insanity that i'll be posting there. well that's about all i have for you today so