(whoosh) - Hey everyone, I'm I'm excited for another Today we'll be learning about how to talk about your family in English. I think that this is such because so many people enjoy So this is an easy way to bond with other people who speak English. But before we get started, that if you'd like to get right when they come out, feel free to subscribe below. Okay. So think about the word family. It's really similar to the And so, when we think about that, it starts to make more who seem more familiar, who seem more, easy to relate to, feel more like family. And it's not only people, So human beings often consider their pets, like their cat or their But we don't often consider an insect, for example, a family member. Why? Well because cats and dogs are mammals, and insects are not. And human beings are also mammals. So this makes cats and more like family. So it's really interesting, when we think about people other people who maybe look like them, or remind them of someone that they know, these people are more familiar and they feel more like family. So today we're going to about your family in English. We'll go over three different Our first one is how to to talk about your family in English. So this one is important. When I was learning Spanish, it was very important that and ways of talking about so that I could bond with other people while we talked about our families. So in English, one is the fam. So the fam refers to the family. So you might hear someone &quot;Oh tonight me and the fam So the fam simply means me and the family. Someone might say, &quot;Oh I'm And you might ask them, &quot;Oh, are you gonna bring the fam along?&quot; So the fam refers to the family. So this is a pretty common one. So you can use the word, when you're referring to your family in a way that is casual. All right, so another is flesh and blood. So, my own flesh and blood. So when we think about is skin and muscle and fatty tissue, and blood is the red stuff So we're not actually talking Flesh and blood actually refers to a family member that shares your DNA. And so when you think about a family member is someone who shares genetic material with you, so So you actually share similarities So most of the time, not all the time. And so we might use this expression, &quot;Yeah he's my own flesh and blood. &quot;I can't turn him away.&quot; So, my own flesh and So we might hear someone say, &quot;Oh, &quot;my son &quot;came over and &quot;he was being so rude, &quot;but he hadn't eaten a meal all day long, &quot;and so I couldn't tell him &quot;no. &quot;I served him dinner because So my own flesh and blood, someone who shares your DNA. Okay, let's do one more expression. One more expression is Blood is thicker than water. So if you think about this, blood actually is thicker than water, but when you hear this expression, it's actually referring to family members being closer than friends. And so, we might use this expression in a sentence like, &quot;It's no surprise that in the argument, &quot;she took her mother's side &quot;over the side of the family friend, &quot;because blood is thicker than water.&quot; So blood is thicker than water. Okay, so now we've We've learned the fam, we've and we've learned blood These are all really great So now let's move on to point number two. So, our second point is between your immediate family It's important that you because sometimes you &quot;Oh, how many people are So you want to know what your immediate family is referring to. So your immediate family are your parents, your siblings, your grandparents, and your children if you have children. So everyone else is your extended family. So that's easy, right? So when we think about we have cousins and aunts and uncles. Those are our extended family. Okay, so if I was going to there are also a few that I think would be very So I might use the phrase, &quot;Oh, he's my better half.&quot; If I say something like that, that probably means that or it could be your boyfriend, but this is usually referring to a spouse. So someone who is your better half. We could also say something like, &quot;Oh the apple doesn't The apple doesn't fall far from the tree. If you hear someone say this, this expression refers to So we might use it in a sentence like, &quot;Susie did really great on her math test. &quot;It looks like the apple &quot;in this family.&quot; Because maybe Susie's So we use this expression to show when family members are similar. The apple doesn't fall far from the tree. Okay, so, let's think about this. Can you let us know in the comments below how many people are in And then think about your extended family. My extended family is huge Do you have a big extended family or a rather small extended family? Feel free to let us know Okay, let's talk about the And that is how to talk about So, think about where you are in your family. Are you the oldest sibling, Are you the only sibling? So if you are the oldest sibling, you would be referred to as the eldest. You may even be referred Even if you're a grown If you are the youngest sibling, you may be referred to as Again, even if you're a you may be referred to as the baby. If you are in the middle, then you would be the middle child. And so, in English, we have this idea that the middle child and we call this middle So, let us know in the comments below where are you in your family? Are you the eldest, are you the baby? Are you the middle child? Or are you the only sibling? Are you the only child? If you are the only child, you as an only child. You could use that in a sentence like, &quot;Oh, I got all of my parents' attention &quot;because I was an only child.&quot; Okay. So that does it for today's lesson. I had such a great time how to talk about our families in English. I think it's so important to know how to talk about your family in English because it's an easy way to bond with other English speakers. So thank you guys so much for tuning in, and don't forget, if you are click below. Put your email address in, and you'll receive some Thank you guys so much. I look forward to our