One of my strongest skill sets is folding and Growing up I watched her play Tetris with So when I became an adult, I naturally I'd didn't matter how much stuff I had, I always And this remains true today. I fold the laundry But prior to the present day. My default behavior of folding neatly created a habit of clutter shifting. And I didn't realize it then, but today I'm fully In fact it's a huge hindrance to living with less. It's the number one mistake that However, many people, like myself, are unaware of this habit or fail to So if you can relate and you feel like this is to break this hidden habit and recognize the There are numerous reasons It's emotionally easier than letting go, it's synonymous with organizing, and it creates faster yet Now these are, excuse my directness, lazy time it works, you create a larger mess for later. How short-sighted. But I get it. Because I've done it. I once considered myself an up and when it came to organizing life's first apartment and the clothes And maybe you're following a similar pattern. Because in today's cluttered world, with we'd take any solution we can quickly implement. However, quick doesn't And that's why I now follow a This approach will help you break the can declutter and ultimately thrive But first, let's quickly discuss the I wouldn't be surprised if you Let's dive in. Ok, when defining clutter-shifting, like would runs parallel with Some may also say it's shifting boxes And I agree. Clutter shifting is the habit of one spot to another while being However, this is only the first The second happens internally. It's shifting the mental clutter further down and away from the top of your mind. Tell me if this sounds like you: "Maybe if I delay when I have to think Ever said that before? If so, as a result, you move further Now the type or how much Shifting the opportunity to deal later date and time is causing more So, let's take a few steps back, gather The first step is to sort it out. Many people look at their clutter They're busy, and the thought of So, rather than taking small steps shift things around a bit, and organize Does that sound like you? You see, by taking the first you effectively create a target you Let's talk about sorting out physical clutter. Before moving anything anywhere else, divide the cluttered areas in your home Each project will be managed and Now within each project area, divide the what goes together, where it belongs, if you One of my go to tips for making progress on you want your space to serve according Having this level of clarity the vision when you're in the Alright, let's talk about Before shifting any mental clutter you may consider the various sources feeding this So, is it stress from work, a toxic relationship, limiting beliefs, your physical clutter, etc. Once you have an idea of the source, you can more accurately determine Now I've found a ton of success with writing my way to mental clarity and focusing on the But if writing isn't your thing, I find someone you can trust that you can The second step is to reduce. Part of a good strategy to quit In order to live with more clarity and you must declutter everything that Will it be easy? No. Worth it? A 1000 times yes. And here's how to get started. Let's talk about reducing physical clutter. My playbook for decluttering life Identify what you value, set up an effective decluttering system, reflect and learn from your experience, and then play defense to Now I put together a completely free highlights the details of And I encourage you to read it if you haven't just go to ronaldlbanks.com/quickguide Alright let's move on to reducing mental clutter. I briefly shared a few minutes ago that I've had a ton of success with writing This is because I started early, Now, the beautiful thing about writing The barrier of entry is non-existent, and it There's poetry - which is my personal experience, but there's also short stories, letters unsent, a stream of consciousness, morning pages, a bullet list, vision board journaling, "dear diary" writing, and so many others. Now regardless of the style consistent practice and expression Now if you need help getting started, exercise that can serve as a Just go to ronaldlbanks.com/mentalclutter Ok, the third step is to give it a home. Decluttering your life is one thing, but enjoying your clutter-free life Alright so let's talk about After decluttering, you should be and enjoy using. And although the total number it's still critical that everything has a So this may require you to change your habits, or to rethink how you're using consider the function you want that space to serve Additionally, this is the only time "organizing" is appropriate Well what about giving your thoughts a home. The goal here is to not clutter your always found it best to leave space So, where's the best place On paper. But, if I had to guess, you Keep growing on your journey my friend, The first is that you will make a commitment approach when decluttering -- sorted I want to see you win and make progress. And the second promise is that Let me know in the comments if you accept. I'll see you in the next one. Peace!