For two years, the two forces on the two sides to no end. They would each sacrifice supplies direction or another, yet on July 27th, 1953, same line. That's because, at 10:00 am that day, signed 18 copies of the Korean Armistice Treaty sides would retreat two kilometers back from the reflected the final state of the conflict. stand watch exactly where they finished their now largely empty, is the notorious DMZ--the rules--originally, only 1,000 personnel from each a given time, and they were only allowed to carry time away from the letter of the armistice's law, flashpoints globally, especially in 2024, so they conflict, each side needs to make it abundantly have no intentions of a military incursion, far away from the line. Therefore, the intention of nothing. Each side controls access to the zone yet within the DMZ there is no wall separating yet for most of the 160 mile, 250 kilometer by nothing but an invisible line through the most heavily fortified wildlife sanctuary. interesting when there is something. Starting from road. This is rare. Even rarer is the electricity and the railroad a few feet further on. This is Koreas, and it's one of just two to have border at least theoretically, the movement of But these haven't been used in years. This For a period, this road facilitated the movement Kaesong Industrial Complex--a rare collaborative factories in the area staffed by North Koreans. currency, South Korea would get labor for prices yet just an hour's drive from Seoul. At its peak, overseen by almost a thousand South Koreans who the North, especially for anything but tourism. the border every day, for a period. But in 2016, experiment was shuttered--seemingly for good. still exists in a way unseen along the rest of used to start passenger service between Pyongyang has a passenger train station ready to go, Pyongyang and immigration facilities able to no true passenger train has ever left Dorasan and less likely that that will ever happen. the Joint Security Area. Few sites so small have the location of tens of thousands of prisoner the two sides, of President Trump's famous few North Korean territory, and most recently that that same line into North Korean custody to The reason why the JSA forms so much history is shrinks and the two Koreas stand face-to-face they were even closer--the original concept of which personnel from each territory could move But perhaps unsurprisingly, in retrospect, the a head in 1976 when a group of American and zone to prune a tree blocking their view from an eventually came and ordered them to stop, saying but eventually and rather inexplicably, after Korean soldiers picked up the axes being used soldiers to death. In the wake of that incident, military demarcation line even within the now Korea quickly built a new bridge to the north to drive into their portion of the JSA without the only areas regularly shared by the two within which individuals are allowed Eastward of the Joint Security Area, the DMZ features within it are defense infrastructure like cross the line. Occasionally there are the remains South Korea, some of which have been converted which just destroyed. This pattern continues with the country--truly nothing across a four-kilometer the JSA is this road, just feet from the eastern this too is a vestige of a more hopeful time. Kumgang region directly to the north operated cruises, then on buses, and then on trains, South this area--some just for fun, others to join a could meet North Korean family members cut off by Koreans passed through the region before 2008, Korean tourist who walked too far along the beach South Korea quickly closed off tourism to the comparatively cosmopolitan resort-town, to but country. Today, the previously unifying road then cut off again two kilometers The aforementioned represents all significant the demarcation line. There's always the potential tunnels, but as far as we know, that's it. Yet, within view of the JSA, are two other notable villages of Kijong-Dong and Daeseong-Dong. allowed to remain in the DMZ when it was initially that it's largely a propaganda tool, and is when viewed closely through a telescope, there turn on and off at regular intervals; and the only the streets clean. The most iconic feature, of for a period, was the tallest in the world--built meter flagpole in its village of Daeseong-Dong. DMZ, and it still functions far more like a real A mere thousand feet or 300 meters sit between buildings; farmers regularly work the fields going there's nothing physically stopping anyone Therefore, the villagers--all inhabitants prior to escorts when walking into the fields in case of curfew--most recently set at 7:00 pm--after which Even to get into the village, they must go visitors must apply for permission two weeks in South Korea views life in Daeseong-Dong as a form their freedoms to keep the dream of reunification are exempted from the nation's mandatory military But not all of the northernmost South Korean demarcation line ends on the beach it limit line--the maritime border between the two kilometers of this invisible yet all-important it's rugged, and it--along with these four--helps the Northern Limit Line, Yeonpyeongdo serves as a residents, a center of operations to a small but an example of just how tenuous life is along Now, for a while after Korean military accompanying Northern Limit Line, the Five West for the better part of two decades, they or intervention from either north and south. by memorials and bombed-out buildings, would last. While not particularly valuable from an fifty years, have become a focal point for the two This started in the '70s with the normalization countries around the globe--an extension it seemed, at least from a North Korean waters within which Yeonpyeong and the rest of the while the five islands were designated as South agreement to the exact dimensions of the Northern American intelligence reports have conceded that The upshot is this: North Korea's alternative along with a massive uptick in violence along the North Korean ships have sunk South Korean fishing and exchanged fire with North Korean ships, and battles in '99, 2002, 2009, and 2010. While North Korea has gone so far as to also along the western islands themselves. this. It's why the beaches are braced with it's why commemorative tanks sit along the city's roam the waterside. It's why artillery dot with municipal buildings within the town. don't look so different from those built as violent flare ups aren't unique to the maritime report to Congress on North Korean provocations the two Koreas, maritime conflicts only The DMZ was never meant to be permanent, and yet, both recognized by the UN, it has had a remarkable after the 1950s. As a line on the map, it as a strip of land supposedly both nonviolent fragile, penetrable, and highly deadly. on from its signing, the US challenged its intent to position nuclear weapons in South directly overstepping what had been agreed weapons or ammunition will be brought into the armistice remained, but the move tore down a A decade later, the armistice's nearly crumbled when a North Korean ambush killed marking the beginning of the three-year-long fifty separate deadly outbreaks between North infiltrators--and Republic of Korea allies North Korea's effort to spark a southern uprising along an area supposedly demilitarized. DMZ from the south during the conflict, the North it. Across the '70s, the south found three four DMZ. In 1990, they identified a fourthfifth. counter-tunneling efforts toiled to navigate odd shootout broke out killing would-be intruders, Across all the skirmishes and efforts to singular--there have been deaths along the way. A has been American involvement and American deaths. side of the DMZ, since the closure of America's American troops have been involved in the counter-tunneling effort in the '70s. They've ranging from the infamous ax murder incident in after it veered just north over the DMZ in has created the DMZ is not an agreement between an agreement between the two fighting parties. The but American generals representing the United and a representative of the Chinese People's the DMZ for decades, they've done so along nationalities because they aren't serving under an the UN Command hand over management of the DMZ to it is the UN command responsible for the Military and works on longer term management issues the future of the DMZ, and keeping track of well that too falls on a coordinated international a host of nations and agencies. appears at its greatest threat in decades. The process of nuclear weapons development and been moments of relative stability. 2017 saw some Korea and North Korea of the 21st century as the the wake of the death of American Otto Warmbier But these relations took a quick, hard pivot in athletes to that year's Winter Olympics in South talks between the two countries in years. were on the ground in Pyeongchang, and the games A few months later, Kim Jong Un and Moon Jae-in JSA in April of that year, and that was followed and US President Trump in Singapore--the furthest and the first time a leader of North Korea Incremental progress was made with all sides after another Trump meeting in Hanoi and by diplomats in Stockholm broke down and any the start of the COVID-pandemic and North Korea's After some of the most insular years for one of took a concerning turn in early 2024. Kim Jong peaceful reunification with the South, and that he This came just days after the north's provocative island, and months after the closing of a dozen act experts believe signals its recent focus on These same experts believe Kim feels like the and that this has pushed him towards preparing for North Korea has repeatedly threatened the seventy years, but experts believe that the risk real as ever. According to two of the world's top Hecker, Kim Jong Un has likely already decided tests, rhetoric, and build-up simply represents their enemies are focused on wars in Ukraine and a tumultuous US election. Strategically, to start military action in quite a long time. as a crucial stress-test of the DMZ, the UNC, and for the past 70 years. The Korean War never and the entire rise of the South Korean state ceasefire. So it appears that the question Peninsula can maintain indefinitely will likely Following the globe's conflicts can be rather are basically two options: you learn through the start of major conflicts and more significant conflict-focused sources that go into far more at Real Life Lore came up with a solution: it's video summarizing the day-to-day progression of This month's episode just came out, covering to date that I can't even tell you what's this voiceover before it's done. The show really that everyone hears about, which I appreciate as most as mainstream news coverage of conflict conflict is quite difficult on YouTube given their are necessary to appease the advertisers. That's is a subscription-supported platform which means allow for proper coverage of conflict and it has War Room. And there's far more Nebula-Original might have noticed some exciting news recently--we ambitious, biggest-budget Nebula Original we aren't sharing too much about it so far, it's place on the road, traveling around the American but in the meantime, there's so much more it's growing all the time--we just recently added and Morning Brew's fantastic channels, including is owned by creators, and is run by creators, so stuff we make--it's got no ads, everything goes releasing more and more Originals. So if you want the platform, head over to Nebula.tv/Wendover. we've got lifetime memberships available where you a normal, annual subscription for 40% off when you channel. So head over to Nebula.tv/Wendover