I'm excited to have my new good friend saw first his interview from the 'After of the stories on After Death and this is not to wife were deeply impacted to the point, not only really touched me, of the power of Jesus Christ I went and I googled his name and I was like I he from and then I find you know my friend Isaiah to know a little bit more about his story and So Steve, hello. Hello pastor Vlad, it's an honor so we want to kind of create a little suspense of that testimony out. Could you start from the growing up in a Buddhist home in South Korea? say about 25% of the population is Buddhist. So side met at the temple and then my mom and my dad was a baby and since the age of six, I had this why am I born? Why are human beings here? Why do there evil and good and you know who's in charge? a Buddhist and you know to receive answers, I was eight hours a day. I would ask the monks question you would pray eights hours a day? I was in high Every morning you know there's morning prayer and in Buddhism, they have these wooden like hit the thing and do chants, teach mantras and not once did Buddha talk to me. So Buddha did not I had some dreams of like snakes and stuff and You're going to get blessed but now I know that's who are watching right now and maybe are not give us just a basic summary on their belief what is their basic belief system? Yeah, sure. I India you know founded by Buddha and of course, but his disciples made it into religion and it its emphasis was mixed with ancestral worship and India or Europe or even the Middle East, Buddhism teaches that there is a reincarnation. It teaches come back. You go to hell and come back so to purpose of Buddhism is for one to reach nirvana where you don't need anyone or anything else. So back then, I didn't know better and you know and you trying to reach nirvana? Yes I was and they who actually lived there, I wasn't as that radical it will take me at least 10 to 100 million years all of that is about reincarnation. So you have right? Yeah, exactly pastor Vlad. You have and do more. So it's a salvation by works. teaches resurrection from the dead and the Bible then there's judgment whereas in Buddhism, we die reincarnation, you keep coming back from it and no Savior. There's no shedding of the blood for really experience relief from your sin and you're this nirvana that you were chasing and so did praying? Exactly you know there were moments when five minutes of peace but that fear of death, fear whether a day later or an hour later. Wow. So you don't think I ever experienced the completeness or at an young age you actually immigrate... Well, mother was trained as a registered nurse and came you actually started to struggle with an identity was Korean in that community which something I but when I was 13 and I came to the United States insecurities and it was very very difficult, you speak a little bit about the struggle that you sure. Yeah so I can relate to that. I immigrated remember coming to America and you know everything blessings and a lot of food, lot of fun, holidays school and high school and I look around. I'm whole town? How come I look like this? How come the others? So deep inside my heart there was this like try harder so you know coming from Buddhism it even worse you know because I'm trying to now people are extra mean but it was just something up that just happened naturally and it made me started becoming rebellious, started getting into the football locker room, in the hallways. We all was a lot of you know social tension in my heart you started to get high and you actually were exactly so I came to California for college you know I had my whole American dream and life tell Him your life plans, right. So I had it happened was there was an Asian financial crisis Hey there's no tuition. You got to find a place to and successful as a businessman. So I ended up drugs. So I became a part of the gang naturally, a morning, afternoon, evening for the whole summer. of time. And that was happening when you were college right. Yeah I went to a Pomona College in summer from my freshman year going to my sophomore happening as a result. Buddhism plus drugs without can you speak a little bit about... you started would and I find that so interesting, who would less years in hell. Yeah and what happened I was always a very fervent you know prayer guy when I'm about to die, this guy show up and you like let's pray harder. So we were praying really relic and we put it on the wall and I was living this piece of paper. It's like... level of demonic freaked out like cups are falling off the bathroom I was up for 240 straight hours as a it's called a death bow, combination of looked like just regular weed but it was laced. visits from this Asian grandpa and you got to idea what time it is. I have no idea where I am, damaged as a result of the drug and then around the grandpa came to me and started speaking offer your life to me and it'll take a few minutes did the math and I was like, that sounds like 50,000 less years of hell. So let's make the trade crying because I told her, I'm going to go before letter and my mom was crying and weeping. She read convinced that you're going to go to hell and drugs for about eight days. You're not sleeping, these visions but now you're seeing this very you and he's offering to you. He's not offering less years in hell. Yeah but you know... but in sounded like was such a good deal though because not getting sleep. I'm not in my right mind. physical pain I was feeling and I think there was he came to me and started speaking to me, I said the only way out. So I went for it. Do you think think that drugs are open doors to these demons? characters, drugs is called mayak literally means reveals what they are. I do believe they're our senior pastor after things happened. He was the gateway to the enemy to come in and mess with I tell them, 'Say no to drugs' not even the entry you're seeing this vision of an Asian old grandpa hell. You're going through hell, such a painful that. So you're believing in his offer. What did offer was because you know even though people Buddhism was the only spiritual reality world, in my life. So I wrote the letter to my mom and I knife I could find in the drawer. It's all in I grabbed the knife and I got on my knees and I what, this is going to hurt. Where do I start? because this is happening in the living room and so I'm trying to cut my stomach open and there's physically still there. I started cutting it open and the cops busted the door open and they came of the best police stations in the world and they now I'm like and to me at the time, they look like was like you know, what I need to resist and like He's talking to me like go for the neck Steve. the knife and I'm not doing this because I want to which is why a lot of people commit suicide. They and I cut the knife that you know I use a knife to entire living room was filled with blood and the that I dropped the knife and by then, my body was on the stretcher. The police didn't make anything have scar still in the back of my head and I ended happens, you cut your stomach. You go for your Hey there's a way to do it faster. You're seeing they're actually preventing you from going process of death and then okay so what happened to that is when the experience started, the spiritual called OBE out of body experience or ND near-death ambulance to the UCI Medical Center, Operation leaves my body and I see myself but instead of sinking and sinking and sinking and it felt like sinking, just constantly and I land and during just no wholeness at all, so much brokenness. It's like hell is not made for humans. We cannot know not the only one alone. I look around pastor Vlad I can't even move. There was a chain going through not the little imps that tell you to eat the and I somehow knew they were in charge and for the I never ever thought of as a Buddhist. Because you you know hell, demons like what Christians, what Bible. I went to church like once as a kid to know original sin with the story of Genesis with Adam taught that we have this perpetual never ending onto-logically doesn't make any sense but anyways, consciousness, in my mind that I was a sinner to get out of this place that I deserve to be and like godlessness is like I rather endure the or go to an Island by myself you know with no emotional, physical pain is indescribable. It's should experience I felt. It was like yeah, very say you felt like a chain was going through your normal. It's ripped up everywhere there's rocks, on like barren like rocks like you can't even like cliffs. There's like rocky red cliffs. I look knew it was hell was even weird because I don't as a Buddhist so but I supernaturally knew that deserved to be there and you felt like right there to be there. You will never be able to escape. So about ditching you know not having your back so even inside anymore. I don't even look for him cuz straight. I was just there suffering and you know mistake. I should have stayed up there but it was what happens after that? So after that, thank God friend who went to a Spirit filled Pentecostal a church in Fullerton where they saved, baptized a local church and the prayer warriors from this actually the mom of the guy of the house that was me that I would get saved and preach the gospel God answering prayers. So praise God for answered drugs, you're getting these visions, you're not God will save you and you will preach the was a Christian and then my mom called her and spiritual warfare and I'm hearing this after the She never heard that term in her life because at Buddhist just like me. She hated church or like unconditional loving Christian neighbors and came from the church to the emergency room and hours which was the duration of the operation and Mrs Kim called them and said there's my friend's didn't come, maybe I wouldn't be here pastor Vlad because they did come and Jesus answers prayer. us and He sent His servants and right before heard I love you Steve, no more drugs and no more and eight hours had transpired. A specialist the last minute and she said, it was a very close survived but as a result of prayer, I was there the first thing I did when I opened my eyes and I these people like in Jesus name, demons be gone oh you're okay. I was like yeah and they go, what like, I think we you saw hell and they're like, telling me while I'm laying on the emergency room accepted Jesus and I said the sinner's prayer not that day. You just wanted to be sure. Yeah just there and the Lord, I believe heard my prayer and Oh my goodness, that is crazy. Guys, can we just saving power. If you are just in the chat right emoji. Let's give the Lord a clap offering that mentioned that you know even though his Buddhist calls these people who start to intercede and for they know how to pray. They know how to intercede. they know how to pray and they started to pray ends up waking up and you know they right away, Hey you got to accept Jesus Christ and he accepts sure that it's 10 times you know because he comes is not going to work, let's do more than once and you up when you have a vision of hell and then of a grandpa and so you actually come into your surgeries then you mentioned that they found mentioned a miracle that really happened because wouldn't be for God's intervention and but God place and you actually had a situation where you still backslid to your old life. Yeah. How can I mean talk about grace right I mean you know in but in Christianity, in Christ, it's all His and yeah as soon as I got saved, I came back home are like Steve, you're gonna become a pastor. They do Bible study and I was sitting there and I was the... you all the surgery and loss of blood and I supernaturally knew and I heard the gospel in between, I get baptized by the Holy Spirit Hey I saw hell. I saw the Lord. He saved me. I like ah Steve, we don't believe you like let's I was like you know what, the Lord's merciful. So was like Lord one more time so until the summer of and God has a sense of humor because every time, huge car accident on the way back. The car was tire and what really marked me from back siding days you know even after seeing hell and this Him showing me heaven and it was amazing because sovereign good will and He came as a ball of light chitchat or Hey how's the pizza. He was like... My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Listen He's saying this, I saw the New Jerusalem coming of these verses. I found out after the fact that got baptized in the Jordan River and when you know coming down of heaven made of gold. So I saw the wow and there were angels just worshiping God and not humans, they're angels worshiping God which eyes and I got the message. I said oh my partying nightclubs and doing drugs and so pretty much life to completely dedicate yourself to the Lord, Vlad but there were still like little hidden was like you need to confess. So I would put it I'm still having a cigarette here like I looked but because you're honest, we forgive you. We're the church, to a friend, the Lord would deliver me give me the holy power just like it says in the you will be healed. So when I started to take supernaturally not my effort like Buddhism, not me from those particular little sins that I know people don't realize that it does take... you process and God's grace is not only that saves us Titus but the grace of God that brought salvation there's a process of training by the grace of having a radical experience whether it's like we automatically think that, that will just pretty can supernaturally save somebody and even deliver develop new habits, new patterns of thinking, that we have had before and so shortly after that a chaplain. Yeah actually before I became Talbot School of Theology first. Okay, I was on seeing heaven and hell you don't want anything soul come back to Christ. So I told everyone, going to China, the underground church in China from everything just moved to China with great was under intense persecution not as bad as now 100 days and the missionaries were like Steve, we fire and I learned a lot about you know like the we need you to get a degree first and come back. so I got a master's of divinity from Talbot, pastor even though right now I'm a bi-vocational and pastor until I got married. Wow. Speak a you see over there in the church that's different so in China as you know it's a communist country is God and that there is no God and that the physical is real and whatever is spiritual is bad. were on fire by the Holy Spirit resisting and and preaching the gospel out of love. So I visited a different city. We were always escaping and chasing us so there was this one time where we like I was the only one nervous. Everyone else is what if they hear us and I could see through the like looking for Christians but they couldn't they're like, let's get out of here and greatest memories of the most simplest and sincere a Bible. They drink tea and they worship God and went from like 7:00 a.m. to like 400 p.m. Nobody rooms and the first day I got to China like they luggage and they're like Steve, you're young. so they hid the Bible in my luggage bag. At the the hundreds of like the dozens of Bibles on my and next and I was like wow is this for real. Oh the next city, I would just talk to random people a lot of them, not all sorry. A lot of them would spot and confess Jesus as Lord with tears and China. So I will never forget my introduction to to Christianity like and that is you pretty much think I heard Francis Chan one time he was talking him about the Chinese Christians you know the ones mom's side came from a former Soviet Union and so years for the gospel and then he was tortured and damage from that beating and you know one of the resonated with my parents and grandparents would expect persecution. Yeah you know we teach people know like name it, claim it, blab it, grab it, wall you know like enjoy blessings an there's God is a good God and the whole nine yards but the fact that they're all taught how to share know the Bible for themselves. They value stories in the former Soviet Union of people memorizing the whole Gospel of John, passing cooking it in bread and bringing it to prison one chapter and through bread and they would take have Bibles. They just had a book in the Bible and of God and the gospel just spreads like wildfire. church is multiplying in Iran in the midst of who had this crazy encounter with God and first up front and then you go from that to encountering been really powerful and then they send you back you finish your degree and then became a chaplain? Vlad about your grandparents, that's amazing. That's what I heard. I'd love to visit one day it was not as exciting actually ministry was very Christians. People thought I was too radical when Anyways that's a whole another story about but I same time, I was reading a lot of books and I did I ended up getting ordained after. I fasted Lord showed me that you know it's not about big it's about going low and slow and being pure and God can make anyone big or small but He taught me So I was praying and you know believe it or not, fasting and prayer, drinking coffee and not taking 33. I burned out. I lost 30 pounds pastor Vlad and and torture me and the Lord didn't speak to me or read the Bible, I had no energy left from just visited me on December 31st of 2013 and then He let's give it another chance. I'm going to heal that because I got so healthy. So now I'm a lot grace, I became a chaplain and you actually in your life because it affected a little bit of speak a little bit also about the physical fitness the spiritual life when you join the chaplaincy. are temples of the living God you know He used to temple and of course church is important but now our minds but not in our hearts you know really constantly like up. I was always like in ministry how they train you at some of these Korean mega ministry. I prayed eight hours a day. I said God gave me like 3 - 400 kids which is you know big, got there, I was empty. I had no love for the a result of not taking care of the body. So when I mercy pastor Vlad, started sending nutritionist, like $500 but they were giving it for free month eat and I became a chaplain and you know you got so and I learned, oh wow like being you know your bodies as a living sacrifice. I was like oh stored of my health. So you know when I meet sick healthy. Work out. Take a jog, rest. That's right divine healing and a lot of times, you know even the Lord who heals you. In the same verse, the to My voice and keep My commandments, I will not just sometimes wonder what would happen if we avoid some of the diseases because we will not a lot of us you know we attack the drinking part when we get depressed, we medicate ourselves with allow you know abuse of alcohol. We will not have good night rest because the Bible you know develop you know we will take a day off like work but to stop. When we follow God's principles, this doesn't mean that it's every single case, where sin is and where evil is and we can get but at the same time, I feel like so many people being sick not because the devil's attacking them they just make poor decisions because the devil is three cans of Pepsi. It was your decision or eat decisions proper then we experience better peace. ultimately, you know Steve one thing that always my life can only go as far as my body can carry we can fast, pray but ultimately if your body if it's broken you pretty much cannot do it. we have to do our best that we take care of our United States now we do have more people that have of their body, they almost worship their body and focus on the mental health but so little focus on the prayer, on the fasting and that really runs the fathers of faith who you know the Yonggi Cho's had that faith and can you speak a little bit a very big push on that and it's also part of the a Buddhist, I remember the monks were like you Jesus our Lord and Savior, the only Savior, He's Presbyterians first came to Korea, they brought know Protestant church, there's about 55,000 has morning prayer. A lot of them do at 5:30, 5:00 I used to when I used to serve at these churches church called Free Life and our morning prayer zoom sometimes 7:30. Every morning we're on zoom yeah I believe in the power of prayer because for when are you going to pray like in the middle we have to be legalistic about it but it's a and start the day right. I do know some pastors and God's using them because some of them they get all worked up when I mentioned about we have our church prayer at 5:00 Monday through am very big passionate and actually I was heavily quite a few books by seeing that they... almost a time, they had their own prayer mountain. So not you know in the States, we're trying to buy you it seems like everybody was competing and who can people coming to pray and so that was just so we had before a conference, I was a youth from Monday through Friday in preparation for all prayed and then after the conference, my Why don't we do this prayer every week? And every week. He's like well, if we would pray like would be like a conference. I was like, oh that who's going to show up. He said, we shouldn't do you kidding me. Who's going to come at 5 o'clock? they come at four. I was like this is not Korea I was driving to church out of obedience to my local gym is opened at 4:00. I'm like interesting. 4:30 and I was like you got to be kidding me. So at 4: and we as the church have bought into this at 4:00 in the morning. I would come at 5 because I can do five. So I would come at 5 and then we up. There were just few people and then after habit and now I would say, it's been about six or Now I don't go there every morning but my body up automatically at that time to pray, at that dog Steve wakes up at 4:45, 4:50, no exaggeration. wakes me up and it's like, he's my prayer partner stuff so and that's been kind of my approach as agree with you that it's possible to run, run, run at the pace of our passion and ambition that we our family and really hurt people around us suicidal thoughts, can you speak a little bit to What is your advice on dealing with depression and according to the world and the mental hospitals is a spiritual element that is related to the fall man that happened at the garden of Eden and it wasn't like minor depression during this drug time it was. I had no strength to even walk or eat was working as a US army chaplain, my job was to they don't commit suicide was part of my mission result of a disappointment or trauma or something burned out and they came to the end of themselves God can heal you; that in an instant, Christ &quot;In His presence, there's fullness of joy&quot; and peace. I went from a very shy timid suicidal happiest outgoing bold. I preach everywhere like go, I'm just up there preaching wherever God's all this energy did not come from Starbucks, it you know they did a study pastor Vlad where you God's touch thing in your brain is like 50 times these other substitutes that the world tries to suffering or anyone that knows someone that's that it takes one touch and one word from the neurons new. That's what He did to me. I went kid. Come on. God can heal anyone and He wants relate with your testimony by being shy, scared class in my freshman high school because I was students to do a minute and 20 second presentation struggled with English. I was socially awkward. I Ukraine, when I was in Ukraine because I moved years of age, we had to preach in front of our and it was extremely cold. It was winter. I got up my three pieces of clothing already was drenched looking at my notes but I couldn't read anything. phobia of public speaking. I mean public speaking when I encountered the Lord and the Holy Spirit that's what I do pretty much almost every day and make and we don't need to have drugs or we don't to change that, the Lord can really transform what about your parents. Did your come to know the the minute she saw what happened. She saw me my life, the fruit of that she's like you know she also accepted Christ. Oh really. Yes and now I'm still here. Every time I almost fell off and I believe it's her prayers that brought me which is amazing and you know, you're doing all millions you know and like I'm so glad to be here there was a mustard seed that fell on the ground lived such a simple life, knows nothing except so, I'm so thankful for her. I feel like it's loving and giving Father. Good good Father. I saw She's a veteran of faith and then my dad came to and he married a Korean girl from Brazil who's yeah our whole family became Christian. My uncle yet are my Catholic cousins. They're still like receiving the Holy Spirit. They praise Jesus now and we talked about. Can you speak a little bit to of prayer and I want to be careful not the power comes from God but it's really your testimony up but to pray through for you to be saved. Pray a little bit about that, just the importance for amazing what God can do. As you're talking to me, 'Nothing is impossible for God. What is impossible mind and that's in the context of salvation. Peter harder for rich man to you know go through the to heaven, who can be saved and Jesus, He doesn't possible with God. That is like stirring up need to pray. Why are you doing it on your own? I hardship will eventually to get to a point of hardship or overcoming it. So either way we're going to be for us but prayer is what gives you mountain. You know I heard a sermon in recently to go up mount Himalaya mountains. You can do it and just go up step by step, when you pray the go up the helicopter and just cruise over Himalaya we wake up you know Lord Jesus whether 5:00 a.m. and carry me through and that's what prayer is... the flood. So yeah I would say without prayer, Paul said pray without ceasing. I felt like he brother Lawrence and all these who practice His recently who didn't go to church for 10 years and was like who made it that hard. It's by grace and I said just think about one word, tell Jesus one and she's like yeah that makes it easier you know prayer, one minute and pretty soon it'll be five the whole day you know because we get addicted to is when I felt like when I was younger, I went to that God is not lost and you know I don't need prayer to be with Him. Now the Bible does say to kingdom of God but I use that like when I see the pursuing my wife it's not because she's running chasing after her because she wants to leave me and out of the place of being together, I desire her and that's what Jesus says in John 15. He abide in you and then He says in verse 8 chapter pray to abide. We pray out of that abiding. We he says, &quot;A praying man will stop sinning and a our lifestyle and then our lifestyle affects our not godly and not pleasing to Lord, it will hinder you shouldn't watch. Next day you kind of don't I'm just going to skip it today and stuff because prayer close union with the Lord and we're not just making a priority and for some people that is the noon day. Whatever that priority is as listening to you Steve, I feel the passion for fact that you even you know dedicated so much and even right now what is your vision for world Vlad. I'm just a small time pastor, our church know I never had like a world vision for world in the Old Testament you know may the knowledge seas and that's literally every inch and it says makes me cry is God desires every man to be saved. that. I didn't know He wants to save me. I didn't the prostitutes the tax collectors, the that angry coworker you know all these sinners and He has that vision so yeah like even this train 40 middle school kids on how to evangelize. preach like... I feel like every church without like the core mission is for churches to pray and is Paul song. His English is so bad pastor Vlad they're baptizing five to 10 people like every my gosh like he's doing it right like he's like he does not want one lost sheep of Israel gone. also have a revive the nations ministry, correct? of churches asking for a little bit of help when not have a vision for the nations but even your was reaching the nation and your testimony so I humble about it but the Lord is using you and He's you're equipping people for the Lord and you're Free Life Community church . Could you speak your ministry, if they want to invite you to train they can find the local church, if they're nearby sure. Thank you pastor Vlad for the words of our church is called Free Life Community church, pastor Paul Park and he's a man of prayer. We have a whole international service where we're singing what kingdom is going to be like. So our website just allnations jc.org so yeah. You guys can email have services, where is your church located. Yeah visit. We have service 11:30 a.m. We have prayers groups and we do a lot of community outreach. The all know us. So yeah we're here to serve the Bushard Street and guys, we're going to include if you are just watching and you are re-watching are in the nearby area, I would really encourage moving through pastor Steve Kang and he is a man that God radically saved through just this you him. After that, he got on fire right away went to underground church and so he got really just started to work with him on his personal level as serve. He started to serve in the local church a pastor as well with his friend and so and these his testimony with more people that through the are so that Jesus will be glorified and the people question that I want to ask you and that is this. know Jesus as their Lord and Savior maybe they're or a complacent backslid Christian, could you the Lord? Yeah sure. Yeah well God's heart is the Jesus had on the cross when He was dying for your really feel God's heart for you know any religious back fully and the Lord says, Come to Me and I backsliding and you know even as a Buddhist you appeared to all men, it says in the book of Acts, all men that anyone who calls on the name of that includes you in these different religions you there you know I love Buddhist. I love Hindus. I they have a little bit of truth but the only truth He's calling. He's calling you to come to Him. because an encounter changes everything. I'm not asking you to just say, God if you're real, come know how much more will He come if you ask. Anyone anyone who knocks, the door will be opened. that happens in your life but it's all about He'll come. You seek Him, He'll come. You knock is worthy. He is worthy and I dare you if you're if you're a real Lord, if Buddha's stronger you stronger and more real and You really love and of the time. Some people might be like what if He show up? He loves every human being. That's why you for blessing everyone here with salvation pain we have, what sins we committed, how much we are healed, we're healed. So pour out the grace God because without grace it's hard to believe. and we thank you God that people are seeking you we all live and die once God to face judgment. thank you Lord for saving us God. Thank you for HungryGen here God and we give you all the glory is enough and in Jesus mighty name we pray, if you're watching or re-watching, maybe you're a you listened to this testimony and the Lord just or just go to pastorvlad.org/testimony and just tell us your story of what the Lord has done in going to fall on deaf ears and I believe that for today's interview was to draw you to the Lord to anybody. Today is the day the Bible says when the day of voice wilderness. So give the Lord your you are a Christian and you have been complacent, it's time to wake it up. It's time. Let this put some fuel in your fireplace and really kind your salvation type of way but in a motivational and they say you know that they struggle with on their shoulder and I say listen, Jesus missed He's not waiting to beat you. He just missed just because you feel guilty but because you feel who's hungry for a relationship with God and God Steve. So I appreciate you. Thank you for sharing and giving God the glory. If somebody wants to get the website. Do you have any other social media you? Yeah I have. Thank you for sharing that handle is just Steve Kang 97 same with YouTube email me at Steve love impact. net or Steve Kang death and life and I always point them to Jesus can find Christ on YouTube. He's everywhere. He on. Yeah not the devil Amen. Come on. Come on. his Facebook and his Instagram and you can follow, Loves the Lord and I believe that it's going to be bless you and will speak again soon. Amen. Thank Thank you for all that you're doing and thank