So here is the problem! different smart home devices installed in my And yes, I could control each device but let's be honest that is a hassle. big dashboard screen where I can see, The first solution that of course came basically manage all devices and I also have dozens of times before in previous videos. then the most common solution out I don't like because I feel like this kind of So instead I came up with another pretty every home out there could benefit from. and how you can make your own. This video is sponsored by JLCPCB who not completely assemble them for you, you can get 3D And the great news here is that they now offer greatly reduces shipping costs. Other than a mid-year promotion where you can win tons of a raspberry pi or much much more. So click the awesome quality products and fast shipping. started again and luckily for me I still Unfortunately though I was not happy with because HomeAssistant was often acting sluggish. 4 lying around for which I got myself an enclosure So next I prepared the software about which I website gives a perfectly fine tutorial on So after inserting the configured SD network through an Ethernet cable and then HomeAssistant through a web browser. password and then not only setup the WiFi devices to the system which was quite a bit But in the end it somehow worked out and I got all it was time to open up my distribution box, add power supply and then wire everything up to And in case you are wondering you should not a professional, you have been warned. perfectly fine and HomeAssistant just as Now at this point you could install the HomeAssistant app and be done here. I still had this Raspberry Pi 3 here use as part of the big screen system. a website like homeassisant, there is You will find many videos about partly followed one from Mark Watt Tech. setup quite a few things on the Raspberry Pi and in combination with another guide which things also worked flawlessly in the end. installed Raspberry Pi Lite OS on there, plugged Then I used Putty to SSH into my Pi where like mentioned before. and executing lines, I was pretty much done. and at first I thought why not use the LCD screen As you can see that definitely works and my login screen for which we do need a keyboard Afterwards we got the desired control screen, but kind of touchscreen to easily interact with it. especially a certain seller I tried out There I quickly found this 13 inch display with but it was definitely worth it in the end So I ordered it and for the first time ever with because they forgot to send me the touchscreen. they quickly send me the missing part. driver and hooking that all up to the Raspberry Pi I was happy to find out that everything Of course the image quality is not the I had to peel of some protective films and permanently secure it to the main screen and And when looking at the current draw, then the 1.2A meaning this 5V 3A power supply With that the hardware for my kiosk was to determine where to mount it in my hallway. the entrance door, but I didn't like the idea So instead I settled on this space right odd spot until you realize that I got an So yeah, like every regular person I opened that to get mains power on the other side. indentation there so that I could place And with the mains power situation more an enclosure for my kiosk which all in all was test prints which I by the way all did with my But anyway; at some point everything final enclosure with some wood PLA filament. holds my screen in place and the second part then the help of screws to hold the screen tightly. driver board as well as the And last but not least we got the third And after then wiring everything up which mainly it all closes up very snugly and as At this point though I realized But luckily for me that was pretty with the help of a drill and some wire. holes for my kiosk onto the wall, drill some screws, connect everything once again, close it And just like that my project was complete homeassisant, I was overall very I think such a screen is a fantastic way to keep course already have plans for my first custom Until then I hope you enjoyed the show. subscribe and hit the notification bell.