On September 2nd, 2010, 35-year-old Bishnu Express train as it chugged through the dense Around midnight, the train came to a screeching knives, clubs and firearms. Stomping up and down the carriage, they began from the terrified passengers. Initially, Shrestha kept his head down. It was only when the hijackers put their hands longer stand idly by. He leapt up, drew his kukri knife and threw In the ensuing melee, Shrestha single-handedly causing the rest to flee. Who was this humble superhero, whose badassery movie? He was a Gurkha, a member of arguably the century. In this presentation, we will explore the with a reputation that surpasses the Ancient Welcome to our video on the friendly, chipper, motto is "better to die than be a coward." This video is made available for free thanks We fund our free content through our program patrons, who get two documentaries per week We've got a growing collection featuring the Italian Unification Wars, and a review We're now covering the Russo-Japanese War massive Pacific War week by week coverage, All this is made for, and with generous donations So if you're enjoying our content and want history, consider becoming a youtube member You'll also get early access to public content, the scenes info and goodies. We rely on our backers to support our growing to everyone already involved, and we hope Who are the Gurkhas? Indian Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw once was afraid of dying, he is either lying, or he The Gurkhas are elite soldiers native to Nepal, at the crossroads of the great Empires of They are most famous for their 200-year history other global military forces, in which they reliable, disciplined and fearless warriors The title of 'Gurkha' is derived from but has since evolved to refer exclusively or police unit. Since time immemorial, the frigid peaks and incubated many hardy peoples who developed high-altitude environment. A culturally diverse fighting force, the Gurkhas ethnic minorities, most of whom speak their variation of the Buddhist or Hindu faith. However, all Gurkhas are fluent in both English tongue of Sanskrit heritage. With an average height of five feet and three short kings. They are deadliest in CQC, wielding their finesse. The Gurkha's prowess with the curved blade wartime gag: Locked in close combat in the a tall German with his kukri. The German appears to side-step the swipe. "Ha!" He taunts, "You missed!" To this, the Gurkha wipes a drop of blood head." An insanely rigorous training regimen ensures fit humans in the world. In order to even qualify for training camp, perform physical feats that would make a prime These include performing 75 bench jumps in running three miles up the steep foothills of rocks on their backs in under an hour. Every year, nearly 28,000 young Nepalese men Army's Brigade of Gurkhas, ensuring only the modern world's most feared fighting Examples of Gurkha Heroism stories of military heroism, and we would In 1945, Lachhiman Gurung of the 8th Gurkha Japanese soldiers in the Burmese jungle. Alone in a trench with only two other comrades, Twice, the Japanese lobbed grenades into his to sender. A third grenade landed. This time, when he picked it up, it exploded and severely wounding his face, torso and Disregarding his mortal wounds and operating fought off wave after wave of Japanese assaults and fight a Gurkha!" By the time the enemy retreated, he had amassed He survived his wounds, was awarded the Victoria Six months earlier, Tul Bahadur Pun of the railway bridge when his entire platoon section As the last man standing, Rifleman Pun charged ahead over thirty yards of open ground while and leaping over fallen trees. Miraculously, he reached the enemy position Leaping into a bunker, he killed four Japanese with his kukri. He then gave accurate supporting fire from his platoon to advance. Rifleman Pun was awarded the Victoria Cross Gurkha families are often warrior dynasties, to the deeds of fathers and grandfathers. As it turned out, Rifleman Pun's grandson fearless grandfather. In 2010, Acting Sergeant Dipprasad Pun was province, Afghanistan, when he found himself fighters armed with AK-47s and RPGs. Believing he was about to die, Sergeant Pun could before he went down. Fending off attackers from three sides, he 17 grenades, and detonated a mine. When he ran out of ammo, he resorted to using against an insurgent's skull as he scaled Singlehandedly, Sergeant Pun fended off the Cross by Queen Elizabeth. Origins of the Gurkha - The Unification of Having introduced the Gurkhas and provided are capable of, let us explore their origins Army. The story begins in the year 1743, with the of the tiny Kingdom of Gorkha, one of many foothills at the time. Prithvi Narayan soon came into his own as of the Indian Subcontinent. Embarking on a mission to unify all of Nepal, throughout the Himalayas, training up one experienced armies in Asia in the process. However, Gorkha was not the only rising power By the late 18th century, the British conquest a private megacorporation, the British East Back in 1757, this hydra of capitalism defeated Battle of Plassey, annexing all of Bengal This put the Gorkha Kingdom and the East India their spheres of influence to overlap. In 1767, Prithvi Narayan Shah set his sights Seeking to curtail the expansion of their expedition under one Captain George Kinloch In the hilly jungle province of Sindhuli, of the thicket and wreaking havoc among the It was the first time that British redcoats be an experience they would not soon forget. Out of Kinloch's 2500 men, less than 1000 With the East India Company knocked out of Kathmandu in 1768 and made it into his royal The great Nepalese conqueror-King died in man who had thoroughly humbled the British The Anglo-Nepalese War of 1814-1816 and the British megacorporation maintained of time before their next clash. In November of 1814, during the reign of King dispute led to the second and final showdown War. According to historians, the Gorkha army at strong. To contend with this force, the East India men. That the British levied such a massive army just how highly they regarded the fighting Kinloch's doomed expedition no doubt still As expected, the East India Company's advance Despite being heavily outnumbered, the Gorkhali utilizing the mountainous terrain of their numerically superior foes. The first major battle of the Anglo-Nepalese where Gorkha captain Balbhadra Kunwar and children held the line against British General Outnumbered seven to one, Balbhadra withstood even managed to kill General Gillespie in Throughout the battle, many British soldiers enemies, not just for their fighting spirit James Baillie Fraser, a Scottish adventurer "There was here no cruelty to wounded or no wells or waters were poisoned; no rancorous they fought us in fair conflict, like men; us a liberal courtesy worthy of a more enlightened The bill the British paid for Nalapani amounted of an experienced commander. This pyrrhic victory would set the tone for Company would continue to make slow, incremental all the while growing increasingly impressed fearless yet noble enemies. Indeed, the Gorkhas fought on with seemingly In April of 1815, at the Battle of Deuthal, threw himself headlong into British cannon down to the last man. Out of respect for this old man's incredible expensive shawl and ensured it was returned The Treaty of Sugauli - The Gurkhas Join the Despite their seemingly inexhaustible font ground down by the British Empires' superior In March of 1816, the Anglo-Nepalese war came Sugauli, which forced the Kingdom of Gorkha territory to the East India Company, reducing Although the Nepalese war effort had been to maintain their independence, and would their rule across the entire rest of the Indian However, while Nepal would not be colonized to be paid for their defiance. Incredibly impressed by the tenacity of the the British made it a term of the peace that recruiters to roam the Nepalese countryside volunteer in the British Army. In the British narrative, the creation of to be celebrated. Peace had been made with a gallant foe who Gurkha and Briton would no longer be enemies, However, from the Nepalese perspective, this light. Tim Gurung, a modern Nepalese writer and Gurkha young Nepalese men into the British army "not but also made the country into a toothless future." "By depleting Nepal of its youth and able would "never again be able to raise its Gurung's words are important to remember. For, as captivating as stories of Gurkha invincibility they were hired mercenaries serving an Imperialist the homelands of indigenous peoples, and that complex and controversial legacy both in their History of Gurkha Military Service British public for loyalty and reliability of 1857, when a massive uprising against the the Indian Subcontinent. As some of the only native troops who remained significant role in putting down the insurrection. From the end of the Great Revolt to the start deployed to fight in colonial wars in Afghanistan, Throughout all these campaigns, the Gurkhas of the most resilient, adaptable and indomitable Throughout the First World War, over 200,000 They fought with all the discipline and bravery around 20,000 casualties and receiving almost and regimental heroism. The Gurkhas threw themselves against the Germans their kukri against the Turks at the meat the first to arrive and the last to leave. Throughout the Second World War, over 250,000 battle, suffering around 32,000 casualties. They fought Hitler's Nazis and Mussolini's Greece, while bloodying the nose of Imperial Earlier in this video, we told the stories Gurkhas whose insane feats of bravery against them the Victoria Cross. These were just two of a mind boggling 2,734 World War Two. After India achieved its independence, the when some of the Gurkha regiments that had army in India were transferred to the newly Meanwhile, in Singapore, a unit of British and counter-terrorism wing of the local police stabilizing the city-state in its turbulent The Gurkha regiments that remained in the conflict the United Kingdom took part in. They were in Cyprus in 1974, the Falklands and were deployed into Afghanistan in 2001. Legacy of the Gurkhas British crown, the Gurkhas have undoubtedly most lionized soldiers, with a reputation However, despite being celebrated as heroes with the British government has not been quite In retirement, the Gurkhas have long been paymasters, their military pensions only a rank received. Moreover, Gurkha veterans seeking to immigrate and killed for, faced significant barriers After decades of protests, the British government pensions on par with British soldiers. Then, in 2009, the House of Commons passed right to residence in the UK. In their home country of Nepal, the Gurkhas of national shame, a consistent drain on the contributor to economic stagnation back home in Nepal hold the Gurkhas in high regard, and invincibility they have earned for the Thus, it seems that for the foreseeable future, enlist in foreign Gurkha brigades, where they physically and mentally toughest people on Gurkha fathers and grandfathers as the fiercest More videos on history's deadliest warriors To ensure you don't miss it, make sure you to see them. Please consider liking, subscribing, commenting, Recently, we have started releasing weekly consider joining their ranks via the link to watch these weekly videos, learn about access our private discord, and much more. This is the Kings and Generals channel, and