- Good people of Chicago, Illinois here at The Metro, are you ready? Back in April of 1960, a dirty, dirty Englishman met a lovely, lovely American knocked her up with his seed. That seed born a Jew in It is my great honor and privilege to present to you David Cross. - Hello. Oh, come on now. I haven't even done anything yet. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank Thank you. All right, it's gonna be good. It's gonna be good. It's gonna be real good. You know why? Because the first show kicked ass, so now I don't have to worry Please, another round of applause for Mr. Sean Patton. You wanna hear the worst segue So I was, yeah, I was here didn't have a kid then, Yeah, all right, all right. So I'm gonna talk about that for a minute. No, I do, I do, I have a just turned six. And I mean, let me tell you something, that kid is six going on I mean, she's not special, She's not, she's not. I mean, she's special to me, of course but I mean, she hasn't advanced logical thinking or anything like that at all. I mean, she hasn't, you know? If you saw her and you'd And I said, &quot;Six.&quot; You'd go, &quot;Sounds about right.&quot; But just turned six, yeah? Okay. Whew, I was gonna say otherwise, her verbal skills are a little And I've learned so much it's all new to me. And you know, I'm an old dad, I'd say older, but that seems to be sugarcoating the reality. I'm old. I'm an old dad, and I've, there are, there are truly so many awful things about having a child, but there are. But one of the worst is I now have to engage in small talk and chitchat that I never would ever give the time Like, and you have to do it all the time. And like before I had a kid, you know, if I was hanging out at the playground. No, but if I was at the park or something, and before I had a kid, and referencing a bunch of noisy engage me and go like, &quot;Oh man, boy, they're a handful, huh?&quot; Like, before I had a kid, &quot;What the fuck?&quot; And I'd walk away and That'd be the right thing to do. But now I have to engage you know, that's a potential play date. And you have to have as in your back pocket as possible, because it is inevitable my wife will be out of still, I mean, not even hungover, just drunk. I'll be, I'll be drunk. I will, you know, clinically be drunk, and I'm gonna have to for an hour just to take a shit, you know? And so I have to talk to that person now, and I have to, you know, And the thing is, you know, I so there's just tons of younger, hipster parents. Tons. And I can't stand them. And I didn't like them when And, you know, and I really don't like, so I'll be at the playground, and this guy will roll up and they're like the kind those bright orange like wooly hats but then they you know what I mean? Like, they roll it way It's not, it's not even over your ears. It's not, it's not doing the one single thing a hat is fucking made for. You're not, and you're bald, and so now it's just like I don't understand. And so like a guy with that hat, and then, you know, one 23 skidoo mustaches and like a full sleeve of like, you know, retro toasters or some shit like that. And then a skirt and culottes and a big whetstone, an oily, glistening whetstone that's like dangling off a sheath, right? This thing. And you're like, &quot;What the, what, who, &quot;when, how, why,&quot; you know? &quot;Oh, the whetstone? Oh, yes. Oh, yes, well, I just Me and the gang get and I'm, right now, I'm making, I make bespoke, handcrafted, artisanal farm-to-table marbles. And, well, here's the I'm, so the gang and I will get together and we'll craft and we'll make, you know, knives from monthly peg and jacks and we get to, because I think we've lost the connection, as youth. I think we've gotten so cynical in the last four or five years, you know, just, you know, with COVID And so we play the games of our youth. Well, not our youth, but the youth of our father's which are of an, and it's hearkened back to And so that's, and right now I'm working on an ethically sourced paddle Anyway, that asshole will come up to me and I'll be at the and I'll be minding my own business. And that guy will come up going, &quot;Oh, man. &quot;Boy, they're a handful, huh?&quot; &quot;Yeah, can, can be.&quot; &quot;Yeah, which one's yours?&quot; &quot;The girl on the monkey bars there.&quot; &quot;Oh, oh, she's playing with my boy. &quot;That's my boy. &quot;That's Copernicus, yeah. &quot;Yeah, good kid. &quot;That kid is something &quot;That kid is six going on &quot;No, I don't.&quot; &quot;How, in what way? &quot;Name one way. &quot;What, does he have heart disease? &quot;I mean.&quot; One of the things that I learned is when you have a kid, you really are forced to confront and do something about your bad habits and your bad traits, you know? And really do something. Like it's not like, you you get married and you're I'm gonna be a better person and I'm gonna learn how to do this, and I'm gonna express myself.&quot; And you, you know, a &quot;Nah, fuck that. I'm married, it's all done.&quot; But no, with a kid, you gotta, because you don't wanna put So you have to be proactive about it. And one of the worst things about me, I have a lot of problems. I have a lot of issues. I do, I do, a lot of bad habits. I'm so sorry. That sounds like terrible news. All right. But one of the worst traits, one of the worst things about me is I am really, really judgmental. Like severely. And I have been since I was young. I'm just an asshole. I really am. I'm just like, just, you know, and I've always justified it by going, &quot;Well, I'm right,&quot; you know, but if that, you can't do that, it I'm just an asshole in here all the time. Like at the airport, it's just, at the airport, it's just nonstop in here. As I'm walking around at the airport, just like in here, it's nonstop. &quot;What's this asshole on about? Who's this bitch think she's fooling? Put on some fucking clothes. Put on some different clothes. That's not a service animal.&quot; It's not, it's not a service animal. A fucking bunny rabbit isn't And. But to give you an example this is a 100% true, I was in Brooklyn, I was walking down the street. I was going to do a set to And I'm walking down the we have those COVID, And I'm walking down and there's this older couple, pretty old, and the gentleman was standing up and he had his hand and he helped her up and And he took an umbrella, just her, not trying to And they are just beaming at each other, the biggest smiles ever. And I saw this, and in my head, I saw this and I thought, That's so nice that And then I thought, &quot;Found each other? Why'd I add that to it?&quot; And then I answered &quot;Oh, it's because they're both ugly.&quot; I'm looking at pure love, pure love. And my fucking shitty take on this is, &quot;Oh, good for you, you ugly fucks. That's nice. That's nice how you found each other because if you hadn't, nobody You know, otherwise you with a cat eating your If you had seen, if you had this is what you would've seen. You would've seen this, you would've seen a guy And now you know. I do want to say that they really were ugly. I mean like real, like, it was remarkable. And it, and it stayed with me, clearly. It stayed, it was disturbing. So, uh last year for her birthday, I took my current wife to, on a trip. She's, she's my current wife, like. That's just factually correct. It's no matter what happens in the future, she will remain at this point my current wife. Sounds like a dis but it's not. It's not. I think y'all should start just going, &quot;Y'all know my current Jerry, get over here. I want you to meet some of my coworkers. Because it's fucking true, Tanya.&quot; All right, so. So, yes, last year for her birthday, I took my wife to Bologna, Italy, a trip, and it was awesome. Has anybody been to Bologna? - [Audience Member] Yeah. - Yeah, it's great, it's great. And we only went for five days, which I know is a, it's to go all that way, and, and I am well aware that everyone has their own but I was adamant that five days is really the maximum amount of time that you want to leave a five by themselves. I think. To me. I mean, we would've liked to gone longer. I just think that's shitty parenting. But. So we went, it was great, lovely people, very, very friendly people. The food is amazing. And it's fairly small, so you can kind of get a feel of like doing a lot of walking around. But one thing I noticed was, and tell me if you had this observation, but there are more churches per capita than I've ever seen anywhere else, ever, and I travel pretty extensively. And I mean, it's, you know, 'cause they have these like kind of cobblestone wide streets And you could, you walk down and that's next to another church, and then there's a Vespa store, and then there's another church, And then you go across the way, and then you go down this alley and then you go underneath the bridge, and then it, there's two more churches. And then you go to the piazza and there's the Grand Basilica and there's three more And it's like churches everywhere. But, what's weird is they're all the same church, right? There's no mosques, or or Baptist school houses, or Episcopalians, or Methodists, or Unitarians, or Jehovah's Witnesses. It's all the same church. The same thing is happening in each one. It's, you know, it's all, and the same little wispy smoking orbs on a chain and guys in hoodies It's the same fucking thing You know, I don't know if people were just really lazy back then, you know? Well, I want to go to church, but it's all the way over there. And here's something that I did not know until I went to Bologna. I did not know, this is true, but did you know that in Italy, the church pays taxes. It's true. Yeah, they pay their fair share of taxes and it, yeah, goes into helps to strengthen the social safety net. So there's medical help and housing and things like that. And just a reminder that, the church and religious And the reason they don't pay taxes is because they don't have to. And the reason they don't have to, there's two reasons stated. The first one is the You know, very, very great, good idea. On paper. It's so, so important. It was very, very, very, very important to the founding fathers that it's literally the in the Bill of Rights, That's how important it was. The idea that the government what it can and can't say. And in turn, the church cannot or a party from the pulpit. That's the idea that's stated there hasn't been a true in this country for, I before the ink was dry. I mean, before Thomas Jefferson got that wall crumbled, that was just dust. There is no separation. There's not even a Venn diagram. It's just two circles It got so bad that in 1954, called the Johnson Amendment that they stuck on there &quot;No electioneering.&quot; That's what it said, &quot;No electioneering.&quot; Now, come on, we all watched We all saw that. And I distinctly remember, clerical collar, everything, atop a pile of maimed about taking the house back the White House. That's, you know. And anytime there's an election, on YouTube, or if you're in and you will see pastors, preachers from the pulpit going, &quot;And a vote for a Democrat Yes, if you vote for a Democrat, you are lower than a burr on the testes of the taint of the ring around the bum of Satan's asshole. And you will burn in gnashing your teeth and because the Democrats want drink their blood so that they so that they may engage Black mermaids.&quot; or whatever the fucking So, yeah, hardly a separation Hardly. And the other reason, as the other reason that churches, the church doesn't pay taxes, is because they are not for profit organizations. The Catholic church is a not for prof-, they're not making a profit. They're not really getting, the same Catholic church that beyond all their church properties owned literally around the globe, over 5,000 like business They own over a billion dollars worth of shares cumulatively. General Motors, General Gulf Oil, Bethlehem Steel. And the Catholic Church They do, this is for real. In Arizona, the largest telescope, an observatory in Arizona called the Mount Graham Observatory. For real. The Catholic church owns an observatory. So, suck on that Galileo. Didn't see that one coming, did you? Oopsies. What the fuck does the Catholic church need with an observatory? There's only one possible explanation. Only one. And that is, they are on the for the second coming of Jesus Christ. It's the only, only re-. &quot;Have you, is there anything, &quot;No, sir, there's nothing yet.&quot; &quot;Well, keep looking!&quot; &quot;I am looking, sir, I am. I've been doing this for a long time. I need to get some sleep.&quot; &quot;Just keep looking. Stop, don't talk to me, keep looking. Make it spin. We paid for the one that spins. When it spins, spin it up &quot;Yes, I said, okay. Journal entry: 22,509. Still, no sign of Jesus Christ. Lost, question mark.&quot; But then one very special magical morning. Okay. &quot;Hmm? What? Oh my, oh my goodness, oh my goodness! Boss! Boss, get in, Get in here.&quot; &quot;What, what is it?&quot; &quot;It's , it's him. Oh my goodness, it's Jesus Christ. He's coming back for it. Oh, wait. Ah, false alarm. It's just Muhammad on a winged horse.&quot; &quot;Shoot him down. Shoot him down! Fire up the Jewish space lasers. Come on. I think we got him.&quot; And I think if the church aren't going to have to pay taxes, then I think they should You know, at the very least. And I don't mean, I don't I don't mean turned I mean, like also be home, like simultaneously be So they're a church, so that while the pastor is up there and he's preaching the the Prince of Peace, words about charity and kindness and forgiveness and tolerance and love. You know, while he's doing that, there can be like a little where people are getting some food and maybe some clothing, maybe some diapers for the and things, and clothing. And maybe just like even a shower, just for some basic Like, and so while they're up &quot;And in Matthew 11:18, Jesus says, Bring to me all ye who and take my yoke upon you so and your soul can be at rest. And Jesus is telling us to help those who are in need of help. We have a good thing. They don't, let's help them out. Yeah, praise Jesus. Yes, amen, amen, yeah. And in Matthew 25:35, Jesus says, For I was starving and you gave me food, for I was thirsty, and you gave me drink, for I was a stranger, and you let me in. Yes, praise Jesus, praise.&quot; So that while the that's they can be doing that and and be like, &quot;What? Oh, you, oh, you've got to be, that's what you meant the entire time? Oh, my goodness. I have been coming here for years and I never made the connection. Ah, well thank you for the visual aid 'cause now I get it. Old mush brain over here.&quot; Yeah, 'cause there's no hypocrite like the American Christian. It is literally the height of hypocrisy, the zenith. They have set the bar And you know, the ones I'm talking about, the ones who are pious, holy, righteous, they go to church every Sunday and they know good from bad, they know immoral from morality. They know what's love, what's No gray area, just black and white. They know, they know. And they're up there and these things, these ideals. And yet something happens. Once they cross the this transformation occurs. It's almost magical. So they'll be in there going like, &quot;Yes, we need to treat others And we need to treat others and kindness, and love. And oh my God, it's a Mexican rapist! There's a. Tucker, gimme the phone, Hang on a second. Yes, police, yes, I want I'm standing outside the and there's a Mexican rapist here. What? I don't know, she looks But she's pointing to So please send one of your tanks, send one of your glorious But I think if we went to &quot;Hey, you know, because of the stuff that we've just been talking about, which you know, is not or form anymore, we think you should start paying your fair share of And I think the church would say, &quot;No.&quot; And then I'd say like, &quot;Well, why not? Well, how come?&quot; &quot;Well, because we need the money. You know, we couldn't afford to pay taxes. We would just crumble as a business. We're just scraping by here, you know? We're, look, we're just and Holy Ghost. We're a mom and pop, Holy Ghost little startup, you know?&quot; &quot;Well, okay, well, what do you need the, what do you need that money for? Is it for more jewel &quot;No, we got plenty of those. I think we have all of them. Do we have all the, yeah, we have all the jewelry So we're good with that. No, we got plenty of those. Bah, bah, bah, no, no, don't touch those. No, those stay here. We need 'em to give the you know?&quot; &quot;Well, I don't understand so why do you need the extra money?&quot; &quot;Well, I'll tell you, It's quite expensive. But every year, literally every year, we have to pay tens of millions to the people that we've Every year. It's a lot of money. And look, no one's happy Everyone's got their damn hand out. You know, every time somebody then we have to go to the priest and go, &quot;I'm sorry Father O'Brien, but the Hernandez boy ratted you out. So we're gonna have to send you secretly, under the cover of night, So is there any place you'd want to go?&quot; &quot;You know, I've always wanted to rape &quot;All right, Pennsylvania, he so send him to Pennsylvania. Don't tell anybody, don't tell the parish. Loose lips, huh?&quot; And then I might say to the church, &quot;Well, okay, but okay, I mean, pardon my naivete, but what if, I'm just but what if you stopped raping your children?&quot; &quot;Nathan, did you hear what he said? Stop raping. Yeah, no. No, no, no, no. That's, yeah, you probably That's an easy thing. No, we, no, that's not, That's, no, that's what we do. That's kind of our brand, you know? That's our, that's our thing. We've been doing it since I mean, yeah. I mean, you figure that one out. No, we're not gonna, That's the, yeah, okay, Captain obvious. Yeah. It's literally the first benefit listed in the job application for a priest. Yes, right there. You get to fuck your flock. Yeah. Go to fuckyourflock.com. It's all there. Scan the QR code, please. And speaking of unwanted pregnancies, you know, I live in New York. I live there by choice. And I pay, I pay for the progressive city that shares And I forget, I mean, I And believe me, I've been and I want to live in that bubble. Because of so many reasons. But like, what's going on Like, you forget. In New York, we don't have to deal with any of that nonsense. So we, you forget about But I'm from the South, you My family's still there and I go back three or four times a year. And I just forget until I go home. And then you start seeing And especially as you start becomes more country, they it's always a variation You know, it has been for decades now, where it's just on one side there's a photo of an Adorable, cutie, six-month-old, And look, all babies except for the ones But they're not gonna put that up there because that kind of fucks up You know, they're appealing right? So they gotta, you gotta, &quot;Get that fucking What are you doing? I'm trying to make some money. Let's go. Come on, no, get, put a picture Please. All right. And also while you're at could you extend her and maybe plump up her for later? All right, thank you.&quot; I'll be in the confessional booth, okay? Yeah, we know where the We don't have to look too far if you truly want to find 'em. But yeah, so it'll be a And then on the other side, You fucking whore. All life is precious.&quot; And I think what the is to buy the very next Like 150 feet down the road. So you see that one, and you see, and it says the same thing. It says, you know, &quot;Choose life. &quot;All life is precious.&quot; Same font, same size, same color. But then instead of a it's a photo of like a 32-year-old dude in his basement apartment, like jerking off to anime, right? Just going hard. Going hard, man. Rule 34! Right? A big pile of empty at the foot of his gamer chair and a big gas mask bong on the table and just sitting with his filthy mustard and cum-stained robe splayed open, hunched over the computer going, &quot;Is there a Bitcoin just for fascists?&quot; Yeah. Precious, fucking precious. All life. All life is precious, yeah? Yeah, all of it. It's not. It's not. It's not, guys, it's not, And I'm gonna tell that, I'm gonna tell that to I'm gonna sit her down and go, &quot;Hey, listen, kiddo, has that all life is precious and all that? They have? Okay, well, I, this is your dad talking, okay? That is a load of horse shit, okay? It's just not true. It's simply not true. It just, in the two and a half blocks that we walk to school, we pass by a lot of unprecious life. Nothing precious about I don't wish them ill will, I don't want 'em to die or anything, but they're not precious. It's not, you know, words matter. You know, they fucking matter. And see that boy over there? Copernicus? Yeah. I want you to stop hanging He's fine. His dad is a bit of a douche. And hey, you know what, kiddo? This would be a great place for an edit.&quot; He still there. He's probably still holding that orange. I swear, I swear to you. Oh my God, it's true, it's true. Hopefully he's okay. But yeah, yeah, yeah. And speaking of unwanted pregnancies, I've learned so much from my daughter. It just, like, and one thing I learned, that they don't really tell you about, but you have to, you have to like constantly censor yourself, Like 'cause kids will often just some gems, right? But you can't laugh because they don't, they didn't intend for it to be funny. So it's upsetting to And they're trying to be It's, you know, they take it poorly. And a good example of this, like, this is 100% true. So when my daughter was my wife was outta town, and and there was a little and I'm over, you know, cleaning And then after about a and apropos of nothing, we had not been talking about So she just comes out with this, she goes, &quot;Daddy, I'm sad you're going to die soon.&quot; And you know, my immediate &quot;Oh, my God, she's a witch.&quot; And I went over and I sat down next to her and I very quickly bound her hands and legs, threw her in a sack, drove to a river, and dumped her off the bridge. But here's the thing, I and I'm almost embarrassed to say that I'm surprised at how much I love her. Not because of her, but I just of that depth of love for another I mean, I truly, I used to think I had kind of a mild form of 'cause I never had that you see in the movies and and the, you know, like, I've never felt like that, you know? Like &quot;Wuthering Heights,&quot; but I assume there's And I've just never any person, you know? And I have a wonderful dog, you know? But I would take a bullet for that kid. Instinctively, I would I would not take a bullet for my wife. No, no, no. Absolutely not. No, fuck that, fuck that. No, no, no, no, no, no. What? Honey, it's your bullet. He said. He said it's, I'll be No, but I would take a bullet for my dog. Now here's the thing. Here's the thing. I love that kid so much, I really do, but at the same time, and I'm 100% sincere when I I really do. Because she's rich. She's a fucking rich kid. And I know it's not right. I know it's a leftover hangover prejudice I had since I was a kid. I grew up really poor and I was always I didn't get it. I didn't like it. And I just didn't like rich people. I still don't, you know? And I'm rich. I'm rich, you know? I mean, I'm not rich, but you know what I mean? You know what I mean? And when that kid is whining about dumb shit, I'm like, oh, like, &quot;Stop it! You're fucking rich. Stop, like, you know. You have central air. Do you understand? Are you hot? Push that button, you'll cool down. Are you cold? Push that button, you'll heat up. Do you, you have a teepee in your playroom that's not your bedroom. Can you conceive of how fucking rich you? You're sitting there that your mother made me go to three fucking places in the rain to get you an organic banana. Like that fucking matters. It's the biggest scam in the world. It's bullshit. Anybody can throw an Nobody does their due diligence. It's all, also, are you eating the peel? All right, then who gives a shit? Why do I have to pay a 500% markup for a fucking organic banana? You're not gonna eat. Okay, so I'm sorry. Let me, let me get this straight. Lemme get this straight. So our water is contaminated, our homes are slowly trying to kill us, but yeah, an organic banana, that'll set everything straight. Yeah. Hey, you know what? I didn't have anything and that was by accident So seriously, quit your whining. Young lady, seriously, listen to me, listen to, listen to me. Listen to me. Until you drive your 1982 Chevy Malibu with a broken side through a snowstorm in Western Mass so you can do a set for a antisemitic, racist Christian patriots for $30 and a cold egg roll, then, then you can complain to me about how your purse doesn't as Madeleine's, all right? Also, that purse that That's right, an innocent man was framed by a bunch of dirty cops. They planted drugs on him so they could boost their gotchas, right? They knowingly, and because they were just like, &quot;Oh, this'll work.&quot; And they planted drugs on him. Then when the rest of the you know what they did? They all covered up for him. The whole thing is corrupt They're all corrupt pieces of shit. And then those cops perjured themselves on the witness stand. And in cahoots with a crooked prosecutor and a crooked judge knowingly sent an innocent man to prison, ruining generations of lives. He made your purse.&quot; Another thing that's is news affects me more. It affects me differently. It affects me in deeper ways that I can't shake that are depressing. And like before I had a kid, get up in the morning, cup of tea, turn on the computer, you know, and there's a Yahoo News front page and be like, top story, you know? A woman in Florida murdered And you know, before I had a That's messed up. How'd the Braves do? You know? Now though, now that I have a kid, I see those stories and they And they really are And you know, next morning, a man in Florida murdered Jesus, fuck, god damn. Next morning, a woman in Florida murdered and son. Next morning, a man in Florida murdered all his nieces under the age of eight. Next morning, a couple in And like, I see this like, you murdered a three-year-old? You, what the fuck is wrong with you? You mur-, you don't have to murder a three-year-old. There're three. There's a million ways they can die. Just leave 'em at the top of What are you thinking? You don't have to scream and yell when they're running into the median. Just like, &quot;Cody, stop.&quot; You know, I mean, you're &quot;Hey, kiddo, hey, here's I'm gonna go make some fish sticks. Oh no, I'm free.&quot; You know, what the fuck? And now you're gonna go to It's stupid, it's depressing. It's really disturbing and depressing. And also you live in So the service is there, just be patient. You know, there's like a 32.6% chance they'll be shot to death by the time they're in eighth grade. Come on now. Is your kid Black or brown? The cops will murder him for you. I mean. Man, I think it is really messed up that they're gonna have to change the end of the &quot;Flintstones&quot; theme song just because of Florida. You get, do you get it? How you guys doing up there? You guys get it? How about y'all? Do y'all get it up there? Back of the house? You, you guys? All right, that's enough time. Man, what is going on in Florida? Like, they are just so proudly ignorant. They love it. They love their, they're, The this is, this is true. This is only a couple weeks old. All right, this is &quot;Frill.&quot; I'm gonna read this to you. Don't have it memorized. All right. &quot;If you want to see the &quot;stop woke act, look &quot;made to a first grade social studies text &quot;about Rosa Parks.&quot; All right, so here's that kids were learning about Rosa Parks. &quot;The law said African Americans &quot;had to give up their seats on the bus &quot;if a white person wanted to sit down.&quot; Well, that's pretty much what it was. But apparently that was to just, I don't know, just become heroin addicts. It's just, it's tough, So they had to change it. Stop woke. So they changed it. So they changed it to, &quot;She was told to move to a different seat &quot;because of the color of her skin.&quot; All right, it's pretty much, well, I mean, it's less specific, But apparently too much. Again, the kids were just jumping into trains when they were told that. So they changed it further. What I'm gonna read to you is what they are currently about Rosa Parks. &quot;She was told to move to a different seat. &quot;She did not. &quot;She did what she believed was right.&quot; - [Audience Member] Wow. - Yeah, that's, I don't they leave a little wiggle room in there. She did what she believed was right. We're not saying it's right I mean, she should have just moved and listened, you know, and she didn't. Sounds like somebody was for their britches and she wouldn't move. And I mean, she did what and now we gotta deal with The Rosa Park story. Martin Luther King, Jr. told us all about a dream he had. But everyone knows it's boring when people tell you their dreams. He was rude and insolent. Nevertheless, a kindly white was so moved by his dream that he decided to gift Martin Luther King with a present. He looked around his house, what is there, what could I possibly give him? Then he said, &quot;You know what, &quot;I'll give him these free bullets. &quot;But I live so far away, how In Germany, in 1932, a confused, but, well-meaning young man tried to come up with a solution to a problem everyone had. He tried everything, but nothing worked. And he was forced to And although there were very two wrongs don't make a right. It's just nuts, what's going on in Florida in the, this, you know, moms for liberty banning books. Nothing says liberty like banning books. And you know, as I said, I live there by choice. I live in a place that shares and I'm thrilled that I can I'm thrilled where it's, you know, the exact opposite of my And you know, we live in a very diverse neighborhood, culturally, ethnically, There's, you know, and it's great. And she, she goes to a great public school, great public school. And she's in the minority. She's in the minority at that She's got white friends. We made sure of it. No, it's awesome and I'm, but what's gonna be weird is, you know, at some point she's inevitably going to have a conversation with a kid who was educated in Florida, or Georgia, or South Carolina, or North or Virginia, or West Virginia, or Mississippi, or Louisiana, or Arkansas, or Idaho, or Iowa, or North Dakota, or South Dakota, or Arizona, or Utah. And it's gonna be weird because they will have frames of references, you know? They'll be understanding of what is real and what's not. What occurred, what history is, you know? And, you know, my daughter will you know, and be like, &quot;Hi, &quot;Oh, I'm Eve, I'm six, too. I'm from Florida. My mom's making fish sticks for dinner.&quot; &quot;Hey, you wanna play on the monkey bars?&quot; &quot;Yeah.&quot; You know what? There's a better way to do this. Yeah, this makes more sense. Is there anybody who's and read something with me? - [Audience Member] Sure! - Oh, ma'am. Okay. Yeah, come over, enter this way. And be mindful, don't step on this. That's a light, that's glass. Okay, great. What's your name? - [Jackie] Jackie. - Jackie. All right, thank you. - [Audience Member] Jackie! - Watch it, yeah, there you go. What's your name? - [JP] I'm JP. - JP. Okay, lemme, let's figure this out. This'll be, I'll put you over here. Here, step up. - Yes. - Lower? - Thank you. - You're welcome. Okay, cool. Now Jackie, I have to ask you, because everyone will, 56th show we've done And I know people are gonna ask you, they'll ask me, are you a plant? - Am I plant? Oh, like. - Like a person, a shill in the audience? - No, no. - Okay, yeah, I think this will be better to do it this way. This will make more sense. If you see two lines next to each other, then we both read 'em at the same time. That's called dual dialogue. - Which, what two lines? The highlighted ones or the? - No, just if you do. Go start. All right, I'll start again, okay? We'll start from there. - Right, in the part, it says, David, is you, right? No? - Yeah. I should have, what was I thinking? I should have put JP. David. Oh, boy, I fucked that one up. Yeah, I guess I'll read David's part. All right, I'm going, I'm I mean, I think this will Makes more sense. And if you see two lines we both read at the same time. That's called dual dialogue. - And I just read this part? - Well, I would, that's I would go with the present So if you were to read that in - &quot;Oh, and I just read this part?&quot; - Where it says audience - Okay. So. [David &amp; Jackie] So - No, no. You read the part of audience member, you're audience member. - Hello, I have a name. Maybe you would call me by my name instead of the insulting and - Or dehumanizing. - Whatever, it's the same shit. - You can make up words. You can make words make up words. Okay, well look, I'm gonna be doing this, reading this all over Probably not Mexico. But anyway, I can't anticipate - I have a very common name. It's Shonda Viciamarillian. - Oh, hmm. What kind of name is that? - It's Roman for lightheaded. - Roman, you mean Latin? - Nope. - Okay, well just, all Let's just read the script, okay? - Yes, I'm really excited to tackle this truly important work. - What? Are you being sarcastic? - Well then fucking act like it! Deliver the line the way it - I'm really excited to - Wow. - Are you? - Are you being sarcastic? - Look, can we just do the script where your kid talks to the or wherever? I need to take my - Oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't know you had diabetes. - I don't, I just really love glucose. Can't get enough of it. - Is that supposed to be a joke? - Ha ha ha ha, I know, right? Do you think I could open for you? - [David] Would you do that joke? - I would only do that joke. Twice. - Once in Mandarin. Look, are we going to - Yeah, yeah, sure. But I want to hear you do - Fuck. Tonal language. - What was that? - All right, yeah. - Okay, well, that's Cantonese so. That's not. Hey, you were going for it, that's fine. Well done. A lot of people won't. All right. All right, ready? - Okay. - That's not, that wasn't the script. This is the script. - Oh, sure, oh. - That wasn't the, no, this is the script. - Oh, that was a script about the script. - Yeah. Well, alright. You ready? Okay. Hi. - Hi. - I'm Marlow and I'm six. - I'm Eve, I'm six, too. Wanna play with me on the monkey bars? - Yeah. - Okay. We fir-, wait, we have to pray the Pledge of Allegiance first. - What's that? - The Pledge of Allegiance to the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, except for New York and California. - And to the Republicans one nation under the police, with. Aren't you gonna do it? - I don't know what that is. - It's the official saying of America. I do it at school. - Oh, what school do you go to? I go to PS62. - You call your living room PS62? - No, that's my school. Ms. Claven is my teacher. She also plays piano there, too. - My school is at home - Oh, your mommy is a teacher? - Well, now she is because the old school was teaching us lies. - Oh, I know what a lie is. Like two plus two is five - Two plus two is five. No, no, a lie is like didn't wanna be slaves or Made up lies like that. Like when the old school tried - What's symbol rights. - Symbol rights is a trick of the devil to get us to like other people. Did you know that Jews are the devil, too? And gays? In fact, the Jewish Democrat to groom us into sodomy. They won't teach us that at school either so that's why mommy teaches - Well, safe from what? - From the Hollywood pedophiles or Muslims, or Mexicans, or libtards, or angry, lazy Black mermaids - Oh. Okay. Well, can we play now? - I have to make sure - 'Cause of the boogies in the air? - No, because George Soros and AOC and the liberal woke fake news. Sorry, I'm not really that - Oh, just read it, just read it. - Okay. Look, I thought you were That's why my mommy and I came down here. That's why we entered the contest. We weren't expecting a whole and dangers of homeschooling. - Wait, what contest - Yes, at Panda Express. They had a contest to win Packet of soy sauce. - Yeah, ticket of soy sauce But you'd get a ticket and then you'd go? - That's what I thought - Yeah, so you would get a ticket and then they'd get, then you'd go back to the same person and - To get your packet of soy sauce. - That makes no sense to me. Or would you just, would they go, &quot;Here, can I have some soy sauce, can I?&quot; Would they give you a ticket for some and then you'd, and who do I give this to? Me. Okay. And then they give, it seems extraneous. It seems like an extra step. - It is. - Anyway, continue. - But we lost the contest and ended up with two My bad. I thought you were Dave Atel. - Come on, mommy, let's get out of here. This guy sucks. Can't even finish a bit. Worst daddy in the world? My asshole. More like worst daddy - JP. Give it up for Jackie. Before I go, I want to talk So I can't speak for any other comics, but for myself, when I put a set together and get ready to go out on a tour, the first show is always than when I get to this part of the tour. And you know, as I said, I think this is my 56th, 57th And you know, as you can tell, I'm pretty extemporaneous and So I've been riffing a lot. And then, you know, the and changes and I've stopped. I have to drop some bits because And then other bits kind of evolve and then new things happen like the Ron DeSantis thing and sometimes, like a theme will present itself, right? Which I think has happened in this set. And unintentional, never intended for it, but I, and I wanna speak So as I said, I've been and it's really, really, It's bad. I mean, there's some bad, I've never, it's so divided and the anger level and the undercurrent of this, of violence and the incivility and the ignorance, willful ignorance. And it's just really weird. And I don't, you know, the level of racism and antisemitism and anti-Asian sentiment and And see it used to be, it used to be if you and you said, &quot;If you elect me, &quot;I will usher in a white nationalist Christian theocracy.&quot; People would be like, &quot;Uh, no, thank you.&quot; But now like, &quot;Absolutely, go, yeah. Can you sit next to the neo-Nazi and you guys do it together?&quot; And it's crazy, it's crazy. And I also, I don't ever remember the level of giddiness, just the joy and the knowing that other people are suffering. Like they're psyched. Like if somebody commits suicide, like in the trans community, and what's happening to them is horrific. You know, there's, people are Yeah, fuck that, you know? And it's just ugly. And look, America was never There were periods where it was, there was progress being made. There was more, we were trying equal rights for everybody. And I think if America wants then we need to build a time machine and go back and kill for the mess we're in now. And I'll do it. I will do it. And I understand the Once you use the time machine, then you've altered the and the fabric is ripped and torn and the time machine can't So, but I'll do it. I will, I will go back and I will kill Jesus Christ. I'll do it, I'll do it for you. I'll do it for all the kids out there. And I'm not gonna go to like 'cause he was kind of ripped Dude was cut and had like a 12-man security detail with him at all times. So I wouldn't go there. And I certainly wouldn't go You know, the immaculate And I think that's a little unseemly to kill a one-day-year-old. But we really don't know Literally from the day after he was born up until he was like 30 and a half. Right, we don't know anything We know, you know, we don't sullen, mopey, you know, covered in acne, hormones raging outta control. Just emojis, it's just, you know? School's a prison, you know? Right, just constantly jerking 14-year-old boys jerk off all right, and Jesus is no different. And you know, they didn't There was no lotion. So 14-year-old Jesus's dick looked like an overcooked hot dog that had been left for, and then discovered by a Yeah so, and we all know the story about the, you know, immaculate conception, right? That's heartwarming story where God implanted His seed into the Virgin Mary, right? So He could give us His son, right? God took His seed, His cum, seed is cum. That's what it is, seed is cum. That's what He, so God took His cum and He put it in the Virgin Mary. And here's the thing, here's the thing, He's everyone's God, He's everyone's God so which cum He was gonna 'cause He's got literally thousands and thousands of different cums. So He had to go, &quot;Oh, which cum am I gonna &quot;Should it be Indo-Asian, &quot;or Aboriginal, or Namibian, &quot;You know what, I'll go with Jew. &quot;Jew is, Jew's my, yeah, that's good cum. &quot;That's good cum.&quot; And then God took His cum and He's, God's way in the heavens. He's all the way in outer space. And He had to take His through all the different And it had to, He sent it all the way, but it always had to maintain of 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. Right, otherwise the And so He had to like speed and you know, it had to go and solar systems until and then it got, found our solar system, you know, avoiding planets, and moons, and asteroids, and space dust. And always again, maintaining of 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. Then get it to Earth and then go through all 'cause God loves atmosphere, And He's gotta go through the exosphere, and the thermosphere, and the mesosphere, and the stratosphere, And then wait for the opportune time for Mary to go like this. And then, up and went. And because Mary is a human woman, she went through the and where she grew Jesus. And then God sent the angel Gabriel to Joseph and Mary to explain what was happening. And to say, &quot;You have to go to Bethlehem, okay? Either to be counted for the census or to not be counted for the census. It's a little vague and of exactly what, but we need to get you, for the sake of the story, we need to get you to Bethlehem, okay? It's called a writer's device, all right? So we need either to for or it doesn't matter. You need to go to Bethlehem.&quot; And then, you know, Gabriel and then Joseph put Mary on their donkey, Dinkles. That was the name of the donkey. It's in the Bible. Joseph, Mary, and Dinkles the donkey. They went to Bethlehem. And we all know this part of the story. They got to the inn in Bethlehem, the inn, singular, there's only one. They got to the inn, but So they had to sleep in the manger. Now, here's a question. 2023 years ago, what was the difference between a room at the inn and the manger? There's no difference, You're still sleeping You know, they act like it's an Airbnb where the Wifi went out. No, it's, I'm sure that when &quot;You'll have to sleep in the manger,&quot; he's like, &quot;Good, some you know?&quot; And so they got to the manger and they laid down on the hay, and then Mary started going into labor. They started timing her contractions, coming quicker, quicker. And then she's about to give And there's a little, it's And she's gonna give birth. &quot;Joseph, it's time, it's time. &quot;And Jesus is coming. &quot;And there's, but he's not coming out. &quot;He's not, what's happening, &quot;And he's trying to get out, And here's what they But when God implanted Mary with his cum, He forgot to do something that's really integral He forgot to fuck Mary. So her hymen remained intact. So Jesus is ready to come out, but there's this wall of flesh and he's like punching, and kicking, and screaming, and And he can't do it and it's traumatic. I mean, ask any Scientologist It'll scar you for billions of lives. And I mean, it messed him up good. It gave him a Messiah complex. And then, and so Mary sussed said, &quot;Joseph, hang on, I'm &quot;Maybe take, go round triple speed, &quot;see if I can knock this And she did. She tore her hymen, came and she started. She laid down and she to the son of God. And then here comes Jesus out of this massive, hairy bush. I mean, got a Jewish woman It's a massive, hairy bush. And here comes Jesus. And he's covered in placenta. There's a little bit of blood. And there's shit, too, because that's also part When you give birth you lose control of your and shit comes out. It happens, there's shit. So here comes the Lord just covered in shit. And they cleaned him off with And then, so I would go to Jesus when he was like four, all right? And I would dress appropriately so as not to arouse suspicion. I would bring something You know, I'd be like, It's a Furby.&quot; Then take Jesus. &quot;Hey kiddo, come out. I wanna I want to take and show you something that's pretty cool. All right, so listen, kiddo, listen, so this is very important for me to say and very, very important for you to hear. I want you to know this, okay? You are a beautiful person You live your life in a clean, honest way that is all about other people. You're about kindness and love, unconditional love. You're about diversity, equity, and inclusion, all right? And, this is not about you, okay? This is about your fans who every word you say, and for their own perverted sense of power. And everything they do is to everything you ever preach and the way you wanted us to live. and they will literally in your name and drive in your name.&quot; All right, Chicago. Thank you, thank you. Thank you guys. Thank you so much. Really, you guys were awesome. Thank you so much. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you guys. Oh, I know what a lie is. Like two plus two is five - Two plus two is five? No - What the? - Okay, so, just punctuation wise. So this is. - Like, I should really Two plus two is five? - No, no, you would emphasize. So that word is italicized and bolded. So you put emphasis on that. - Two plus two is five. yeah, there's no question mark. It's an exclamation mark. - Is five, like five! That's what you want. Tell me what you want. - I am, I'm telling you, I'm telling you. I'm in the process of telling you. So the word is, is italicized and in bold. So you put the emphasis on that and then you wouldn't say it as a question 'cause there's no question mark. It's an exclamation mark. So I'll go back and I'll do it. - Okay, you're back, you go. Oh, I know what a lie is. Like two plus two is five or something? - Two plus two is five.