2023 was Denver busiest year on record. It is busier than it ever While airline stocks have pre-pandemic levels, record breaking numbers. We will end 2023 much higher 78 million passengers tremendous growth. The airport, which opened in to handle 50 million But now that number is million per year by 2027. It went from the 21st in 2019 to sixth in 2023. Currently, we're running of Denver, and that's to ten different countries. United Airlines is Denver's by Southwest and Frontier. The Mid-Continent airport hub. It recently invested to add more gates, flights, largest lounge in its 40% of our customers are fast growing city. We want to grow before 2030 Cnbc got a behind-the-scenes operations, and explores plan to keep up with Denver is the third busiest and sixth in the world. Since 2019, it has added any other airport, with an People have prioritized we're seeing big numbers over the country. Denver is uniquely located country. 96% of flights in and a little over 41% of connecting to other The three big major airlines United, American and Delta They have multiple hub continent, but the ones on specifically are focused on connectivity, whereas those focused about domestic And they fared much better continued to grow out from But it's been a noticeable back quicker than, say, airports like JFK. The city of Denver has also From 2010 to 2020, the It's about room to grow. It's about economic generally, and more area with the demand for We are an incredible state of Colorado, the in the state at about $36.4 So our impact is very, very We have 40,000 employees at The airport, which often times in the country, has prepare for 120 million The first thing that we're terminal itself. And so we're expanding the We are putting in new We have six runways. We're doing pre seventh runway. We are looking at a new We are doing early work on facility. Denver is a much newer York's JFK or Chicago constrained. It is the land mass with 53mi2. But more importantly than best of both worlds. You legacy airline providing connectivity, and it also very large, low cost established for many years. And between them, they they connectivity from the We have invested over $1 years, and we're continuing So our new gates, we're product, which is new new technology and The thing about the United different to other parts of in airports is frequently a the airline and the airport the metropolitan area. investment per se is made As they think about what we're thinking about how then we're sitting down on how we can meet in the terms of how it will and the flying public out In the United States, the bigger share of that risk also gives them the return. It's their asset to United clearly see an can grow perhaps more Chicago, or certainly on Coast in Newark and San Going out of Denver, we have average. United employs roughly with close to 850 in This is the SOC, which is control center. It's the the operation. This is brought into us and proper departments for Every department is room, whether it's a with a connection, cruise problem, we can find out with aircraft by looking at very quickly. On the day we Newark, New Jersey to to Denver. But because the crew timed out. So it's going to come into recrew it. We will service an inbound. If someone else is having a affect us because we do a our crews kind of get So if the crews in Newark they're needed for a Denver have a plan in place. Newark, another hub in from a lack of room to has two runways compared to as many customers. The in Newark this summer to Newark was designed a long Express and 727 work. So the terminals infrastructure, the gating different than Denver's. Denver lends itself to a that simplifies taxi in and Denver also has a lot of We're very constrained here Different airports have strategies. In LA, there's not room to We can get bigger on necessarily bring in a lot So it's a completely In Denver particularly, we We have nice big new gate We'll have 90 gates. Denver's second largest expanding at the airport as It opened up $100 million also continues to grow. The growth in air travel is from 4 billion passengers a We're going to hit 100 what we ever thought. Once passenger mark annually, generation will go to 71 The airport is also looking international flights, annual departures. We do have more global years ago. We want to add the customs facility that a 1990s schedule out of United is also looking to Last year, it bought more Flight training center, pilots every year. The big challenge for every aviation sector is, you environmental impact, to do these things the assets as much as you just building concrete for Another factor that we've interesting in the last two the pandemic, is the resources. Experts say the biggest moving forward are the FAA air traffic controllers delays. We're projecting a lot of At one point we were saying just with the delay in of the pilot issues, we're But if the demand is there, continue to grow the hub.