[Peter] Good morning, guys, Right on the edge of Appalachia. Very beautiful region of the country also an area known for heavy drug usage. Historically, late '90s, early 2000s, Now it's more meth and Fentanyl. So today we have the great privilege who was a user for many years. Has come through to the other side and now brings others He's gonna get us to show us what's going on exactly and how there's an effort It's not just in Appalachia either. This is all over the country. So by watching what goes on here you'll learn about Should be an interesting journey. Let's do this. [Peter] So Chance, -I've been clean for three years, -So from homeless -Yes. All this stuff in here, man. Lawnmowers, weed eaters, I ain't gotta take it to the pawn shop, Every day, man, you'd have to get up and have to figure out a way -So figure out a way to get drugs, which means -Yep. There'd be days I would have Three days later, things go wrong, you've sent people off and you're at the bottom again, you know? -You'd have $10,000 worth of pills? -So you were dealing too? -We're going to where I grew up. Old Fall Creek, Monticello, Kentucky. -Did you have a rough upbringing, -[sighs] No, I didn't. I was raised by some awesome parents. We never had to worry about anything. My dad was a superintendent My mom worked too. My dad ended up He was in church... The drug problem I had was Man, these hills and hollers They don't care They're gonna come after you. Devil's gonna come after you -So for outsiders outside Appalachia, hollers are the little valley roads -Yes, sir. -Where you can get really deep in there? You never know how many nooks You think you come around one -And every one's different. So I went to a holler Total drug holler, it was sketchy. The next holler, people super cool. &quot;Would you like something to drink?&quot; Everyone on the porch is waving. -So every holler has a different vibe? -Different world. -You grew up in a very nice neighborhood. -A lot of times people think they're growing up in a bad situation. -Product of their environment. [Peter] And that's why. You're proving that wrong -Yeah. -So why would you start? -I think I mainly started, a lot of us, and we would hang out. The older guys were smoking pot, -So just to fit in. -So right here's -Up on the hill? -Oh, that's sweet. -Wow, what a beautiful property. -And so you went -Yes, sir. Going to Walmart, At the end I ended up going in -This is right down the road -Oh yeah, -Oh, it's beautiful. When did you start using? What age? -I started using, 15 years old. Started smoking and drinking. I was always searching So I could fit in anywhere You know? -So the circle of people you were around? If you used, 'cause they were, -Yeah. -If you didn't you were on the sidelines? -You were by yourself? -So these kids these days, More to be aware of? More to protect? Or it was the same back then as it is now? -I think the problems are different and challenges are different At that time when I was in high school, -Late '90s, early 2000s? -This would be the early 2000s. It was everywhere but these kids have... Everything's got Fentanyl in it. You know, the challenges they is we got marijuana So if they start it like I did at 15, Why... Why do the dealers want to I get asked that a lot -I think the reason, if you get 'em they've got 'em. It's all about a dollar. -So you're smoking marijuana, right? And it's got Fentanyl in it, &quot;Wow, that really hit me in a good way.&quot; It's very addictive, you're gonna -Exactly, next day, You're gonna want to feel good again. I gotta say I didn't think it would be this nice. It's stunningly beautiful. -The parts of the state that I've seen. [Chance] Peaceful, you know? [Peter] Peaceful, That's just like a postcard. -Yeah. When I was in high school, a few of us would pitch in some money. -Yeah. -We would drive down this road -Just marijuana? That's what it I liked the way it made me feel then so... So when different things This is where I bought Maybe a different trailer That was my first love, you know? That first pain pill It led to... Oxycontins after that. Oxycodone. But you know, I fell in love with it, It became my everything, you know? Whatever it took to... [Chance] Drugs have had a strong hold [Peter] ...you selling everything? -All of it. -In a neighborhood like this what percentage of people -I would say... 60, 70 percent. -Okay. -So that one caught on fire. You got abandoned houses, A lot of people homeless. A lot of times they try to and end up burning it down, Some people still cook meth around here. We've had a lot of places -So back in the day it was Oxy, right? -Yes, sir. -Now what is it? Now you've got heroin, Fentanyl, Oxycodones are still prevalent because Purdue Pharma, So they can't take it in a spoon You can't get instant release from it. -Okay. -So you've got ice So people don't really So you've mainly got heroin and ice So the cartel's controlling -Yeah. -So Appalachia is known for Late '90s, early 2000s, Purdue Pharma, -Oh yeah, we would send down to pharmacies in Florida and Georgia. The Florida pill pipeline. -That's what it was called? -Pill pipeline? -So how quick did that grab hold? When those pills were they didn't have Well you know you would have, like I said, a lot of people smoked pot here. People would drink. You would hear of cocaine here and there, and you would hear of speed, the old school bikers used and stuff. But you didn't see it in high schools, You know, you heard of but there wasn't people -Right. -But once Oxycontin hit the streets Like I said, it didn't discriminate. There was school teachers on it. -Really? -Did you sell to school teachers? I mean it was very prominent people People that owned nursing homes. Very successful business people. -Right. So with pain medication... I mean we do need -Right? for operations or-- -You know, certain medical procedures. I'm just being Devil's advocate here, you buy a 12 pack of beer. It's up to me to drink two beers or I could drink 12. What do you have to say to that? Nobody forced it -Nobody forced it but you know, I think they knew the... The consequences of... synthetic heroin. I mean just think about that for a minute. We know how powerful heroin was. How people got addicted, It was handed out for anything. Heroin used to be just like cocaine. -You could buy it over the counter. But they removed all that. They knew the stronghold it had on people. They would tie people over their addictions back then. -Right, right. -Um... So just knowing they were reformulating Just think, man, they had to know. -So as a user, You take your first pill day or two goes by and you're like, And then you're like, or how does that work? -The feeling you get, the euphoria, letting go of all your problems, all your pain, mentally, physically, just that release. That... [sighs] That moment. You live for that moment, Satan didn't come at me with a set My first time using, &quot;Here, you're gonna be bound to this.&quot; I wouldn't have done it Where I would end up. He came at me with a link at a time. &quot;Try this.&quot; -And it just levels up, -He build son that chain, man, and eventually I was wrapped up and bound. -How long did it take you -When I was 18 I snorted my first Percocet, man, and the cares of this world I graduated very quickly -So you get high, are you ready for -You're gonna be sick. -No energy, lethargic, mad at the world. You know, you might lay there in but that monster, he's calling you-- -Okay. -...to get up and you're gonna When you feel I was running this and we were selling pills. There was times I might have $10,000 cash. Couple days later -No way, so you're -Yep. -And the clients are just coming in and they come -I mean if there was customers there would stop by and see me, With some of their kids and stuff, and somebody'd come by wanting a pill, go out, raise the hood, Didn't matter who was there. -So it was easy to do it there? But my carelessness as it went on, I was using so much, I just didn't care, you know? Like it was never gonna run out, But you know when I would run out of money, we would do whatever it took. We would go sell whatever, -Gotta say, beautiful town, Monticello. -Different world. -But really close to where -That's literally two minutes away. I want to take you into the world's... World-famous, The City Pool Hall. So this has been a secret recipe One of a kind hamburgers. -They're not putting Oxy in them are they? -Okay. -Is that the secret recipe? -They're highly-addictive? -Okay. -[Peter] Your buddy from back in the day? -What's your name? -We went to high school together. -We done drugs together. -We hung out, partied, and you know... -How long were you using for? -[scoffs] Since I was 12 probably. -Since 12? Wow. -So at least 10, 15 years. -And how long you been clean? -Two and a half... -How's it going for ya? -It's a struggle every day. -It's a battle every day? -How do you get-- It's more or less just... I don't care You know what I mean? I think that's when everyone stops, I think I think about it every day. Dream about it, I still have dreams. -You still have dreams about the drugs? -I had one relapse. -Do you-- Good after that, know what I mean? -Dust yourself off. -Yeah, and it's worse every time. -Yeah. -Any time you go back to it, -Yeah. -So when you have crazy cravings, I go to the Suboxone clinic, I mean that helps me a lot to be honest. -There's a clinic here? -Okay, cool. I mean that helped me To be honest, I think of it Thinking of... it's... Your more mindset of putting I don't get high on Suboxone, I guess it's just... I'm taking something, -Okay, so you're taking a medication -Yeah, doing something else, yeah. And the burgers help, right? -Yeah. -What's your name? -Okay, Randy, and you used? -Twenty-seven? -Yes, I just-- I just turned 39, and the day before that -Wow, how long you been clean? -Little over a month. -Is it pretty hard. -You don't know how bad -It's like a constant craving? -So how do you -I don't know, I'm just three or four days out of jail. -Three to four days -Yeah. -Wow, man, um... Is there any therapy that you've tried to reach out to or... -Um, I'm fixin' to start They was telling me Like the Suboxone clinic. Which I don't really like pills, um, I don't know. I just gotta find a way That's probably work, -Okay cool, what do you do for work? -You build houses? Nice. -Chase, what about your group? -[Randy] You have a group? -I just got out like three, four days ago. -Man, that's why we're here for to... We got a whole support group, man, and we gonna wrap our arms Walk this thing out together. -Yeah, I'd say I'm gonna need help. 'Cause... woo. -When you come out of prison they're not like funneling you or anything like that, -Um... Well they got your RIS. Some kind of class you can take -Okay. -But I've already got my job back, -Sweet. -Just mustard and salt. -Right here. -Yep, that's me right there. -I can hook you up -That's what you gotta stay rooted in. We stayed rooted -Twenty-something years or better. -I started smoking pot when I was 9, -Done it my whole life. -Was it Oxy at first or-- -I quit pain pills myself. -Okay. -2017 or 16, Like every day. -Okay. -I've always done meth I was every day, man. -You worked through it, your addiction? -Tweaked and worked at the same time, -And you could handle that? I'm talking about for days at a time and it did not bother me. -Were you getting any sleep? -Rarely. -Wow. -Yeah, you'd be surprised what -You can build a house -Yeah, I probably could. [both laughing] -Man... Best of luck, stay strong, man. -Hey, I'll holler at you. -Hit me up any time, all right? I got anything you need, man. See you later. -Take care, bro. Best of luck. -You ready to do this? -...this video will go out and show them that there's hope, And we thank you for burgers, -In Jesus' name, amen. -So that second guy's just struggling? Fresh out, man, Drugs are so prevalent and in jails around here. So you know, he's been exposed. But you gotta have a psyche change. You know, and we gotta 'Cause here's the thing. Old behavior is not -You gotta change your way of thinking. -So we gotta teach him a new way to live. If we're not there to support them, back to these old people. -Yeah. -Yeah, yeah. So man, we gotta -So a guy like that, just giving But he goes in, hasn't seen them forever, distance himself from them if they were -Exactly. That's gotta be brutal. -Yeah. You gotta be willing to forget -Right. -A lot of times you gotta move away. I had to remove myself from this area to let myself heal, you know? -Yeah. -And to realize to cut ties with You know? Today I can step in anywhere. -You know, I feel that I'm strong enough. -But you should still You know, somebody's gotta -Yeah. So they got him on another drug, right? -Suboxone. Which I took Suboxone when When I didn't have And there for a stretch I would shoot Suboxone. Okay, you can shoot it like a pain pill. -What does it do? -It's an opiate but it has than say, an Oxycodone. -Okay. -So it attaches to your opiate receptors and it'll keep a lower-grade pain pill -So it'll block you from taking But it itself is binding -Okay, so it's just getting on that's not as harmful maybe? -You know, maybe not as harmful if you're but I never took 'em as I was supposed to. -Okay. -And it was harder than a lot of the pills I was hooked on. -Right. -Oh man, it took 30 days -And doctors are prescribing this? -Yep, left and right. -So there's not in that-- I don't know this space very well like most problems, to getting to the root of the problem. -Yeah. -Or there's a Band-Aid approach That seems like Band-Aid... -It is. I don't see too many people -Their goal they say is to ween 'em down. -But it just seems like people And a lot of times, you know, A lot of people I know, we all took meth -Yeah. -It was a Band-Aid. You didn't have to go out you were getting high on. This sufficed that for the moment. To me, that was just another strong O. -But it's so-called legal So it's considered good maybe? -Right. -This is definitely the local joint, huh? -In Monticello? A candy bar is still $1.50, -The burger is $2.50. -$2.50 for this? -You get cheese on it, it might be three. -Wow. It's good. It's very good. They've been doing it [Peter] So $13.00 for three burgers, -You can't even get -That's cheaper than fast food. -He's doing a series on Appalachia. And couldn't bring the stories without How our communities and... Absolutely has. -Yeah. -Every first of the month? That's when paychecks come? -Government checks are paying for it, huh? [Chance] A lot of 'em. -Okay, so what is that amount? -Six, seven-hundred a month. 800 bucks a month. -And so all of that just goes -...when they deposit? [Chance] Yeah. -Why do you guys think it is that way? To be fair, it's everywhere -It is. I think think a lot of kids, a lot of things to do for 'em. -Boredom... [Chance] Yeah. -Yeah. -Yeah. -I gotta say, -Yeah. From the outside looking in, -You know, you could drive through here-- You could come visit, think, -Yeah, as a tourist, I would just -&quot;What a nice little town.&quot; -A great place to raise a family. -Nice little sleepy town. -Probably doesn't have -Yeah. -And you're saying, no. -You got to get You see this white building here -Okay, way down there? -Used to go up there, and hang out Right here Downtown. So you basically had a trap apartment and in the same parking lot there's the sheriff's department. I've been booked I used to sell 'em and ended up riding in the back of these. But today I get an invitation to come sit about the hope we have, and what our community -He obviously has some -Absolutely. -[Man] Go right there. Thanks for taking the time because Sheriffs do. And unlike most law enforcement, Which is very refreshing So the overreaching question is what's going on currently -Well our county is in Appalachia in Kentucky. The drug problem is just astronomical. Everywhere you turn, um... They... Used to... drug problem back -Okay. -That's basically a thing of the past, But the biggest problem we have now But we also have the Fentanyl, the heroin, pills, wherever you go it's whatever. It's all here is actually methamphetamine. -Okay, so Fentanyl -Some, it's here. It's here. We find it quite often. Just not in thee volume we find meth. -Okay. -In... Used to... meth, in Kentucky is... 'Course I've been It was always the meth was homemade. They call 'em bottle dope, what have you. -Okay. -That's basically a thing of the past, -There's no Walter White -No, no. -So now it's all coming It's all high quality and there's no end to it. I mean when I first went January, 2015. To buy methamphetamines under-cover was cost us anywhere from about $2,000 at best, $2,100, $2,200. Today we go out and buy it for $250. High quality methamphetamine. That's how it's flooded in America. Especially here for us. -So the cartels have -The supply chains? Right, 'course here it's not cartel. Not here as much as Louisville, 'Course they go travel, So now the Fentanyl... We find Fentanyl now like I said, not like meth, It was kind of funny. The national news media had on about finding these Of course they're getting The very next day we found 300 of them exactly the same So that proves Fentanyl, you know it's... The powder, whatever you want to call it, we found that as well. -What age groups are you or is it everybody, or more younger people now, -[coughs] Excuse me. It's all ages. It skewing of course but I guess toward You know, the 20s, up to mid-30s or so. That's kinda the bigger group but we find it in our school systems. Meth, and marijuana, what have you. [sighs] I don't think I actually found but it's coming. It doesn't matter your upcoming. It has nothing to do with it, raised in church. And now they're all strung out on meth. Like I said, So that really doesn't So it's like... and I may have You go down the path You can go to the right, you can go to the left Unfortunately, is going off to the left. How do you fix that? If I knew the answer to that Promise you. -Would... You're saying -Correct. -So even just having a good home life isn't preventing people -Right. I'm sure if you're raised it would have to help. But it doesn't guarantee -I'm proof of that. -Here's one thing to realize. Here in Appalachia... and previous job There's not a family that I can tell you that it hasn't affected Now it may not be your mother, your father, but it's a nephew, Every family is affected by it. 85% to 90% of everything we deal with has to do related here in Wayne County. Whether it's thefts, whatever, I guarantee -It all comes back to drugs? -Yes, absolutely. -Okay, so why does Appalachia... I mean it's everywhere historically has been hit harder or more of the population -Well, [coughs] excuse me. and Chance can probably say yes, There's not a lot for the younger You know, these school kids, there's just not a lot to do. Even you get out of school, what they got here to do? They have nothing... unfortunately. -Okay, well maybe it's the times too We always found something to do, and we had work to do, and I rode my bike and maybe it has -Well I agree with that. You know, kids nowadays, how many kids you actually see You know, they're all And it may play a part in it but when I was growing up We was riding bicycles You know, not that we had or bowling alleys, whatever. But we always had things that we did. But I think a big part now, playing on them games and social media. -What I'm doing. [chuckling] But there's -Sure, sure. -I just wish there was and get a stop to it. I mean I know it'll never happen to slow it down or do something, you know? We're basically arresting them daily to do something with illegal narcotics. I just hope and pray some day It's not about... At least my perspective, and a lot of It's not about putting somebody in jail. I had a discussion It's getting people on the right path, and not destroying their lives. And that's what we work for. -Like Chance's story? -He went down to the bottom, -Right, right. -So we need more of that? -But you do see all these factors or the drugs, everything is sort of weaken society. -Right, I agree. -Right, absolutely. Well, thank you, Sheriff. -I appreciate what you're doing [Peter] Okay, here are Check this out, Um... Meth in 2015 was Now it's going for $250 an ounce. -Anybody, they can afford it. If you can come up with $10 -You can live off government money, -Food stamps. -Food stamps, and have and afford your life? -Yeah. Government's gonna provide you with What, they give you a cell phone? -And WiFi. -So there's a piece missing. Some people do need help sometimes, right? -These programs, -There's people that need them and there's that -Right. -Yeah. And they have deal with it, Yeah, they're stuck and bound in that. And here's the thing, you know, they're burning through and then what are they doing -Stealing weed whackers? -Breaking glass. Stealing, getting in -You know what -What's that? It's all the broken glass because people smash your windows -Like he said, He's had issues with Raised by a sheriff I was raised by a pastor. Drug addiction doesn't care doesn't care what your background is. You know? -He locked up his own family? -Yep. But you know, that's... That's a true honest sheriff. You know? Justice is supposed to be So to take a stand it's the things you gotta do, I mean I have to Against drug addiction, I gotta be the voice You know, to let them know there is hope. There is a way out. You know, if it wasn't for him, he spoke life into me. When I was at my lowest moment he said, &quot;Look son, I could easily be He said, He said, and roles could be reversed.&quot; And that's how easy it is, We're trying to fill a void here. There's not a ton to do, we rode four-wheelers and stuff, man. But that became our... Here's the thing, the drugs were once you did try 'em that become -Right, but boredom is a decision. I've never been bored in my life. -Yeah. -Okay, and I grew up in the countryside. -And so in the winter we'd all meet up, we'd do that. We'd BMX bike around everywhere. We'd have bow and arrow You know, that's at a younger age -Yeah. So I think maybe... this could be The culture's changed. Whereas you don't see I mean a little bit but not much. -No. -And maybe getting out in nature, and having bow and arrow fights -That's true. -And it's the device I don't know, I don't have kids, but I'm just trying to I mean you're living in a beautiful place. And whatever you wanted to get into, or play music, or whatever, -Yeah... right. But I think, you know, for me, fitting in and acceptance... Um... I wanted to be That's something that 'Cause you were part of something, At that time, I thought they were so cool, man. Like they had everything going, You know, but from the outside looking in, they had all this cash, it was just like they could -Would they get the chicks? -They would get the chicks, yeah. -Right here there is now A used car lot sat there. I ran a used car lot Man, I excelled at things. I was a quote-unquote I would excel at sports, I just never surrendered to God, I ended up owing the wrong people money, and I come to my car lot one morning, tires were slashed on three trucks. They were carved in the side, man, and they keyed 'em up, Those were results of my actions. But once again, like I said, my story is about me trying to You know, it would rise up and it would fall down. I fell on my face again. You know, but I continued. I would go... Like I said, a few times I went back and had to go live After having all this, and then I went on to Alton Blakely Ford I become internet sales manager there. I had a big glass office, but I was always using. I said, man, I have scars from my 20 years of addiction. -That's from injections? -18 years of injections. Um, I shot... Oxycodones, Oxycontins, methamphetamines, Suboxones... cocaine. -You shot cocaine? -Huh, didn't know you could do that. You know, I have scars. Physical scars. Right here, Drug deal gone bad. Right here, concrete cinder block. You know, I've got all these scars, Here is the problem. Scars you can't see. The ones right here. The ones right here. Emotional. Those scars are For this whole thing to work, man, and to learn how to live again That's what I had to do, man. The hurts against my kids, I couldn't do it for my family. I had to love myself first. And that's the only way it works, man, is giving it to God, Right there, man. -So there's a lot of religion -Fair to say? -But it's not working for a lot of people. -They're not letting it work. Like I say, you look at AA. So the resources to help people overcome You have AA, NA, faith-based programs. -Yeah. -But if you go back to the root. Okay, AA is founded, It's about repentance, forgiveness. If you go to the founder of AA, the man that founded it, it's full of Bibles. The original AA context had Jesus in it. But just like everything else, They're saying you can and let it be your higher power. Bro, it ain't gonna work. You know? I mean it just ain't going to, and have a support group I wouldn't be where I'm at today I was discipled and raised up I ended up court-ordered to rehab. You know? I ended up court-ordered And I went for six months, and I didn't truly I was trying to fake it Of the four guys, to show you the story of addiction, Four of the guys I was in rehab with for myself, me and three other guys, four of us... So let's go back So one of those guys is dead. The other is serving The other one is in rehab right now. And here I am. So the odds are stacked against us. All of us turned back to it for a minute. One's dead, one's in federal prison, is back in recovery, -So check this out, man. Local gas station. You got pipes... everywhere. Meth pipes. -That's a meth pipe? -But you could put -Yeah, you could put anything in there, -Scales in the gas station, -I used to buy these and keep these They'd pop me at any time... I'd be clean. All this right here, kratom. -What's Red Vein? -All this is kratom. It's made out of and it gives an opioid effect. I've heard a lot of guys take this stuff But look, gas station dope is still dope. -But it's legal obviously. -It's legal for now. So here's the problem You know, these people don't feel like They're church hurt. You know, too many of these churches, they don't have their arms open, to people like me. They're too worried about Too worried about somebody's got a tattoo. -They're showing these people away. -We got our doors open, no matter what state they're in. If they've been drinking, come on in. 'Cause these people, That's what they need. You know, they've been hurt by the world, -It's sort of sad at stuff that's gonna help -Yeah, you got a whole-- -You know, people with chains around Over there you got -Right over there ready to go. This is one of our People come running, man, into your arms. They're wanting something different. They're tired of living that way. Look, you can see -All right, so you take cities like... you have people doing their drugs -Mm-hmm. -You can give them enough money to get by, if they need Narcan, they get Narcan. -That's not compassion though is it? They're just like -They're letting them till the day they go six feet deep. -So how is that compassion? -That's not compassion, If we're giving these people If we're coming up to 'em, man, like me and you right now. We ain't just giving a hand-out We're showing them love that's what their missing [Chance] We're in Ferguson, -I actually lived in this house down here. -That one down there? I lived in that white house I lost everything, lost my kid, I lost my job again. I ended up living there eventually couldn't pay the rent. This is when I went at my lowest, I was completely strung out on meth. I lost it all. And I ended up living -You lived in that barn? -Neighbors let me live in it. -Your neighbor let you live there? -So you went from having a kid. Your son or daughter was living with you? -My son. -To living in that? -There's a poverty mindset a lot of America too, you know? They're giving these checks, $700, $800 a month. They will provide you with housing, So if the government and every aspect of their life, They have 'em in the palm of their hand. They know no way out. They're bound to that. Like I said, many of 'em and they're stuck in that place because they have no other option. Their government is So it fuels a whole vicious cycle into that, you know? [Chance] There should be accountability How 'bout we drug test these people. How 'bout if they do fail, let's give them You know, and then we can try to Some may not be able to. They may not have the mental capacity, and how many of them could become -Okay, what would happen -I agree that we're gonna either have because they're gonna, get their drugs, whatever they need, but you're gonna have some people &quot;Hey, I have to go to work.&quot; &quot;I have to support myself, my family.&quot; &quot;This is gone, I gotta do it.&quot; You have both ends of the spectrum. So here we go. This is an area that... [clears throat] I lived up here in these apartments. Basically I would rent a room. -Uh-huh. -She's on something. -100. -So that situation... -Just like this, -Right. -Then you're going up here But this place is Government assisted apartments up here. Every day, man, I'd be up here. Have to be hiding from the cops, There's my buddy right there, my brother. Hey. -What are you doing? -C'mere and holler at me. This is one of those success stories, -What's up, brother? -How you doing, David? Peter. -This is Peter, a documentary on addiction in Appalachia. We go to church together -Oh, great. -We get to walk -Oh, yeah, best I ever did. -How long have you been clean? -How's it feeling? -It's great, [laughs] [all laughing] -He works, got a job. Today, man, he's -Cool, what are you doing for work? I work through Somerset Community College and work for Brother Jordan -He works at Good Samaritan. -I've actually got cleaned up, and my two kids. Which I never had my kids took from me. -Why do you have -Because she went homeless. The meth took her out, she went homeless, I've got full custody of her kids, -Oh, wow. -How's that? -It's great, they've got better lives now. -David, what do you use Like you're vaping. -I eat chocolate bars, what do you do? -You're vaping, all right. -Yeah. -I was telling him I used to... I would basically rent a couple of these apartments They're trying to -That's something I always had a place to live. When I was 23, I lost my first youngin' through the hospital, -You lost your first what? -First kid, -Oh, I'm sorry. -I always had a place to live, When I got on drugs I pretty much had -Good to see those success stories, man. -Oh, yeah. So when I see you, who used for so long and them some of you can tell there's permanent damage. Where their eyes are drifting, You don't have that issue. But some, depending on what, It totally like-- -You know, I had some quirks for a while For example, I knew guys literally, you ever see -I'm sure you have. -Even when they come off of it -Still have these motions that are... -And for... -Well, some places they do pay rent. Some of them are government assisted. -He has a job and stuff, he pays-- -Those places look better in most of the world. Like that looks way better -So it's not necessarily the structure. -Or how well the electricity works, -Yeah, when I was up here Just driving around busting people It just depends on what time of day That was the case with me I was doing good. By world standards, and looking at me, You wouldn't know that I just got done and I'm selling you a car right now. -Interesting, so there's -Yeah. -You're talking to your banker, -Teachers teaching I mean that was the case I actually saved He's clean and off drugs today, man. It scared me to death, man. I was thinking I'm gonna have to -So the school administration isn't -I don't think because who thinks that I'm sure the random drug testing They might test 'em Maybe when they get on, never again? I just think society as a whole needs a better level of accountability. [clears throat] You know, who's naturing And we have to look at that, If everybody held everybody accountable This is from government officials on. They just found cocaine I mean c'mon. somber country [Chance] Rolling up to in Whitley City, Kentucky. This is one of the most devastated areas. It's been ravaged by drug addiction. But today there's hope here. We're all united, Saint John's Recovery, The Next Chapter, Protia, Come On Recovery,. There's all these programs [Peter] What got you into this [Cindy] I've had a lot of lost family and then I have a son. Um... Who is an alcoholic. So it's in my heart. -I've been told today with the drug issue in Appalachia. Pretty much everyone, it's sort of -It is, it's ubiquitous, it's everywhere. Um, for us here in Southeast Kentucky, I worked in law enforcement I saw the law enforcement and to me, I had a lot of family or incarcerated because of addiction. I wanted to see something different, this is something -How you doing, guys? I got the camera going this way. -We're gonna go straight Is anyone opposed to being on-camera? -I don't care. -You do? [group chuckling] -That's Alvin, his image is copyrighted, -If my wife blurs your face -I'm fine with it. -Okay, Alvin's in, cool. -We'll just slide through there. -How's it going so far? -Yeah? -Yeah, where you from? -From Kentucky? -Okay, McCreary County, -No sir, I'm from Tennessee. -Yes, sir. -What do you think of Kentucky? -Uh, it's pretty good. -I like it out here. -Uh, I don't know. -This might get you in trouble. [all chuckling] -So all you guys are cool -Yes, sir. Do they get into this? [Anthony] They're the ones -You're eating all this here? -Oh, yeah, -They've had squash, -Oh, nice. I gotta imagine there's -Actually Kentucky rivaled California for marijuana production for decades. [Anthony] All right, is when we've got some we take it out on these tires. And if you notice That's the one that gets the most abuse. The other tire is positive. But that negative tire So who's first to [Man] So a lot of times [thumping] [Man 2] Take a swing at that. [Anthony] Take a swing at it, buddy. __ [thump] [tire rolling] [thumping] [encouraging chatter] [Anthony] Put them muscles to work. [thumping] [Anthony] What's your negativity, brother? -There you go, Next? -Jordie. -How's it going right now for you? -It's going good, -This program saved your life? -It really did, I was at If it wouldn't been for Miss Cindy I overdosed five times. -Wow. -What did you OD on? -Heroin. -I lost my dad -I'm sorry, man. -I just felt lost, man. I really wanted to see I died five times on it and it really... [sniffs] I didn't feel nothing then I was looking at a lot of time. I had a... Had somebody tell me, Miss Cindy's rehab really saved my life. Saved my life, and my kids too, [sobbing] You've done a lot for me. -I love you. I've got my family back now I didn't feel nothing and I've really got -How many kids do you have? -Four, they're waiting for you to get out? They go to church with me You know, up until now, and the last four years I've not got -You what? I ain't got a sober picture But now I'm gonna get -It really means a lot. -I ain't been there for 'em. I sold drugs man, It wasn't a life man, it wasn't. Cindy has been really good, They've opened a great program here. -Are you married? -She waiting for you? I thought my marriage was gone, -Okay. So there is hope? People-- -There's hope, you just gotta If you don't do it for yourself, You gotta want it, You gotta wake up every day and strive -So Miss Cindy, I'm in Los Angeles, San Francisco, you see everyone on the streets Now the approach there is just sort of But how do you bring someone You guys can answer better than me. When you're in the drugs, Like what makes that change? I guess there's the law but if you don't then how do you get out? -They just have to want it. When you see the... They have to want it to get out of it Hopefully there's -That creates a change? -Okay. [sniffs] For some of 'em -Okay. You have four kids and a wife, You have to... -Man, I really thought -Sir, do you want to speak at all? -Sure. -I'm thinking love, when you feel like no one else does. The love from the community, and I think also hitting rock-bottom. Being at your lowest, -Okay. So you're from the area? -I'm from Arkansas -Okay, what drugs were you on -Doing a lot of alcohol. So how do you get out of like... Like you were the one that made or your family, or who did it? It was mostly me wanting to change, Um... Wanting to have a future. Actually wanting to live. Caring about yourself because I lost a lot of family members, and I felt like I was all alone Until I found a home, until I found Jesus. -I quit alcohol eight years ago. Best decision of my life. -Feel a lot better? -Freedom. -Not having to chase it, wanting a house, Um... Poverty really does exist though. So knowing that the world and you're never gonna have you're never gonna have a family, Having children... Who's gonna want to have children -Were you in a tent? Were you that low? -In a tent a couple times. -On the streets? I was one step away I found the Salvation Army, -Okay. Living in a rescue mission, but the people are I mean give you a bed So reaching out to resources, That's how I found the Salvation Army. I talked to a guy while I was in jail. Nashville's trying They bought a couple hotels, They'll go down to Tent City So apparently the city They're putting people Tent City's still getting bigger. -Yeah, because a lot of people in tents, most of those people want to be there, or at least that's the drugs speaking. They don't want to go to a facility where they have rules That's the last thing they want. They want the adventure of the streets, Easier to afford it -Yeah. -Don't have to pay rent, -Fentanyl is how much these days? [Man] Dirt cheap. [Peter] Dirt cheap? And meth is dirt cheap? -Oh yeah, dirt cheap. Sheriff said 2015, it was $2,000 an ounce, -$120 an oune. -$120 an ounce? -Pretty accessible, easy to find, right? -And how 'bout the vegetables here, [all laughing] -Lot of cabbage. -Let us know, sir. What were you saying? -That America's flooded with dope. Little cities, big cities, major cities. Like the flood gates are open to America. -Okay, when did it really start I mean it's always been there How many years ago? -What I've seen, That's when it started Once you get started, it's hard to stop. Really is hard to stop. This is my seventh or eighth My son's 25, he's a deputy sheriff now. He told me he called me, asked me I told him, said, &quot;F*ck you, man.&quot; I said &quot;I'm going to treatment.&quot; He said, &quot;You just gonna So how you gonna not -Well, I'm getting tools, Have a maintenance program in place. -'Cause I would think is everything that makes it work here. Now if you left his today, and you didn't know everyone, it could be easy to slip, right? So how do you keep that community? -You gotta stay plugged in. -You gotta stay plugged in? Okay. -I got almost five years clean in October I have to stay plugged in to recovery. -To a network of guys? -Yes, my support system, like Mike, Will, Chad, the events he puts on, um... Numerous people. You know, I tell these guys all the time, the phone I had in rehab Which was acquaintances. People that would use me for what I had or I could get The phone I got today has probably got that I've met through being in recovery, going through rehab, reaching out at meetings, because if I count on one person he doesn't answer his phone, and I'm having a bad day, But if I have a network of people this person, this person, And I'm gonna be all right, You know, we like... I tell these guys all the time, That's all we're promised is today. -You were raised by, I'm sorry... My dad sold dope, meth, sold all the time. He... From the time I was eight years old -Raided? -Yeah, they come kicked our door in, and that's just little kids. I got to spend two years -So you have to change -I don't want my kids It's hard enough looking at them They're gonna have to but I don't want my kids like that, It's been the worst you gotta break the cycle [Anthony] We have semi-private rooms. We just have two people in each room. -Okay. Some rehabs put -We don't do that. We're really proud This is one of my favorite rooms, If you ever watch the movie The War Room, So this is where our clients come write their prayers down, [rock music from speakers] -I was a $2.00 needle junkie. No good, manipulating thief, liar. I was everything the county labeled me as and I just celebrated -Congrats. -I lost my real dad to an overdose Um... He's been gone a year, at 70 years old. My step dad is doing for trafficking methamphetamine, I grew up in the game, you know? A dope home... money, guns, and drugs. Taught a lot of core beliefs, Done everything from A to Z. You know, But it took me hitting rock bottom, with a needle in my arm and I was 36 years old. And she told me to get everything I had. Which was a backpack, and get out of her house, I come from king size bed, silk sheets, Corvettes, Escalades, I mean I had the life you saw on TV. I was miserable on the inside, who was gonna get me? When the law was gonna get me. High on dope, um... Get pulled over, &quot;I'll never haul dope again.&quot; and they never found the dope, What we always do. But mom finally said, Mom never told me no. I ended up in a homeless shelter I've always asked God to help me. You know, help me get out of this, and that night I was scared, All them friends I said I had, I stole from 'em. Took TVs, rob, steal, cheat, It's what we do. But I said a prayer that night, &quot;God, if you're real, I woke up the next day You know, um... That was my moment, and I meant it. And I knew there was and I had to put something over dope, and I say dope from A to Z, I entered long-term treatment and for the first time they hugged me, and I told 'em to get off me, And they said, &quot;I love you.&quot; That's all I wanted to be told, I have a network, If you kill a deer, and unplug it, what happens? The meat goes bad. If I unplug from God and recovery, but through recovery this is what I do, I'm not a dope dealer, Been in magazines, I have a podcast, I have jail programs, I travel and speak to schools, God rewards me. I have a wife today, I'm 43, I have kids. I have people who depend on me. I have guys that feel the same way And there's hope. Get out of your way. [sniffs] I never dreamed I'd be God's got a plan for all of us. When that door opens I never dreamed I'd be doing this, Doing recovery rallies, my wife owns We have a 16 bed for men, Corbin's House, which is my little boy. The Jasmine's House And my wife has got She's... [clears throat] She's the boss, you know? I'm the dumbest tool in the shed I can survive, I use my voice For me, church is not my story, I don't know the Bible but I mean I'm a good person when I'm dealing hope. We're either taught bad Like I knew right from wrong. I knew not to steal but I stole. I know I can go to jail but it's the thrill of not getting caught. It's the thrill of doing it. But when you're taught from a convict house, nine times out of ten, you're gonna Um... Dropped out of school, no GED, no nothing. I could hustle. And today I have a GED, my vehicle's in my name Electric bill's in my name, The same number, don't gotta change it, I can get pulled over and I can give them Today I ride with police, and the police call me, &quot;Can you get him some help?&quot; God has blessed me with Listen, you can go into and I can go to any county and get hope. It's the same principles. -So if someone wants help -It's available? -Within 30 minutes. -Within 30 minutes anywhere in the state? -Yes. -So there's no lack of support system? -No. -Okay. -I recover out loud because I'm tired of losing people in silence. I was scared to say, &quot;Hey, I need help.&quot; As a man that's the hardest three words But I promise that's you're ever gonna say is I need help. Pride and ego. I was taught to be hard, And if you're gonna cry, And today it's okay for me to cry because I know I'll God gave us tears for a reason. But we'll say, &quot;Can I have some dope? I'm hurtin', but you can't say, &quot;Hey man, can you or shave my beard, or cook a steak?&quot; -You know what I'm saying? That's the real talk we don't gotta be tough, man. Tough people die There's so many resources, man, It's not, we can not stop it. I can't stop it. Us, as a team, we can save one. We can't save 'em all. I'm here to help one, In 2012 I was diagnosed with cancer. -Sarcoma. -Um, I've done treatments, two surgeries, and the doctor I was going to said, I'm a manipulator because they're not worth The doctor said, You can't tell me what your pain is But me not disclosing and you ask a drug addict I want something I can sell [crowd agreeing] And they'll write it. I'm a cancer survivor, make me a doctor's appointment, That's Kentucky for you. -So your wife used too? -You guys met in treatment? Wow. What a change. What were you saying about a phone? -The phone just traps people. These government phones It enables the transactions, When we have folks so they can go on to and do as Cliff said, grow, and continue The first thing they do I've taken folks down the road as the owner of a rehab. That person can't communicate of drug dealers trying to to get that fix as they're leaving here. The jails have become They make a lot of money If this jail is over capacity then they'll transport people Then if you get into juvenile detention, Jails have systems set up where and all kinds of other things, It's a real money making machine Now you'll find a lot of jails They may be or maybe On top of all that, you hear about Because you can go into jail... I was talking to somebody and the person was telling me, in prison at any time.&quot; That person's here with us now. [Man] I started using in prison. [Peter] You started using drugs in prison? -I just did four years in prison. I would literally watch three ounces get dropped off in prisons. -What prison? -CCA prisons across Tennessee. -It gets right through? -Guards drop it off. Easy, drones drop it off from the sky. -Drones come into the prison? They fly over and just drop it. They send somebody out to go get a pack. You can get needles in prison, meth in prison, cocaine, crack, whatever you want -So you don't go to prison No, you do not. You do not. When you go to prison It's either kill or be killed. So you can either get with it or not. They're basically just It's not to help you, 'Cause basically you're just Everybody takes a piece of metal, Where they can kill you, I've watched people I've watched... everything. People get beat to death. First one I ever seen, a guard. 25 inmates stomped He was 90% brain dead when they They can't stop nothing. -And that guy's making -About that, yeah. So basically they're putting So of course If an inmate comes to tells you, &quot;If not, we're gonna kill you.&quot; Quit your job? We'll send somebody That's what they do. It goes worldwide. It don't just stop one county, next county, The pandemic on drugs is everywhere. All across the United States, But you have to When you finally hit rock bottom A place like this. These people have reached out I wanted to get up and leave today. I didn't. Why? Because this man over here Taught me to give him a chance I made a promise to him And that's why I stayed here today. I'm over a week clean... sober. And I'm proud of it. [encouraging clapping] [Peter] All right, well that was awesome. Thanks for bringing us in. -Good stuff. -The main thing is no matter how dark it seems right now, no matter... there's no hope in your life, it seems like there's no way out, -Right. -I want you guys to know -I'm proof of that. I should be six foot deep but the grace of God will prevail. Give it to God, trust the process, You know, just like here. If you're in Kentucky, -Check us out of Facebook. Link down below in the description, guys. -All these people you have seen today... The restoration, it's there guys. Don't give up hope. -Good stuff. Without people like you, would have an understanding I want to say that is, tip of the iceberg. -Absolutely. But I learned a lot today. So thank you. Thanks for coming along on that journey. Until the next one. somber country