In case you missed it, the Mario Kart Pro Guide website from the Pro Guide, shortcat.pro, to help We'll see if this stuff actually works or if is good to be back. It's been like a month since don't know how to talk anymore. But, uh, today I a one-week break after that, and we are right start bagging. [laughs] I know that's what you for helping out with the website shortcat.pro. thought this was a running track because there of makes sense also based on my past experiences. get the double item box 'cause of the banana, but the cannon puts first place so far away from you. you can still get really good items there. So I set. And, okay, lots of mushrooms I'm gonna try and hold one to, uh, accelerate here. Just I would usually run on this track, but today I'm and improve based on the Pro Guide. Yes, the Pro you know, I'm not the best Mario Kart player. I please. Yes, that is so good. Okay, um, so the of getting like stars and bullets and also the I can dodge it right here. Also, there's a bullet I found myself, but thank you to Euan for helping take me around this turn. Oh, what? It didn't! I I recorded them all on Yoshi Teddy 'cause that's I have to use the bullets a little bit later. But this. Oh, perfect shock timing! Yes, let's go! that banana. We are in first place! What? This trust in Gyrodos' advice. Let's go! That's a first bagging track. Let's go! I'm learning so much from gonna predict the track. Oh, it's Grumble Volcano. literally wrote most of this. I already know this. spots. Um, yeah, okay. We're just gonna use my person who made a lot of the Pro Guide, I already so I can't always benefit from it. But yeah, um, probably bagging at this point. Ugh! Well. So this first place anyway because people were gonna did. So we are just gonna bag from here. And broken item set, which means that there is an really far. Right here, this one. It's not that I got a blue shell, that's not very good. But pull stuff like the bullet and shock compared to of stuff to know in this game. Okay, so we're All right, this is fine. Give me the coins. Nice. set. Uh, we're going to mostly focus on dodge Break, break, here we go. Pretty good. [Music] take the shortcut and hopefully get a good item Nice! Okay, okay, try to steal that mushroom on we are getting another item. Here I got a crazy anyone, I got to spam this. I used all my items this is not good. Oh, I messed up the line so Let's hope I don't get punished for that. [Music] I already have a banana, so I don't need another we might be okay if no one takes shortcut. Yes, Guide! This time I picked 3DS Rainbow Road because Predict the track. It's gonna be random. This drafter. No, I'm starting in first. Pay attention three is very chaotic. Be safe during that here we go. Here we go. There's actually a lot Shortcat.pro is really working out for me. here so no one can draft me, but that's probably bananas right behind me. I'm gonna get that boxes just don't get hit by the triple bananas. seven coins, I don't need to go wide for those. This is very dangerous to drop this bomb because with the red shell. Now they can see it. Okay, gonna spam that. [Music] Okay, good lines, good that was not very good. Okay, if they don't have a Sneak attack, got him, yes! There's a blue banana forward. You hardly save any time afterwards. Woohoh! This Tanooki Mario is not There's more. Face this way. Oh, okay, that was Tanooki Mario and Tanooki Mario violence is not Shortcat. Oh, you're welcome. Okay, full 12 player what we get. We're getting Baby Park. What's [laughs] It start at any position. Ah, that's not to take advantage of that. Top spots are extremely chain all your dodge items there. All right, um, gonna try and follow the advice here, and I'm just immediately switch to bagging. I don't know if can, you're just very luck-based. Okay, that's need these coins. And, uh, so I'm gonna try and always going to, um, do like what I think is best to follow what is, like, ''the best strategy on on your situation a lot. And so today, though, I'm we get to lap four here, I'm gonna start chaining Nice. Okay, here we go. Here we go. Nice. I'm gonna use this bullet into the shortcut, that use the shock. Shortcat.pro. Yes! Shortcat.pro mushroom right here. What?! This--This guide is played like that before, but after trying to out. I've never won four races in a row in such the way you predict a track is when it slows a 12-player room. Okay, we got Riverside Park, and Focus on coins a lot early. Yep, there aren't too thanks, Gyrodos as well. Okay, so the end is play Riverside Park. No great bullet spots, but I'm gonna start bagging again. I'm not gonna to show you why you shouldn't do it, but I'm get a coin item. Yep, grab these coins. This so I'm just gonna run a little bit at the start. here we go. Okay, well, there's four other people here, let's switch to bagging. If I can have I actually might have a better chance running not too worried about your exact situation and do on this track, bagging is definitely better. I get shock right now, that's completely fine. everything's barely missing me. I'm gonna and then the golden mushroom is going to help me too many people here, so it should last the whole though, so it's just gonna last till this point. hoping to dodge a shock, but instead, just grab do not need this. Give me the double. Wait, what? is where it all goes downhill. I should have just bagging is definitely the play here. I'm just I probably shouldn't have stopped at the first five times in a row. Not even the pro guide can do the most important. Yep, I know this. Falling off um, okay, I also need to try not to get bumped Ooh. Okay, a couple. I'm gonna leave these on, but hopefully I can just be at the front. Starting it's very hard to get coins on this track, and I the safe strat I do online for this, uh, this air hops, I'm gonna stay slightly left here. I'm here if I get bumped off. No, this is great. This in the pro guide. You need to, um, practice Let's not get backed by them. [Music] Alright, I could win this race. I'm just gonna hold these just cuz, like, I could cycle for mushrooms, but no shortcuts. So I'm just mainly trying to defend blue shelled. There we go. [Music] Okay, they hit threw a banana forward and--Oh no no no no no no to slightly dodge their blue shell explosion. even getting the boost panels. This is okay. I'm rid of this. Hope I get red shells. Okay, okay, Yeah, let's go. I'm risking it for first. Oh, it's actually gonna hit. Did my shells hit? Oh, come on. They can't get the trick. Kusaan Slide, like, a tenth of a second, and I won because of pro guide. Let's go! Nooo. Oh, okay. Well, let's so pretty much bag and bullet extensions. I'm not Uh, let's see. Yeah, more bullet extensions than waterfall shortcut. I didn't even know you could But yeah, um, more bullet extensions too. Let's do like four people going backwards for coins. Okay, the beginning does not matter. So, let's red somebody wants to run, and I'm not letting learned recently that there can only be three can be kind of tough sometimes because you like, dodging the shock is good too because so so far behind. So that works too. I mean, look up to 10 and be a little bit further behind. Keep there's the shock. Perfect. Right at the item we go. Okay, so I want to show off this bullet use at this spot, but it's so cool. Okay, so we're go up to this flower and just use it, and, like, It's an earlier point. Usually, you want to use after this sharp left turn, but here, watch this. and I can just get an orange mini-turbo. I'm in so I think, oh, I should have went for a coin, gonna use it now, get rid of the blooper, and There's a blue shell. I didn't slow down in me right for not using a better invincibility when I'm big, hopefully. Come on, come on. they moved all the tires. [Music] So, I'm why you can't even run Yoshi Circuit for, like, there's gonna be a shock. It's not possible. It and blue shells are gonna show up. I got unlucky, Daisy Circuit. I'm realizing you don't really it just takes so long. Um, it's a drafter. Okay, so this is good. I'm gonna try and draft people be great. Bullet Bill spots? Okay, I'll keep this let's see if I can get any drafts at the start. well, I'm just gonna be in first, that's not draft off them just in first? I guess I don't coins. It can be hard to get coins on this track. didn't expect them to run into that. Wow, okay. Let's go for double item box here just to be a but there's a single item box coming up, and I to reveal my bomb. Oh couldn't get that coin. actually good. Oh, there I--slow down, slow down. I did, I did. Nice. Okay, let's bomb everyone now. it wasn't for the blooper, but okay. We're just not a lot of coins. Item lag. All right, this so I'm gonna save one mushroom for the there. What the--I'm getting red shelled. It's This is so bad. I had to bump the wall double item see what we can get. Protection, you're dead. Oooh, what a chaotic race. Okay, I even backed out for the blue shell, but that Okay, Runner. Um, bullet spots. Ooh, quite a right before the halfpipe. An important thing to and you're like, &quot;Oh, I ended up getting a bad So maybe a pro can tell me exactly what I did like I didn't really make mistakes, and I played case. Or I'm unable to see what I did wrong. Like, in general, I'm very happy with my play there, 8 Deluxe definitely has a lot of luck. Okay, that lot of luck involved sometimes, so you can try not bad result, because sometimes you actually did losing every race, then yeah, you're doing well right now. I'm not making a lot of driving So I--I had to avoid one of the coins there to try get away from that person with a star. Ooh, whoa, fine, that's fine. Give me this coin. Okay, okay, to stay away from the threats though. Give me There's a piranha plant [laughs] All right, this--I oh, so many threats. Yeah, two people taking I really need an item here. Come on. Okay, good. too scary with how easy it is to get hit. [Music] apparently. [Music] I heard a Bullet Bill. right now. Okay, nice. Invincible for the Is this shortcut faster? Who knows? [laughs] I started playing okay near the end, but the start, and so I deserve that eighth place. about. Use it after the ramp. Okay, we're gonna in the second part of the shortcut, it is if it's too risky with bumps. All right, so drafting is gonna be very nice here. Hopefully, to get hit, and I missed an item. Wow, wow, this this sucks. Okay, so now I know if I get a bad yeah, I'm not at risk of being bumped here, so Nice. Yeah, that was very risky. Okay, okay. I'm during those situations so I don't fall off. Ooh, I'm--I'm gonna be nice to you. I'm gonna be the no, no, no. You are not trailing that. [laughs] right--wait, I'm doing so well right now. How am I got a fire flower, and I had to smart steering Okay, that was an early blue shell too, so I'm--I off the shortcut or something. It's okay, I have though, and if someone throws a red shell at me, much better to have blue shell protection in I missed the second trick again. [Music] All red shells can hit me from here, but I'm gonna shell. Don't really need to watch the mini-map for Very peaceful race here. This was an undeserved messed up the beginning. It was so bad. Wall I'm still getting blue shelled. Blue shell the All right, well, that's just unlucky. You know the first red shell with my mushroom. That way, I and maybe I could have won, but I don't know. so I was kind of doomed either way. Third place blue shelled. Let's see. Okay, um, first and last is a drafter and bagger. The fact that bagging Kind of like DK Summit because there's not a broken item sets and how long the track is. And as always, I like to run this track. We'll see if Nope, not quite. [Music] All right, so I will Okay, there's a draft someone else got, uh, it says the track is a drafter, it does mean it which is just the first section of the track. after this point. Mushrooms don't help too much. but this is salvageable. All right, nice. right? They're gonna lag back on in a second, just in first. There's a blue shell, that's fine. okay. Guess I kind of dodged the shock too. especially the people behind me they got grow. Yes! Okay, gotten much better at that. nothing you can do about that. Just--oh no, that they get blue shelled. Whoa, this Tanuki Mario is didn't want them to get me with their red shell, trail, but it straight-up hit them. Okay, I'm into your trail. What are you--what is going on? Is thought there was a blue shell that I didn't see, they have a teammate that they're on a call with please. I think I got him, or maybe it was just on was not gonna be able to dodge them. Wha--[laughs] a good sign. It's a good sign if you're getting lot. It means I'm playing pretty well right now. fifth place. [laughs] It is kind of a bagger after red shells behind me, and you know, that's kind is still a great result. [Music] Ah, yes, this can be hard to get coins unless you skip some of extensions at the first Tiki Goon, at the final yeah, let's keep these up. All right, let's see if be some bad bumps. You have to remember to turn on Wow, I'm in first. Guess other people got bumped a to the coin, so that's nice. What? I've--I've never so weird. Okay, so we're in a bit of trouble here is nice. This is just some good items. Ooh, first and now I have red shell protection and blue Almost messed that up, and I can get to 10 shell protection in your second slot. [Music] their blooper taken away from the boost panels. they get way too close, I almost want to super ShortCrab? I didn't even realize her name. I'm so anything else 'cause I need to prove that this pro the blue shell. Not gonna back out. Come on, make early. [Music] Blue shell is gonna only come every for the rest of the race. So now I need to protect great items. There's a bullet coming up let's go! I'm so glad I'm not having to use at the front. This was definitely one of the best being informed of the strategy on the track so I out my pro guide and the website shortcat.pro if