So myself and eBay, we're building a from their site. How are we getting Listen to that, singing beautifully! yeah! Already the guys for Marvel Studios Is that the Avengers? Are you still at the but James Bruton, has been up. We've got controls? Look at that look, Bruton electronics and Furze engineering, Now you can see how he's done all which is linked at the end of this video. Right next part in this project, we need to do baring off the top of the legs, cuz we're gonna they're gonna be able to go up at the elbows, able to do, is do like that and that and actually gonna get quite cramped inside the I basically measured the legs, measured that's how big the legs are going to be. Whereas of like two-thirds of the whole thing. The body So it's got a little bit stumpy! So for me to so that extra joint would have took up a it's all good. I have got a CAD drawing of what what we're concentrating. I'm gonna make some to go across and stick out, because if you look his elbows so that's gonna follow that. Then bearings, another box of bits that goes down to the hand which for some reason there must have been a software glitch, it's got the measurements we need. cut them all out, weld it together, it's just going to be a little mini montage as far as Oh yeah. we got some arm It's gonna be a beast init! Next thing we need to is some arms! Come on, join you fool! yeah is there an outlet know you get it to the end to stop. yeah because it's at the end or not. Now then Avengers how high are you likely to want your okie-dokie, right, Rick's gone to bed, but because of the arm at the moment goes too far you know close enough. We don't want it to probably you're gonna touch itself and things like I took the plate which I made which the Pistons and I've lost it! I've sat down and I've lost pac-man looking thing, to this little ghost or it's on the on the box the same, but it just moves bring it in and not send it up so high, yes, yes That is no different at all, what if... okay so it will go up, not too far! this is so heavy. Bottoms out there and then goes back Next thing, gears, motor gearbox, to try and add another pump because we've go on the arms. Oh this is the most Okay to make the body rotate, this is what I've wonderful koala shape looking piece, and it'll and then we've got a little bit of adjustment, it in, and then look at this... I have excelled of which the sprocket will run round. now this I haven't got any 6mm stuff, that's the right stick it up underneath their, bolt that down, pull out but in the meantime but the back is where the gonna weld that on there, hydraulic pump go on and then that is kind of like a separate top the bearing and the bottom bit will stay together gotta think humanely we've got to be able to because everything is extremely heavy! so be two more things suspended on the back here. cylinders in the arm, and then a little seat and so I can sit in there, and then after that, it's tidy all this up, get it on, get it tested. We got a helmet! that looks massive! It's big! when you're worried if the scale on everything slowly! Anyway what was I doing? I was making Just doing up the old hoses! Colin has been a busy boy! Check it out. we've got a gas bottle, we got an air tank this is a bit I'm pleased Not bad considering I've not messed Right next job, going to get an arm, put a cylinder cuz it's got no Mount it on here, and then see where all because it might need to put some clips and then we can shove it up on the legs, I am Iron Man! 24RPM Spinning in the lathe! OH, OH, OH! Ready? Hulkbuster up! Do you want to do the arms? Yeah! Brilliant! There were the first Avengers mechanically complete. I've really enjoy it's been pretty cool, very steep learning have all it's skin on and we can have a this video, and also is linked is auto see how he's done his go check it out. He's a really clever