Windows 8. The operating system that marked a for some of you watching this video, hearing that favorite releases of Windows. But perhaps some However you feel about it, you can't deny that a completely new approach to Windows, and in Microsoft's vision set out by Bill Gates in and in every home, running Microsoft software". Of the company already had a huge majority in the expand this reach into other areas of consumer share was lacking. I'm sure that all of us know huge focus on touch. And how it was the first ARM-based devices. But how exactly did Microsoft in Windows 7, to the radically new redesigned how were they able to accomplish this major we're gonna be exploring the development process I'll be taking you through 4 unique builds of different stages of the development process, occured between these builds up until Windows Believe it or not, the development process for before Windows 7 was released in 2009. Windows Windows releases of all time. And because of their next major release of the OS. From the very of Windows to be able to run on tablets. But Windows release aimed at tablet computers. Windows Windows XP even had an entire dedicated release on here. What made this next release of Windows Electronics Show. Microsoft officially announced to run on ARM-based devices, in addition to the prior and would be continued to be used in the on Bill Gates's original vision saying that and Windows will be everywhere on every kind of referring to touch screen tablet computers, which the release of the iPad in 2010. Microsoft wanted they had to create a version of Windows to run on limited version of Windows like in the case of touchscreen support right into their flagship the resulting version of Windows designed it was visually identical to Windows 8 and were consistent across both versions. The applications. As Windows RT was designed for not run any standard Windows applications and was all know about the massive changes in Windows which was removed entirely in favor of the 2011 when Microsoft officially announced this Microsoft developers were working hard to based devices. A screenshot of an early build revealed in an official Microsoft blog post on discusses the development process behind getting we can see the device running a few standard Command Prompt, the On Screen Keyboard, and even Windows development process, the first few known and even still identify themselves The first known build to include more visual 1 build of Windows 8 that was compiled on build remained unchanged and looked identical to system for the first time however, you'll start that this is a confidential development build "let's not leak our hard work" desktop wallpaper. in the Personalization settings, meaning that 7 wallpaper file with this one. Additionally, in this case Microsoft employees and contingent their contract terminated if they disclose this Underneath that warning message, we can see that Build 7850". This can also be seen by running version as 6.1, which is Windows 7's NT version. build is the user icon seen in the bottom right of pop up and display options to change user settings Another change can be seen by opening up most text has been centered. Fun fact, centered title being reintroduced in Windows 8. The version of OS is a beta release of IE 9, which was still in like these are the only major changes in this features that can be enabled by adding keys to versions of Modern UI applications: A PDF Reader, opens up in a window, just like a normal Windows there are no buttons or scrollbars, and the only your mouse anywhere on the screen. Signifying a multitouch surface. The same can be said about screen just like a Modern UI app does in Windows and definitely intended for use on a touch screen. UI in Windows Explorer. It is not fully complete but the buttons do perform their respective is the experimental version of the more detailed Windows 8. In this build, it's called the Modern regular NT Task Manager that is still used. You used on the top bar. The change view button does does open up Windows Help and Support. However, stating that this application is undergoing to help documentation is expected to fail. There saying that it will be functional after some experimental new user interfaces, including these features are restricted by Microsoft's was a way for Microsoft to limit access to certain restricted features could only be enabled by an internal server, and still remains unleaked to were able to create programs that attempted to called Redlock, was actually released earlier this hidden features. After Redlock runs and reboots implementation of the Start Screen when you log 8, this screen completely replaces the regular Start button completely change, and there's also upon closing the menu. As for functionality, launch programs from the menu and even search for or by just typing at any moment. What you can't them. You can scroll through the UI using the and dragging your mouse on any area of the screen, signifies that this interface was designed for use Redlock is the Charms menu. By pressing Windows you will open up a very experimental version of as the final version, but there are no animations, Our next build to take a look at is 7927. This is on February 14th, 2011. Meaning that about 5 The initial setup process is exactly the same as as Windows 7, however this build was based on which was based on Windows 7 Enterprise. You to notice changes though, as that happens right setup. On the next screen, you'll see that the the Windows 7 Logo, which has also been entirely you will be presented with a new crossword of Windows 7's default one. We still have the along with the small menu in the system tray references to Windows 7, including on the desktop Operating System. The Microsoft Confidential text and the NT version is now 6.2, which was Windows in this build is the Microsoft Help program. to load a webpage, which is unsuccessful. By to the restricted features. Upon logging back in, substantially updated. It also replaces the Start different colors, and there's also a new Desktop desktop. This tile can be resized as well. If an early version of the Modern UI settings will yet, but there are a couple of settings that can acts similarly to the Device Manager. One thing like you normally would. The item will appear to Screen. If you browse around in Explorer, you will changed to a more flat icon. This icon did not Since you cannot access all of your programs from folder that can be created which shows all of enabled access to the new Out of Box Experience user right after they finish installing Windows, first time. The logon screen has been overhauled You can even enable an early version of the lock before logging in. This screen displays a large also take a look at the Webcam program, which build. There is a new background, as well as some program, it will automatically pin itself to the but nonfunctional implementation of the "Reset 8. The Windows-7 like wizard will launch, but it An interesting note is that this tool actually being one of the only programs that I could name. Inserting this build's install disc gave us flatter autorun menu. The CTRL+ALT+DEL screen larger font size. Task Manager has also been complete. Although the hardware utilization Build 7989 is a Milestone 3 build that was passed since 7927 was compiled. Like the previous during the initial installation process. However we will be greeted with a brand new boot screen Welcome text beneath the dots was removed for the placeholder image. One it boots, we will see the like out of box experience. At first glance, the last build. Sure there is a new desktop but the system still largely resembles Windows restrictions. By running Redlock and rebooting the new Start Screen has the ability to move app tiles similar to the final release. Even the right click the user icon at the top right does not display Control Panel. This interface has more tabs and previous build. You still cannot pin items to the desktop theme. You can see that the Aero interface been slightly changed. The Charms menu got time. There's even the flyout search menu that is animations are much more fluid when switching After Milestone 3 came the Pre-Developer public release of Windows 8 Developer Microsoft developers compiled Build 8056 on July The setup process has been slightly redesigned, The logo at the beginning simply says Windows, Pre-Release Windows Client. The background presumably used as a placeholder. Everything about previous build. When the system loads the next differences. The "Microsoft Confidential" text has and the background appears to be displaying and white version of the Windows 7 setup a solid black color. The logon screen looks very which in previous builds had been missing, now also some slight changes in the logon messages. "Preparing your PC". The desktop background variant of the crossword internal wallpaper. along with the version string on the desktop, Developer Preview". You're going to notice right this build are close to being just like they were the desktop still resembles Windows 7 with the that is enabled by running Redlock looks much the tile icons for certain applications like which would have different icons upon Windows around the interface are also much smoother. files using the search flyout interface, options accessible than in the previous build. which again looks very close to the final release. left. The only real difference in design between displayed on the start button. You can also to a few menus and get the same time and date 2 months after Build 8056 was compiled, Microsoft Windows 8 at their 2011 BUILD conference. This Preview. Despite the name, this build could be website. The company claims that in just 12 hours, Developer Preview. This was significant, because could get access to what would eventually become the new Start Screen and Modern UI Interface. The in a couple of places, mainly on the desktop. along with the Start Button, albeit with a newer in the final release of Windows 8, but 8.1 would preview releases of Windows 8: the Consumer in May. Until Windows 8 would be officially So guys, that is a retrospective look back led to the creation of Windows 8. and I hope you guys enjoyed watching it. If up. And if you want to see more videos like this on those channel notifications so you'll get I do multiple times per week on this channel. If be sure to drop those down below. And as always, and for your continued support here on the