Here's a question. How did we In 2014, there were less than 25 "Today, the trend is growing faster than ever." "You're locked in a room finding "It's the latest worldwide fad." Now, there are almost 2,000, How did this industry grow while I talked to more than a dozen people. "Anybody can build something that's, you know, rival Disney in the escape room world that And I learned basics like the crazy guests. "They were using language "They found it so shady. But they thought "One guy, he punched the door between rooms And the seriously addicted ones. "You know, and I could keep naming companies for you. I could rattle them off like Bubba "Shrimp salad. Shrimp and But I also discovered a rapidly "We've done some that were over And answers to why an experience "Yeah, we get the question a lot. but we answer it... What's our answer to it?" "Four years of our lives, and we do not Okay, so I made this avatar, who I think kinda right, but, I got the t shirt, then I found to wear pants like that in real life? He can, Let's just say the apple (Music appropriate for "A lot of this isn't standardized. you'll hear different people talk about The origin is also pretty muddy. For that, I'm going to go to David, who by the end I've had some people ask about the origin People are like...Japan. "It's super soft. There, there are three, there Japan. One is 5 Wits in Foxborough, company that also no longer exists But what we are talking about is in the room with some padlocks and puzzles Remember, this is in 2013 "When we opened, there was one company we it was just four white walls with a whole bunch couldn't have spent more than a thousand dollars it was terrible, but it was so early days and You usually play in a team, and it consists and private ones, in which Europe and the UK, they've almost always had thing, and that's declined a lot since COVID. You Your goal then, as it mostly is today, was to navigate themed puzzles: space, Themes that you have, is, is that determined I think this would be cool, you know, like, "So a common thought process is that the spookier themes Those are the ones that really you know, they do okay They're You can tell you're talking to a nerd because "It's fun. It's a fun game, but Almost all escape rooms charged by the hour. People will need maybe a half hour And somebody asked this, they asked, how group goes in? Do they have a whole "We don't normally replace things everything back to where it was. stringent rules on how that happens. It probably started with pretty simple lots of other tech. I talked to Alastair, escape room puzzles for owners. He's got a which is in that kind of software "In the beginning though, things were who study game design and who have monitored to generations of escape rooms. And anything from about 2012 to 2016, no, very, We were looking at combination padlocks. And area that was closed behind a door. And so there's had a knock on effect in puzzle design generally, are known as escape room puzzles that are Nate started his escape room in he's had them on cruise "Those things are built to, to withstand drunk uncles by the thousands." But in 2013, it was just the beginning, and the "That's not even just the props and the you know, registration, business license, let's was pennies on the dollar, that's why we Nate is the earliest escape room owner that I got "And one of the very first it was a, it was a big deep "In 2015, Market Watch put out this article called the unbelievably lucrative "You can make your escape room company for the ages. I hope they teach us a "And this seems to correlate boom that happened in the escape room space." Budgets ticked up with that, "We spent maybe $10,000 to build that it had a, I found a toilet on, on Craigslist jail. And we just kind of decorated the whole revolutionary because nobody had played an Nobody had played an escape room with a hidden you know, that was sort of the step Okay, before we get to that, I actually want to and that wouldn't have been possible-- which is Notion. So important to help me I manage projects in Notion, but it is Notion's I'm going to tell you how. I had like I needed like a research assistant process all of that. I'm just So you can access Notion AI at any start asking a question, or you can You see this little Notion face. He's got very cute little facial expressions. Uh, now I have the transcripts word but it's harder to search for like a feeling or something that I vaguely remember using So I was kind of curious why people don't and I know somebody mentioned that keeping So it's got Victor talking about this bachelor party. That's what I remembered and "We hardly have any bachelor parties like that's a market that worked. for instance, we, we don't allow So if you look here, they have a marketplace and they have some templates that use this AI meeting summaries template. And well, I'm having a meeting with these So I customized those meeting summaries to So that is just the process that I used for this let me know in the comments and description to get started with Notion Thank you, Notion, for sponsoring this Let's get back to it. Around this time, 2015 ish, a lot more escape Spoiler alert, many escape rooms are more than complicated. Typically, it's a staff with helps players and will watch them during their Most of the people I talked to said that the game salaried ones. So you can see from the beginning building them, and maintaining them and then Some owners have even tried to improve that sending one group into part of a room while It's been limited though. Still, escape rooms spit off cash, especially "I had like, I don't know, 20 grand, something adventure and we get the small office space old office building, like zero visibility, we get our money back in like two, three weeks." So if you're like me, you're noticing maybe kind of cycling through these escape rooms they reset and repeat after that initial And then make a profit. The other is how does this still cost so much money "Buying all these electronics? They cost a lot of on the guts for the electronics. Um, then you right? Like you have to build things. You have come inspect it. You have to have electricians. you want it to be five different rooms with a partition those games, to move your sprinklers, and then you have to move your sprinklers. And then you do have to worry about "I've had someone rip a "People are destructive gremlins." "I've had a safe ripped out of a wall, "It's a real struggle and a constant battle." "My first night, someone carved "It's just unbelievable. The, the brutality." "I originally expected breakage to be somewhere it's somewhere around 10/15 percent of my "You watch enough escape rooms being played, "Once a month, some, someone "People pee?" "Yes, yes!" "My favorite is, uh, you know, whatever, HempFest or whatever happens in the take naps for an hour. These are my favorite Nothing's gonna get broken. They're friendly. enjoy the air conditioning for a But I talked to all these people and even stick growth, customer expectations rose a lot. And so as a result, escape rooms The set designs are getting better. whole experience is amping up, and that "Early on, it was looked at as a cash grab. Like so easy anymore. It's, it's very difficult "Generally, the trend has expecting more high tech. more magic experiences." Around this time, set designers too. I talked to Trey, who had This is kind of a common thing. If you think about it, "I wanted to grow my company from just doing you know, you got 30 days to make your money. He started designing sets for museums. he started designing sets for them. "We have built escape rooms now, literally all building we're in is like 22,000 square our production facility. Then we have a little over 6,000 square feet. build our own stuff. We test it here. We put you know, how it works. We get to develop it The same is true for Grant, who has puzzles and immersive experiences now for What kind of stuff do we have in back of you? "I know you'll probably not believe me, my shop is very small. I just finished groups through to test it. Also behind me, you know, I have, there's a There's a whiteboard to the left there's whiteboards. I just You know, from the very beginning, it world is sort of these, these two but sometimes don't, where it's like, "It's like if you're the type of person that paint it and write a story and get excited that's great, because those are all Some chains are entering the business sells escape rooms kind of pre-packaged around either building or designing their own games, thousands of escape rooms around the world, There are also escape room chains everyone I talked to though actually The Escape Game, because they feel like they of escape rooms in general, and doing a good restaurant industry, in which yes, TGI Fridays I think these are also a is seeing even more challenges as it matures. It's embarrassing, but how of the building? I don't know how to pronounce it. "Beurs van Berlage. So there's a I'm so glad I didn't even attempt. "(Laughter) The former stock exchange." Okay, so before we get to the world of -- this room is just gorgeous. I want to set it shook out a lot of owners who were who remained were in a new world. After seven or eight years, you might drain the tech or draw repeat users. If you don't have So the competitiveness of the whole industry is forcing everybody to level up and You also start to get escape room How long has Morty been going for? "Yeah, Morty's been around about four years. We're our user base has logged about a million yeah, people find all the escape rooms, they I talked to Andy, he's the CEO of art, which is pretty awesome. Chuck Close. And he can see stuff like How do you see the mix between these bigger franchise and chain escape "There's a lot more mom and pop than there are about escape rooms is that they really are mostly independent businesses. They've got three the reasons there's still so much innovation rooms. We think the theme park is unbundled. for the first time can build experiences that And you know I talked to David Room Escape Artist. This is something It started off as just a blog. a directory of all different escape rooms, "I left a lucrative job in tech to be doing this. you know, my wife Lisa, she still works full time. Artist. There are, there are probably about some on the podcast, some on the I want you to imagine Anton Ego from Ratatouille. But with the power to affect "The new needs friends." Fan focused resources like Morty and have affected the direction of the industry. "We had sort of fallen into the escape through haunted houses and stuff. we're really into adventure games, I talked to Zach. He ran an escape room, but called Doors of Divergence and it's at this "There's so much room for experimentation and so you know, I believe in the premium entertainment, And then, there's Amsterdam. So, like most of my videos, this one is a little even from my interviews is that Amsterdam In Europe, they're able to buildings and get access to more real materials. "We pay a lot of money for the privilege of but I think we get it back. We get, we get you want it to, like, when it's, you know, to the touch. And so we now went the extra Also, escape rooms have a slightly "A lot of the earliest, the first ones in The of the escape room scene in The Netherlands, background and so they all have that thing that itch to make it as good as it possibly can. To Victor and Francine run Sherlocked, this They have three experiences. The Alchemist is "We had multiple moments where it was like, um, there was a chance that the company would go got the wood price would go up by 20 percent of that. Which meant like suddenly So I mean, is this all being supported by all can work with or sort of things from you know, I'm just trying to kind of understand. "I do hear from escape rooms that, less ambitious games that sometimes But what I see across the industry for the problem. There's always a demand for very So that $100,000 room budget? So I came away from this really also inspired. They are struggling through that's really cool. I talked to Logan. He escape room builders and owners. And he's only him talk and he's kind of encyclopedically He's also super conscious on advancing well designed puzzles. "So for my escape the '80s game, it was an you actually play this old 80s type game, and room. And I reached out to a fabricator, the and I managed to build the whole machine myself but it also, you know, it took me a to do what I need to do and then And if that weren't enough, Boris in how everything has come full circle. be inspired by early games like Myst or Riven, And well, now escape room simulator is a thing. "We did like a cool thing because of real life escape rooms. Ccurrently in the game there is like 40 escape rooms and also The category is also growing too. It is growing into immersive games, into "We look at escape rooms as part of sort of park. We see escape room owners really as like are increasingly immersive and stimulating "There are so many escape rooms, despite it because there are just so many creators that "Every time you get somebody to realize the magic of a great escape room? Everyone in "You know, I'm not here during the Thomas started to invent sound. I think that's, "Wait a minute, you ain't heard nothing yet." Alright, that is it for this one. Thank you so you for your questions that you submitted on escape room owners, hopefully answered them to the owners and builders and Everyone was so generous with their time. And they want to promote their business. So they talk somebody promoting somebody else's work, saying that I talked to and I just thought it was are grinding through a business, but they still I thought it was really cool really inspiring. in a while. It has grown exponentially I have a reaction video to this one up there with an article, and I think this secret economics of axe throwing. I didn't but Aleksei owned an axe throwing "What is hard is to teach others. Because when and some, uh, some people, they just don't You're gonna love it. There's something wouldn't expect. So, there's a Click it if you want to find that out. but it's entirely free. So, no reason not to with you about present and future videos. All much for watching. And uh, yeah, I hope you, All right, bye.