- Hello, my beautiful doves. My name is Mina, and today about dieting. I don't know if you guys made any new year's resolutions this year. I think mine is just to learn French. I've been on Duolingo and I've been doing it everyday. And I sound like a little from Emily in Paris. - Merci, have a bonne journee. - While I was thinking and trying to come up with I was thinking about how some to be like, &quot;Oh, I'm gonna exercise more.&quot; Which really should be my Another really popular And I get it, it's we're going into. And most of us don't go A lot of us who would be going into the office are now sitting around in pajamas with adjustable waistbands all day. And also we've just survived Thanksgiving and the holiday season. So yeah, I understand why new year's resolution for a lot of people. But then I got to thinking with losing weight to begin with. So what I have found, I'm and it's a lot, it's a lot. So let's dive in. (TV static) Thank you, Ritual, for So speaking of new year's resolutions, if you want a simple and you can try incorporating into your routine to support Ritual multivitamins provide on a daily basis. Everyday you take two nine high quality nutrients or colorants. I like Ritual above other because I appreciate the about the ingredients they use. You should know everything in your body and Ritual and tells you where they and the environmental The vitamins are vegan-friendly, allergen-free, and contain no added sugar. Ritual also currently offers a men's multivitamin, a 50 plus, prenatal, postnatal, teen vitamins, They have a subscription to your door once a month. Right now, Ritual is offering a 10% off your first three months, and or my code MINALE to get started today. (TV static) (gentle music) Also, just as a disclaimer, about dieting practices, and so if those are triggering topics for you, I recommend you skip out this time. So let's start in the 19th century. I know a lot of you who've are like, &quot;Mina, why do we keep starting in the 19th century?&quot; It's because a lot happened, okay? Most historians will agree when the dieting craze started. But that's not to say that or there weren't like anti-fat campaigns before the 19th century. I believe the earliest documented public anti-fat campaign was But it's important to note that back then and really up until the 20th century, having a little bit of Like thinness was associated with starvation, disease, poverty. Fatness on the other hand was associated with health, longevity. Beauty. And so needless to say these were largely ignored by the public. It was then in the 18th that obesity started to become classified as a medical problem. And this coincided with just on conspicuous consumption. For those of you who conspicuous consumption is basically when you just buy things or of showing off your status and wealth, not because you actually So like think of a guy driving a Ferrari in New York city, you know? Or in this case, if we're ordering everything on the menu even though you couldn't Early advice manuals for of overindulgence, of overeating, saying that it was and unenglish. And yes, you heard me, I in the 19th century, dieting There's also an article published in 1855 that argued about how being of the upwardly mobile. This article was talking like people who were born they, from a young age, of living comfortably and to prevent them from like overindulging. The &quot;new money&quot; man on the other hand, AKA the man who was getting thanks to his employment, he was at risk. The article said, &quot;The new no hunting or cricket to no lectures to attend, and and tobacco commences the day, and tobacco and spirits wind it up. Such a man suddenly finds his mind dull and enfeebled, and bloated.&quot; So we can see that a lot of around dieting was mainly to push men into being better members of society, and to get rid of their vices. On a more subconscious level, and T.J. Jackson Lears have both suggested that as the US became and homogenous, people dieted as a means to cope with their anxieties about this new chaos. In the mid 19th century, there that men and women were like men were becoming too feminine. With the growth of the bourgeoisie class and the managerial class, there that would in a previous in the fields, bored now sitting in these very sedentary professions. And God forbid, they were The soft body was stereotyped as being a very feminine trait. At the same time, there's that women were becoming because women were starting Women were starting to So now there was this like anxiety to further separate the genders again. This consequently led that promoted manly outdoor Then in 1863, William Banting published the first bestselling diet guide in the US called A Letter on Corpulence. The guide was aimed at men of course, and suggested diet regimen with masculinity, wealth, like red meat and alcohol. And required men to eat four meals a day. Banting was also a believer not scientifically backed idea that being overweight it wasn't hereditary, and you could will the fat away. As for a women, whatever out there was initially ignored. In an 1865 issue of Harper's Weekly, a diet expert complained could not be convinced even in cases in which their because they were only sleeping in, and spending The beauty ideal for women and heaviest between the because plumpness was with very positive traits, like and sexual availability. On the other hand, thinness with a lack of fertility. And you're gonna love this that women eat a third less as soon as they turn 45 years old. You hear that? Once the clock strikes midnight. Because their ovaries shrivel up and no longer need to be fed. We don't feed our bodies to We feed our bodies so that our to create children. Oh, Victorian doctors. Believe it or not, there to help women gain weight, such as the very popular Of course, it would be like to say that no woman was If a woman did diet, And we don't really know because of that, like how many women dieted, from magazine articles of the time period, there were a number of women who wrote to editors asking for dieting advice. For an example in 1868, Godey's Lady Book and Magazine published a short explanation of the Banting system. And in September 1869, of Harper's Bazaar Self-help Column how she could buy Early women's rights activists to pay attention to their diets, and also to start exercising. Rachel Brooks Gleason, American doctors even to follow Banting's advice And in an article from 1890, that &quot;There is no reason why, provided she has sufficient willpower, a woman should not mould This brings us to at the time dieting could of bodily control, a tool of rebellion. Rather than only men being able to diet, women were asserting that to do this too. And this may sound for modern day people, but at the time, we have to consider the climate, the social climate, you know? There were some woman who chose to fast, and these fasting women were viewed as having supernatural because it was just so strange for a woman to have the same self control as men. By 1896, the Boston Daily Globe reported that dieting had become And it goes without saying that as the slimmer figure the rounder, stouter figure Katharina Vester said in in Post-Bellum America: &quot;In this cultural climate, Jewish women, immigrant or American-born, as overweight, which to control their body to gain assimilated middle-class status.&quot; This pressure is possibly the first English published expert dieting before other women's Similarly, Black women were also targeted. The mammy caricature was in popular culture. &quot;And this body was also a of a South that had fed and treated its enslaved Of course people are built in all shapes and sizes regardless of race or ethnicity, but these stereotypes served to prove how society deliberately and other like non-WASP as beautiful in the popular culture. (gentle music) While the origins of dieting started in the 19th century really, that dieting as this aesthetic until the early 20th century. And what I mean by that is dieting was more associated but historian Roberta Seid notes that &quot;The first significant thinness craze was between 1919 and 1935.&quot; I want to take look at a a women's college, to show you guys how cultural norm shifted But first we have to really understand what it was like there at In the late eighteen hundreds, female students were actually And this is because it was to appear healthy in the eyes of society. Critics of women's that academic life would and they used scientific backing. Scientific in quotation That using your brain, would usurp the body's finite resources and deplete the female reproductive system of bloods, nutrients and energy. Yes, everything goes back They basically claimed that college woman will become infertile at the and the human race would die out if too many women decided to get educated. So weight gain was supposed to show that women were actually healthy in these learning environments. One student, Charlotte in February 1892, that it was her ambition to weigh 150 pounds. So this was the late eighteen if we look at the letters to their families or their diary entries, we start to see that now they Reducing was the term for losing weight, and at this time it meant and starches, working out in between meals. But of course, you know, with there were people who and it manifested in For instance, student Dorothy in May, 1922 saying: &quot;Resolved once more to cut down my diet. Betty and Fran's chief topic It is extremely wearisome especially since they're both slender. I shall try once again I'm not going to say a word about it. I'm not gonna foolishly on certain days and relax but attend all meals and refrain from eating between meals.&quot; And in 1920, college physician &quot;Never have we had such a who are tired, nervously with low blood pressure of depressed vitality. These things are found in for the most part.&quot; So what shifted? Why were these students who 20 years ago would have been trying to gain weight, why are they now losing weight? Well, on a larger societal level, according to anthropologist &quot;Slenderness symbolize The wealthy are able to of success from fat to thin to worry about famine They can go beyond the message of fat, 'Look how much abundance I 'I'm so safe, I can afford But it's important to note that most of these college students didn't write in their diary entries with Most of them wrote about how because they wanted to look better or because all their With that said, a major reason for this dieting craze was men. (people booing) Up until 1910, college as in girls would hang out with other girls, et cetera. However, by the 1910s, students would bat, which was a term that and their usually male off-campus spot to picnic. Early Smith students to mostly refer to hang out with a friend, usually another woman. But by the 1920s, the term to going out with a man. Historian Beth Bailey notes into the public world, and community events to and dance halls. And unlike courting, the goal to get married, but to raise And to get more dates you And looking your best in the very thin flapper look, and wearing the most fashionable clothes. But unfortunately, if you it was harder to find fashionable clothes, especially because In a 1923 interview, French even talked about his He said: &quot;We do not pay They're the infirm among the fashionable. We can not do anything special for them. They have merely to trail Their case is not for the dress designer, it is for the physician.&quot; - I guess nothing's changed. - [Man 1] Nothing's changed. - And ready-made clothing, and more available due gave women idea of what to look like, and where they existed on the spectrum of available sizes. So let's talk about the flapper. Margaret Lowe claims there was actually a number that women could fall into. There was the natural but not extremely hourglass figure. The voluptuous woman who had And the Gibson girl, which had a linear, but sensuous shapeliness. There was only one beauty ideal now, the thin straight figure. And if you couldn't mold your then it sucks for you. You may have been hot like 10 years ago, but you're not anymore. The flapper represented She was slender, flat-chested, And because having any usually a genetic thing, not every girl in the 1920s looked but they at least followed to the undergarments available. According to Lowe, these to the new sexual codes of twenties youth: Dating, petting, fast dancing, and freedom from parental supervision. Another contributing factor was the development of new food science. Building on mid 19th American food scientists to choose food based on rather than its taste and appearance. On top of recommending people and proteins, they were also recommending calorie counting. Chin Jou writes that this in part stimulated by the food conservation campaign. The government was invested in and sugar for domestic and allied troops. Because these items were calorie-dense and the dry goods among to ship overseas. So it was only after the became a phenomenon for weight loss. You may or may not have also who was an infamous diet promoter, and who published numerous that recommended restricting Following in her footsteps, to women's magazines and that they should count their calories, not just for themselves, to keep everyone at the right weight. This all inevitably led for being fat. And the effects were devastating. In 1927, home economist &quot;In this country, the in the vocabulary of And anyone who doubts the possibility of popularizing it should observe a group of 10-year-old children Little children were counting There was a girl named Dorothy to Dr. Peters in 1924 saying: &quot;I am 11-years-old and weigh 136 pounds, which was too much.&quot; And for men because they Most of them who decided to to gain muscle, not to like lose weight. So now, dieting for weight women-targeted arena. (gentle music) Lastly, I wanna talk so the 1950s to 1970s, the time period that for what dieting is today. In this era, we get diet and before and after photo advertisements. So yeah, let's get into that disaster. The reason why this era for the dieting industry national interests were prioritized over individual interests. Nancy Gagliardi mentioned several factors for the diet rebirth post-war. The first is the rising middle class. Middle-class families were through consumerism, and housewives, which have been primary for a while now became the diet industry's core demographic as well. The second reason is that food technology and marketing strategies and more sophisticated. The mid-century was the Artificial sweeteners appeared and consumption of it rose to 17 million pounds in 1969. The artificial sweetener market also led to a booming diet soft at $660 million in 1965. The third reason is that the media, especially with the popularity of the television was becoming In constant headlines in about the nation's growing weight problem and weight-related diseases were seeping into the public consciousness. This is in part because in 1959, US insurance companies published the Build and Blood Pressure Study, which at the time of information relating If you want more information I highly recommend listening to the Maintenance Phase podcast, specifically their episodes and &quot;Is Being Fat Bad for You?&quot;. But in sum, the study was bullshit, there were not enough control variables. You know, people just that well, I guess. But subsequently this idea to early death was And obesity was largely pushed An interesting idea that I came across while reading Nancy Gagliardi's article, and I say this is interesting just in general, but she does mention that dieting is not necessarily There were plenty of aspects involved in the dieting process, and cooking meals, which There's also social aspects which was founded in 1963, for women to talk about Before I open the whole I wanna talk about appetite specifically this pill called AYDS. AYDS? AYDS. - AYDS are tasty caramels for dieters. AYDS contains one of the most effective appetite suppressants you can buy. And AYDS contains no stimulant. - So why don't you let and keep it off? - [Announcer] AYDS helps you - Ads for this pill where to use the before and after involving the stories of real of course, and using dramatic language. This is powerful and is still for diet companies today. But the reason it was so, so powerful in the mid 20th century is women who were dealing to just like keep it in. And especially for fat to these ads were just not visible. Nidetch and Heilman wrote for fat people at the time: &quot;You never see fat people. They never go outside. They stay home because they of breath and they can't climb on a bus. You never see them at the movies because the seats are too small. They don't even go shopping Diet pills were not necessarily for weight loss as early sales climbed to $7.3 to rise through the 1950s - Ladies, stay fit and trim the pleasantest way to reduce. - The market for appetite to generate $153 million And whether most of these if you watched Mad Men you'll that was a real thing, that was supposed to help you lose weight. It sounds like a scam to me. So let's get it to Weight I don't know if the structure since the sixties, but offered classes that gave tailored food plans, a weekly weigh-in where a woman would have to in front of the class. And the emotional support The experience was of course I did come across testimonials of women who liked their experience, for them to address their own feelings, and to get solidarity from fellow women. Other women like a woman of Weight Watchers in the could be a bit cringe-worthy, and it could be also if at the weekly weigh-in, or you gained another pound. In the fall of 1967, Weight at Bentalls Department Store. It was a promotional event of the models before pictures, how different they looked now. Le'a Kent criticized the for the book The Body Reader: &quot;The fat person, usually a as a person but as something from which And it's important to also tell you guys that the slimming clubs had From a survey conducted in 1975, 63% of the participants regained and 16% reverted back These slimming clubs did not care about changing the lifestyles of women about raising their to prevent them from getting Instead, they just focused and prioritize this arbitrary to represent like premium - [Aubrey] She thinks, &quot;Well, I'm fat, and I need to lose weight,&quot; not &quot;Uh-oh, something's And maybe the solution and not a body thing.&quot; - [Man 2] Like you can be alarmed by your binge eating on that behavior in a way about weight loss or about seeing yourself as a fundamentally failed person. - And yes, they were a minority in these slimming clubs as well. But Bernice Weston, the recollects that: &quot;Men for medical reasons, or when one of their friends Women were more likely to say that they hated the way they looked.&quot; So here we are today. Some things have changed, staggering eating of women who have very low self-esteem because of their weight, I feel like we are Thanks to the work of activists Though the BBL trend did set us back a couple years, but progress progress goes like this. (Mina laughing) As for my personal opinion I don't like diets. And I understand that's because there's a number of and not all of them are scams probably. But I think it's a problem that to people with already low self-esteem. And I think if you go into with low body image, to developing an eating disorder. The National Eating Disorders Association even released a statement to the Weight Watchers app saying: &quot;In a large study of 14 and 15-year-olds, dieting was the most important predictor of developing an eating disorder. Those who dieted moderately to develop an eating disorder, and those who practiced extreme more likely to develop an eating disorder than those who did not diet.&quot; Also like, a lot of dieting programs, they utilize this negative body talk, which is just not healthy. - [Aubrey] As of 2011, 93% in social quote unquote &quot;fat talk,&quot; which they sort of define as this practice of expressing dissatisfaction or talking about like quote People who engage in this kind of fat talk have like significantly and friendships, so like relationships of all stripes are weakened by this. Weight Watchers is a place that has sort of systematized and participated in the popularization of this phenomenon. - I also think that there's a lot of truth about what Naomi Wolf has overly concerned with their appearance. She's written about how American woman, whenever they achieve there are pressures that force them to consider their appearances which ends up distracting and financial success at the So yeah, food for thought. That's all I have for today. Let me know in the comments what you think about these trends, whether you think they against them, for them. I love to hear what you all for spending this piece And I'll see you next time. I hope you have a lovely rest of your day. Bye-bye. (Mina blowing a kiss) (gentle music)