- [Michael] Hello everybody, and welcome back to another video. Now, in today's episode, we got another viewer donation to unbox. Yeah, I'm really excited about this one. Like I said, in the last I am always excited when I have to give a bit of a understand why I'm doing so close to one another, because I just did a viewer donations video Well, the reason why this package wasn't because it got lost. Yeah I'm not kidding. The carrier lost this package. They informed the sender And then the sender told me the package was lost in transit. So, you know, sorry, it's Well, yesterday I just took a random trip to my PO box and this was there. It showed up. So I was like, okay, So somehow this got but then they found it So we're going to be opening it up today. Now, to make this interesting. I did not go and look back at sent this package out to me offered all these items to me. I do remember that there's all here. I think there's some RAM in here. There are a couple of cards, I think there may be a but just to make this interesting and to make this kind of a true unboxing, I did not go back and look at the email and the photos that he sent me. So we're going to be kind of and it's going to be a but like I said, I have a So without any further ado, let's go ahead and open it up. Shall we? (robotic beat) And here we go. Okay. So I do remember this, this right here is an Ethernet I believe this, yeah, this Let's go ahead and just open Yep, That is exactly what it is. The really neat thing is but I don't have the end connect this thing to the network. Right, like to use the card So this is nice to have that will come in handy for For sure. I believe right here. This looks like a, well, but I'm going to guess it's the RAM. Let's go ahead and check it out. No. This is one of the video cards, two video cards actually. So this first one right here looks like a Radeon card. That's what I would guess. Yeah. Radeon X1600 Pro X 1600, 256 megabyte DDR, PCI express. Oh yeah. This is something a bit older. This right here is an S3 Virge card. And you can see right here, I mean, not from the manufacturer, I don't know if that's but it says 2/13/98 super So we'll set those aside and right here, I think this is a power supply. Yes. And we do have, okay. I'm seeing some, I think this So we got some, it looks Yep, we've got a heat sink here. Let's see if these are, and What do we got here? Jide Tech. Oh, you know what? Oh yeah, this is one of I could really use, yeah. This is something that I wasn't But for making videos, you know, for the video making process, this is a VGA video splitter. I was looking at upgrading videos, you know, with a 98 PC or with or with any of my computers, I was thinking about doing screen capture. Like when I do a video on, on it's always the camera I've tried a couple of but it wasn't really able the way I wanted it to. And this is going to help with to split one VGA signal into two outputs. So I can still have it on the And also on my capture card, which I still need to get we do have this right here. Let's go ahead and tear some We can get this opened up here. Yeah. This looks like an older pretty cool stuff. Awesome. This looks like another PCMCIA card. Here's another one of that we have in the box over here. And then right here is a Thin Fax card Fax Data, PCMCIA yeah, I actually have like, a space in my hardware bin. So they will be added right to my older systems. Let's see I don't remember this PS/2 Let's save the software for last, because I do want to oh, it's taped onto there a little bit. Oh, we got two things here. I know what this is though. This is a power supply, It's like, it's got the New 7-25-18. Alright so Okay. There's the model number. I can look that up. (Blues music plays) It's for a Dell OptiPlex. Yeah, That's what this number So this is, this was taken 235 Watts, Okay. So yeah, that might, hey, if I ever get a Dell OptiPlex There you go. I got a power supply now. All right. So what is this? Because I feel like, okay. It looks like a fan. Oh, it's a LGA 775, that looks like a heat sink. It's exactly what that is. Yep. Oh, and it's got a, yeah, it's still got pre-applied Yep, that is a stock. for an LGA 775 socket CPU. All right, So let's see what else we got. I believe this box right Holy crap, Is this the RAM? Oh, it looks like it's sealed though. Oh, wait a second. Let's just set this aside. My guess is this is the RAM. I and figure out what that is. But if the RAM isn't in then this is definitely the cause this seems like a large box for RAM, unless he just sent me a ton. But I think both of these here, like this is a Rosewill PCI That's, yeah, That's what that is. And then this right here All right. So here's what we got left. This box right here contains the RAM, which is definitely if this holy cow, that is a lot we got a copy of Microsoft the Academic Edition and oh, the jewel case Yep, That is a piece of But yeah, the disks themselves are intact, which is the most important thing. Right? So we'll close that one up. And we'll grab and disc And yeah, you can see that this piece has, has broken off. I've had that same thing jewel cases, it's not that uncommon. I'm curious what this is? Dell PowerEdge server, PowerVault storage. Let's see... Oh, okay. So it's yeah. It's like Very cool, I don't own one I've not seen this before. I assume this contained maybe it was a promotional thing. That's definitely what it could be. This can be like a promotional Dell, I don't know conference, or like a trade show or whatever. So that's cool, we'll set that aside. And right here, we've got the I thought this was something it's got like tape on here. This kind of looks factory to me, but this right here is tearing over. So maybe he just but this is taped here for sure. I guess we'll go ahead And then we'll cut through these here. Oh man, check that out guys. Holy cow, That is a lot of RAM. So yeah, guys, it was an absolute ton of RAM in that box. And I'm not kidding. When I say that now I was entire box and just show you SO-DIMM that I got, but after recording, probably half of that footage in there. I thought, you know what, maybe this would just be So that's what I'm doing here. So I'm letting you guys There's a ton of RAM. I didn't know how many of you go through and read each I don't know. It might take me 20, 30 minutes to do all of that. like I said, there's a I have to give a huge thank very generously donated because yes, the viewer He asked me not to disclose his name. So you know who you are. And thank you so much This is absolutely going to projects. Now I had a Certainly not, not as much as this, but even with my little collection of RAM, I still didn't have all of specific video projects. And you may remember in my follow-up episode, when I even though I had a I did not have the specific for that video. So I had out of the Dell Latitude even though it was an older swapping the RAM in So the Dell Latitude now has laptop and the HP laptop has Latitude. So yeah, I just And it's, by the way, That's the HP laptop, the HP Compaq 6510b. So I just figured since it's newer, it's probably better for than the Dell Latitude D610, one of the side effects of this though, now that I have all it all was not going to fit So this is the hardware bin computer hardware. And yeah, So what I had to do, and this is actually going to in terms of organization. I used all of the boxes, or at least most of them that were sent to me to store all the hardware. And I guess while we're up here, I can show you guys my closet. This is at least one of my pretty much everything that's and some of the equipment that So I've got my camera box, GH5 I've got my AT2020 box up there, which is the microphone that I'm using a rode microphone that I've got on top convenience here. And I think And then I've got my ASUSTOR ASUSTOR, very generously. I've got my AT&amp;T I've done videos on both of yes, the NAS gets used here it is. I've got it set up in my living room. That's why the audio is so echoey. So I apologize for that in advance, but yeah, here it is, 12 terabyte drives from and I use it as primarily So I've been storing all of here, which has been awesome. Okay, But the other thing and this is really cool. I have hooked up the AT&amp;T videophone. So if you guys haven't seen this video, I'd recommend going and checking it out, up in the cards right now, this is a really cool phone And it is a video phone. The only thing was obviously who also had one of these So that was the major downside. If you didn't know anyone it was just like a regular way too much money for. Cause this cost over a but it does work for those I said that I wasn't able to have a phone line. And I still but what I did get is one of these right here. This is a Polycom OBiTALK or OBiTALK, however you want to pronounce it. And these are really What they allow you to do is phone jack on the back of this. And then, you can then use that number or a selection of A lot of people who get these, just choose to use a Google Voice is free for domestic when you're calling to other US numbers. And that's why it literally of the thing, the manufacturers put Google voice there to let people know that you can use your Google And so I've got it I've had this for about a week now, but I have known about them. And I know people who And I always said, when I want to get a I don't want to pay monthly for it. Cause I don't really need a home phone. I use my cell phone for all of my calls, but I just wanted to get this just to hook up the AT&amp;T videophone, just to kind of have it as like a novelty, and to use it when I want to use it. So here it is and all of its glory. So we're going to turn on the got a number in redial. this is the number for the US for the Eastern time zone. Yes, this is still a thing. If you didn't know, you can dial this number and read back the current time to you, according to the US Naval - [Phone] US Naval observatory, Master Clock at the tone, Eastern Daylight Time, 17 - [Michael] Yeah. So there you go. And then it'll read universal time. - [Phone] One minute, 35 seconds So there you go. So yeah, I'm sure some of you didn't thing, but yeah. You can dial that number and of knowing what time it is and and you want to get the exact Observatory. Well, there you go. That's the number you dial Eastern Time Zone and yes, it In fact, let me show you how that works. Let me pull up my cell phone I thought that it was going number on the screen here, So let me, let me, show you here. I go to my phone and we'll So we're dialing it right And you can see that it doesn't, I thought for sure that it would calling you, but that's not And then you see just, you right? So there you go. And we'll just hang that up. And when you pick up the handset, you see it says it there's So that was of course the US But yeah, this works with literally any into a phone jack on your wall. If you can do that, you can use it with except while there is one major exception, the only phone that you're not a device like this or with matter is a rotary telephone. And this is because rotary which VoIP phone line does not signal. So if you plug a rotary phone start dialing, you'll eventually just get a to the phone line, you're not So you need to have a touch-tone 99% of the people watching even have a home phone, that is, but yeah, so that will not be a problem, but if you want to use a rotary unless, unless you get a which converts a pulse signal tone signal that a VoIP line you know, pick up on what you're dialing. So we don't have to be You can use a rotary phone to it in. Like you don't I mean, if you plug a rotary phone answer a call, that'll work fine. But if it's, so when that's when you experience So yeah, this is something I really for a while. It is on my video ideas list. Just kind of talking about VoIP lines and just So that is something but yeah, that was a little back to the main video or at Oh, we've got the 20th anniversary, special edition of Windows XP. We've got one of the TracFones. We've got the Logitech We've got the Windows Live Frisbee. This right here is the box that my silver play button came in. So yeah, everybody that for today's episode, I've got to give a huge to the very generous anonymous donation of all this hardware, which is going to absolutely projects. And as for you guys, of course, I want to thank you all If you enjoyed this one, be sure to give it a thumbs up and turn on those notifications if you haven't already to get notified whenever I upload a new video, which I do multiple times every And as always, I will see (Outro Music)