Hey everyone, my name's tomatoanus, also segmented Any% (No Major Glitches) speedrun of Hollow Knight. This run is performed by Lep, a top runner Knight for a little over a year and a half, sure it's all as accurate as possible. This run, despite being Any%, has several that makes you invulnerable, any glitch that puts you So if you've never played Hollow Knight before, The game opens with the Knight arriving at the ruins of a kingdom named Hallownest. Hallownest has become overrun with something of the game, you control the Knight and venture With this being a Metroidvania, the game is focused By that I mean that as you explore the large which allow you to explore previously inaccessible Because of this, exploration is a core mechanic, for the player to sit on, which are more or and do a handful of other actions. Overall, in order to beat the game, you need opens up access to the final boss so you can Strictly speaking, this is all you need to as the list of everything you need to do to finish the run. For the purposes of this video though, I've Lep has to do to beat the game and the run, to have to help keep track of how far into the game and run he is. There's of course a lot more things he does speaking, the only thing he needs to do is collect the Dreamers to get to the final boss, but the purpose of this list isn't to be all encompassing. Alright, with that all being covered, let's get into the- Hey Chicago Guy, what's this? Yeah, big guy's out of town so he had ChatGPT Hey Minnesota Guy, have you heard of Surfshark VPN? It... it says I'm supposed to juggle oranges? I don't even know how to juggle. Just go with it. Have you ever heard of Surfshark VPN? Wait, now I'm supposed to try and untangle yarn? Did tomato give us any props for this? Surfshark VPN is a virtual private network device and the internet, keeping your data Eh, screw it, I'll just pretend I'm holding yarn. Hang on Chicago Guy, this yarn is a mess. Good job, you're killing it. Since Surfshark is a VPN, it also changes You can use it to bypass geo-restrictions and access I can finally watch my favorite movie on Netflix now! Why does yarn have to be so complicated? (sighs) Hey, Chicago Guy, why did the AI write me to be super dense? Surfshark also has the CleanWeb feature that attempts, all helping you surf the web safely! Is... is this how people see me? Am... am I the bumbling roommate? And don't forget that you can get real-time data and checking for any potential breaches. You can get 83% off and three extra months Also, Surfshark offers a 30-day money-back Again, use the link and code that are in the description below. Hey Minnesota Guy, are you doing okay? I... I need a minute. I... I think I'm having an existential crisis. So right away, you'll likely notice that This is because overall the language generally faster than English, and overall saves five seconds over English. You gotta admire the commitment of speedrunners That was a joke, you don't need to learn So right away, when you start the game, you and you have what's called a "hard fall", and they sit there for a moment before being able to move. First off, Lep is going to pause and unpause and lets him move around in air, which he'll He's then going to do what's called an inventory, which uncaps his falling speed would cause him to land even harder, but it in total saves around five seconds. Something worth noting is that Lep is performing version of the game, and inventory drops are Alright let's actually start the game now He then begins making his way through the also some decorations like grass as well. Destroying decorations isn't required or is boring if you do it over and over so it's In this next room, he's going to lure a the room and down-air attack off it to reach a floating platform. These down-air attacks are typically referred when you hit something with them, just for future reference. After hopping up the platforms, he's then The Knight's weapon is called the Nail, and when you attack Lep is going to use that to his advantage turns around to change direction, which gives He's going to use a Nail turnaround up here After the turnaround, he's going to go through and Lep will do a little jump as the floor crumbles below him. If you're standing on the ground when it a chance that you get a hard fall regardless air when this floor collapses, then you completely for the hard fall is completely removed. You still have to fall a short enough distance make sure to land just at the edge right here Even though if he kept holding right, he'd way, the timeloss from the hard fall would letting up a little to land higher up. Something worth mentioning real quick is that For example, if Lep is jumping repeatedly, shortly before landing, and it'll automatically cause him to jump immediately. Similarly, if he's attacking with the Nail, the first attack is playing out, and he'll So coming up is when Lep will be arriving in the intro of the video, and when he moves This is because when you're walking through will walk slower, but their speed remains The exact numbers are that the normal walking speed is 6 units, so you move at around 3/4 speed if you don't jump. Up ahead he's going to go down a hole in fall into it, he's going to time a jump with the speed he built up from the jump, rather than This is a little piece of tech called "pre-jumping", the run, pretty much any time he needs to round a corner and fall. This here is the pre-jump. In the room after this one, he has to drop There are flying enemies in the room called meaning you can get bad luck and be hit by middle of the room since you're less likely In the next room he'll drop down and enter enter a combat encounter where he has to kill some Aspid Hunters. After pogoing off the first one multiple times left corner where he'll trigger a stalactite to fall. He'll hit it down and right at an angle He's then going to make his way through now is to get the Vengeful Spirit spell. Since he just started the game, he doesn't dash, so the early stretch of this run is trying not to bonk into anything. Worth mentioning, this game has a currency things such as killing enemies, destroying You can use Geo to purchase stuff from merchants points, and in this run, Lep will need to So in addition to pogoing enemies, you can like this statue he pogos here. He's currently on his way to the first boss There are a few enemy Husks in the boss arena make it easier to collect all their Geo when they're killed. He jumps as he approaches the first Husk so he then pogos off of it to reach the other time and chases him to the left near the other For the fight against the False Knight, it's to be optimal with attacking him whenever possible. When the False Knight jumps, Lep tries to which is referred to as "tracing" the False Knight's movement. The thing about this fight though, is that phase of the fight, because as soon as phase wall on the left side of the arena and leave You may be asking why he doesn't stick around later in the run, or get the reward item, the City Crest, It's mainly because there's great places this fight would overall be slower than getting and he'll be entering the City of Tears in a different Lep really didn't even come this way to that he's in the way of getting to the first spell, Vengeful Spirit. So in here is where Lep grabs Vengeful Spirit, fireball-type thing, and you'll notice that This is because the pickup animation is pretty encoder, and it's to the point where speedrunners with slower PCs are unable to get a room time Thankfully it's not the end of the world, It doesn't affect the run too much overall. Getting Vengeful Spirit begins a little tutorial plank above him as he begins heading right, the hole the plank was in, so may as well After he climbs up the right side of the room at the top to more-or-less do a pre-jump to enough to hit both levels of planks blocking At the end of this Vengeful Spirit tutorial The big white meter in the top left corner drawn from to cast spells, with each spell He has enough Soul to do three casts of Vengeful Elder Baldur, so he has to wait for the Baldur regain soul to be able to do the fourth cast, It's important to note that Lep hasn't the game kinda assigns a bench for you to been near that Vengeful Spirit bench, the So now that he has Vengeful Spirit, he's the dash ability, and he couldn't get it but he can kill it now that he has fireballs. Getting dash is pretty much priority number him move faster, and as he walks towards Greenpath, attacks as many small enemies in his path In total he needs 2/3 Soul so he can shoot to the Baldur here to wake it up so that the Baldur is just offscreen and then shoots a fireball at him. When the fireball goes offscreen here, its Elder Baldur, killing him with just the one It's a bit similar to that BFG weapon wheel So after killing the Elder Baldur, he's able to normally, but he does a "fireball in air, which both pushes him back slightly This saves two seconds, and brings him to vegetation and guarded by a bunch of leafy dudes called Mosskin. Most of Greenpath is going to be just holding to build up Soul, along with a couple fireball skips. In an upcoming room, we're going to see Lep will do another fireball skip and shoot two fireballs to do it. It isn't necessary to shoot both fireballs Soul to afford shooting two, and since each makes the skip easier to do and a bit safer. It is technically slower to shoot extra fireballs, it's a tradeoff that's up to the runner to make. In the room after this one, he's going to skip, and then have to run past a couple Husks The two Husks there have random locations and the low ceiling makes it a bit harder In this room, Lep tries to hit as many enemies Soul because in the following room he has To kill a Moss Knight, you need to do one just hit it once and cast three fireballs, and then jump up and at it before casting the second fireball. Jumping at it like this causes the Moss Knight This also benefits picking up the Geo since to pick up rather than being scattered on both sides of Lep. Because he only needed to cast two fireballs right now so he doesn't really need to to Soul, and is pretty much fine with whatever At the end of the room here, Lep will do a he's going to drop to the bottom left to There's a second Moss Knight on the same wants to kill for his Geo, but he randomly and he went right in this run which is slightly back on screen so he has to use fewer fireballs to take the knights out. Lep jumps at this first knight so it jumps and fireballs to break the Geo deposit sooner. Taking out these two knights is a newer change fight a different guy in the top of the room, early in the run with having to collect Geo He's now on his way to the boss battle against Hornet. Hornet has a pretty low stagger count, with in succession, the game freezes for a moment get extra hits in or heal or do whatever. He wants to bully her into a corner and stagger jump away if she's staggered, and her jumping have a dash or anything yet, so he has to Once he's finally dealt enough damage to the shambling corpse of the Knight's predecessor Like I mentioned a little bit ago, the Mothwing be used both while on the ground or in air, the air and the air dash being refreshed when you touch the ground. Dashing is faster than walking normally so can for now, and the ability has a 0.4 second cooldown between dashes. The thing about dashing though is that it has a set length to it. Every time you dash, you go the same distance. This is a bit suboptimal when it comes to straight down, since time that could be spent That's where inventory drops come back in. An additional application of inventory drops so Lep will use that to shorten his dashes when necessary. So as soon as he grabs the cloak, he quits at that bench by where he got Vengeful Spirit This saves a ton of time that would otherwise Right away he starts dashing, and to the left a dash and begin falling right away. I want to emphasize that you can only dash the ground to refresh your air dashes. So now that he has the Mothwing Cloak, he's Mantis Claw is located in the Mantis Village walls and jump off them, which is a pretty since it basically allows you to wall jump and also slide down walls. He's making his way there right now by doing going to do something called the "Sedic slash" in a second. He'll be dropping down and needing to reach drop, but the right wall of the drop extends the ledge while holding right. The Sedic slash is where he'll face the before the wall on the right ends, and he the Knight move to the right and make it to the ledge safely. It happens really quick and is hard to see, So as he progresses through the Fungal Wastes, enemies and objects here and there to build major sequence break that's coming up. This room is super clean with the pre-jump he falls just past this platform and doesn't Now's a good time to address a misconception First is they aren't inherently faster to so if you weren't going to hit your max fallspeed in a The other big thing is that inventory drops if he's falling a bit beforehand, doing fallspeed going back to zero and building back up. So down here, Lep is going to do a trick called a variant of it called the "fire pogo", named after Normally at this spot, you'd have to follow to be able to get back to this ledge up here on the left. What Lep is going to do though is bait this He's then going to pogo off this mushroom where he'll then turn around and shoot a On this patch, almost any damage source is the explosion to be able to reach the ledge up here, which skips going to the right and going all the way around. Overall, this saves around 40 seconds. Also, coming up soon is a boss fight, so I tech beforehand called "Nail canceling". In short, a Nail cancel is casting a fireball you cast during the Nail cooldown. It's called a Nail cancel because of how worth noting that you're not actually canceling right after and overlapping the animations. Nail canceling massively ups your damage per and some other fights in general like when So after he drops through this next room and Claw room from the top, which isn't the intended After hitting this switch to open a gate, below a ledge so he can reach the gate and skip backtracking. Quick Nail turnaround there, then he takes a Mantis Youth to follow him and hit him as right away and lets him quit out immediately Waiting for the youth loses around six seconds, saves around eight seconds, so overall this So although getting the Mantis Claw is pretty necessary What I mean by this is throughout the run, closely as possible and be as greedy as possible He has to be super careful with it now though near walls, because if he gets too close, with the claw, and reset his fallspeed, which loses time. Lep is now moving through the Forgotten Crossroads just holding forward and trying to get as his way to the Gruz Mother boss fight. Gruz Mother is one of the easier boss encounters much damage and all of her attacks are easily read and countered. She's located in the southeast corner of and Charm Lover Salubra, as well as a passageway Here he purchases a Stag Station, which is He's actually been near this station before, from a movement standpoint to purchase the it then, and he also has dash now so moving He mainly bought the station for later, as Mother and farming Soul along the way. When he arrives at Gruz Mother up here, both able to take her out super quickly by Nail canceling a ton. She drops exactly 50 Geo, making up for the the Nail a few times to time out a jump with mommy's belly, which Lep takes out by shooting a fireball This opens up the right side of this big room, He'll rest on the bench up ahead to update shack there to talk with Charm Lover Salubra, This will be the only Charm he buys in the from 15 to 20 damage (for reference Nail does which makes double-hitting things easier. This Charm makes a lot of fights easier, and justifies the time and Geo spent buying it. On his way out of the shack, he takes some into a different shack and speaks with Sly relocate to Dirtmouth later on where Lep will He then takes some more intentional damage where he uses the time that's wasted of the Knight Dying in this game spawns a Shade who you your now-broken Soul meter, and here Lep lures the wall and pogos off the Shade to reach Using a Shade like this is called a "Shade skip", which there are plenty of in the game, but in this specific speedrun category This brings us to the first glitch of the run: "wall cling storage". Up front, again, this category is called "No Major Glitches", and wall cling storage is a glitch that's really broken and in due to how extreme some sequence breaks are Wall cling storage's use is restricted in you're about to see is allowed because of refers to as the "topology rule". This is a rule that more or less says that areas that you can normally go through with So it wouldn't be necessary to use the glitch That may sound incredibly arbitrary, but hey, This and most of the allowed applications movement a little more interesting and faster is generally why it's allowed in this restricted form. So the way you'd normally have to go through water, but with wall cling storage, you're of it, and chain it a little at the end of the room. So how does this work and how is it executed? Inside the game, there's a variable for If you're touching a wall then the variable To start the setup for the glitch, you first game considers you to be touching the wall, while the game still thinks you're touching it. This is a pretty small window, but thankfully to get into this state of being not right The setup that Lep does in this run is done sets his horizontal position, doing a Nail slash once Normally the game checks pretty constantly The game runs the check if you either leave So for example, say you're initially touching setup Lep does that considers him touching So you're nuzzling the wall, then jump and The game runs the check when you leave the updates to say that you are no longer touching a wall, as it should. The thing is though, this specific check that happen when you're in the setup where you're So if you're in the setup location and jump Every other check still works as intended moved away from the wall and the game considers long as you don't touch the ground, another wall, or a ceiling. If you do any of those, then the check is the wall, and the variable will update. In order to perform wall cling storage, Lep not update, and that the game continues to he makes his way dashing over the water, which if he's touching a wall when he impacts the water. So he needs to get to the water and have the which means that from this corner, he needs this wall, this ceiling, or these floors. The way to actually perform wall cling storage he's not in the water and unable to dash, while he's coming out of each dash. The way this works is that when he's holding the wall, since the game thinks he's touching when the game thinks he's clinging to the wall. So by continually jumping, dashing right, he pretty much crosses this entire lake at momentum is constantly preserved. Fun fact and side note, he can actually do to specifically move right and hold left to make the game When he enters the water, the flag for which either left or right, the game thinks that has to hold the direction of the wall he was he can just hold right the entire time. So yeah, that's how he's going to zoom *It's just the wrist, it's just all in the wrist buddy.* In this next room, he's going to wall jump able to hit a lever through the ground so and is open by the time he gets to it. So the Shade skip that Lep did was a pretty Normally you'd have to go down into Deepnest the tram into the City of Tears, but instead going to get the Dream Nail. The Dream Nail is probably the most key item to have it in order to collect the Dreamers, of the game aside from defeating the final boss. The door to the final boss has three seals respective seal, so defeating them all is Right away he's going to dash off the platform to the Dream Nail to spawn in a little faster He'll then have to do some platforming to by dashing to where the first platform will This section is pretty standardized with him can, and trying not to bonk into anything. Because you can only do so many dashes in area is pretty consistent with it always being around the same. After he collects the Dream Nail up here, control earlier and leave right away. Because of this, he'll have control while in the Resting Grounds is playing out, so which actually functions essentially the same only supposed to happen while you're grounded, so it uncaps his fallspeed. So the wall cling storage that Lep did a couple minutes ago is a variation called "corner wall cling storage", which was where he set it up in a corner next to a wall. Up ahead he's going to do a different version where he's going to be touching a wall as since he only needs to be touching the wall, so that he doesn't grab the wall and lose any fallspeed. When he enters the room after setting it up he's touching the wall and he's able to Even though you normally can only dash once a wall, he can dash repeatedly, and again is something he'd be able to do normally At the bottom of this elevator ride he's wall cling storage where he'll dash into This makes the game think he's clinging so he can dash repeatedly to exit the room, As he maneuvers through the City of Tears as he can to build up Soul since he needs kill the enemies he's going to pass on this floor for Geo. On the right here he picks up a relic, which He's going to pick up a couple of these Speaking of Geo, the main purpose of this in a couple rooms, he's going to enter a hut. In the hut he'll run past a bunch of enemies enemy of the group with two Nail hits since He runs past them since he's going to fight he'll clear out the enemies up front with Back here he fights a Gorgeous Husk, which which he lands a couple double fireball hits in. The husk drops 420 Geo (sex number, nice), to clear out the remaining enemies from the Back outside, he's going to dash through after that, Lep is going to go into another elevator and ride it up. When the elevator approaches the top, he's time it out so that he doesn't have to wait He then does a pogo off an object in the background sequence break since you normally need wings So coming up is the reason why he plays on one where most of the stuff he's doing is also doable. He's going to wall jump repeatedly to get upwards to hit a lever through the floor that's hidden in the dark. That'll open this gate that's blocking the path to this lever. Hitting this lever through the ground is only doable on Normally you have to go to the left up here, to open a different gate that's down to the right, Because you're not supposed to go straight it stays that way until you walk through the room at the Since he's not going that way though, Lep Just for reference this is what the room looks He'll then progress through the area a little The Watcher Knights guard Lurien, one of the dreamers, Before he enters the arena to fight them though, There he'll be do another dev-intended skip to fall on and kill one of the Watcher Knights Good thing Ke$ha wasn't swinging from that chandelier. With the way this fight plays out in this Watcher, with a pair of two spawning after you kill that one, This makes for a total of five Watchers to fight, The Watchers have three moves they can do: and slash at you, a 20% chance they Rolie Polie Olie around, Additionally, Watchers can only do the slash range when it tries to do it, it'll walk up to you to get into range. If it doesn't get close enough after a set amount of walking, Also they can only do three of an attack in which is most commonly three slashes, it'll So while they're Rolie Polie Olie-ing, you can't hit them This means for this fight, the name of the This run is performed by Lep, a top runner Whoa, sorry, don't know what happened there, Where was I? Oh, right, you can't hit them with the Nail during their That means that for this fight, the name of This run is performed by- FUCK. It happened again. For this fight, the general gameplan (there attacks when they can be hit by the Nail to Soul when they Rolie Polie Olie so damage is still being dealt to them. Side note: Lep now has the Dream Nail, which the Dreamers, it can also be used on other enemies. These Dream Nail attacks fill up 1/3rd of and also tells you the enemy's thoughts, It takes a moment for this attack to charge the Watchers are moving around and attacking, Another big thing for this fight is that when if you cast a fireball, the fireball can hit they roll in one direction, so fireballs can Overall, this fight is really a push-pull and focusing on casting fireballs when you're There will be times though when the Watchers but Lep will already have full Soul, so he'll a Nail hit so that he isn't just wastefully The best time to build up Soul is when the a Nail attack hits both of them and builds up twice the Soul. And speaking of hitting both, Lep is going cast as much as he can to optimize the damage dealt. One of the main ways he gets so many fireballs even when just staying on one side of a Watcher Doing this is slightly lower damage per second and casting fireballs, but Lep does it so Watchers sooner if he sees an opportunity Positioning is super important in this fight, per second is worth it because when you see Overall, doing this fight with the equipment newer runners since it's pretty challenging, but because of It's one of those segments where you just really have to Alright, so now that all that is covered, let's get back to the run. So again, he hits the lever through the floor to open the gate After emerging from the darkness like Aaron (and that isn't just my Bears fan agenda speaking), jumped on this elevator to exit it early. He then skips this elevator in favor of wall wall jumps and casts a fireball to destroy the chain or rope or whatever that's holding up the chandelier. For the fight against the Watchers, again, with trying to get Soul with Nail hits when casts in as possible when they're Rolie Polie Olied up. Lep is now going to make his way to the first jumping to get up there, and once he gets a handful of times to collect the Dreamer While he does that, I'd just like to say, If you're not, then I'd just like to remind No matter how dark things may be right now, of dread or despair will come to pass. Those feelings do not control your life and they cannot take tomorrow away from you. Additionally, we're all human. We've all been through difficult times, and most people Please keep that in mind and reach out to I guarantee that they won't look at you health struggles are normal and real, and talking You are not a burden. Getting back to the run, now that he's collected inventory dropping down the shaft so that the bottom when he gets there. He's going to do another transitional wall on the right up here, pogoing while he does slow down, and uses this to be able to dash The wall cling storage here saves 0.2 seconds. The Hallownest Seal is a relic that he can sell for 450 Geo, After dropping down a bit, he's then going it's much easier to maneuver through it left and doesn't need to jump up on anything. Right now he's making his way to grab one all to get a bunch of Geo so that he'll be mostly set for the run. He's going to be hitting a bunch of enemies down in this room and entering the room on a fountain where he's going to talk to an shop, otherwise he'd just stand there admiring the view. In the following room, he's going to hit then when he goes back outside into the rain the single hardest trick in the run: "rafters skip". He wants to climb up high onto a platform of going all the way to the left and riding and then get hit by a Vengefly, which sends him up and away. He'll then pogo off the Vengefly once to the height and move left a bit, then shoot the Vengefly can make it back to him and damage him again. This sends him up and away again, where he the last bit of height, where he dashes left into the In order to wall jump, you need the bottom as you can see in this freezeframe, it's this skip, you really have to take advantage the apex of your launches and pogos. It's really difficult, like, Lep says it's but it saves around 15 seconds, which is huge in this category. After performing rafters skip, he climbs up so he can pogo off of it to reach the even wall jumps to reach the Hallownest Seal, which again, sells for 450 Geo. When he heads back inside here, he'll jump he'll slash left to hit a lever and open right to talk to that dude from outside who's now back at his shop. He sells all three relics that he's collected and at this point in the run the amount of Geo In this run though, he was just a touch short, Wow, just so poor. There are a couple ways to most optimally at the end of the fountain room who would always a chance of Geo going stray and you he decided to hold off for now. It doesn't matter too much though; as long shopping bit by the end then he's all good. So he's currently dashing across the map and at the start of the next room he's going advantage of what the Hollow Knight community This is where he's going to run off a ledge the ledge, as if he were Wile E. Coyote. This is a pretty common concept in gaming, On the right side of the coyote frames room, he's going to purchase the station, and bell to raise, and ring it and wait for the This skips the animation of the toll lowering and shoots a fireball to ring the bell before This doesn't save any time in real-time, in-game time, and since he's dashing through He then uses the Stag to fast travel to Dirtmouth, After wall jumping up when he loads in, he and then sits on the bench outside to update He then goes in the shop and speaks with Sly, Lantern, which brightens dark areas around you. This is because there's one upcoming room the one earlier, and he needs the lantern to see. It's not because he's afraid of the dark an extension cord like I do, fire marshall be damned. He then rides the Stag to the Forgotten Crossroads and wall jumps to climb up to the pathway to Crystal Peak. The pathway to Crystal Peak is the one room pay a toll to enter Crystal Peak, but you There is another way into Crystal Peak, but take longer to go get than to buy the lantern. So Crystal Peak has a bunch of conveyor belts to his advantage as much as possible by trying he's headed, while having as little contact His movement is actually routed out so that direction as him as far left as he can, that from the belt while his dash is on cooldown. In the next room he does a skip called "pogaxe" off a pickaxe a Husk Miner throws, letting between three to five seconds of running to So the way the enemies work in the next room the laser attack that they do isn't. They decide whether or not they're going In the top right of the room he'll go between gap that's, like, the perfect width of the Knight's hurtbox, Just a casual insanely precise back-up strat Overall, all the laser shenanigans in that After breezing through that last room, he's more and will then do a couple inventory drops, run which is the second one he does. The timing on ending this inventory drop is and the fact your vision is obscured by the of it just a little too early and bonked on the conveyor belt In a moment he'll shoot a fireball to stall be able to dash so he lands on the platform The lasers up here are always on a set cycle does a strat called "underplat" where he drops underneath Even though it looks like he hits the crystals hitboxes are a lot smaller than they look He then grabs this conveyor that's going speed, and down here he goes up to the old Heart, which gives the super dash ability, This ability lets him charge up and blast interrupted by damage, the environment, or He quits out and loads back in so that he's where he rested at the bench, where he does a c-dash right away. C-dash is a bit faster than dashing regularly, this is going to be his go-to way to move around now. It was also the last ability he needed to now that he has it, he's on his way to take One of the main reasons he needs c-dash is You can swim through acid pools instead of Tear ability, but on this patch it's faster to get c-dash. So here he does an "acid skip" by grabbing the acid before wall jumping on the other side. Here he'll drop a huge distance, but because and dodge them, so he doesn't inventory drop here. So the Dreamer that he's making his way to right now They're located inside the Teacher's Archives, Inside the archives, he's going to do a he'll do a pogo so that he doesn't cling to the wall and He does this so he's able to dash past an He'll then take some intentional damage than waiting for a window without damage. He'll follow this by c-dashing over some Uumuu, who's the autoscroller boss, and who's very RNG based. Uumuu has two attacks it can do, a fast one and a slow one, You can't damage Uumuu while it's flying does a certain number of attacks before an attack it and make it susceptible to damage. Lep stands in specific spots to lure Uumuu attacks, Lep does 150 damage by casting, doing Uumuu has 300 health total, so by doing this kill Uumuu, and this is only doable thanks be able to get the right amount of attacks in in time. Although he can't damage Uumuu while it's do Dream Nail hits to build up Soul (and by extension, health). In this fight, despite him executing exactly the best luck in terms of the attacks Uumuu compared to what a good Uumuu fight would be. Thankfully Uumuu can't do the same attack of a limit to how slow the fight can be with good execution. After defeating Uumuu, Lep will do a timed the arena right as it opens, which lets him repeatedly over some acid he's going to drop down to here. Even though he doesn't need c-dash to get here earlier and wall cling storaged over I mentioned earlier, he's only allowed to acid after he has the ability that would let Up here at the top, he jumps so that he wall the Dreamer is in, and dashes off of it to standing exactly at the edge of Quirrel's the Knight walks once dialogue begins. After then charging up a Dream Nail, he's light pinata to collect Monomon. Something worth mentioning is that there's each of the Dreamers, but on this patch you're Playing on the older patch to skip the cutscenes So like I said earlier, Lep has all his needed to collect nine Geo, he can just gun it to He's now going to just go straight to the First he has to exit the Teacher's Archives So there are two ways to get to Deepnest: part of Fungal Wastes, or you can cut through endgame areas that you need a lot of abilities of charms, a bunch of health, and there are It's a much scarier area to try and go through, Fungal Wastes, so I'm sure you can guess So earlier in the run Lep did what he considered skip, and coming up he's going to do a different consider to be the hardest trick in the game, To skip to Queen's Garden, he has to cross the middle of the room, so he needs to do cling to the wall close to the acid to dash This is incredibly difficult because of how close to the acid, plus the window to perform Lep agrees that this trick is very hard, but since this acid skip isn't as punishing It's still an absolutely absurd trick though. As he makes his way through Queen's Gardens in on enemies to build up Soul, but tries He doesn't really need to get anything in combat encounter up here where he needs to trying to build up his Soul to max. He hits the first Mantis twice to max out before then double hitting the two other Mantises out so the gate to leave this room opens. Down here he's then going to do a neat little So normally when you hit a hazard, like spikes that's predetermined by hitboxes on the hazard. Like for example, if you hit these spikes, you respawn here. It's important to note that hitting these why you just respawn somewhere before the Anyways, you hit a hazard, you respawn before the hazard. A hazard warp though is when you take advantage For example, over here there's a respawn This hitbox corresponds with hazards that to respawn at a location that's related to those lower hazards. So what Lep is going to do is fall onto these hazard respawn hitbox pokes through, which and skip a bit of platforming. This is a hazard warp, and this one saves five seconds. So when he does the hazard warp, he spawns to the next room that he enters right up here. Earlier in the video I mentioned how the route Knights for Geo, and there's a bit of added boil down to you not being able to do a full really sweaty going into Deepnest and the Beast's Den. Thankfully that's all changed and it's not needing Soul and not being as worried intentionally taking damage. After doing this inventory drop, Lep officially and gets extremely unlucky by dropping into Similar to earlier, he doesn't actually get to where the final Dreamer is located, so he's just gunning it through these rooms. I particularly like the room after this one, *sneeze* Dammit, sorry about that. I'm sick, I ruined the moment. So the movement in this room is really scary, detour to get back up, and you lose around 30 seconds. So to get to the final Dreamer, he has to There's actually another dev-intended skip fly up to a hole in the ceiling, and you can Like I've talked about a couple times now, actually go against said rule to do right That skip is used in other categories though, or where the topology rule doesn't apply. When the screen fades in from black, Lep breaks lands on the ground and the game autosaves, he quits out and loads back in. Quitting out heals you back to max, which Soul, which is okay since he didn't need it right now anyway. He's going to mash Dream Nail during the upright position and able to move right away he's going to go up here where he'll do "Devout skip". Up in this pathway he's going to enter, In the older route I talked about earlier, for the Geo, but because he killed the Moss Killing this Devout efficiently is really route you couldn't do a quit out when you Because he doesn't need to kill the Devout isn't an issue, and additionally he has Devout skip, he has to tank some damage right he can walk right up to the Devout without getting knocked away. Anyway, the Devout's hitbox is a triangle, off of it and wedge himself above the Devout As the Devout then runs to the right, Lep for safety, then fall down on the other side of the Devout So again, he Dream Nails as he loads in so wall jumping up here, he's going to do Devout Also, worth noting, right now it shows that bug caused by the quit out where his HUD didn't and he only has four health at the moment. Lep smacks the spiders as he moves past them positions and change directions at random enemies earlier, they fire randomly while section is based very much on reactions as a runner. This is the type of randomness that can keep where unlike Uumuu where you lose time based necessarily lose you time, you just have to He just took out the last Devout of the area that guy, but it's no biggie since Lep needed the Geo from it anyway. He's then going to go and beat up this last He got 43 from that Devout, but right now is one more place to get Geo, although it'll lose him 0.8 seconds. Aside from the horribly long detour to get So Lep currently has one hit in his Soul meter, damage rotation on the Devout, and the minor deposit to collect a handful of the Geo that pops out as he falls. As he passes another Devout up here, he gets enough to do a cast, and he's now just dipping from the area. When he exits the Beast's Den to Deepnest, where conveniently there's a Stag Station. He hasn't purchased this one yet, and he going to do the same thing he did earlier leaves, re-enters to shoot the fireball, Doing it this time is slightly faster overall He'll then interact with the Stag to ride station to the door to the end of the game, all the seals have unlocked and he can fight This run is performed by- Gah, no, I stopped myself that time. When he exits the station here, he's going He's going to pause-unpause to gain control and is able to move up to the right where he'll c-dash off a wall. He didn't pause-unpause the two other times time he didn't have dash or anything, so left, and the second time he needed to land anyways to c-dash. When he arrives at the Temple of the Black After opening and entering it, he'll c-dash to begin the final boss fight, he has to break Then it scream real big. This fight, in principle, is similar to Watcher to hit them with his Nail and other times when he can and casts when appropriate. The Hollow Knight (THK for short) also has them with his cast, similar to the Watcher a bit of extra Soul in case that happens. Each attack THK can do has an optimal and do, and they can do pretty much any attack For example, whenever they do this sweeping During this first phase, THK has a smaller pool of attacks Worth mentioning as well, similar to the fight Lep takes advantage of this by counting the about to stagger them, and can time out hits He needs to hit them pretty constantly to If there's a long enough time between your This can be caused by either just not attacking which is one of their moves it has access to attack for a certain amount of time. Also, reliably part-way through the fight, If you stagger them five times, then they that sometimes they just stop being able to Like I just mentioned, they have a parry move you attack into it, be it a Nail hit or a seconds and then they swing an attack at you, The best move that THK can do here though is the dash that This means that the best move for them to triple-slash is pretty good as well since is the worst since you have to stand and wait. Lep is able to read when THK is going to do back and hold up their weapon, and Lep times shooting a fireball when they're right under him. THK starts with 1,000 health, and once you second phase where they have two additional These attacks don't really come out too often though. Once their health is then lowered down to one where they hover and shoot a bunch of blobs, one and one where they self-stab over and over, Despite his attacks only dealing 1 damage advantage of this time by doing as many Nail if his Soul meter gets full and he has enough point of damage in is better than not. It doesn't seem like casting the one fireball it's just one extra hit, but if the fight one less attack, so you'd save around 0.4 When THK does the bouncing around attack, as much as possible, and not only get Nail Lep and other newer runners used to not cast Nail hits, but when they were reviewing an fireb0rn was able to cast fireball during hit afterwards, so the community started to The bounce attack used to be one of the worst now that they cast during it, it isn't too bad. As the fight approaches the end, THK is going they scream, it locks you in place wherever you're at for a moment. Even if you're in the air, your movement When Lep is anticipating the scream, he's happens, he's pulled to the ground and bumps control again similar to when he intentionally earlier to gain control slightly earlier. During the rest of the scream, THK takes full Overall the scream skip saves four seconds. There's another guaranteed scream earlier which makes it pretty unreactable. That scream itself is also much shorter and nearly as much damage in. Anyways, once he defeats THK, the run will last hit lands, which is right when the final cutscene starts. Alright, that all being covered, let's see Because Lep didn't acquire the Void Heart ending he gets is The Hollow Knight ending, themself, and is then sealed inside the Black So if you've made it to the end of this video, And additionally, I'd like to give a huge Working with him was both super easy and incredibly He streams runs of Hollow Knight occasionally so be sure to check him out there, links are in the description. Also, thank you so much to everyone who supports the channel on Patreon. Without you, these videos would not be possible. By contributing on Patreon, you get access occasional livestream Q&amp;As, the ability to some new stuff I have planned like reviewing Monetary support is entirely unnecessary, support the channel, and I appreciate it greatly. So again, thank you to all of you who support And lastly, as always, be sure to check out It's a super chill and inclusive place that centered around one of the emotes that we have. Totally not a thing that's happening that I partake in. That's all for this video though. This was an Any% (No Major Glitches) speedrun of Hollow Knight,