(fast-paced chimes) - There is so much good bread in France. - [Narrator] And although man without it, a meal seems incomplete. - On every corner, there is delicious, fresh, well made bread. - [Announcer] It's so fresh. - This is not easily available to me, and I want to know why. Why is it that the bread looks very, very different? Why is it that the US In fact, let me just show (video rewinding) Okay, wait, it's 12 hours I'm actually at a grocery store right now. (gentle music) - This is how a lot of us (indistinct voices) My favorite part is when look like it's steaming, to be like, &quot;this was And it's like, &quot;no, &quot;like three weeks ago in a - [Speaker] It's even made - [Announcer] Always buy Wonder Bread. (cash register chiming) - The reason I'm purchasing this bread is because I want to bring just to like have an example lesson, and I may use it as a pillow, 'cause it's literally as (snoring) Some of this bagged bread that are literally illegal in the EU. (machine beeps) - There is nothing more (upbeat music) - [Narrator] (speaking (light accordion music) - In case you're wondering, yes. Any video from Paris must Nice, gentle, cafe accordion music. There's my composer, - It's pretty cool. Okay, so yeah, we know that and the US sucks at it. Is this just another video for being terrible at certain things? Yes, it is. That's exactly what it I actually have something to say here. I believe that bread is for a bigger cultural and that's what I want where industrialized bread and how some people are (music continues) I'll get to that explanation, but first, I'm gonna go into that bakery a large ball of butter and Oh, and Tom, can you throw in a beat to this accordion music, please? - Yeah! - Thanks. - [Speaker] Any questions? - Yes. Are you going to (music continues) Oh, yeah. (music fades out) Pause. My job is to make videos for you, and the reason I'm able to do that is because there are brands This video in particular And I'm grateful for that, because I deeply support BetterHelp is online virtual therapy. I've been going to it has changed my life, but I'm very aware that it's not easy to find a With BetterHelp, technology You fill out a survey, and then BetterHelp assesses your needs, and it matches you with someone of over 20,000 licensed therapists. And then you start like in as little as 48 hours. You can do a video call, you or you could even just do a live text. If your therapist isn't a good fit, you can easily change for free. And it eventually helps Therapy is a way to something that we all need. This is why over 2 million This isn't a self-help thing. This isn't like a crisis line. It is legitimate, real therapy done securely on the internet. If you want to try this There's a link in my description. It's BetterHelp.com/JohnnyHarris. Clicking that link helps but it also gets you 10% off Therapy has changed my life, it could change yours, And thank you, BetterHelp, and the journalism that I do. Let's dive back into the video. Okay, so why bread? There's a million other that are better in other but it turns out that prepared food that humans have ever made. And therefore, it is worth talking about. So let me explain, in under a minute, the overview of the tens of of bread and its chemistry Don't think I can do it in under a minute? Check this out. 12,000 years ago, humans realized that they could plant this grass instead of just foraging for it. This grass was called wheat, and when it was ground up with a stone, it made this powder that, creates this stretchy, of sugar from the flour Oh, look. - [Johnny] All the bacteria in the air loves this sugary goop. - Nice. - And they descend to feast on it, burping out gas as they eat. Whoa, the gas can't float up into the air, because it's getting trapped like a balloon, like a pillow, like magic. - Magic. - All this feasting and and turn into a pillowy thing that is way bigger than it was. Put this blob next to some fire, and all of the little bubbles that were just created turn hard. Wait, all of this can happen Yes. &quot;Cool, let's plant a &quot;and build all of human civilization &quot;off of it,&quot; said humans. So that is bread, like the prepared food item that Eventually, humans got really good at doing this bread, And especially here in France, and have created a whole culture around making bread delicious and amazing. And you can see that they've just by the number of bakeries There are 30,000 independent Compare that to the 3000 that And then remember that the US has like a much larger population. And if you do all the math, you see that France has 50 than the United States. 50 times. I mean, that is such a clear indication of how much they value good bread that is baked a certain way. Here with Mr. Local over here. - Yeah! - Yes. 94% of regions live less than five minutes away from a bakery. (tone chiming) And that shows you they care. They care. It's like, you hear stuff &quot;aha, this is their priority.&quot; And the culture of eating is as how like the ingredients are sourced and prepared and whatnot. People don't eat while rushing towards their next meeting or whatever. Like it's very much, no, you It's just a part of the way of life here. People come into the boulangeries and they check in with each other. It's like a, &quot;hey, how you doing?&quot; &quot;I'm doing great.&quot; This - Why, why, why, why? That is the question. Why are these bread cultures so different? And the answer comes down to I mean, a reminder that founded by a bunch of people to go make a new life, to do things more individualistically. And the way that expressed itself for a really long time was And to be clear, in the history, Britain was as much to mechanizing of bread as America was. - That's insulting! - But anyway, we're talking So by the 1920s, you had this an automatic bread slicer. Hello, convenience, innovation, America. (eagle calling) No more serrated knife Now the machine will do it for you. This is the greatest (record scratching) Oh, so that's where we're at. &quot;This is the greatest and Europe was like, &quot;wait, &quot;but like, not for bread. &quot;Slice this bread, and you &quot;We don't need a machine But the automatic slicer was - Now, I'm just getting warmed up. - Now that we have sliced let's make it, I don't One way to do this is to take the part of the wheat berry that has oils in it, the husk and the bran, and get rid of it. (objects clattering) Focus on the big, carb-loaded But there had to be a to make the bread last longer, And it's the 1950s, and Europe is like, &quot;whoa, dude, America. Chill out. &quot;Like, bread is just bread. &quot;We've been doing this &quot;for literally tens of thousands of years. &quot;Let's just like stick to the program.&quot; And America's like, &quot;no!&quot; So America starts adding all bleaches and dough conditioners. And suddenly they're putting their bread into controlled chambers hot enough to rise faster. And they're putting preservatives in so that their bread can now sit on a shelf for not just one or two but four days, five days, six days, a whole week, and it's still soft. It is still white. It is But it now has 15 And it's cheap and convenient and stable, and America is loving this. And Europe is like, &quot;whoa.&quot; - Whoa. &quot;This is not bread anymore.&quot; And indeed, I would argue that This is a bread-like substance. It's a different product made and yet we use the same word for it. If you want to know more about what's inside of this kind of bread, I was actually here, making this video, when I stumbled upon a video from one of my favorite that's like a deep dive in this kind of industrial bread. Definitely go check it out. Some bread in the US has taken it so far that they will put in spongy and soft or that even though these additives are known to like cause cancer and inflame asthma... (coughing) Do all of these terrible things. Many of these additives that are legal to be put in American in Europe and many other countries. Azodicarbonamide... Is one of 'em. This is a whitening This product, ADA, also helps other things stay softer, like yoga mats. ADA is in yoga mats to make them... (toy squeaking) And it is banned in the EU Our obsession with convenience, shelf life has led us down and yet we're totally This is why I think for broader American culture. It shows us how far we are willing to go to prioritize things like over tried and true methods that have been baked into culture. (drumbeat) Of course, industrialized It doesn't have some of the that are not allowed in the EU, but it still has all of the still artificially risen, all of that. The difference is that it is rare. It is much more rare here. What is much more common is the ability to go to your local bakery and get bread that only has a few ingredients, and it's the ingredients for tens of thousands of years - The feeling that I generally have is that this is how it should be. And then when I go elsewhere and you have other kinds of bread that last kind of bizarre amounts of time, you're like, &quot;this is not You get calibrated to kind and it kinda ruins you. (laughing) - It turns out Paris is lowkey one of the most bikeable but it used to not be like that. Like last time I was here, I smell some urban design Someone tried to change this a company called Panera. - [Announcer] What could be better than a visit to Panera Bread? - It tried to bring like to the United States. And they did. They had a high quality, delicious bread, but what happens next is potentially the best metaphor for America. - Hello, I like money. - They got a business and then they got investors, and they started to expand and scale. And then they were purchased and now they're planning to go public on the public stock exchanges. Like, they just became who does not focus on making Instead, they're now just that kind of looks and but is now done in a uniform, mass produced, industrialized process, all in the name of scale and profit. - (gasps) Wow, they have it. Canned bread. - So the question is, Like, am I just being a snob who's like, &quot;traditional bread is &quot;everyone should have - That was snobby. You're a snob. - No, I'm not. - Kind of, yeah, but also, it in how it goes into your body. The beauty of bread, always, was that you could put and bacteria would come down and kind of start the digestion process. That is what natural fermentation does, is it starts to break down the wheat and make it ready to go into your body. The way that we make bread in America doesn't really leave time for this. We use heat and chemicals to make it rise faster, in an artificial, synthetic way. And so you're actually getting to what original bread making looks like and what it produces. Yes, it lasts longer. Yes, it tastes like chewy, but it's not bread the way for tens of thousands of years. Convenience, scale, independence. That is what we love in America. We love shelf life. We love industrialized efficiency. And to me, yeah, all that because it means we get prosperous, convenient lives, but I think we lose something really big when we focus on those as the priorities as opposed to quality and Last thing I'll say here is You have a movement in some of the best bread in the world, using the most traditional In these big cities, you have that is on par with anything and that kind of blows my mind. The problem is, and my critique, is that that is still and really only available to people who live in big urban areas. And meanwhile, the rest of us, the most accessible bread to us is this industrial, mass produced garbage. - Belongs in the trash. - And that is enough to (upbeat accordion music)