I wish you a happy birthday today. Let's toast to you. Come come come good good Excuse me, please enjoy your meal. Please enjoy your meal. The roast duck is out of the oven Chef Lou is serving roast duck All right. Everything is fine. You have to go to the main table in person, no problem Come come come come eat roast duck come come come eat eat eat eat roast duck Lao Shi, the old man of longevity, may you be blessed as far as the East Sea and live as long as the Southern Mountains. Thank you, thank you, Master Lou. Thank you for your trouble. I heard that you will be on holiday tomorrow, but you are still allowed to go today. I'm sorry to be so busy. You are celebrating your birthday. I am happy to serve you. To be honest, Master Lou, I love eating your duck. This roast duck is from where, where, where, where. I eat it a lot. But the duck here is delicious You love me This is not flattery, I'm serious. Otherwise, can I hold my 60th birthday party here? Thank you very much. I have told all my relatives and friends. The roast duck here is named Lou. I will give you eight more words. Jiaolou-style roast duck is delicious Good good good If you have any comments, please let me know and I will improve it. Hello, welcome. How many people are you? Is there a private room? You come with me. Please enjoy the roast duck. Thank you, thank you, thank you, Master Lou, hello, hello Xiaowan's father Girl, what are you drawing? Duck drawing duck This is a duck. Dad has never seen this purple duck. You are so creative Dad, when do you get off work? We are going to Beijing tomorrow. I know dad has a birthday party here today. So I have to be busy for a while My sister and brother will come to take you home soon. After Dad is done I'll go home and pack your things right away. Let's take the train tomorrow morning Where to go Beijing That's right Please move more quickly. Chef, these fish are bad and should be thrown away Who said it should be thrown away? The fish has been thrown away, so the cost is on you. The chef showed off his authority on his first day in office. Feng Zili, do you want to try it? How dare I? I just came and I'm working with you guys. You will understand later. I'm a man of my word. This material can still be used tomorrow. Why is it so smelly? Chef, this fish is delicious. It has been in the refrigerator for more than a month and no customers have ordered it. According to the normal procedure, it should be cleared. This is normal loss and will not be charged to any department. It's okay, Lao Lou, the fish has just been frozen for a little longer. It's only been a month and it's time to throw it away. Well, you've only been here for a month, so you should throw it away. You're just joking, right? Make some strong-flavored dishes, braised, spicy, or fried with sauce Can't tell Zhou Yun from the taste Please recommend this delicious dish to your customers. I'm afraid it's inappropriate for the chef to do this. Why is it inappropriate? It's not that you think we are running a restaurant. Everything we make is imported If there is any problem with the food, please report it to the health department. That would cause even greater damage to the reputation of our hotel. Besides, let's be honest, this is not appropriate. I'm not the only one who is like this We are conscientious if we don't use gutter oil to cook Are you aware of the unspoken rules in this industry? You are still a veteran in the catering industry. I, Zhou, have been doing this all the time and nothing has happened. Lao Zhou, you just took office, so some things you said might not be appropriate But today As an old man, I take advantage of my age and I say it. No matter what you did elsewhere But we have never done this in Qingyun Building. I can't ask you to do this today. I don't like to hear you say this. I didn't get this job as head chef by applying for a position. I was sent by the leader. How many long words are there? I'm the boss in the kitchen and you're the roast duck chef You have no right to control the cooking. You are right, chef. I have no control over cooking. But I am also an old man in this store I have to take care of this matter today Chef, I'm going to pour this fish One roast duck in Chef Lou's No. 2 private room Okay, this guy is weird. One person ordered a whole table. Are you preparing for your last meal before the world? This little girl, stop talking nonsense. Sister Xiaowan, Brother Xiaowan Dad, what a coincidence! Why do you guys get out of school so early today? After the English competition today, we went straight home from school. How is the result after the competition? My sister won the first place in the city. Dad, look There is also a big red certificate. Take a look. Isn't it the first prize? This certificate is issued to encourage Lou Xiaoxin, when will you get first place? Can you please make your dad happy? Dad, our Xiaoxin is also the first in football at school. Yes, yes, yes, there is also a first one. I want to get the first place when I go to school. I also want my dad's roast duck to win first place. Our whole family is the first pair Okay, come and collect it. Well, since you're here, why don't you just take Xiaowan back? Okay, pack her things. Dad will take you to Beijing tomorrow I'll be back after work. Okay, Xiaowan, don't leave. I just got a glass of water. Let her drink some water. It's hot. Let her drink some water before leaving. It's hot, drink more water. Are you two drinking water? No. What do you mean by talking? I don't have money to pay the bill How are you going to eat if you don't have money to pay the bill? I can work here. Aren't you hiring people? We have already finished recruiting here. Even if I haven't finished recruiting, I don't want you to be like this. It's between 18 and 25. Do you look like it? The manager should call 110, okay? I just want to work here, nothing else. You ordered a table of food but didn't pay Why do you want to work here? Isn't this a big restaurant? Isn't it famous? I want to work here Do you think being a waiter is so easy? All waiters must have a health certificate. Do you have one? Look at her wrist. Look at her hand. I'm telling you, since we're all women, I won't say harsh words. But you ordered a table of food but didn't pay This matter needs to be reported to the police. Meizi called 110 to report the incident. manager Maybe they have some unspeakable secrets. We are really short of one person in the kitchen. Doing odd jobs Every time it's lunch time, the back is in chaos. Too busy, yes, yes, yes, just give it to her. Otherwise, where would we get the money for the meal? You said let her stay? Stay and work so she can pay you back for your meal. Otherwise, she doesn't have the money to give to those kind-hearted people. Didn't I tell you that you met a noble person? Master Lou is a famous master here. He told you to stay, so stay. I work as a handyman in the kitchen for 450 yuan a month When will you pay me back? Do you understand clearly when you can leave? Let's have a family meeting. Tomorrow is a big day for our family. I'm going to Beijing Yes, yes, because our Xiaowan is going to Beijing tomorrow. Dad is going to take you to Beijing for surgery. Beijing has the best doctors and the best medical equipment. Can cure Xiaowan's disease We have been saving money to treat Xiaowan's illness. Now this money is finally enough. Dad took out all the money today. A total of more than 30,000 yuan These 30,000 yuan are not easy to come by. It was the result of the joint efforts of everyone in our family. It can be said that it was squeezed out from between the teeth. I remember Xiaoyu always wanted a repeater Dad bought you a dick to save money. Xiaoxin has always wanted a mountain bike Dad said it was unsafe so he bought you a normal one. Actually, I want to save some money. Xiaowan also has a brother and sister who have this money. The two of them helped save money. The money in this envelope was given to me by my father when he got off work today. Manager Zhang put more than 2,000 yuan in Dad's pocket. It's the uncles and aunts in the store. Knowing that Xiaowan was going to Beijing for surgery, everyone chipped in. Xiaowan grew up in the store. Uncles and aunts all like you and love you You have to remember their kindness. And you two must remember Whoever is good to us, we should repay them when we grow up. When I recover from my illness, I will sing for my uncles and aunts. That's right. Yes, there is still this money. This is the food money and pocket money I left for you two. Don't spend money recklessly, have a plan. Dad is gone. The elder sister is the boss of the family, so you have to listen to her. Don't worry, Dad. From tomorrow on, Xiaoxin will be under my care. I don't need your help. I'm very independent, right, Dad? Go your way Let me tell you, during the time that Dad went to Beijing You better behave yourself in school. I won't be there when Teacher Chen calls the parents. Teacher Chen will look for parents even if she has nothing to do. By the way, Xiaoyu, if there is anything you can't handle, don't Go find Grandma Chen And this is the food allowance for Shin-chan's school It's his turn to pay on the 15th Remember to remind him to hand it in to school. What else is there? I want to think about it. By the way, Dad made some dumplings They are all the pork and cabbage fillings you like. Frozen in the refrigerator When time is running out, just cook dumplings. Sister, let's eat dumplings tomorrow. You only know how to eat. Didn't I tell you to cook it when you don't have enough time? What else? I can still pay for the water and electricity bills when I get back. By the way, don't let strangers into the house. Feed the fish and water the flowers. Did you hear me? Remember it, then go to sleep. Sister, after my surgery, can I become an elementary school student? Yes, Xiaowan can go to school and become a primary school student. Sister, I can play hopscotch with Hu Lingling and the other girls. Anything is fine What are you singing? Hopscotch and jumping rubber bands You can play whatever you want. Yes, our Xiaowan is a healthy child. Xiaowan is waiting for you to come back. Sister will take you to fly a kite, okay? My brother is going too. Of course I have to compete with you. Xiaowan set out Come follow dad Let's go. Dad, what's Beijing like? Dad has never been to Beijing, but I read in a book that Beijing is very big. There is Tiananmen Square and the Forbidden City Now many new buildings have been built for the Olympic Games. There is also a bird's nest Wait for Xiaowan's surgery to be successful. Dad will take you around Beijing, okay? OK, I want to sing Little Swallow at Tiananmen Square, is that ok? OK, Tiananmen Square is big, you can sing and dance Sing all the songs you know. Dad, I'm so happy. Dad is also happy as long as he thinks of Xiaowan Dad is happy We still have three stops to reach the train station. Come on, Auntie, I'll let you sit down. Please sit down. Where are you with your child? It's okay. I'm young. Please sit down. Or I'll sit with the baby. No, no, you sit down, you sit down Thank you, thank you, thank you. good Sir, please don't drive. Please open the door. Someone stole my money. There is a thief master who opened the door. Dad, Dad Catch the thief Catch the thief Stop and catch the thief. Stop and catch the thief. Catch the thief. Are you okay? I didn't catch up with him and he ran away. How did he get away? Help me catch him. He stole my money, that was my daughter's life-saving money. Sir, please help me. You'd better come with me to the hospital. You'd better come with me to the hospital. I'm fine. My flesh wounds are fine. When I catch a thief, it's not just a matter of physical injuries. No, I have to catch the thief. He stole my money. Where is my daughter's life-saving money? Don't worry, Dad. Don't worry, don't worry. Xiaowan, don't worry. Don't worry. Come in These two sets of work clothes should be changed frequently. That cabinet is unused, so it belongs to you. What's up with this scar on your hand? This is the report record. If the situation is true, please sign it. good Police officer, you must catch that thief. Money is extremely important to me. I was going to use the money to take my daughter to Beijing for medical treatment. Once the money goes to Beijing, it can't go there anymore. You must give me my money back. We will try our best and I will inform you as soon as we have any news. Thank you Come and go Hello, hello, you are the doctor, right? He is a neurologist at this hospital. Hello, Dr. Shen Can I ask your age? I'm forty-nine. Has this happened to you recently? For example, falling down for no reason When I want to take something, I can't get it. Misjudgment of the distance between you and objects Do you have any family history? Me? I don't know. I grew up in an orphanage. I don't even know who my parents are. Doctor, what's wrong with me? We'll know this after the test results come out. Kid, you are hungry, come and have some water. It's okay. Don't worry, your dad will be fine, okay? Thanks Is this a piece of my brain? Doctor, am I ill? Where are your family members? I have three children in my family It's okay. Just tell me if you have anything to say. What disease do I have? Your disease is called hereditary spastic ataxia Hereditary cerebellar ataxia Most cases start between the ages of 25 and 55. Mainly damaged: large areas of cerebellar Purkinje cells disappear White matter demyelination and axonal degeneration It will also affect the pons, medulla oblongata, olive nucleus, spinal cord, optic nerve, etc. Please don't use so many professional terms to me. I don't understand them. Can you tell me what will happen if I get this disease? Will it kill me? meeting But not right away The cerebellum mainly manages a person's motor nerves This disease is the gradual atrophy of the cerebellum The main symptoms of loss of motor control are You will slowly lose control of your body. Loss of control over the body First, your gait will become unstable. You already have this symptom In the future, it will gradually become more and more unstable. There will be a sloppy gait and a spastic gait Walking becomes increasingly unstable and prone to falling Then your upper limbs will also be affected. My hands will become clumsy and I won't be able to hold anything. Intention tremor You will not be able to complete some delicate movements. There will also be articulation disorders For example, when speaking, there is explosive language Or suddenly become speechless Unable to express oneself with words Next, pyramidal tract signs will appear in the lower limbs You will lose the ability to stand and walk I have to use a wheelchair to move around. Optic atrophy will follow Maybe you will see things more and more unclearly Urinary incontinence may also occur Finally, due to a loss of control of the respiratory system muscles Asphyxiation You've finished talking about this disease. You need to take medicine. Medicines are very expensive, right? right Doctor Shen, you want me to take your medicine, right? I told you I'm not sick I have money, I take nutritional supplements, I don't take medicine Look, I can't grab anything. How am I not accurate? How am I not accurate? Am I not accurate? Didn't I tell you? I'm telling you, Doctor Shen, I don't believe you. New here, peel the potatoes for me quickly. Waiting for it Hurry up, hurry up, table number 7 is urging us to serve Good, the place is full again today. What are you doing here? I'm here to see if you need my help. How can you help? Is this the front room? Go back to work now. I can't even catch the bowl anymore and I don't even know how to hate it If Xiaoxin hadn't gone to school to stop you today You're not home until dark. You can't hide from me and play football. What are we eating tonight? Don't worry, you won't starve. Go back and learn the function well. I will cook anything for you. Master Guan, you said that it's boring to eat without the master of this building. As for? Why don't you tell jokes when Master Lou is here? This day passed so quickly, it's not like now when it's so dull Tell me what you want to hear and I'll give you a piece Go away, you have no ivory in your mouth. Xiaoxin dumplings are ready, hurry up It smells really good Eat slowly, it's hot. Come Brother and sister Xiaowan's father How come you all came back? Dad, what happened to your chin? You dropped this. Why didn't you two go to Beijing? What happened? I can't go to Beijing. I'm in the car today. Lost the money What if the money is gone? How can Xiaowan go to Beijing for surgery? Stop making trouble and think about what to do first. What else can I do? Where can we get so much money? Xiaoxin is right I can't gather so much money in such a short time. I'm sorry, it's all Dad's fault Dad, there's always a way to deal with money. Then maybe the thief will be caught tomorrow. If it doesn't work, we can just wait a little longer. We can always get the money together. When I go to college, I will try to get a scholarship I earn money while going to school I'll help you give money to Xiaowan I won't eat lunch at school anymore. I bring my own food Dad, look, isn't Xiaowan fine now? Xiaowan will sing for you now The little swallows come here every spring in flowery clothes Xiaowan, stop singing, stop singing, take a deep breath, take a deep breath Okay, Dad, it's okay. ... Dad, how did you break your chin? Why is it so serious? What is this? This film was shot My dad's doctor asked me to take this brain X-ray. Why did you take this film? The doctor was afraid that I might have a concussion, so he took a brain X-ray. What did the doctor say? It's all right. It's all right. Look. Dad, are you still in pain? It doesn't hurt. It's okay. Dad, how did you break your jaw like this? It must have hurt when your chin hit the ground. Why didn't you use your hand to block it? When we fall, don't we use our hands to block it? Really not Xiaoyu, please take your brothers and sisters out to eat. Your sister is hungry, what about you? I'll take a break. You guys eat first. Come and see how the yard looks like. It's ok. You live in this room. Come and take a look. Look at this house, is it okay? The rent is not expensive, only 100 yuan per month You are so good at finding There is no house cheaper than mine. The toilet is outside. Go out, turn left and walk for five or six minutes. The stove is at the back. You have to buy the coal yourself. Don't fight with others over cooking. There are seven families living in this courtyard, and they are all like wolves. You're the only one working here? Okay, my last name is Qiu, you can just call me Brother Qiu from now on. What's the matter? Come to me. I live next door to you. Give you room money That's good That's perfect. You can stay here. Goodbye, Dad. Goodbye, Dad. Goodbye. Be careful on the road. Grandma Hao, thank you. Okay, okay, Xiaowan, didn't you go to Beijing? I didn't go Why not go? I don't want to go You don't want to go to school? Then we'll go first. Goodbye, bye, bye, bye, bye Hello, good morning Sister, do you think the thief can be caught? Can we get our money back? I don't know I really hope I can pick up a big bag of money right away Can we just ignore the traffic jam when we take the bus? Master Lou, why are you here? What's wrong with your chin? What happened to your chin? Laolou hit it. I woke up at night and kept knocking and knocking. It's okay. What's wrong, Master Lou? It's okay. Didn't I say it's okay? Didn't you take a month off to take Xiaowan to see a doctor? Yes, yes, yes, yes Something happened at home so I can't go What could be more important than treating Xiaowan? Yes, that's right, something happened at home. Then when will you go? Go when you should go. Why are you all blocking here? Go get some work done and take a walk. Playing deep today is What have we become here? This is a restaurant, not a nursery. If everyone puts their children Is this place still open for business? Don't be angry, Lao Lou is an old employee here. If he works diligently and responsibly, then you can give him some benefits. Look, isn't he taking his child to Beijing for medical treatment? Waiting for the children to come back from Beijing You wanted his children to come and play at that time. I'm not free yet. I have to go to school, right? Manager What's wrong with your chin? What's wrong with your chin? Didn't you go to Beijing? It's ok, I didn't go So I came here to cancel my leave with you and then I will go to work. If it's not Lou Zhijun, why did you bring the child here? What do you think this place is? Is it your family nursery? There's a kid here making a lot of noise. It will definitely affect everyone's work. I don't know how this store enforces its rules and regulations. The chef took our family's special circumstances into consideration. I am very grateful that I am allowed to bring my children to work But I have never delayed work because of my children. If you find that I have missed work because of my children You don't need to speak as a chef. Can I just go by myself? You, Mr. Zhou, are new here. There are some things you don't know The chef has been working here since the Qingyun Restaurant opened. Those old customers over the years They all come here for Chef Lou's roast duck. How about this? I'll take charge of Xiaowan's affairs. If anything happens, I'll take responsibility. Sorry to bother you again. What a big deal! Master Lou, why didn't you go to Beijing? There's something wrong, I'll go later. What's the situation? Nothing, I'm going to go eat duck What's your name? Xiaowan How old are you? You are six years old. You should go to school. Why don't you go? Lao Lou, you are not on vacation, why are you back to work? What happened to this chin? I just took a day off and I fell down so I won't take a day off anymore Master Lou, my son is getting married. Okay Is Zhijun in Building 15? I'm fine. Come in. From this picture, it can be seen that there is gray matter in the pons. This means that the cerebellum has begun to shrink. This is a classic symptom of hereditary spastic ataxia. Look here, especially this part. You are so gray. This is the shrinking part Doctor, could this be a misdiagnosis? This film has a very clear image and there is no possibility of misdiagnosis. The injuries on your face confirm this. I understand your feelings, but you can't escape You should hurry up to get treatment Frankly speaking, your situation is not optimistic. What I mean is that you should Take the time to treat I'll ask the nurse to change your medicine first. good It's time to work. Pay more attention. Where is Lou Zhijun? Where is Lou Zhijun? Where is your dad? He is not busy in the store during working hours. Where is he going? What happened to Master Zhou? Isn't it time for Manager Zhang to go to work? How come Master Lou Zhijun can't see anyone? Who has seen Master Lou? I don't know if I haven't seen it. I haven't seen it. Has anyone seen Master Lou? What happened? Did you see Master Lou coming? I didn't see him. No, I didn't see him. I don't know. Aren't you a veteran employee? You never make mistakes. So what happened today? Running out without saying a word during work hours I don't know where I went. What's going on? Do you really think this is a daycare center? It's free. Master Zhou Xiaowan is fine. It's okay, just draw. What is this drawing? Gray matter appears in the pons This means that the cerebellum has begun to shrink. The main symptoms are You will slowly lose control of your body. First, the gait is unstable and it is easy to fall. There will also be articulation disorders Unable to express oneself with words Optic atrophy and urinary incontinence may occur Finally, due to a loss of control of the respiratory system muscles Asphyxiation Where are the adults in their family? Where are the adults in their family? Whose child is this? Whose child is this? What's going on? I don't know this child's family. I don't know whose house it is. How long has this been here? It's been a while. Dad, dad, where are the adults in their family? Where is my mother? Where has she gone? Don't be afraid, don't be afraid. Dad thinks it's a little hot, but you still think it's delicious Call dad Call dad louder dad You're so cute. You speak so quietly. Xiaosheng, daddy will give you the name Xiaoyu Speak softly Come on, baby, take another bite, baby, come on, you're so good Li Tou, don't say this child is really obedient My three-year-old son is not so obedient. This kid in the old building was there at midnight the day before yesterday. We rescued him from Yingzhou Railway Station. I have reported it to the police station, but no one has come to claim it. Our bureau and branch are also very busy. Yes, yes, you don't have enough police force. How can I take care of a child? Lao Li, let me take care of the child for two days. Wait until someone comes to claim it and then give it to them. Laolou, we called you over. That's what I mean. That's great. I have experience taking care of children. Come on, come on, baby, come on, baby Come and give me a hug. Be good and follow me home, okay? Come home with me. There is a little sister at home. It's okay. You see, he's quite close to me. He really follows me when I go to his place. right It smells good. Have another bite. Look how good it tastes, Xiaoyu. Dad, is he my brother? He is your brother He is new here, so let's name him Xiaoxin. Hello Xiaoxin, my name is Xiaoyu Say hello to my sister. Come, come, have some more porridge. What are you looking at? Where did this child come from? That woman just now She asked me where there was an orphanage nearby. How would I know she would leave the child here? Such a big child was thrown here You didn't realize that you let the person who threw her run away Well, she didn't make any sound, so how would we know? Why don't you call the police? Why are you staring at me? The eyes are so big, but where is the brain? If someone asks about the welfare home, just tell them. Just turn right after you go out the door and pass two traffic lights. You will arrive here. I said it. I saw that woman just now, too. How can he do such a thing when he is such an honest person? Dad, he is a man or a woman She is a little sister She is a girl like her sister. Where did you learn this? You're so annoying. Come let your sister feed you, hurry up Look, she's still smiling at me. She's really smiling at you. Why not just call her Xiaowan? Xiaowan, what do you think? It sounds nice. OK, then we'll call her Xiao Wan. Okay, look, she's smiling. You agree with this name, right? Okay, we will call you Xiaowan from now on. Why is this, God? Why is this It doesn't matter how you treat me. Why separate me from my children? I am dying What about my three children? Pay the contract to approve the beauty of the content of all answers to sales, I used to introduce the migration change court standard more, don't say Linyi people, teach you how to make 2 billion with 2 yuan 1 Langya City Affairs - Nearby Forum ( Stand up, hello teacher Hello, students, please take a seat. Please turn on your computer. *The strongest PLP in history Hospital admission. Articles of Association That's great. Sorry, Teacher Xiaoyu. Chef, Chef, there is a customer in front who ordered roast duck. Have you told anyone that there is no roast duck today? Let's talk about the disease of roast duck. Who is sick? Who do you think is sick? Tell me, did the customer order roast duck? I'm not saying you're sick, I'm saying you're happy. What kind of words are these? How rude your words are. Please say it again. I said you are sick and your illness is serious What to do Lou Zhijun, the chef of Lou Ye I think you've had enough of this. It's fine if you make special arrangements, but you're absent from work for no reason. Still not obeying management and acting wild in the workplace Disrespect for superiors Do you really think that Qingyunlou can't continue without you? I'm telling you, if I, Zhou, ask you to leave now, you have to leave Qingyunlou paid you to do the job. I didn't ask you to act like a big shot. Isn't it? Master Lou, you should recognize the situation as soon as possible. I am nothing but a cook. Why did I become a cook by accident? I am a talented person, so I must be a lawyer. I asked you guys what are you doing here? The people in front are urging us to serve the food. What are you doing? What are the regulations for leaving the post without permission? Deduct bonus or fire people? So, Master Zhou, it's dinner time now and he's busy. We'll talk about this later, okay? Chef Lou quickly serves the duck. The customers are waiting. Master Lou I've never seen you take advantage of others like this. She takes her sick daughter here every day to act pitiful You bastard you bastard Are you speaking human language? What are you doing, Lou Zhijun? Master Lou, Master Lou, if you have something to say, please talk to me nicely instead of cursing. And you are talented and you are a lawyer. If you have the ability, you can get a lawyer's license You are standing here and saying you are a talent. Why do you blame others when you have no ability? I despise people like you the most. I tell you Mr. Lou, Mr. Zhang, please tell me nothing. I don't listen to anything today. Crazy this person is crazy work work work this this Is there something evil going on in our kitchen? Okay, stop standing there and get to work. Shin-chan, come here quickly Then I'll go first Goodbye, I'll tell you good news, sister. I found a charity foundation on the Internet Maybe it can save our Xiaowan Really, let's go and take a look. Okay, okay, let's go. Aunt Xiaowan, where is my father? Why did he quarrel with Uncle Zhou? It's okay. Come drink some water. Auntie, I want to call my dad. OK Come and fight Hello, the number you dialed is powered off. Didn't get through It's okay, Xiaowan, dad will be fine. Xiaowan, why are you here? You are so busy outside, why are you being lazy here? Auntie Xiaowan has brought you some sour plum soup. Have a sip. Sweet or not Xiaowan told her aunt Why didn't Dad and you go to Beijing? What money is lost? Don't worry, we will try our best to arrange it. Thank you, Auntie. Thank you, Auntie. You're welcome. Please be careful on the road. Goodbye, Auntie Goodbye, Auntie Goodbye Sister, how come you are so smart? Why didn't I think of coming to this Angel Love Foundation? Why don't you look at who I am, your sister? Let's go. Xiaowan Xiaowan Brother and sister What are you doing? Dad is missing What do you mean Dad is missing? How could Dad be missing? What happened to Sister Mei? Don't mention it. The whole kitchen is a battlefield today. This is the first time I know how friendly our Master Lou is. If you have such a bad temper, don't go in. Don't scare Xiaowan. I'll give you the schoolbag. Thank you, Sister Mei, for taking her back. Wanlai, let's go home first. Dad, we're back. dad My father is not at home. Where's Dad? I hope nothing will happen to Dad. I'll go find my dad, too. Xiaowan, be good. Sister and brother are going to look for daddy. You stay at home alone. No, I'm going too. Happy gongs and drums beat out the joy of every year Beautiful dance brings joy to every day The sunshine paints today red The flower of life is our smile Today is a good day. Everything you wish for will come true. Today is a good day to open the door Xiang Haixia Lou Zhijun is really you It's you It's so strange. I just walked here and passed by. I'm sitting here and I'm thinking about this place Didn't I meet you here ten years ago? When I saw you, you came out from the crowd It's like a dream. I thought I was dreaming I dance here every day How come I've never seen you before? Why are you still dancing? No more dancing without me This is the first time I pass by here today. I met you You've been drinking, haven't you? I had some wine. You never drink alcohol, what's wrong? I encountered some unpleasant things today and I feel depressed. Let's dance. Once we dance, we forget all our worries. I haven't danced for ten years. I can't dance anymore. What happened to your chin? It's okay It's a small matter, isn't it? Come on, dance. I can't. I don't have a dance partner. Come on, it's not like I haven't danced for ten years. Didn't I teach you this ten years ago? Come on, come on. Why are you here so late? Aunt Xiu, let's go find dad. Auntie, hasn't my dad come back here? No, your father didn't come home. No It's so late, you should go home Maybe your dad has gone back by now. OK, let's go home and have a look. Be safe, auntie. We are leaving first. I think my dad has been acting a little weird lately. Don't talk nonsense. Where on earth has he been? He was never like this before. Leave us alone Okay, think about where else dad can go. Take a walk How about I haven't forgotten these moves? Okay, the music is gone, everyone has left and it's just the two of us. The music is gone, it's okay, I'll sing Today is a good day Today is a good day Today is a good day. Okay. Why do you keep singing this? People thought they were two crazy people. My waist hurts from laughing so hard. Okay, let's do it again some other day. Come back another day. Let's not go today. Okay, let's stop here. It's too late. It's not too late, I can tell you Because it's too late That's why I have to jump. Many things are like this. What's past is past. We have to cherish what we have now, okay? I know that many things can't be found again. Come to dance knowing that once it's gone, it can't be found again, right? Today is a good day Today is a good day Today is a good day Your children are looking for you everywhere. You are such a good father. Dad, Dad Dad, why did you come back just now? Dad, where have you been? We are so worried. Dad, what happened? If you feel uncomfortable, please tell us. Why are you running out alone? Tell us and we'll give you advice Dad, please don't ignore us and don't not come home. You shouldn't do this to your dad. Dad is wrong I'm hungry, dad, come in, I'll cook noodles for you. Eat, eat, you all eat together Dad was wrong today. It's Dad's fault Dad, I'm sorry. I shouldn't walk alone. You haven't eaten yet. Look how hungry you are. Dad, please don't bother with that lousy chef. Sister Meizi has told us that we all support you. Dad, have you been out today? The chef is looking for trouble because you are out for a while. I just went to the bank Actually, it's my fault. You are right, he is the one looking for trouble Yes, Dad, no matter what happens in the future We are all with you Xiaowan and dad are together forever Let's eat quickly, we will be together forever. By the way, Dad, I have good news to tell you today. Good news, Xiaowan's surgery fee has been settled. Really, really Really real filing date: Angel Love Fund Application Date: Donate surgery fees specifically for children with congenital heart disease I have already registered Xiaowan online Really, really, Xiaoxin and I have been there. Someone from the foundation will come to visit my home in two days. As long as our conditions are met Immediately arranged for Xiaowan to go to Beijing for surgery Dad, our family will definitely be selected This will solve our big problem. It's all my fault. Why didn't I know about this foundation earlier? Dad, our family is in trouble now. Let's use the foundation's money to perform surgery on Xiaowan. When our family has the conditions in the future Just donate more money to other children's fathers, don't you think it's right? Right You are all really good children of your father. Eat it quickly. Put it here. Do you know how to knead dough? Try harder. Is there anyone who kneads dough like you? If you don't put in the effort to knead the dough, you are not qualified to work at the dim sum counter Work under me, don't be a petty thief If you want a little chicken thief, get out of here Chef, here I come How dare you come? This is my job, can I not come? Your job you walk away Isn't it your job to scold your boss? I'm here to apologize to you. I apologize to you in front of all my colleagues. I was wrong yesterday. I shouldn't have What are you doing? And I was wrong yesterday. I left my job without permission. I apologize to all my colleagues for the inconvenience caused to the store's work. Xiao Feng, I had a bad attitude yesterday. I apologize to you. The chef follows the rules of the store. I accept whatever you do to me. It's easy to say, do you think that's it? I accept Manager, Master Lou, I accept Master Lou's apology. Master Lou is our master here. It's your big brother. Who doesn't have bad moods sometimes? You also have bad moods. I will have it too, right? That's it. Forget it Manager Zhang, this matter cannot be left like this. Master Zhou, look at how nice Master Lou is, he even apologized. You are a generous person, so forget it. That's it. Okay, let's get busy. Thank you, manager. I'm going to work. Old building Mr. Zhang, why were you in such a bad mood that day? Is it because of money? yes Xiaowan has told me everything, so what should I do? How about we try to find a way to get you some? No, manager, please don't. We are not rich. I have troubled you a lot over the years. Don't tell everyone about this old building. It's really okay. It's really okay. Don't worry, I've taken care of Xiaowan's problems. Really really really That's OK All are good. Mr. Huang, station 8, please hurry up. Chef Lou's Roast Duck A roast duck The flour has arrived. The flour has arrived. He is really good at ordering people around. The chefs are all porters. How heavy is the flour? Is this a savage or a woman? Xiao Tong, this is all done by gay men If you don't do it, I can't bear it with my body. If you can ask, I'll treat you to a meal. If I hadn't heard a few words from her that day I thought she was mute. Xiao Tong, let me explain to you what happened last night. Who is it? Who is it? It's me, Brother Qiu. I just happened to be passing by and wanted to come and see you. How is it? Are you used to living in this house? Very good. Thank you. What are you doing? I just got back from get off work and I'm going to take a rest. Is there anything I can do for you? Okay then, take a rest so we can talk. If you want to talk to someone at night I live next door, come find me. I'm going to take a break and won't talk to anyone. good Doctor Shen is me Come and sit I'm here to apologize to you. I'm sorry. I said that last time. I understand that anyone would have to accept this fact immediately. It's not easy, your reaction is normal. You came very quickly today. Thanks I came here just to ask if this disease is incurable. So far, what we doctors can do It is to try to delay the time and speed of the patient's onset I wonder how long I can live? It's hard to say whether this disease is hereditary. What causes this disease? There is no medical conclusion yet. It can only be said that it is caused by the wrong arrangement of genes Cerebellar atrophy occurs step by step. But how long will it take to shrink to which part? neither knows If it shrinks quickly, Will I be unable to walk soon? I couldn't stand up or speak. This process is quite painful. For you and your children As a doctor, I have to tell you this. This is a cruel fact but you have to face it The sooner you know, the sooner you can start treatment. Try to delay the progression of the disease Yes, I know Thank you, Doctor Shen. I'll prescribe some medicine for you. Please prescribe it. In fact, sometimes Being a doctor isn't necessarily easier than being a patient, right? Facing a patient like me sitting in front of you How do you feel now? Powerless Powerless Fate, this is fate The doctor is powerless. If it's not fate, then what is it? Sister, what are you looking for? It's ok, hurry up and do your homework. Xiao Xin, I'm going out for a while. You and Xiao Wan can stay at home. Brother, you are late today. I have already gained something. It's late. Xiaoyu, are you still coming today, Sunday? It's Uncle Guo www.kydfxwh.com This is a brain film. Why did you take this film? The doctor was afraid that I might have a concussion, so he took a brain X-ray. What are you thinking about when you bite the hook? This head is not small Opened! Opened! Brother, didn't we come here to fish? Why did you release the fish? I think this fish They also have wives, husbands, parents and children. They are a big family too. When I came out this morning The whole family must be eating breakfast together. Then take a walk in the water grass They are a big family too. I said, bro, what do you do? I hear you sound a bit like a literary person. Do you have a kid Yes, I have Yes, everyone in this world has a big family. That is the spirit of life. Think about this fish. It just bit the hook When I lifted it up, it must have been thinking How sad it would be if I couldn't see my family. If the people at home don't see it How sad it must be, right? Brother, why do you speak like you are playing charades today? Let's go fishing together Probably more than a year. I never asked who you are You never ask who I am. But today, it sounds like what a philosopher said. I don't understand Then tell you something you can understand. I am dying Nonsense, everyone will die sooner or later. Everyone must die. But you're still early. Don't worry, don't be afraid What happened? I'm sick and I know when I'm going to die What disease? This disease is called hereditary spastic ataxia It's not hereditary or anything. This name is quite complicated, isn't it? It took me a long time to remember it. How did you get it? Can it be cured? This disease is not visible and is not contagious It's hereditary and not everyone gets it. But I am an orphan and I can't find the source. But the name is complicated The result is just four words There is no cure for terminal illness I just happened to get it. Why didn't I expect this to happen in TV dramas? I met him I'll just think positively. Maybe I am a person who has never been in this life Too ordinary. God put this disease on my head Create a legend You are still laughing. You still have the heart to laugh. Not afraid How can I not be afraid? Just think about it, I am now a death row inmate in the prison. Waiting for the dawn Just drag me out and chop off my head. How can I not be afraid? What's the use of being afraid? You said you were afraid of it, but it came, didn't it? Actually, it doesn't matter if I die I just can't let go of my three kids. I feel sad sometimes and I think You said that I have the same disease At least there is a woman. The mother of the children stayed to take care of the children. But I don't have a woman. The children have no mother to take care of them I have been thinking about the way to go these two days. I've thought about it over and over again. I'm an orphan. I have no relatives. Who should I entrust them to? My colleagues are really nice. But three children is really a burden. Why should you let others choose for you? I can't bear to send the children to an orphanage. Besides, the two kids are grown up now. If you send him there, they may not be willing to go. People may not be willing to accept How pitiful is a child without a father or a mother? Like the grass on the roadside So when I think about this, I feel like I can't die. I really can't die. I have to arrange for my child. I can die The kids all know it. How many times have I been unable to speak when the words came to my lips? Just think about how sad they are when I tell them. But I know I should tell them I'm going to face this bravely They should also face it bravely. You said so, right? Brother I'll tell you this, I feel much better. Are you really going to leave this riverbank soon? Neither of us knows who is who Don't take my matter to heart. Life is not easy, think more about the good things There is such a place There is such a person who can talk to each other It's also a kind of enjoyment Don't I often tell you about my troubles? Just lift your butt and forget it It's the end. It's the end. I know so many things about myself. I didn't do it with the kids. I always feel that I have time. What I have most is time When the time comes, you will know it. True brothers There are so many things you haven't had time to arrange. You can do it, brother. You can do it. I can't even imagine if you put this on my head. Can I carry it? If you are forced to do something, you will do the same. Keep your chest high and head held high and walk forward. Think about it, am I not also a coward who is afraid of death? But now I also hate God I hate God for letting me get this disease. But I'm a dad I am a father of three children. I have to survive until the last minute. For the kids It's time to go and pack up. Gone Dad is back. Dad is back. Dad is back. Dad is back. You went fishing today, but you didn't catch any fish. That's too bad. Where's your sister? My sister is back Xiaoyu, where have you been? I have something to do at school. Okay, we're back now, let's pack up and go out for a while Just ask what you are going to find out. Go now. Come and see what Here is one serving of chicken wings. One serving of chicken wings. What else is there for pizza salad Xiaoyu, you like salad, give me some salad Pizza to Pizza New Spot Right, let Xiaoxin order this kind of 13 inches is fine. Xiaowan, what do you like to eat? What flavor of ice cream do you want? Chocolate flavored chocolate flavored good What about you? Chocolate's little words about chocolate I don't want it anymore. Why are you here? I want some chocolate too. This ice cream has three chocolate flavors Okay, okay, please wait. Good dad, we won't celebrate tomorrow. What is the meaning of &amp;quot;drink today and drink today&amp;quot;? Can't we just be happy, right? It's a big festival. It's a big festival. Come come come come quickly come get started get started Have a chicken wing Come on, daddy, get Xiaowan a piece. Come on. Why do you only eat chicken wings? Why don't you eat pizza? This chicken wing is so delicious No wonder our classmates like it so much I want to try a pizza. Happy, happy, come and eat I'm glad to see you eating like this. Happy Dad is happy, but it's too expensive. I'm happy if it's not expensive, so why are you afraid of it being expensive? This pizza is enough to cover our family's food expenses for a week. Why think so much? Xiaoyu, Xiaoxin, Xiaowan For so many years, my father has always been able to save money. I rarely take you out to eat and play. You're not mad at dad, are you? Dad, why would we be mad at you? We don't have to worry about food and clothing. Dad should have taken you like this a long time ago Come out happily to have a meal and go out to play If one day you leave your father You won't blame your father. Dad, what are you talking about? One day we will leave you. How could we leave you? What's wrong with you? It's okay. It's okay. Dad just said something stupid when he was happy, isn't that okay? Eat now Xiaoyu, eat quickly, let's go home after eating. Dad, let me tell you something. Come eat, Daddy, come eat too That's how it was. Dad didn't believe it at first. But it is true impossible You tell me it's not true it's not true It's true You lie Dad never lies All along There are no secrets between our family of four. There's nothing to hide. Dad never lies to you. We agreed on this, right? We are all family, there should be no secrets between family members Even though you are not my father's biological child. Dad has never hidden anything from you. Not only do we not hide it from you, we also don't hide it from others. We have been living well. We are happy to be honest and upright You are healthy. Dad is very happy. so There can be no secrets between us from now on. I want to tell you Dad is seriously ill Dad is dying I don't listen I don't listen What's wrong with you? Tell me what's wrong with you It was this disease that caused my father to fall. This disease is called Hereditary spastic ataxia Slowly If the cerebellum doesn't work properly, all parts of the body won't work properly. To the end death Can the cerebellum be transplanted? Can I give you my cerebellum? no Even if it's possible, my father won't agree. Kids, dad is dying. Dad doesn't think it's scary. What's scary is You are all still young. If your father dies, you will No one cares about you I feel sad, I don't want to give up like this. The three of you have become orphans with no one to love you. That's what Dad can't stand. He really can't stand it. I don't want you to die, Dad. I don't want you to die either. Dad, what is death? Death means going to a very far place Then we didn't see each other for a long, long time. Dad, I want to go with you and never leave you. Xiaowan Xiaowan, how can you say such things? You have to live a good life with your sister and brother Live your future life well Okay, stop crying and wipe your tears. Dad wants to tell you what he wants to say most today Dad, there's still some time. I want to find your biological parents for you. Dad, we don't want any biological parents at all We have a father who is you. Whether you are sick or not We will always be with you and we will never be apart I know I know you kids you all But now the facts are in front of our family. Daddy really doesn't want to leave you. But the truth is too cruel, you think Xiaoyu, you are going to take the college entrance examination soon. Your academic performance is so good Tsinghua and Peking University are your goals You must achieve your goals Xiaoxin is just in the first grade of junior high school Xiaowan is sick and still a child. What would you do if I don't arrange it for you? You are all still young and need someone to take care of you. Mental care is also needed I want you to go back to your parents. Live well Dad now knows what it means to race against time. So finally, Dad has a request for you Listen to Dad Help dad fulfill his wish You have to help dad. Xiaoyu promised me Good Xiaoxin promised dad You promised dad Xiaowan promised her father Good Little Wan Come on, if you agree, we have to make a promise. Come here and hook stamp Good Kids dad Dad, thank you. So you want to put up a missing person notice? I have explained the situation to you. I just want to do this for these three children I adopted Find their biological parents So what kind of content do you want to post? In addition to the photos of the three children Everything I want to say is written here. Do you think it's appropriate? What's wrong, Xiaowan? Are you feeling unwell? My father is going to a faraway place alone Never coming back What is your father going to do? Your father doesn't want you anymore. Auntie, can I be alone for a while? My mind is in a mess and I can't attend the class. My feet are weak and I feel powerless. Sister, you told me I was having a nightmare, right? It's been just a nightmare since last night They are all fake, sister, pinch me As long as I can go back to the past, I'll do anything. I will study hard and never be naughty again. Pinch me, pinch me, sister Xiaoxin There's no going back. Nothing can go back. It's true. This is not a dream. It's true. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. Dad is dying. I don't believe my father would get sick like that. I don't believe it. Xiaoxin's father is sick Daddy is upset and crying Why does God do this to us? Why is it so cruel? How happy our family is together. Why does it do this to us? Let the thief steal Xiaowan's surgery fee Why did it do this to us? Shin-chan, Shin-chan, Shin-chan, don't be like this, Shin-chan You're so sad Sister, I would rather have my feet hurt so that my heart doesn't hurt Xiaoxin, let's stop saying such childish things. We have grown up Now that fate has come, we must face it Dad is so strong, we can't embarrass him If we want to cry from now on, we can cry outside Can you never cry in front of your dad? From now on, we should smile when facing our father. We have to smile every day. We have grown up. It's time for us to protect Dad from the wind and rain Shin-chan Aunt Tong Dishwasher dad Come and bring your sister home for dinner. Do your homework after breakfast, you hear me? Dad, come home early after work. I know, go back, go back with your brothers and sisters. Let's go home, Xiaowan Dad, look at the paper airplane I made. Come out for a walk. Hello, Doctor Shen. How's your day? I'm in good spirits. Is this Dr. Shen? Yes I am The nurse said that we are Lou Zhijun's children. I know Will my dad be like him? Yes but But not soon, right? Good news, this is good news among bad news. Daddy won't leave us anytime soon. That's the good news. We haven't lost our dad yet. Dr. Shen always has a solution There's always a way to save my dad, right? There is currently no cure However, the progression of the disease can be slowed down through hard work It is medication treatment now, and rehabilitation treatment will follow. These methods are all aimed at delaying the atrophy of the cerebellum. As long as you don't give up, you can postpone the arrival of the last day We Don't Give Up We will do whatever we can and we will never give up The kid's name is Meng Meng. I've known him for more than a year. He is young but very strong. Is it fun? It's fun. Fly one more for dad. Watch it. The duck slices are ready. Please enjoy them slowly. Eat Who were you looking for? Are you here just to find someone? It's none of your business Dad takes medicine Dad takes medicine You didn't take your medicine today? I really forgot Doctor Shen said this medicine is effective and you should take it Yes, you have to listen to the doctor. Didn't you say that you can't go without medicine when you're sick? Right, right, right Okay, eat it. Dad has taken medicine, let's go to bed, go quickly Good night. Good night. Hello, what would you like to order? Buy a pack of Changfu One dollar and eight cents Two cents for you. Here you go. Discovery location: Liangcheng City Hurry up, hurry up, the food is on the table Xiaoyu is coming, hurry up, hurry up Come on, come on, come on Dad, listen to me first. What happened after that? Dad went to the newspaper and posted an ad looking for Notice from birth parents It was published in yesterday's newspaper Someone called early this morning. Said she wanted to come see Xiao Wan You two hurry up and eat. Dad, I'm not in a hurry. I want to stay at home with Xiaowan I just need to stay at home with Xiaowan. Dad, why are you accompanying me? Aren't you afraid of retreating, Dad? We want to accompany Xiaowan on such an important matter. OK Xiaowan is the bravest. Let's have dinner. Really good Xiaowan, we are not afraid because we have brothers and sisters to accompany us. Eat now Come, come, come Hello, good Masters. It's me. It's me. Hello, hello, hello, hello. My last name is Cui. Six years ago, we lost a daughter Right, how old was your daughter when she was lost? In less than two months Yes, that's right. Please come into the room. Please come into the room. Okay. Please come in. Please come in. This is my child Jianping, look at those eyes, aren't they our Yaya's? Yay, I'm a mom, yay, I'm a mom It must be our Yaya Yeah Yaya, let mommy see the birthmark on your butt, okay? What did you say? Your daughter has a birthmark on her butt. I remember it clearly Auntie, you have found the wrong person. I don't have a birthmark on my butt. Yes, no birthmark. My daughter has no birthmark on her buttocks Thank you for your trouble. Please walk slowly, walk slowly, walk slowly Isn't this an old building? That's right. What does this mean? Where are the photos of the three children? There are still people here, right? What's going on? Isn't he well taken care of? Master Lou Early, early, early, early, early, Master Lou, Master Lou is here, Master Lou Come on, dad will put the table down for you Master Lou Meizi, what's the matter with the missing person notice in this newspaper? You all saw it. Yes, I logged in. I just wanted to To Xiaoyu, Xiaoxin, and Xiaowan Find their biological parents It's not an old building. Why? Why do we need to find their biological parents? That's right, your biological parents may not be as good to them as you are to them. Even Master Lou has been raising Xiaoyu for more than ten years. Xiaowan, I've had you for five or six years and never heard you talk about this. What's going on so suddenly? Yes. Nothing, just want them to know Where are they from? But don't be plum I know everyone is particularly good to me. Our family I have added a lot of trouble to these colleagues these years Thank you for everyone, thank you, be busy going Sit here and go here, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go What book do you read today, which book do you read? Painting, painting, come and see a few photos Full -time, can I ask my part -time job? All right Are you recruiting right? I'm 17 this year Hello, is it a Hong Shengxing Cultural Enterprise? Hello, I want to apply for a high school degree Thank you Come here, don't surpass the intersection of Liuying Street There are already people who know there What are you doing I want to advertise too, right? Come and see this Go back and sign your name at each one in this position. Why Why is it because of good money? You don't know how we count money here, right? This is an advertisement for the house I know whether you took it or throw it away If you take it away, it's not you posted it. Someone has called the phone call above This is the name to report your name This is also a good way to control Is it a student? Each 6 phone number is counted as a job for five dollars per job Understand, take this, let's go, let's go Feng Zili, you move, set up No. 5 to make vegetables No. 5 Fast, faster, Master Guan's table No. 6 It's okay for a while Master Guan, Master Niu, what's the matter with Master of the building Why do you suddenly send your children away? I don't know, you said it has been so many years No matter how hard and tired, this will come over Yes, this little language looks like to go out It's time to make a lot of money Why is it going to find them for biological parents? It's not this child, all of them are self -eye wolves I didn't use it again, once I was looking for this biological parent and mother Then go back In the future, it will be them. Do you say that the master of this building is not a bamboo basket and the water is empty. Lao Niu, I think you are wrong, I am wrong It's a bit early to enjoy the blessing The academic performance is good, but now it is for a college student How much money do you know, do you have to wait for a small language to be better? What can I do if I make a lot of money for four or five years? I have to read this upside down What master doctoral doctoral after? I won't mention those two little ones Do you know how much you have raised this? What do you mean Why are you so awkward in your mouth? I mean very simple plum, you can't see it Our dear Master Lou I don't want to take this back to the three mountains. No, is it that Master Lou feels tired Don't Xiaowan them Why not, it's been more than ten years, I'm tired and annoyed Go and talk nonsense You said that the master of this building should find another daughter -in -law? At least two people will be easier to bring their children, right? This is you who don't know if you come late In fact, these years are good women to see the master of the upstairs Want to be with the old building The old building is actually quite attractive to women That's why Don't because of the kind child Who doesn't want to live easily Men with a drag bottle are also scary, let alone be benevolent It 's too much to say, it' s not easy At least I can't do this I have been a monk in these ten years What about a man without a woman? I think the master of our building I just think that the sacrifice of these ten years is too big I can't stand it anymore now, so I'm determined to throw away the bag Grasp the youthful tail and enjoy it It's okay Everyone has the right to pursue their own personal life Right or right