Thank you to Wren for supporting PBS. In the world of quantum mechanics, it's different states at the same time, or to teleport between locations, or to influence each other faster than light. But somehow, none of this scale of human beings - even though our world blocks. The explanations of this transition mind to the grandiose proposition of multiple feels as down to earth as the classical world if it actually makes sense. In quantum mechanics, particles don't have definite properties. Rather they are described by something called the wave function. In fact, a particle is its wave function: a fuzzy distribution of possible properties that only For example when we make a measurement of seems to be plucked from the wide range of We say that the wave function collapses - it width is defined by the precision of our measurement. A famous example of this is Schrodinger's cat. A scientist puts a cute kitty in a closed box with a radioactive atom attached to a of decaying, triggering the release of gas box, from the scientist's perspective the a superposition of states. It is simultaneously then, is the cat also in a superposition of some point between atom and cat the fuzziness one of the two states. And becomes or. Decayed the cat is alive or dead, not alive and dead. between the subatomic and the macroscopic. The idea of wave function collapse was first principle founders of quantum theory. Heisenberg this wave function collapse was real. It's of quantum mechanics. But neither physicist collapse actually happened. And fair enough, can involve many quantum particles. So how the radioactive detector, the vial of poison, Opinions on the matter span all extremes. that wave function collapse happens at the words, they thought that consciousness collapses the spectrum, many physicists believe that For example in Hugh Everett's Many Worlds rather lasts forever, splitting into parallel decoherence, where different parts of the with each other. We've discussed all of pilot wave theory, where particles already the wave function. The wave function may collapse, but particles maintain a rigid physical nature. We've discussed all of theses ideas in the past. But today we're going to look at a different approach to collapsing the wave function. One that accepts the wave function as the pilot wave theory. And one which avoids multiple universes by insisting that collapse does really happen. But it also avoids mystical-seeming Our story starts in 1986 when three Italian and Tullio Weber published a paper that outlined first in a new class of alternate quantum In objective collapse theories, wave functions collapse when they're measured. But the observer or any subjective explanation. real, completely objective -- hence the name. To understand how objective collapse theories The behavior of the wave function is described its evolution through space and over time. As we've discussed previously, the Schrodinger means that if you add together solutions to this equation, the result is also a solution to the equation. This is part of what makes parts of the wave function corresponding to evolve independently of each other. Another thing about the Schrodinger equation is that it's time-reversal-symmetric. Running it it backwards lets you perfectly recover the When wave function collapse happens, different other instantaneously and non-locally and collapse is a non-linear process and it's of the Schrodinger equation. So to model the effect of wave function collapse, term to the Schrodinger that could cause this to explain why subatomic systems could be Think of this non-linear action as a rare at a particular location. That hit causes when it collapses, it immediately collapses connected to. The key to making this work is that these that a single isolated quantum particle will But the more particles you add, the more likely that single single event collapses the wave to measure an isolated quantum system necessarily means bringing lots of particles into the picture - in the measurement device and in becomes inevitable. So this "hitting" mechanism gives a potential explaination for the quantum-classical divide - it simply depends on the number of particles the chance of collapse to classicality increases never quantum. GRW suggested that the collapse rate should With this value, a single particle wave function years. But if you have Avogadro's number object, you expect a collapse every 10 nanoseconds or so. GRW was a revolutionary theory that inspired Localization. In CSL, physicists imagined that the localizing mechanism was a randomly jiggling field, like the frenetic Brownian motion of interaction with this fluctuating field would contrast to the discrete and violent hits But neither of these models really tried to just thought there was some mysterious field that interacted with all matter -- almost like it was a fifth fundamental force. But no need for some new fundamental force. They good source of wave function collapse: gravity. Gravitational decoherence would simultaneously causes the transition from quantum to classical? the other forces. All of the collapse models and Penrose's model could answer 2: gravity quantum. They proposed that gravity and the Quantum mechanics rules when things are small, system will cause it to rapidly decohere into quantized, Penrose's theory predicts quantum For example, consider a massive object. General will warp the space-time around it. But quantum a superposition of two locations, where it same time. Put these two facts together, and geometries of space-time. According to Penrose, a nonlinear term in the Schrodinger equation, choose to make the object appear either "here" Because each of these objective collapse models equation, they are not mere interpretations theories with unique predictions. This means discussed -- for example, Bohmian mechanics can actually be tested. Some tests have already ruled out some of the models and placed restrictions on the nonlinear parameters of others. Direct tests of collapse models would involve of being "here" and "there," then to collapse. This time should be proportional approaching the masses necessary to make such there yet. Instead, physicists have come up with clever ways to look for other, indirect signs of collapse models. For example, the models imply that a quantum wave function will be randomly tossed about and jostled by gravity or some other collapsing field. If the quantum object happens to be electrically caused by this Brownian motion means it will in Trieste, Italy tried to measure this radiation in a cryostat and carefully measured the amount The predicted effect was so tiny, researchers many background sources as possible. In the cosmic muons, was reduced by a factor of nearly crystal with layers of copper and lead. With measurement, the scientists in Trieste were the germanium crystal. After watching the crystal for two months, Now this isn't enough to confirm or refute the general idea, but the scientists were able to place tight restrictions on the value of the free parameters in the original version of this model. There are still many candidates for objective by experiments, so stand by for a jubilant Whatever the case, it's exciting that there to investigating one of the biggest unanswered be coming back to. What, in fact, is the quantum system of shifting realities give rise to Thank you to Wren for supporting PBS. Wren footprint, then offset it by funding projects suck carbon from the sky. By answering a few out your carbon footprint and how you can footprint to zero, so you can offset what receive monthly updates from the tree planting, projects they support. You get to see the spent on. You can learn more about Wren's Before getting to comments, we'd like to do this without you. Today though we also want to give an extra special thanks to Ben Dimock who's supporting us at the Big Bang Level. of physics. Is the wave function objectively fiction? Did I measure position precisely funny box, and why isn't he purring any a powerful thing to know for sure that our thank you for collapsing our wave function Last time we tackled a question of utmost escape the inescapable gravity of a black The BuzzBen asks what happens when gravitational waves pass through black holes. Is there gravitational lensing? Well that's exactly right. Gravitational waves have to move along the same fabric of spacetime as everything else. After all, they are wiggles in that very fabric. So they get deflected by gravitational fields just like is made by a black hole then the result depends size of the black hole and the wave. A gravitational wave whose wavelength is short compared to the black hole's event horizon can be completely will get deflected and partially absorbed. The hole's velocity, but also can be added to asks whether it's possible to focus gravitational hole without mass. The answer is again yes. hole from pure light - a so-called kugelblitz waves into a small enough region of space those waves alone. Ryan R asks how we can know that a black hole's given that time dilation slows the event down during the collapse. So this is a confusing point. The time dilation that we talk about approaching point of view of falling matter, but from the distant observer sees matter approach that from that person's point of view the never quite finishes forming. But from the definitely forms, and it is definitely squished not is still not really known. On that note Pesila Ratnayaje asks if an outsider event horizon, what happens when the event up? This is tricky because that the definition of the event horizon is also tricky. In an idealized black hole, the event horizon is defined from distance" - aka very very far away, which is after all where you wanna be relative to a black hole. The event horizon is that surface around the black hole And by escape I mean reach YOU at your "infinite light is infinitely redshifted - sapped of distance. We observe an object being frozen at the event it crosses the horizon from its perspective an object beneath a growing black hole means photon, not the object. By some definitions And so everything that went into the black hole remains frozen on the horizon. But to understand why were' really going to need a whole episode. Chillyman145 asks a related question, but to Hawking radiation. This is a lot more speculative. Some physicists think that the Hawking radiation actually carries away the information from have an episode on that one. Check out our for the full speculation. Lucas Thomas asks another related question. why do we say information is lost? When people hole, they're usually referring to the fact hole, but in its formation, but in its original formulation Hawking radiation is supposed to be completely random - information free the information that went in is gone. And this is the black hole information paradox that I mentioned. And I'll refer you to that episode for more answers. dannymac63 likens Space Time to a black hole, in which it's captivating and radiates information constantly. Well thank you dannymac63. But radiate actual information. It could be that only suck in information, and radiate nothing the case might be relative to the observer. we ask questions a kid would ask then answer "Barely" comprehend means you comprehended I'll take it as a win.