Hey everybody and welcome to Leia's Lair. In this episode I have prepared a quiz to would be in the Star Wars Universe. If you are enjoying the videos please give so I can continue making them for you! Now before we begin, grab a pen and paper and scores. After each question, select one response that Star Wars universe. It will then reveal how many points each response At the end we will add up all the points from got. Alright, let's begin! Question 1: You realize that your friends (Wookie's protecting YODA). Do you... A. Turn them in. They should pay for what they have done. B. Protect your friends at all costs. You know they have done nothing wrong. C. Do nothing. Your friends can take care of themselves. D. Sell them to the highest bidder. You could probably earn a pretty penny for E. Do what you can to help your friends without Question 2. An informant is making a scene that risks Do you... (DROID QUIZ) A. Shoot him in the back with your blaster, B. Help your informant, if you both get caught, C. Tell the guards on him to help yourself D. Distract the guards so your informant can the least you can do to help him get away. E. Leave and let your informant figure things Question 3: A creature kills your entire team, is the last of its kind and is protecting Do you... A. Destroy the egg without hesitation. It will pay for what it did. B. Forget what happened and leave the creature C. Help the creature hide its egg. Leave once you know it is safe. D. Forgive the creature and protect it with It is your responsibility to ensure the survival E. Take the creature prisoner and force it did. (Saw Gerrera Rebels) Question 4: You come across your friend on Do you... (5) (ANIMAL COMPANION) A. Leave them and head back to shelter, you B. Slice open their tauntaun to provide heat C. Try to set up a shelter, hopefully they D. Throw them over the back of your tauntaun E. Head back to base to try and get a snowspeeder Question 5: You and your enemy have both been off. Do you... (Clone Wars) A. Escape yourself. But before you leave, destroy your enemy. B. Refuse to engage with your enemy. Your only priority is to save yourself. C. Forget your differences and work together. You have a common enemy now. D. Work together for now. At your first chance, escape and leave your E. Trick your enemy into thinking you are Betray him to the pirates. Question 6. You are instructed to shoot unarmed civilians. Do you... (Species QUIZ) A. Do nothing. Choose not to fire upon anyone. B. Turn and fire against your commander. This is not what you signed up for. C. Chuck a smoke grenade, then try to save They do not deserve this. D. Point your weapon at your commander. Demand they reverse the order and let the E. Go with the civilians. If they want to shoot them, they have to shoot Question 7. Your mission is to get a Senator, who is in Do you... (PLANET QUIZ) A. Take the Senator in a spaceship with a There is safety in numbers. B. Carpool with your commander. I'm sure he doesn't mind dropping you C. Take the Senator with you in your starship. D. Send the senator alone in an escape pod. She is less likely to be detected this way. E. Try to travel in secret by going on a starfreighter. Question 8. You find out that there is a traitor within Do you.. A. Find him and destroy him yourself. You might be rewarded for it. B. Work together with your most trusted mates Decide his fate together. C. Find him yourself and try to rehabilitate No one is beyond saving. D. Pretend you didn't hear about it Go on E. Rat him out to your commander. He should pay for his betrayal Question 9. What is your preferred weapon? A. Blaster pistol C. Blaster cannon Question 10. What is your preferred armor? A. Heavy duty C. Lightweight Alright that was the last question, good job Now just add up all the points from the questions the Star Wars universe. Between 10 and 14: You got Medical Officer Medical officer clones were clone troopers They wore similar uniforms to the clone navigation on the arm. They later added red stripes to the uniform Between 15 and 19: You got ARC Trooper Advanced Recon Commandos, also known as ARC trained to serve in command positions in the situations that were too difficult for standard Between 20 and 24: You got Clone Trooper Pilot Clone trooper pilots, also known as clone to pilot various vehicles and star fighters. They were also allowed to possess military They wore armor with distinctive yellow markings. Between 25 and 29: You got Clone Ordnance Clone Ordnance specialists, also known as clone troopers who received training in arming Their armor consisted of standard clone armor, on the upper legs, lower arms and the skull. Between 30 and 34: You got Clone Scout Trooper Clone scout troopers were specialized clone for the Grand Army of the Republic. They were equipped with lightweight armor Between 35 and 45: You got Standard Clone Clone Troopers, also known as Republic Troopers, in White," were highly trained soldiers Bred on planet Kamino, they were engineered as a genetic template for the entire clone They were far superior than any clanker. Between 46 and 50: You got Clone Sharpshooter Clone sharpshooters were specialized clone range marksmanship. These snipers had the ability to hit targets superior to that of regular clone troopers. Between 51 and 55: You got Heavy Gunner Clone Heavy gunners were specialized clone troopers Because of their heavy duty weapons, they blue markings. Between 56 and 60: You got Clone Commando Clone commandos, also known as Republic commandos, as the elite force in Grand Army of the Republic. A result of genetic experimentation, they Between 61 and 65: You got Clone Shock Trooper Clone shock troopers, also known as shocktroopers uniquely bred to serve as the Coruscant Guard. They wore armor with distinctive red markings. They acted as security police and as bodyguards. Between 66 (execute order 66) and 70: You Inquisitor troopers were specialized clone Inquisitorius. These clone troopers were a death squad of They were equipped with black armor that had Interested in finding out more about who you'd Check out my other quizzes. Anyways, I hope you had fun completing the So which one did you get? Let me know down below in the comment section. And remember to like, share, and subscribe I hope to see you all again in Leia's Lair.