A man looks at his computer monitor, where Web. He's told he'll need to be screened. Don't everyone. They tell him this small invasion of about to sell him is expensive, but for anything it's over US$5 million, they only want 10%. the mystery person types. is talking to is part of the DarkSide group. They meaning they sell people ransomware so they can could potentially ruin them. Their data is held The DarkSide hackers claim to be Robin extorting companies or governments, but they or any kind of health service. The targets might to lose. Imagine if a billionaire such as Bill became known to the public. How much would Gates Or how much would you be willing to pay? there's a good chance that your information which is why I'm so excited to partner I decided to try out Aura for myself and I was tons of it, was out there on the web, what. I shouldn't be surprised, after all, in America with a new victim every 14 seconds! is identity theft protection and fraud a VPN to keep you anonymous and your data one easy to use app. They even work to get any from the web, which has actually reduced There's a good chance you have one, or maybe but so did I, and you can see what good it did was like I had locked my front door, but you have all the tools to remain protected no So start protecting yourself and your family aura.com/infographics . If you sign up using trial so you can see for yourself how many times DarkSide isn't showing off when they say they only isn't unheard of in the world of ransomware company like Apple with such an attack, certainly own files and you are threatening to delete them. an oil pipeline company in the US called Colonial which was devastating for the company. East Coast goes through this pipeline. $4.4 million, and we will give you your system often ask for cryptocurrency because it's hard extra precautions and anonymized the exchange. In bank account, so the money goes into it and although this is tricky. It might where banks don't monitor payments so strictly. "It was the right thing to do for the able to do the hack because it bought a DarkSide said they were after cash and and everything will be ok, they said. They've were in the US. They even get into the files are able to pay the ransom. It's no use saying The US has had enough. The government these hackers' heads. But will they be It's thought the DarkSide hackers are maybe Russia. The group might be made up of people North Korea, Iran, and Syria. They certainly They like to do that. After that pipeline "Our goal is to make money, not You might now be thinking, released in a surely, they can be found! The news agency website. If that's possible, surely The short answer is, they can, They're not alone in doing what they do. The had arrested hackers in Russia who went by to extort large amounts of money. When they $4 million in cash and about $440,000 in It's said this gang was prolific. In some were never even called. In some attacks, the if Bill Gates did have a deep, dark secret, he That's the beauty of hacking scoundrels. We're an example because conspiracy theorists hack a real scoundrel, like robbing a drug in. Perfect! Game, set, and match hackers. cash to attract hackers. One day you might wake devices. You might just think you have some kind flash up the words, "You've been hacked." This Australia. His computers were down, and then In this case, the hackers wanted $15 million. everything, meaning they owned the key to all his encryption key and be gone straight away. This This kind of cyber criminality is now a huge in ransom these days. The gangs of lore have is a damn sight easier than the old-school one gets hurt these days, physically, at least. through the post. The crimes are bloodless, but the most. Kill a neighbor, sure, get ten expect to be burned on the proverbial stake. new criminal enterprise, as we said, there is the Dark Web is a potential hacker. Just imagine and instead of gambling on the stock market he can earn a cool few hundred thousand from We are sure you all know what the Dark Web is, if the web you are using right now, which is the which are networks, such as what you might networks. They're private. Your email is private. And then there's the Dark Web. This can only be Browser. It uses something called onion routing. All you need to know is that the onion is called can't be found. Their data is anonymized, information. In the Dark Web, you're a ghost. feel too concerned about buying a kilogram of It should be said, in terms of drugs, some of While the Dark Web provides a certain amount authority wants you, they can sometimes find you. hide and seek, it seems they sometimes cheat. where he gets his "gear" these days. He might He then uses encrypted messaging to contact the He then asks for some drugs, maybe a gram or ten hidden really well in the package. This is the often of the cyber kind. The gangs have TV show The Wire, they've changed up their game. These people really know how to hide. It's said that the ransomware business is "thriving." hackers are smarter than ever If you don't believe us, listen to this. In as Forensic Pathways took a good look around evaluated close to 35 million dark web URLs, They found ransomware products and services, reported that many of them were "aggressively ransomware was exactly the same, but ransom so someone could extort money. was one of the ransomware packages for number of machines in 150 countries. It caused which, let's face it, wasn't cool at all. attacks in 2021. No exact figure was given the average cost of an attack on a big business much bountiful but might feel like a lot to this is a great business to be in. Frog wrote on its website in 2021, "With damages year (up from $3 trillion in 2015), we expect and newer forms to become more sophisticated and Other sources say it might be between 600 billion That just boggles the mind. We know some of right now, "Hmm, this sounds like something that prison sentences for cyber-criminals country has the death penalty, you won't get receiving a life sentence is not unusual at all. many people are selling this stuff, there know that your data is anonymized when you go you could be looking at the ransomware catalog about the people behind it. Not where they goes without saying that people on the Dark Web That's where forensics comes in. Forensics out who criminals are. So, with the Dark Web, or websites to the actual people. You already in business. But you know it's not impossible Still, they are incredibly hard to track Tor browser but hidden behind many more layers. network) because that's how you watch stuff or at least, ahem, that's how some people do it. and then re-routed to another server. In the so the BBC website thinks that's where you are. say. You can also use a proxy server, which will website you hit won't have your personal data. "We think the attackers might be somewhere in might know that not from following digital tracks language, etc. Just like when the cops profilers can also draw up profiles for hackers. footprint at all, not just when they're selling manually executing an attack. Maybe the guy who wasn't just using Tor and a VPN when he talked to he attacked his victim. He was in and out and It reminds us of some dialogue "That was his power. The greatest trick the world he didn't exist. And The greatest trick a hacker ever played was as we have shown you, it doesn't take a the program that performs the attack, Hackers might also hijack something called sometimes you might have an issue with your get into your computer remotely. Sometimes your computer who are as far away as India. watching them open and close files from halfway feeling exposed, can be unnerving. It's like you have to trust people to catch you when the session is done. You get the message that But what if someone can unlock a locked, It's happened in the past. Think about it. If surely there are ways for hackers to do the same. hack a website and use its server from which to With ransomware, they might get information by malicious. But you, you can't resist opening file might say, "OMG. Wow, watch this! This is When you open the file, you impetuous fool, It might wait until your computer is dormant attached computers, and other systems. file without knowing what it is. Even if it email or through Messenger. The hackers have his Messenger. It happens all the time. Some a Facebook page which asks them what their dog's are just harmless ways to promote companies, but called phishing. Stay well away from putting don't even know who you are communicating with. by a friend, contact him or her and ask about yourself in the comment boxes Obviously, big companies and people like Bill humans, and they sometimes make errors. You can member who puts his pet's name on Facebook. hackers got a VPN password from one of the staff. but as you know, it does happen. Take, for He was offering hosting capabilities on the Dark hacking, and money laundering, and websites where So, how did they break his anonymity? it seems, didn't want to talk about it. Marques work for NASA. Remember, many hackers end up join them, and ask for lots of money. a civil liberties group, said. "It does a the government hides techniques of investigation the government of using illegal methods to catch but as we know from Edward Snowden, the government go to places they have no right to go to. hand. It's thought the government about 5% of these criminals. Maybe crime a common drug dealer about the chances of in the end, everyone gets caught. Or they always the case with cybercrime. way of living is still dangerous, and you can kiss goodbye to the rest of your never mind where you are hiding out in the world. "Our message to ransomware criminals is clear: Now you need to watch "The Coder Who Became have a look at "How Did These Insanely