Even when something seems impossible, and the players will find a way. Little will be found and exploited to their maximum that the developers are given no choice but would. Typically when this happens, the old way that were once revolutionary are now passe, and such time. In my opinion, the most interesting was discovered, the period of chaos that ensued, philosophy. This is, the history of Minecraft's But first, advertisement: If you make stuff in Minecraft, you need a playing with your friends, or hosting it's practically essential. is with THIS VIDEO'S SPONSOR YEAAAAAAH! server literally so easy. Let's hear Hi Legitimoose, I'm here on the Hostinger plans you're gonna find, especially when you use With a Hostinger VPS you've got full root access, Full root access? That sounds complicated. Not at all, Hostinger's game panel lets you install mods with just one click. Wow, that's incredible- (interrupting) storage for super fast start times, comes equipped GO GETCHERSELF A MINECRAFT SERVER RIGHT NOW USING CODE LEGITIMOOSE AT CHECKOUT. "Hey guys, just wanted to show you a Ever since redstone was added to the game in most basic mechanic, wires. Wireless redstone was able to transmit a signal to activate contraptions constantly looking for. Short-ranged sculk sensors in the vanilla game. However, this didn't stop Nov 20th, 2011. test137E29 steps onto the "Long Range Wireless Redstone". In older with how block collisions worked. When a such as glass panes connected on different only one of these shapes would be in use at a a right facing piston, would make all extended as least when colliding with other arrows. and activate redstone with pressure plates, most recently landed, either on a left or right such as this popular design with a boat This was clearly not an intentional that didn't stop players from finding Monster spawners have been a part of Minecraft they said on the tin. Spawned, well, set to spawn any mob using external On June 27th 2012, a snapshot of the version spawner metadata. Now, again only using external mobs with custom metadata, such as armor, weapons, but players realized you could also spawn making them appear at a certain location. Spawners and would keep spawning mobs until 6 of In September later that year, snapshot now allowing players to choose and how many of the selected entity type stop spawning. Several of these features were and beloved redstone youtuber, Sethbling. Minecraft 1.4.2 was dubbed the Pretty Scary with them adding bats, witches, and features for the map makers. 1.4.2 was the you might know command blocks as being language inside of minecraft, now overshadowed through datapacks. Back in 1.4.2 though, you could really do was give players items, All this however, was entirely impossible Alongside command blocks were the monster able to spawn mobs where you wanted them, with a That's right, Mojang had finally needed for non-jank-based wireless blocks that could only be activated by Instead of spawning monsters, how god monster spawners to spawn the falling sand entity. the ability to customize what block the "falling Players could make it instead be falling redstone, to the fact the spawner could be anywhere in the could also be spawned in anywhere, the community Unsurprisingly, Mojang's addition of several dramatically increased the quality of Minecraft 3rd, the first map I can remember truly blowing by... Hypixel? That's funny. This map such as: "Custom Potions", "Item sets that has 35% chances to drop Demonic Set", This map was actually crazy for the time. Before weapons, having a working shop, having massive you to new areas, NPCs that talked in chat via And two months later, it was already old. January 2013, snapshot 13w03a made that entire I bet you're really glad you listened to it was kind of charming. Now, through command blocks could detect players and more. I find it amusing how the most is no longer in the game at all. It shows how far On February 7th, another snapshot came out, in Minecarts. You might think this came along transport spawners in survival, but no. This was there is no way to see one in survival. And, what they spawned without the use of external to be going somewhere with this, but, seemingly, I guess the idea was you set up a rail system the minecart is in position? Really, Unless your name happened to be the very day Minecarts with Sethbling made a video talking about just how what a brilliant inventor Sethbling is, Remember back in September 2012, when spawners entities to spawn in a single place before The example showed by Sethbling on a regular mob spawner would be configured very quickly. The entity it was set to spawn? was itself configured to spawn falling and to spawn with a set position and velocity. but critically, it had a slight delay set Once this Spawner Minecart was in the world, it of this fountain, making it look like water was block with the spawner minecart in it, there was a the Minecart would be destroyed. The spawner but, due to that delay on the spawner minecart, spawning water. This meant that by powering the a spawner with redstone, something that Let's jump back in time a bit. Shortly after custom metadata, Sethbling posted a video Mods. This was pretty remarkable, and netted short four frame animation of a tree To many among you, it will already be each set with a different delay, set frame. The glass is necessary because falling they needed supporting blocks to be placed as it was see-through, and weak to explosions. To TNT was spawned at the position of with the exploding TNT to "delete" blocks Now let's go back even further. In March nothing like it does today. PvP wasn't as a bunch of people who kind of knew what on specially made maps. One such format that was Similar to other "complete the monument" was straightforward. There would be a long, and hidden in the map were 3 wool blocks. wool and place it on the monument was each team could see their opponents, but only Crossing over to the other side, except One tournament with a particularly RFW tournament. The winners of the first with some people you just might have heard the person who made temple of notch, as well and CraftDynasty, who I could forgive you for More Doors in 60 Seconds", and it's Today though, our focus lies not on the defeated them. TrazLander applied to the reddit pulling together a team of his brother, and guild. They took their team name from the Brigade. After hearing about the reddit Whiskey Brigade applied to join, competition. Rising through the brackets, they Naturally then, a champions match was organized, tournament against each other. Whiskey Brigade a point to always, always, have a gimmick. In goofy strategy. Whether it was knocking silverfish or building a ghast cannon to shoot fireballs TrazLander in particular, was always along with their general pvp skill, This was not the first time TrazLander had months back, TrazLander uploaded their first by a SethBling video. Seth saw this and did their for eye contact]. For anyone who is unaware, your subscribers. Traz's first upload being liked people to see it. Seth was already vaguely aware by their team in the champions match, it's It was around this time that TrazLander, began working on Race for the Wool maps of another whiskey brigadier, created a competitive they were able to get EthosLab to agree to after hearing Etho had already agreed, Sethbling very impressed by what he saw, and TrazLander mapmaker hierarchy. He was even allowed access to On March 18th, 2013, TrazLander started Genius Mapmaking. Showing off a up and giving back to the map making community. On May 11th 2013, at 3:22AM, TrazLander hit Nothing's Impossible was a quick 3 minute video, in which several previously thought Walking up to a sign with ASCII art of a cake, before disappearing entirely. Somehow, On the second flip, the seemingly indestructible bedrock wall collapses into nothing. The video continues on like this, as is shown to somehow be hollow, something that falling blocks have to land on something to and the house changes palettes, becoming stone palette. The house returns to normal as the seeing a chest containing a cake, the floor Crucially, the video was with the description only saying that It's safe to say the community was completely a clue how this was possible. The video and out of everyone who watched, only one "This guy in our server, Khazhyk, was like, this is the time zero thing you're TrazLander awoke the morning after from none other than SethBling. Now, let's take a moment and talk about time number of game ticks it has been alive. Every if it's been alive for over 600 ticks, if it's over 100 and is in the void, also destroy spawn falling sand with a time of zero, aka the typically when spawning structures with time value to 1. Then it would count up if the falling block is inside a block with it will instead cause the block it's inside and it was generally just regarded as a strange you always had to set the time to 1 if you wanted That is until, TrazLander showed up. two TrazLander was experimenting with falling where he was spawning falling sand with time 0 caused it to fall. It wasn't until later that an epiphany. The sand had deleted the block. the previous method for deleting blocks by slow, and generally not that usable. This method those things. In fact, TrazLander realized, but if you spawned another falling block at you could effectively replace any block with any After anxiously waiting through TrazLander got home and began experimenting, "Oh god...! I did it! Oh my god I did it..." So who did he tell about his new discovery? gradually building up a demo world that he that many people at the time were using no one else would discover this, as the This became TrazLander's life for the then come home and work on the Minecraft world That brings us back to the morning of May 11th Following SethBling's incredulous DM, TrazLander channel, which would be uploaded with a link After 4 days of constant work, TrazLander who, on May 14th 2013 posted a video titled video included more of the mystical trick. blocks spinning around, a big door opening. At the to the lapis texture. From this cool smooth blue who was particularly outspoken was the youtuber his participation in the PVP scene. Therefore, in a way, a fact I think almost no one picked "I'm sorry MC, he couldn't save it, he let On the same day as TrazLander's Magic Minecraft Mapmaking episode 15, "Wizardry", which explained linked to by SethBling's video, "Wizardry" would Now that this spawner tech was in the hands of the One of the first creations to garner attention A 16x16x16 piston that would go from retracted you remembered to allocate a little extra RAM 2.4 million views, again showing just The community was clearly entranced by the sheer up spawners took up most of the space on the This was done before Command blocks had most SethBling was credited as the inspiration for this 4 days after it was posted, he showcased it on his Sethbling would create his own structure spawner Trazlander and TwitchNitr0 had been using. as on June 4th SethBling would debut his structure of the mega piston. This version was four because SethBling's version of the mega piston things couldn't be going better Minecraft 1.6 came and went with no big changes- (*distant* EXCEPT THE LAPIS TEXTURE!!!!) -but on September 6th, the Minecart with since it's nigh-inexplicable addition. Snapshot /summon. This could do everything faster, smaller, more precisely, Two days after the addition of /summon, in the streets, shouting, wireless you could summon a falling redstone block, Way back, when TrazLander first started rising secretive group chat, containing SethBling and Dinnerbone, and several other Mojang developers. give feedback and suggestions to the developers the redstoners had asked Mojang to add a /place with command blocks. Mojang was... hesitant to the spirit of the game, would be too powerful, reasons, they would typically give noncommittal However, when /summon was added to the just given players exactly that ability. you could not only place blocks with falling personally believe this was unintentional it didn't take long for them to On September 6th, the VERY same jeb, lead developer of Minecraft, tweeted this: "I suppose @Dinnerbone or I will replace the quirky /summon The following week, when snapshot 13w37a released, update came out containing all the features from the spawner minecart, along with all the In fact, the spawner minecart was not it's brief time in the spotlight like without a clear purpose, yet became so useful were previously unwilling to budge on, and It might be fun then to ponder, what if Mojang the world look like today if spawner minecarts scene for even a few more years. How powerful where people made raytraced Minecraft-in-minecraft may never know, as over 11 years since 1.7's be a confusing relic of the past. They didn't That's it, the story of Minecraft's From confusing and purposeless, to back to being confusing and #savethelapisblock