Could there be an ocean under the Earth? the Earth's interior, research led by layer between Earth's core and mantle that but... how? Is it possible that there is an ocean have? Could there be living things in it? Ultra Low Speed Zones (ULVZ) we must delve into the central topic of the also called (ULVZ) by their initials. areas under the Earth's crust that These zones lie at the core-mantle interface 2,900 kilometers below the Earth's surface. mainly of magnesium and iron silicates, These zones are characterized by their low waves slow down or even stop completely when the density and composition of these structures from those in the rest of the mantle. their formation is that they are related to one tectonic plate dips under another The minerals found in these plates can remain can therefore be transported to the core-mantle responsible for the density and composition ULVZs have been identified worldwide, suggesting global feature of the Earth. Furthermore, significant implications for the dynamics of ULZVs cannot be seen since they know they exist if we have never seen them? investigate these structures and obtain origin. One of these techniques is seismic the Earth's internal structure. Seismic data three-dimensional images of the ULVZs. and temperature mineralogy. This high-temperature experiments that help determine temperatures found at the core-mantle interface. minerals may be stable under these conditions The study published in the journal Science of the ULVZ. The study authors used molecular various types of minerals. The results suggest such as ferropericlase, may be stable under these mantle may be formed by these materials. analyzes of Earth's mantle rocks. They found the lower mantle, further supporting the theory The importance of understanding these enormous implications for the dynamics of the Earth's flow in the mantle and affect Earth's interior role in forming mantle plumes, updrafts of hot In addition, it is believed that they may be mysterious geological features on Earth, such The South Atlantic Magnetic Anomaly ( AMAS ) scientists for ages. Refers to a region of the field is significantly weaker than expected based South America to Africa and has been the subject Earth's magnetic field is produced within the planet. The magnetic field shields the planet's atmosphere and surface this field is not uniform across the planet AMAS is one of the most significant magnetic caused by a combination of several factors. have a large amount of volcanic and sedimentary These minerals can distort and weaken the Furthermore, it is believed to be related to is a layer of liquid iron that surrounds This movement can create electrical generate Earth's magnetic field. It is believed the magnetic field in the South Atlantic region. studies have been carried out in the region One of the most widely used tools in these studies direction of the Earth's magnetic field. map this area from space. The data collected to create detailed maps of the anomaly and to As scientists have delved deeper into this anomaly has significant implications The weak magnetic field in the South Atlantic navigational equipment, which can be dangerous Furthermore, this zone of low magnetism can telecommunication systems. Cosmic radiation affected by the weak magnetic field in the region, The investigations to study the have also helped us better understand we have discovered that ultra-low speed zones discovered structures of huge mountains the size Buried mountains and oceans Research Fellow Samantha E. Hansen of The University of Alabama, conducted seismic wave These provided the highest-resolution images discovered that Earth's internal structures are The project was able to probe a large part for the first time using a detailed method the core-mantle boundary. Hansen and the energy in the seismic data that arrived several These subtle signals were used to map a region that is pencil-thin but several tens of considering that the Earth's dominant layers The properties of the abnormal lining of reductions in wave velocity; that is, it is made These ULVZ discoveries can be well sinking to the core-mantle boundary due to Oceanic material is transported into the planet's and one plunges beneath the other, known subducted oceanic material build up along the flowing rock in the mantle over geologic time. explain the range of properties observed. ULVZs boundary, with heights ranging from less than 3 below the Earth's surface, around the core, are That is to say that inside our planet, there was the continental plate that contained mountains larger than Mount Everest but are now But wait, don't let your imagination fly yet; this internal world like the one Jules Verne imagined These structures are just ancient now found very close to the core at extreme degrees Fahrenheit (5,000 degrees Celsius), While liquid water or living things can't exist affect how heat escapes from the core, the part In addition, material from ancient ocean floors spots that return to the surface via volcanic eventually end up back on the surface with time, Other hypotheses about the origin of these they result from the formation of the Moon. the Moon originated from the impact of a which collided with the Earth 4.5 billion years crust was lifted several kilometers into space and rest of the debris and rocks from the collision. this idea since it would explain why these the planet and not just in some areas. In why the Earth's axis has that inclination. little by little, science brings Ultimately, research into the Earth's core world and how much remains to be discovered. By we can better understand our place in the universe