Geometry Dash has some fundamental rules that every level follows. Let me ask you two questions. Does a demon level give you 10 stars? Or.. Is three coins the maximum you can put in your level? If you answered &quot;yes&quot; to any of these, I have to disappoint you. Because in this video I will be showing you illegal Geometry Dash levels which Yeah... You will see some crazy levels. Thanks to GD Colon for making this video possible. Let's see the most illegal levels, shall we? Let's start with strange level names, because every level has a name, right? Well, it's true but false. There are levels in GD with no name. Like this one by Nasgubb. Nasgubb used to make levels with pretty fun gameplay, but this There are other levels in the game like this, however this is the most famous. But there are crazier level names than this. Like this. Or this... Or this... These levels have dash in their name, which was possible in older versions. If you wrote a bad word in the level name it would censor it with a dash. For example: FVCKSIRIUSFVCK Sometimes when you go to unnamed levels, the game says &quot;unknown&quot;. But now let's see a more... khm... known level. Remember Silent Circles? Well, one of the creators was Cyrillic. Did you know that he made another impossible level which has It is Timeless, the longest level in GD that you will never beat because you will die before reaching 100%. You get the point. When you go to the editor, you see the level is -2 billion seconds long in real life that is -69... 68 years. But... How did he make a level that long? The answer is actually quite simple. There is a default block placed 1 quintillion 229 quadrillion 783 trillion 333 billion blocks from the start of the level. That means you would have to play for 2 billion years He scrolled that far into the editor to place one block??? No! He edited the level data to place an object that far from the beginning. Even though the level doesn't let me play it is special to me because it came out just when I started playing the game... There are two levels in Geometry Dash where the star doesn't represent the difficulty of the level. One of them is Luster. Not this Luster, but This one. Luster is a 9 star easy level, I'm gonna explain real quick how it happened. RobTop did a few attempts, and was like: &quot;Woah, this is hard and easy at the same time&quot;, so he rated it a demon and BAMM, we had the new easiest Demon in the game! Easier than Lightning Road and Sadly, you couldn't celebrate for too long because it went from Demon to Insane, then it went to Easy. But for some reason, the reward stayed at 9 stars. And Smetana is the same story. Smetana was also rated Demon, but it ended up with 9 stars and got the normal difficulty face. I think it must be a bug that occurs when RobTop downgrades a level from demon... Or it might just be Robtop trolling with us. He likes trolling because Dark Angel is the only level with user coins that is unrated. I vividly remember that in 2016, I was looking for an unrated level with as a kid I was shocked that my curiosity actually gave me a level and I immediately wanted to see why RobTop changed the coins. And... It is an early 2.0 level where you The gameplay is pretty annoying, requires memory but the coins are average. You can see each coin on the screen. These coins are unbelievable, but did you know that there You can even see at the end of the level when you beat it, which I thought was impossible. But the weird things don't stop with the coins because the Creator requested For context, when you upload a level the maximum you can request is 10 Stars. Then players can rate how difficult your level is... for them. Oh, and did I mention that since the level I don't know how to imagine that. Also the level says Extra Long (XL), which means it should be more than 2 minutes long. But in reality it is only 1 minute. Is there something else? Oh, Yeah. THERE ARE COLORS IN THE DESCRIPTION, and if this wasn't enough the level is warning you that it has more than 80,000 objects... But actually it has only 18,000. Now I hope you know what illegal level means. Destiny Of Death. This level is so illegal that you can never play it. If you click Play nothing happens. This might not seem like a big deal because back in the day For example Suga Song. This level was also unplayable but the game got more optimized, so it's no longer a problem. Timeless is also unplayable, so what makes Destiny Of Death special? You may ask. Well... The fact that you cannot even copy this Level, see? Nothing happens. There is no level data, which means you can see that there is a level on the servers, but... There is no level behind it. I did some more research. *cough* (Comment Section) And found that this is a really old secret way demon from 2014... and when it was unrated all the level data was deleted from the servers. Forever. There is no level, only a few Small Space Platformer levels in Geometry Dash give you moons instead of This was added to the game in 2.2. However, there is a single level called &quot;Small Space&quot; which The level came out and got rated As you can see on this old video the level was not platformer but time passed and the Creator did a 200 IQ move. In 2.2 he changed the level from Classic to Platformer. This caused a bug, so now Geometry Dash cannot decide whether this level should Also, the length of the level says it's long but it should be saying What is more illegal than printing money? PRINTING CREATOR POINTS! How the hell do you print Creator Points? Upload the same level twice! That is what Zellink did! The guy who's Then he changed a few objects, replaced the song and re-uploaded it. and got it rated... Again. But he didn't even bother to change the name. It's so funny to see identical levels with slightly different like counts tho... I just have no idea On the second spot, I put the most hilarious EricVanWilderman challenge. His fans have made thousands of challenges for him. Want to see the funniest one? Apparently, you cannot move. You're stuck in one place and you can do nothing but you can see that you're at the end of the level, but you never reach it. I was wondering what happens when I change it to platformer, so I did. And it's the same thing! Even though there are zero objects I cannot move left or right in a platformer level. That means there are no invisible objects stopping me and... I was so confused, let's see the next level. Which is a modified version of Blast Wait, what? You can see the same thing! In this case the Creator plays the move trigger The stuttering of the objects So if you put a Start Pos absurdly far away from the start of the level you reach a point that is similar to Farlands in Minecraft, where if you go closer to the world border you'll notice that the blocks are also stuttering and they are not It is exactly the same as in this level. These bugs were waiting to I'm super grateful that you watched this video until the end. I love creating these videos for you, so if you subscribe or give me a like... (or both) That's a huge help for me. See you in the next video, have a great day bro!