The Blue Shell is the most hated item from all have asked Nintendo to REMOVE And yet, Nintendo haven't. And that is because of Mario Kart's biggest problems. Here's why The original Super Mario Kart has some very fair. If you fall behind in a race, and it doesn't help that the CPU characters Let me explain how Super Mario Kart's the computer players are all given distinct whatever happens. There's one very fast character, And the computer players will do everything in that list. In other words, the outcome But what about you, the player? and you have to force your way through trying to knock the characters off their set It's about how well you disrupt the But, the computer characters don't just sit to try and stop you. And, this is where the game the computer players have access to items that poison mushrooms onto the track. But there are Even if you pick Peach as your character, But it gets worse. Not only do the computer they can use as many of those items as they want, can spawn infinite items, even if they've never that Super Mario Kart's computer players feel Now, in spite of the game's unfair AI, Super Nintendo. And so, a few years later, developers called Mario Kart 64. Now, the developers' focus the original game: that if you fell behind, Now, there were lots of ways the developers race up until the last minute. The CPU the game's director Hideki Konno, "The enemy better doesn't necessarily mean fairer - the CPU In fact, a YouTube channel called "superluigikart" cheat. Normally in Mario Kart, the camera the camera is instead following one of the CPUs, human player that he can't be seen anymore, he'll when that happens! Suddenly, he starts going much So in Mario Kart 64, computer players only follow see them. As soon as the player can't see them, But this "cheating" as you might put goal - to make sure anyone could win Unfortunately, there was one big obstacle in the You see, Mario Kart 64 was a processor hog. Sure, limits, but Mario Kart 64 went well beyond them. lots of character sprites really took their toll the game running. Like, the framerate - Super while Mario Kart 64 only runs at 30. But add in Certain graphical effects like snow the game's performance consistent. And complex was simplified a little. In this case, one. On the whole though, the game kept But Shigeru Miyamoto had a request to add races with 4 different players. At but eventually, the programmers did manage to pull The frame rate was now down to 20 frames a second. all removed. Frappe Snowland had its titular snow and the train from Kalimari Desert Oh, and on top of that, the But, even with all of these changes, the Nintendo important. According to the game's director, didn't work all that well. So, because the create the racing environment we wanted." In other races that were so close, that anybody could win displaying 8 racers on screen at once, which meant You see, the solution to this problem was a little the Blue Shell is an item that seeks out the a huge explosion. And, this Blue Shell solved If one player was lagging behind, they could use helping themselves to catch up. And if a player well... the Blue Shell could drag them the races from the original Mario Kart, where into races where ANYBODY could In the words of the game's director Hideki Konno, "it would enable even whoever was in the back to still want to keep going. Something that Now, ever since Mario Kart 64, the Blue Shell has Nintendo has created. And it's become hated by the finish line is in sight, and suddenly a It's no surprise that some people So why won't Nintendo get rid of it? Well, in an Nintendo makes a Mario Kart game, the developers and decide which items they include. Which means useful for balancing out the game, to achieve the take it from me. Let me read out a quote from Something I personally really consider is the So for example playing Mario Kart - if makes you feel frustrated or makes you angry... will feel is unfair might be different to someone feelings of frustration. But because everyone is pin it down with a set formula. Ultimately, in one particular day that they're so frustrated Kart today - keeping the experience enjoyable but the next day, the next week, you'll still We're always experimenting with what new elements have tried - or we are trying - to see what the experimented without the blue shell, actually something not quite enough in the game. So for now fair. Sometimes in life you have something where [But] I think things are more interesting Hey, this is Thomas, thanks for watching my videos like this then subscribe to my channel, helping make videos like this possible.