Hello, dear friends! Today I'm going to show you recipes for the most popular no-bake desserts. Stay tuned to the end and learn the secrets of delicious and easy recipes!. Take 50 ml of warm milk to soak the cookies. Take 100-150 grams of cookies. Depending on the size of your form. Dip each cookie in warm milk. I took a 20*20 cm mold, but you can use any you have. Please write in the comments from which country are you watching my videos? I am very interested. Set aside while we prepare the filling. Take 180 grams of butter at room temperature. It should be soft. Beat with a mixer. Watch the video until the end so you don't miss anything. Add 100 ml condensed milk. If you like watching fast videos, set the speed to faster in the settings. Divide 4 eggs into whites and yolks. This dessert is quick to prepare and my kids just love it. Take the juice of half a lemon. Beat the egg whites with a mixer until a thick white foam forms. Add lemon juice to the egg whites. I would really appreciate your comment. Add 150 ml of water to the pan. Add 300 grams of sugar. Add 10 g of agar agar. Add a teaspoon of vanilla sugar. Bring to a boil over low heat. Add this mixture to the beaten egg whites. Add the butter mixture that we made a little earlier. Beat with a mixer until the mass is homogeneous. Soak again with warm milk. Pour the mixture into our mold. Place in the refrigerator until solid. It hardens very quickly. Grind 150 grams of chocolate. It can be either milk or dark chocolate. Please write in the comments if you liked this recipe. Melt the chocolate in the microwave. Add 20 ml vegetable oil. Distribute the chocolate evenly over our cake. Place in the refrigerator to harden. It's very fast. The dessert is very tender!. Take 4 eggs. Add half a teaspoon of salt. Add half a teaspoon of vanilla sugar. Add one and a half tablespoons of sugar. Write in the comments which city you come from? I am very interested. Add 45 grams of cocoa. Watch the video until the end so you don't miss anything. Add 300 ml milk in portions. Add 150 grams of flour in portions. Add 45 grams of melted butter. You can add regular vegetable oil instead. Write in the comments, do you prefer homemade baked goods or store-bought sweets?. Fry the dough on both sides. When bubbles form, turn the resulting pancake over. My batter made 4 pancakes, but it depends on the size of the pan. Allow the pancakes to cool. Take 5 tablespoons of cream cheese. It is better to take it at room temperature. Add 3 tablespoons boiled condensed milk. Mix well. After rolling it into a roll, put it in the refrigerator for 3-4 hours to soak well. Grind 200 grams of chocolate. Melt in the microwave. Add 20 ml vegetable oil. Add 60 grams of chopped nuts. Cover the roll with chocolate. I would really appreciate your comment. Place in the fridge for half an hour. You've probably never tried a no-bake roll like this before! Grind 180 grams of chocolate. You can use either milk or dark chocolate. Which one do you like more? Watch the video until the end so you don't miss anything. Melt the chocolate in the microwave. Add 20 ml vegetable oil. Spread the first layer of chocolate on the mold. If you like watching fast videos, set the speed to faster in the settings. Place in the refrigerator for 15 minutes. Take 180 grams of butter at room temperature. Write in the comments which dessert is your favorite?. Add 100 grams of condensed milk. Add 130 ml water to the pan. Add 250 grams of sugar. Add 10 g of agar agar. Add a teaspoon of vanilla sugar. Bring the mixture to a boil. Keep the mixture over low heat and stir constantly. UM! It's boiling! Now let's take it off the heat. Divide 4 eggs into whites and yolks. Squeeze the juice from half a lemon. Beat the egg whites with a mixer. Our mass should turn white. Add lemon juice. Add the mixture from the heat to the beaten egg whites. I would really appreciate your comment. Add our whipped butter with condensed milk here. Beat the mixture a little. Wow! Our chocolate is frozen. Very fast. Spread some on the second chocolate layer. Especially where the gaps are visible. Place in the fridge for literally 10 minutes. Take a big waffle like this. Or any cookies. You can use any round cookie. As you wish. Fill the molds with the resulting mixture. Place in the refrigerator for 1 hour. The mass inside should harden. Top the waffle with chocolate. Place in the fridge for literally 15 minutes. Pour the remaining chocolate into a piping bag. Let me know in the comments if you liked the recipe. I will be very satisfied. Draw stripes with chocolate. I decorate the top with freeze-dried berries, you can decorate it to your taste: coconut, nuts, whatever you like. Prepare this easy recipe for your loved ones. Roast 120 grams of peanuts. You can also take the roasted peanuts with you if you like. Write in the comments from which country are you watching this video? I am very interested to know. Grind 500 grams of cookies. This dessert is quick to prepare and my kids just love it. Watch the video until the end so you don't miss anything. Add 120 grams of sugar to the pan. Add 60 grams of cocoa. Add 250 ml milk. If you like watching fast videos, set the speed to faster in the settings. Stir everything until smooth. Bring to a boil. Add 150 grams of butter. Chop nuts. Write in the comments what you like/dislike about the video?. Add chopped peanuts to the cookies. Add chocolate mixture. Write in the comments which desserts you like best, with or without baking?. Allow the mixture to cool. I bake cakes with gloves, but it can also be done without them. It's not a problem. I would really appreciate your comment. Place in the refrigerator for 1 hour. Grind 200 grams of chocolate. Melt the chocolate in the microwave. Add 20 ml vegetable oil. Grind 50 grams of roasted peanuts. Mix peanuts and chocolate. Please write in the comments if you liked this recipe. Place in the fridge for 20 minutes until the chocolate has cooled. Fry 200 grams of peanuts over low heat. You can also use the roasted peanuts directly. Divide the nuts into 2 parts. A large one for filling and a small one for decorating. Add 200 grams of sugar to the pan. Heat it over low heat. Write in the comments which city you come from? Add 50 grams of butter. Add 200 ml 33% cream. This homemade caramel smells so delicious... Pour the caramel onto a plate and let it cool. After the caramel has cooled slightly, beat it with a mixer. Add roasted peanuts to the whipped caramel. I would really appreciate your comment. Take 200 grams of round cookies. These cookies are very easy to prepare. Place cookies in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Grind the remaining peanuts. You can also use a blender. Grind 200 grams of chocolate. You can use your favorite chocolate: dark or milk chocolate - it doesn't matter. Melt the chocolate in the microwave. Add 20 ml vegetable oil. Add chopped nuts. Place the dessert in the refrigerator for 15-30 minutes.