The world is home to a plethora of fascinating that have withstood the test of time. Many of these ancient societies were incredibly Just take a look at their meticulous city some of which we are yet to fully understand. Some of the most captivating ancient ruins will boggle even the most curious of minds. Number 25. Ayutthaya. Founded around the year 1350, Ayutthaya is and trading post. It wasn't long before this thriving trading It held onto this title for four centuries As many of the temples and relics of the city were destroyed. Only around 50 stone relics and temples survived Since renovations started in the 1970s, exploring Khmer architecture has become a popular day Number 24. Stonehenge. Dotted along the Salisbury Plain in Wiltshire, recognized ancient ruins in the world. Dating back over 5,000 years, these curious on the planet. Created out of sandstone, they are ensconced Who built them and why is still largely unknown. Two popular theories maintain that Stonehenge otherwise to monitor the movements of the As you only need two hours to explore the is often combined with a visit to Windsor Number 23. Mesa Verde. Deep in the American Southwest, you'll find collection of 600 ancient clifftop dwellings. The most famous of these dwellings is the alcove that's protected it from the elements It's the largest of its kind in North America contained just a few rooms for residential 23 sacred kivas. Having been lived in for close to a century, abandoned in the 13th-century. Number 22. Sigiriya. Sigiriya is an ancient fortress carved into On top of what is now known as Lion Rock are thought to be the capital of the kingdom of In its heyday, it included a citadel, a mirror a gateway in the shape of a lion. After the king passed, the capital was abandoned While the climb to the top of Sigiriya is of the ramparts, terraced gardens and cave Number 21. Masada. The ancient fortress of Masada is possibly Perched on a cliff top overlooking the Judaean is hauntingly beautiful. Dating back over thousands of years, it was It had modern creature comforts such as a More famously, the enormous fortification chose death over a life of Roman slavery. Two pathways lead to the top and while grueling Number 20. Hampi. The second-largest medieval city after Beijing, Once the thriving epicenter of the Karnata now only crumbling ruins remain. Founded in the 14th-century by two princes, religious center. Highlights include the temple that served worship, the House of Victory, the Vitthala pillars, and the main temple with its carvings Number 19. Pompeii. The eerie ruins of Pompeii can be found near When the iconic Mount Vesuvius erupted in of lava and took the lives of over 2,000 residents The ancient city first discovered by accident remarkably well preserved. However, it wasn't until two decades later You can walk down the streets of these ancient in its heyday. There are the remains of stone houses, temples, Number 18. Tulum. An hours' drive from Cancun, the Tulum ruins built by the Mayans. Walled on three sides with the fourth open incredible. Even though it dates back to 564 AD, Tulum centuries. It was a powerful trading hub for jade, cotton, Apart from the El Castillo pyramid, the main inside the Temple of the Frescoes and go for by palm trees and sunbathing iguanas. Number 17. Ephesus. One of the most impressive Greek and Roman can be found in western Turkey. Dating back over 2,000 years, it was once But what makes these ruins stand out is just Unlike many other protected archaeological every part of the city. Highlights include a series of ancient public Temple. It is also home to the 25,000-seater Great in the ancient world. Number 16. Ellora Caves. The Ellora Caves are made up of a series of the side of a basalt cliff. Out of 100 caves, only 34 are open to the Located in Maharashtra, India, Ellora dates Jain monks over five centuries to craft. The highlight of the Ellora Caves is the Kailasa Dedicated to Lord Shiva, it is the largest Other worthy sights include the large preaching because of the rock's resemblance to polished Number 15. Terracotta Army. The Terracotta Warriors are an impressive and horses. Located in Xi'an, China, there are around BC. They were discovered by accident in the 1970s While many remain unexcavated, three of these within the Museum of the Terracotta Army. Apart from their sheer volume, what's interesting face is unique. They were hand-carved with individual features in total. Number 14. Chichen Itza. One of the most famous archaeological sites city on the Yucatan Peninsula. Built by the Mayans in 600 AD, it was abandoned new capital. Highlights include the Temple of Kukulkan, representing a compass and 365 steps for each It is best visited during the spring or fall on the stairs of the pyramid. Other must-see sites include the Ball Court, that was once a site of human sacrifice. Number 13. Acropolis. From its perch above the city of Athens, the from any corner of the city. First built and inhabited by Pericles in the transformed into a city of temples. These ancient structures were crafted out plated. Restorations are still ongoing so don't place. Many of the original artefacts were relocated visit while you're here. Number 12. Bagan. The ancient city of Bagan is a captivating Once the capital of a powerful kingdom during temples, monasteries, shrines, pagodas, and In the years since, these sacred sites have neglect and natural disasters. Just 2,000 temple ruins remain and are scattered While you can explore the Archaeological Zone appreciated from the air. A hot air balloon ride over Bagan is a worthy Number 11. Tikal. With its grey temple-tops protruding through catching a glimpse of the ruins of Tikal is A popular day trip from Flores, these remote palaces. One of the biggest archaeological sites in powerful of the Mayan cities around 600 AD. Don't miss the Temple of the Two Headed As one of the tallest pre-Columbian structures top will treat you to incredible 360-degree Number 10. Karnak. The Karnak Temple complex in Luxor, Egypt, Covering an area that's larger than most obelisks, and shrines. It took over 2,000 years to build and each mark. Walk through the Avenue of Sphinxes and discover This enormous room filled with towering pylons most famous and photographed attractions of While you're here, stop to admire the Sacred Number 9. Borobudur. Crafted out of an impressive two million blocks is the largest Buddhist temple in the world. Dating back to the 9th-century, it eventually in the 1800s. Since then, it has been restored to its former The Borobudur monument consists of six square A pathway of enlightenment leads from the of Buddhist cosmology, the world of forms, It's decorated with over 2,000 reliefs and teaching. Number 8. Teotihuacan. Located on the outskirts of modern-day Mexico Aztec archaeological sites. But the Aztecs didn't actually build it. Despite many theories, nobody is really sure However, the Aztecs did name it and make it city. In its prime, it was the largest city in the of residential compounds and pyramids. Today, its two iconic pyramids, the Temple the major highlights. Stroll along the Avenue of the Dead and visit Serpent. Number 7. Moai Statues. With the tallest weighing in over 80 tonnes, are iconic. In fact, you'll probably recognize them of them. These 800-plus statues, most of which face ash by the Rapa Nui people somewhere between Likely created using rudimentary basalt stone would have taken close to a year to complete. There are many theories as to why they were clan ancestors and because of a believe it Number 6. Colosseum. One of the most iconic Roman ruins, the Colosseum Unveiled in 80 AD, the 50,000-seater amphitheater These included animal fights and blood-thirsty fight to the death. The architecture of the Colosseum is impressive The outer walls are made up of three levels columns. In its hey-day, they were decorated with marble The top level once supported an enormous awning Number 5. Great Wall of China. Spreading through 15 Chinese provinces and is the longest man-made structure in the world. It is made up of a series of separate sections course of six Chinese dynasties as a defense Now well over 2,000 years old, some parts Interestingly, for those who wanted to attempt Wall of China would take approximately 18 Number 4. Petra. The Rose City of Petra is an ancient desert cliffs by nomads thousands of years ago. Located in Jordan, tucked between the Red the city was once filled with green gardens, Instead, a walk or camel ride through the temples, and tombs hidden within the city The two-story Treasury carved into the rock in the old city. It's worth viewing for the facade alone tomb is worth a look. Number 3. Machu Picchu. A huge tick off the travel bucket list, Machu the ancient Incan Empire. This historical fortress lies hidden in the So well hidden in fact that it was never found 1500s. They were only accidentally discover in 1911 A wonder of advanced engineering, it's estimated mainly for fortification and drainage. Today, these walled ruins can only be reached Don't miss the Machu Picchu Museum for an Incas. Number 2. Angkor. Once the capital of the Khmer Empire between ancient metropolis. Today, the city is most famous for its Hindu the largest religious shrine on Earth. It's famously visited at sunrise when the But the Angkor Archaeological Park actually from Angkor Wat. Over 1,000 temples lie scattered throughout Highlights include the jungle-clad Tomb Raider and the 12th-century Bayon Temple that marks of Angkor Thom. Number 1. Giza. One of the most mysterious ancient sites on fascinating. Created as enormous tombs for the pharaohs plenty of speculation as to how they were With such precise and immaculate detail, they're engineering. They were used as burial chambers and were use in the afterlife - something that attracted Don't forget to get a kissing photo with