In December 2004, many escape the dreary winter Everyone basks without imagining these idyllic landscapes are destined It is going to result In 2004, Christian Patureau He lands on the island of Kho Phi Phi by a group of friends. So, I believe it was right above. My room was supposed to be And behind, there was a bay window In the tropical warmth of Asia, I was single. It was a relatively carefree time It was really enjoyable. Thailand, in December, You envision the azure sky, the laziness, the relaxation. This truly is On December 25, 2004, Bruno Lartigue and his family establish The view from their hotel but they're a little disappointed. The chosen accommodation Several weeks ahead, we're having difficulty So the hotel that is found Atop a cliff Fate or Fortune, at that moment, that the day following his arrival, on December 26, this hotel he finds will save them. 500 kilometers off the coast One of the greatest natural disasters Simultaneously, In Midigama, beautiful waves One must admit, Make a living from their passion. On December 25, 2004, David, Guillaume, and Fabien and their new laid-back lifestyle. Go surfing, check out the waves, After that, breakfast. -More surfing. We kicked off A few kilometers away Anne Escola and her husband The surfer duo arrived Even if they are enjoying themselves Corentin and Baptiste who refused to carry their toys Indeed, they grumble a bit since we are we hadn't brought all the gifts But it's still a Christmas But I don't think An Idyllic Holiday, which will take a completely Anne Escola and her family Everyone found themselves of the greatest cataclysm This is something you only see The sea has wiped the slate clean. I see my house disappearing In the blink of an eye, They have endured the unimaginable. A tsunami of extraordinary strength. I am taken away in a car, gas bottles clashing together, Like a drum in a washing machine, and you find yourself swept up Thanks to the holiday films You are going to re-experience Did you see the fishermen's boat? He is being flipped over! With 3D, you will understand the 2004 tsunami took the lives People were yelling inside the houses. People who are walking and Perhaps that's when you realize 15 years have elapsed, their sufferings. And the remarkable survival instinct These are moments I owe reverence to those Few people have looked death I looked her in the eyes and said, From Thailand to Sri Lanka, the hell they went through. In December, in the Indian Ocean, Thailand serves as a paradise. And the island of Kho Phi Phi At the heart, a slender stretch of land One and a half kilometers long that houses the village, its shops, and most hotels. During Christmas 2004, That year, Jean-Louis Caccomo professor of economics For this holiday season, whom he hasn't seen for months. In the hotel, the staff is costumed They are dressed in red and have beards. Spending Christmas on the other side especially when you're 10 years old, In the beginning, We are not aware of the complete change Kho Phi Phi Island is not Some French people have left everything restaurants, Hotels, but not limited to them. Some live comfortably off their savings, After years of managing The business owner is taking to spend quality time In Koh Phi Phi, we wore Thai trousers We used to fish from dawn to dusk. We were living a local lifestyle. We weren't tourists, We weren't conducting business there, We can't wait for the party! Celebrate Christmas still, On the coastline, All 320 rooms at the Magic Lagoon Resort Scores of French families Geraldine Tessier and her husband This trip to Thailand is a part It's one of the most stunning hotels and an entrance featuring white stairs. The reception area is accessible featuring a pool that spans The rooms provided somewhat akin to the canals in Venice. It's a fantastic, and peaceful place. Very chic, utterly luxurious, with The hotel had opened The first Christmas celebrations On the evening of the 25th, We enjoy champagne After dessert, we all head to the beach. Santa Claus arrives The children are elated, with a release of glowing lanterns It's truly idyllic. While everyone is reveling in joy, In less than 12 hours, one of the greatest natural disasters is about to fall The crisis unfolds 700 kilometers away On December 26, 2004, The city of Banda Aceh when at 7:58 am, the earth is quaking. It is the third most powerful earthquake 9.2 on the Richter scale. Its epicenter is situated off the coast At a depth of 30 kilometers, beneath the Earth's crust, The Indian tectonic plates to the left, Asians on the right have been in conflict When the Asian tectonic plate the energy unleashed is immense. 12,000 times more powerful When the earthquake subsides, Everyone believes They are mistaken. The shock wave triggered a tsunami. It travels at the speed 800 kilometers per hour. In 38 minutes, a colossal wave We were all immersed in prayer, fervently hoping for everything So, we got up, exited our homes, There was absolutely no panic. Families untouched by the earthquake They will be the initial victims Cut Putri is a physician in Banda Aceh. That morning, she captured footage for a cousin's wedding. When all hear a strange noise. And suddenly, it began Then my father began to shout loudly: And suddenly, I saw the wave. She arrived like that, The young woman and her family Cut Putri continues to film. The 20-meter wave obliterates Neither anything nor anyone Two kilometers inland, -I believed it was my final hour, The quickest ones managed Others have had the fortune It is composed of thousands of debris And they were crying out to us, But we were powerless to do anything. We told them, &quot;We are sorry, truly sorry, &quot;You must entrust yourself to God.&quot; God remains deaf to their prayers. The fury of the ocean persists. 20 minutes later, a second wave surfaces. It is not as tall as the first one, but this time, it penetrates The wave stands just over a meter tall, Within a matter of minutes, The impact is severe, very severe. Almost 100,000 fatalities. Satellite images captured before serve as a testament to this. Half of the city has been obliterated Now, the lethal tsunami is bearing down These countries are completely unaware There is no tsunami alert center In less than 2 hours, In the bay of Mirissa, Anne Escola, her husband Stephen, Baptiste, 7 years old, they have rented a bungalow They've been living in a dreamlike state But on December 26, at the moment the town of Banda Aceh, Anne Escola goes on vacation doesn't feel very well upon waking up. -My husband goes surfing but it's just around 7 am. I was slightly unwell, and I wasn't feeling too well, and I lingered in the room a bit longer, and I didn't hurry to go for lunch. I stayed a little longer, Oddly enough, at the same moment, 2,000 kilometers away, on the island Robin Caccomo, and his father, too, As they slumber peacefully they feel the tremors. -In the morning, we feel the earthquake. They wake us up. A considerably violent What was astonishing was the absence and everyone appeared to be normal. No one appeared to be worried. And understandably so, who experienced the earthquake. which has just occurred in Indonesia, In their own unique ways, Robin Caccomo and Anne Escola seem to share And they are not alone. On the beach of Kaoh Lak, even the comfort of his own room, fails to alleviate the unease The young bride experienced nightmares -A terribly restless night filled we believe we are seeing things. At any rate, I didn't sleep but without understanding the reason. And the following morning, We are going to enjoy an early breakfast Around 9:30 am, half an hour the couple, akin to the other tourists, ignore the strange phenomenon The sea recedes hundreds of meters. Vacationers, seize the opportunity No one suspects a thing. but the receding sea is a precursor The earthquake triggered and almost 6 meters high. The water is drawn into the hole Out in the open sea, Just a slight ripple. For divers, it's a whole different story. Bruno Lartigue, had arrived the day before with his wife and his two children On the morning of December 26, he was at sea, an hour away -The sky is azure, the ocean is serene. From 9:00 to 9:30 am, We gear up for the dive, And swiftly, the descent proves We are so jostled in the currents, that we don't have the time to observe As if you're envisioning which is spinning and you are entangled The captain of the ship And we are unaware of what is happening. When he climbed back onto the boat, In 10 minutes, the tsunami At the Kamala Beach Hotel, Charlotte and Grant -I'm about to take a shower. Grant is lying on the bed, waiting. And it's at the moment of stepping that I begin to hear an unfamiliar noise, a deafening noise that I cannot identify. And then, I notice a small amount I cross the room to open a French door, which leads to a small terrace And then, actually, The strength of water More than 1000 tons per cubic meter. Some tourists, captivated, are filming. Situated less than 50 meters Charlotte's room absorbs It shatters her door. Water rushes in through the door. -Grant was ahead It's somewhat like a siphon. It's such a powerful force, The only thing on my mind is: But in the end, It's terrible because I couldn't tell up I am completely-- It's a laundry machine. I can't breathe, and I finally manage, by chance, I managed to cling a tiny palm tree Both of us perched on our palm trees, to prevent ourselves After 5 minutes, the sea becomes calm. In hotels, the tourists are stunned. Everyone is looking for their loved ones. They won't have the time for it. Much like in Indonesia, a second wave This British couple is clinging A Swedish tourist But it's already too late. Everyone clings on as best they can. Amidst the two waves, Charlotte and her boyfriend managed on the balcony of a house. Nevertheless, - And now, it's extremely difficult. I once entered the water, I don't want to get drawn back into it And the water level is rising. And this is Because I am certain Charlotte's fear is not only rooted Sheet metal, sun loungers, With the power of water, ordinary objects In this diabolical washing machine, The young woman Some wounds run deep. -It was at that moment that I realized My toes are almost cut off, because they dangle near my left foot, I have deep cuts all over, And I hadn't even noticed, Another pain adds to her existing one. Charlotte is now taking refuge Everyone fears a third wave. For them, a prolonged ordeal begins. It's 40 degrees, the tiles are scorching. So to shield yourself some muster the courage -We find ourselves on this roof I tore the shirt, which was completely soaked, It was extremely hot. I put half of a shirt on his head And now, we wait. It's pandemonium, it's infernal, And it's indeed no longer paradise, Even though the damage is substantial, the island of Phuket The mountainous topography Nothing to do with the island not even with the beach of Khao Lak. These two locations lack any form The massacre is underway. Five minutes following Phuket, the tsunami is set On the island, all dwellings merely 200 meters wide. On the morning of December 26, 2004, businesses are gradually opening It should be stated that the authorities on the island have not received Tourists meander through a maze It's quaint, The sea flanks both sides, However, nobody can see it. Around 10 am, Christian Patouraux after having breakfast. -It was relaxed, we were comfortable, we told ourselves we were about to leave. We were leisurely taking our time. Meanwhile, the wave was approaching. We weren't aware of it. Ultimately, if Christian Patouraux they would certainly have realized that something out of the ordinary A phenomenon He observes that nature has transformed. - It was absolute silence. A Sicilian proverb is often quoted: That's exactly it. The animals perceived the danger. The elephants used for tourist rides -Very early in the morning, They were in tears, -Calm down! Take it easy! Calm down, take it easy. The elephants began to break their chains -I think that elephants knew, I believe they can interpret Had I not tried to catch up with them, If I'm alive today, it's because of them. Aside from the animals, The Caccomo family is preparing Before leaving, His father declines, But most importantly, -He's actually preventing me and I believe I'm having a breakdown. You're making a scene! I'm making a fuss and you observe something. We notice that the sea level The hotel was approximately and you can see the water that has retreated I inquire, They respond to me, I tell Robin, Feeling uneasy, Jean-Louis Caccomo Robin's caprice just saved their lives. The time is 10:15. In 5 minutes, the tsunami will flatten At this moment, on the beach, a Swedish tourist surprised to see the boats Then when the sea rises again, There aren't any waves, but they can sense the strength Under the strength of the current, A swimmer struggles to keep going. Simultaneously, capture the sea as it churns with power. &quot;Stop panicking! What's the issue with the water? Take a look at the water's color. -You remember the brown water we saw. Can you picture Look, see how it's boiling now! 10:18 a.m. Philippe Polakowski comes home, And the moment I set my bag the earth begins to quake. And a muffled noise begins. It sounded like something out of style, And at the exact same moment, I hear a shout behind me: It means the water is arriving. At 10:20 a.m., the tsunami strikes. From his home, Philippe sees nothing. He only hears the screams of people. Without being aware of what's happening, he requests his wife to flee while he retrieves their savings. I had a small amount of money in my fake ceiling. I enter the room, I asked myself, &quot;Philippe, where did you stash Was it to the left, to the right? And just as I begin to ponder, a soft voice whispers to me, I follow my instinct, I run away. All these people who are running, the others who step on each other's toes. I turn around, I am looking at my house. that collapses like a house of cards, that disappears into the water. But rather than seeing the beach I actually see the water level Come inside quickly! The Caccomo family is securely settled The water level is notably below It's astounding Personally, I didn't want to stay there. The electricity cuts out The pylons that collapse, Individuals who had successfully get hit in the face with scuba tanks. So this idyllic and pleasant place On his part, Philippe Polakowski is running He is attempting to reach this mountain. However, access is blocked. And I run alongside a barbed wire fence. Every second counts at this moment, And I'm fortunate enough to have Among these barbed wires, I wedge myself into this narrow passage. I was completely out of breath, I began to climb the hill, So I ascended And then I think to myself: Look at the velocity of the wave. If your wife and daughter They are doomed.&quot; Especially when, once you're up there, he realizes that the heart of the island Beside him are the tourists, who had the brilliant idea that morning Everyone realizes their chance. It's dangerous! It's wreaking havoc on everything! A Frenchman records the catastrophe. We are safe, we fear nothing. Look! Behold Koh Phi Phi! After five minutes, the water ceased to flow. The entire lower level of the island Silence prevails, It might be the few people People are crying out for help &quot;I need help!&quot; We cannot go and assist them. With a group of other tourists, are trapped in their room Everyone is paralyzed by the fear But Jean-Louis's instinct urges him The lobby is too crowded, Once on land, the family which, fortunately, I'm not sure if you remember, When you hear your son telling you that-- Personally, from a logical perspective, But I'm not going to tell him &quot;No, you're not going to die, And he run. I remember this very painful climb, because there is no trail, we have no shoes, What is particularly disturbing It's that we feel neither pain We do not understand. But there's only one goal, So, we aren't thinking about anything. At the summit of the mountain, tourists continue to capture I can no longer film The Caccomo family will not have She doesn't notice the second wave My goodness! Don't remain there! I hope no one remained outside! Oh my god! Be careful! I see televisions, Hope everyone got out of it! It's all down. The surge claims even more lives while everyone keeps an eye on the North, In fact, when the second wave hit, it did nothing And when there are We plunge into absolute silence. We are on an island and the day ahead is going to be long. When the sea recedes, Philippe sets out on a journey Before he settled in Thailand, The deceased and the wounded frequently But nothing had prepared him Why? The tidal wave is not yet finished The remainder of the wave is now heading where numerous French individuals This is the final region in the nation This is where the most fatalities This coast has a unique feature In Kaoh Lak, So, when it arrives, the front of the wave decelerates while Consequently, the water ascends, The tsunami struck Kaoh Lak, just a few seconds 9:30 AM. At the hotel, Geraldine Tessier are having their breakfast. Despite the celebrations the room is already filled. On the morning of the breakfast, all the families who had dined with us On the evening of the 25th, the father, and the three, four, or five children. It was serene, people were unhurried. I recall a woman who created because we weren't permitted to bring And so, it was the morning row She departed nonetheless, with her coffee In Kaoh Lak, the sea receded As depicted in the holiday film The weather is lovely and dozens It's 10 in the morning. The wave will arrive in 36 minutes. Geraldine and her husband, left to wait for the hotel shuttle We are in the hotel lobby and-- absolutely nothing is going on. It's peaceful, no hint of panic, Everything is fine. At 10:30 am, notices a massive wave It's turning violent! While on the beach, everyone continues the fishermen, and the owner of the restaurant they are aware of the impending tragedy. The restaurateur is attempting I shouted, &quot;Leave, run fast!&quot; But nobody believed me. So, I was at a loss for what to do next. I waved my shirt and shouted again: &quot;Go, run! Escape quickly!&quot; No one can hear him. Everyone remains captivated by the show. Only the Thai people eventually The tsunami initially strikes This gentleman The sea is approaching quickly! This is unprecedented, The young German tourist He and his wife are seemingly mesmerized. Did you see the fisherman's boat? He is being turned around! What is this? What is this? When they emerge from their lethargy, they leave running. They will have just the right amount Yes, I'm coming! 3 kilometers further, Geraldine and her husband Along the road, we heard an explosion. The sky is blue, Something isn't quite consistent. But then again, we tell ourselves: This blast is the sound of the water wreaking havoc on the coastline The sea level rises up to 10 meters. The ground floor and first floor The tsunami is now barreling towards We enter a beachside shop, because my husband wants and barely had I stepped into the store, we're beginning to hear screams, a stir arises and instantly, She speaks and then she returns, And then my husband I gaze at him, He grabs my hand and tells me, Trust me. As the sea is rapidly gaining on them, Geraldine and her husband At the Magic Lagoon Resort, the hotel where numerous French the tourists and the staff More than 200 people The entire coast is devastated. No hotel has been left untouched. On the hill where Geraldine resides, The young bride witnesses A man came in carrying And this child was nearly disfigured. He was fortunate to be rescued who reversed course to retrieve it, who rescued him, And everyone looks after this little boy. We don't know where he's coming from. And the day's small miracle is, It's because his parents who had been rescued And the entire family was reunited. Everyone shed tears of joy there were also minor miracles. -The camp of survivors! It's something one could never - You become aware-- Even more so now that I'm a mother. The entire Indian Ocean is affected It needs to be mentioned created a 1000-kilometer long fault. Hence, the resulting shock wave And it progresses at the speed 800 kilometers per hour. It hit Sri Lanka just 10 minutes But in contrast to Thailand, The immense depth of the seabed conceals the sea's recession. On that day, at 9:15 AM, Yannick, a French surfing instructor, is at the beach with his students. At 9:30 am, that something is not quite right. I gaze upon the shoreline with every wave, I begin to ponder, telling myself: And now, I tell them, &quot;You are paddling far out, &quot;Go as far away as possible Yannick believes He just saved their lives. However, he rushes towards his driver I see that the water is starting to rise I tell myself: "I must absolutely inform I don't have the time, I am thrust against a tree My board curls around and as it ascends, I cling to the top and there, The water begins to overflow 6 km away from Yannick, in her beachfront bungalow, Anne Escola is alone Her husband had gone surfing I see the sea encroaching on the garden. It felt a bit odd to me, and my immediate reaction In fact, the time it takes to do that, there are two young individuals who unlocked the door, and who told us in English: &quot;Go, go!&quot; They have taken the children. and the time to somewhat realize that-- there was a massive wave I am taken away in a car, gas bottles clashing against each other, the furnishings of the guest house, all kinds of debris, people shrieking. Despite Anne's best efforts after several minutes, the force of the water separates her I hear my eldest son, Baptiste, I'm attempting to reach him, I am trapped between a cow and a car. And then, I see Baptiste managing He ascends it, he mounts it, He is swept away again. And now, I'm slightly able but to maintain a constant distance At the age of 7, Baptiste bravely battled Anne attempts to reach him, But the debris swept along She keeps her eyes locked on him, Her three-year-old second son, Corentin, At the same time, across the bay, the three surfer friends when their tuk-tuk is overturned We have absolutely no idea We weather another bout of rain which was not far off the roadside, to reassure ourselves that we might And then, the wall crumbles As the wall collapses, My feet are against the wall, and I believe I immediately rode off Essentially, to get to a hill. And then, you arrive at an incline, I grab a palm tree and climb up it. And now, I see the houses crumbling and I primarily observe other palm trees And all you can think is, David, meanwhile, He was hurled I find myself on the ground floor, The two windows close, severing my arms. I tell myself because I saw the sharp-edged tiles And just 2 meters from me, which saved my life at that moment. I reclined upon it inland, completely. Meanwhile, a bit further away, Yannick, the surfing instructor, He has lost hope of finding his friend, From his perch atop the palm tree He watches helplessly Directly before me, who is shoved into the ditch. And of course, I am clinging to my tree. My brain is in complete survival mode. There's nothing I can do I, too, am going to die. For what seemed like an eternity, to the drowning of multiple individuals First their terrified expressions, Until the moment the gaze fades, That was the most challenging moment. This is the hardest moment where I come to understand that people Within minutes, and in Sri Lanka, coastlines, villages, Dreamlike landscapes yield A harrowing journey begins Searching for their lost family members. Anne Escola has at last reunited But she is uncertain and Corentin, her second son, Despite severe injuries to her feet, Realizing that Baptiste my primary concern who, at the age of three and a half, I began sifting through the debris, and sifted through the rubble And that was I had cuts and gashes all over my legs, but I felt nothing. Like a somewhat frantic mother It's a general anesthesia, We inquire--others are searching. We believe we have lost a child. And this, it's not possible. This is unfeasible. So, we are searching in an attempt at least recover her body. People were preventing me from searching, so I was frustrated, I was searching for his wisps For me, it was-- It was impossible The most challenging part, to internalize Because it is not feasible. Amidst the fields of ruins, Sri Lankan locals are assisting her For two seemingly endless hours, suddenly, out of nowhere... In the end, because there weren't They led us and returned us to a house, slightly within the village. And he was there I'm breaking down in tears, I had cried a lot, but now, I'm breaking down in tears. And that's what he remembers. He was playing with a little girl. He hadn't noticed anything catastrophic Four hours later, Her husband is safe. He was out at sea on his surfboard, when the tsunami struck the coastline. I believe it's one when we all reunite, like survivors Right away, we recognized the privilege to have the ability I perceived it as a gift from life, the ability to have the chance to kiss him, It was like the best of the best. Yannick, on his part, mustered the courage After witnessing the atrocities, he holds little hope First, I think to myself and he's also someone He's a member of the family, He's a friend, so I'm swimming over, in the direction And then, a miracle! I am happy, I find him hanging The taxi is completely out of service, The fact that we found him alive it is a relief beyond words. The surf instructor also reunites They are all safe and sound. As for the three friends, Guillaume found himself deep inland. David, on the other hand, Paralyzed with fear, I'm trying to recognize a familiar face, And it continues-- The notion of time did not exist Once all of this stops and calms down, there, you face the reality. That is to say, that everything around you that bodies are floating all around. Houses are demolished, This truly is the Apocalypse. After hours of aimless wandering, very close to where the wave All three are in a pitiful state. We settled down, we sat down, We've somewhat catalogued our injuries. For me, it was rather terrifying. I was still missing I had a significant open wound Both Fabien and Guillaume We took the few clothes we had on us, we attempted to bind our feet in order Because we shouldn't have stayed The 3 friends didn't have They are gathered by monks, who will provide care and nourishment three days later. Simultaneously, 2000 km away in Thailand. On Koh Phi Phi Island, Philippe Polakowski, who sought refuge is searching for his wife and daughter. Immediately, I wondered if my family I need to locate them on the mountain. So from there, I begin to call them and to call my daughter, call my wife. Suddenly, I hear, &quot;We're here!&quot; I am already content to see my wife I looked at her and asked, &quot;Are you okay, &quot;Yes, I'm fine.&quot; &quot;Here, take my satchel, &quot;I'm going to lend a hand Upon reaching the bottom, hundreds of people were injured As a trained paramedic, he coordinates We turned the restaurant We collected from the pharmacies, anything we could salvage Sheets were used as bandages We utilized a door to fashion stretchers. We haven't lived through war, but I imagine and that we truly feel somewhat forsaken I recall being introduced to a stranger, who arrived with a smile at the door, the cleanly severed leg, bone, everything. The blood that splattered up and I heard: &quot;Philippe, hurry up!&quot; I thought to myself, I wasn't seeking gloves I clamped the artery, tied a knot, I clamped an artery with my fingers. An exceptional calmness that undoubtedly On the other side of the island, Christian and his friends stumbled to be situated in their hotel room when the island was engulfed This place was littered with debris, Fear of a third one pushes them out On the path, there are so many injured becomes a makeshift war doctor There was a Thai man I felt like I could see his ribs. in his back, angled in such a way, I applied sanitary pads to him, using the adhesive side because it's the only thing Christian and his friends find themselves who reach the island's highest points. 4000 survivors The heat is stifling. There isn't any water. So, despite rumors of a third wave, Christian decides to turn back. I didn't want to spend my night So, my group and I decided But many people have chosen In total, three temporary camps Jean-Louis Caccomo, are carving out a place for themselves 300 at the peak of the mountain, but they are the ones who survived. And we need to find a place to sit. A couple of times throughout the night, We hear a woman scream and suddenly, And then, people climb up into the trees, Actually, a snake had slithered Snakes and insects are ubiquitous, They are not domestic animals. Under normal circumstances, but now, they are afraid. Two individuals will succumb On the early morning of December 27th, along the Thai coast and its islands, The survivors leave their refuge Now, we begin to understand. We first notice the bodies, The air is always slightly damp, It's a somewhat acrid smell. It's a faint scent of destruction, of death, of chaos, of torment... abyss. It's a scent that lasts for a long time, This scent also carries the undertone which break down under the intense heat. We see children, dolls. I recognize a toy from a child So, people cast down their eyes, I don't see much. I see plenty of debris, but above all, It's the hand of my mother She spent almost the entire journey You mustn't see, you'll be shocked, The next step is to leave Koh Phi Phi, The pier is swarmed by hundreds Everyone congregated It's handcrafted from artisanal wood, But now, with 100 or 200 people on it, We see a boat that was out at sea But this boat is still quite small. Everyone is starting to shove each other, Everyone was eager to board the boat, There will be room, We're alright, we're not dead. Calm down. The Caccomo family didn't depart The most critically injured The rest are cared for onsite, After spending two days tending Philippe Polakowski reunites That's when he truly comprehends We hadn't grasped the full extent, I thought it was Koh Phi Phi I didn't anticipate it would be And perhaps that's the moment My wife tells me, She told me, &quot;I called him yesterday, So I'm reaching out to the dad. We were unable to speak. Are you ok? Are you heading home? So, it ended just like that. I need to brush away a few tears. Philippe is returning to Koh Phi Phi. Abandoning the island's inhabitants With the limited donations he receives, We had filmed it during that period. Nappies. We are looking after the children rice, chili, They were preparing a stew sardines with tomato sauce, And we stirred it all together We initiated the first community meal regarding the tsunami, The tsunami left hundreds and caused an equal number of injuries. The embassies are swamped. Their evacuation needs to be managed, along with the repatriation About individuals we just can't stop counting them. But how can they be identified? Most of them were in bathing suits and didn't have In an emergency, families and the Thai authorities, those in charge For severely decomposed bodies, Now, the jewels, the tattoos, But also all sorts of personal items Bruno Lartigue, volunteers with the French embassy, to search for the 95 French victims. All the intricacy related to the process was to determine the whereabouts to know how we were going Because indeed, there were many. We cannot afford to be vague when you need to announce &quot;We are certain, It's the critical moment for a family, It's being able The survivors' memories Perhaps it's not But if I sit for a while, It's acknowledging that I owe respect It is a place of contemplation This isn't a place It's stunning, but it's a... It is a paradise Others, like Charlotte, have been carrying a heavy burden A feeling that haunts her almost daily. It's incredibly challenging to survive. and I felt that there were people Particularly the children. During the second wave, including a little boy who looked me Deep down, I tell myself I could have pulled it out of the water. And I didn't even extend my hand I convince myself So we don't extend a helping hand, I am aware that this little boy I still see that gaze and will continue To me, I killed someone that day. This is what it is. And how can one resist saying this But I've learned--I forgive myself. I am attempting to forgive myself, I can't alter anything, In Sri Lanka, Anne Escola by assisting They spent half a year there. We urgently built houses on stilts. We have also assisted some fishermen in refurbishing their fishing boats. Since 2004, the family 15 years later, Yannick continues where he provides surfing lessons. He opened a boarding house, after also contributing One should always give I believe it affirmed me, in my philosophy that emphasizes that we need to share and remember We are all brothers and sisters, In turn David, Guillaume, and Fabien took turns wielding to restore the houses. Today, the 3 friends You come to realize that you once that your life can change All the minor issues It's finished. To wake up and tell yourself and it's going to go well. And all of them are proceeding well. We're always trying Since 2004, to prevent such a catastrophe A tsunami alert center And on Thailand's beaches, Tsunami survivors Every day, they gauge their fortune The tsunami in Sri Lanka In Thailand, there are 8,000. In India: 16,000. And it's not finished yet. Six hours following the onset the tsunami claimed its last victims 6000 kilometers away from the epicenter. In total, 230,000 individuals lost their lives, on December 26, 2004.