Translator: Zsuzsa Viola When I was a college student in Davidson, North Carolina, my resident adviser, Rob, &quot;Steve, did I ever tell you I said, &quot;No.&quot; He said, &quot;It was really wonderful. I got to work in marketing in fact, it paid really well, and the guy who hired me and he's going to be I want to invite you to hear about this. Maybe you can get a job.&quot; I was really flattered, and because of my respect for Rob, It was marketing; it was selling books door-to-door. (Laughing) Now, I took a look at that, and I did what any reasonable I signed up. Yeah, I signed up. I signed up to sell children's books, 80 hours a week, straight commission. My dad and my mom, they freaked out. You know, my dad's a corporate attorney, look, I had never sold anything. I didn't have a charismatic I was just a nice kid But flash forward - I'm in Rob's car; we're driving out to the neighborhood My heart is racing; I remember looking down and my knees are literally shaking. And he's like, &quot;Steve, I'm like, &quot;Yeah, (Laughing) Next thing I know, I'm standing on a sidewalk I just see house after house, I remember staring at the first door, waiting for the right Now, before I tell you what happened, I have a question for you: Whose door should you be knocking on? Who do you want to say yes to you? Because, I tell you, you know, one thing I've seen We all have something to sell. It may be that you have a business where you want to convince people Maybe you work and you need to convince people Or maybe you're a parent trying to convince your kids good luck with that. (Laughing) But who is it? Whose door Who is it that you want to say yes to you? Is it a friend? Is it your boss? is it a possible date for Friday night? Who is it? Now, when I - because at the end of this talk, I'm going to challenge you Now, the idea of reaching out to somebody, how many of you find that idea Yeah, you know. And I was terrified. I mean, here I was, Lincoln, Nebraska. I'm about to knock on this door, and I remember something that Rob, said to me. He said, &quot;Steve, You just focus on loving and serving them, and you focus on leaving them That got me going, People were friendly enough, I mean, I was really bad. And some people weren't friendly at all. I mean, one lady comes to the door She's just frowning at me She's like, &quot;Look, You know, just show me what you got.&quot; I grabbed these five children's books and I just completely - terrified. I totally blanked, and then I thought, &quot;Well, let me at least try and leave her with a smile.&quot; So all of a sudden, I start actually, you know, I found voices for animal voices in me (Laughter) She's not smiling. &quot;Young man, may I ask you a question?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; &quot;Will you take a MasterCard (Laughing) MasterCard, check? I take Discover! That's how I made my first sale. And I survived that summer; and in fact, because of things I actually finished that summer And then, I actually went where we teach - irony of ironies - people, we teach them how to market their books, and my dad couldn't be prouder. Here's what I've learned: Everyone has doors. That if you knock They can bring incredible blessings. But most of us never knock, Those doors could bring you sales. They could bring you funding. They could bring you advice, But you don't knock on them, I'm convinced it's because of what it means to sell. To &quot;sell&quot; is a dirty word. People think it's manipulative I have redefined what it is to sell. I want to give you my definition. I created a little acronym. Now, I don't really like acronyms, but I created this To sell - S-E-L-L: Sincerely Encourage by Listening and Loving. Sincerely Encourage by Listening You know, S is for &quot;Sincerely.&quot; When I think of sincere, She's one of the sweetest, She came to me, and she said, &quot;Steve, I'm a psychologist. I have this program that, I mean, her love for children &quot;And the thing is, though, Steve, the schools aren't interested. Nobody's paying me. I guess I'm just not much I said, &quot;Elaine, you have You have one of the most important assets: your sincerity. You just need a little bit of training.&quot; So I taught her how to have how to reach out. She calls on the principal When she calls on that principal, principal says, &quot;I've got My calendar is just jammed.&quot; The old Elaine would have just The new Elaine, Elaine version 2.0, took a breath and just really experienced And she just said, &quot;Wow, I could see, I could understand. You really do have a lot going on. Since your calendar's jammed now, and see when you might have time because I know your kids She got the appointment. She met with Elaine; the two hit it off. And as a result of that, Elaine is now doing In fact, she's learned how that she is speaking she's training teachers internationally, and she's getting paid for it. But it wouldn't have happened if she hadn't owned E is for &quot;Encouragement.&quot; Encourage people to take action. Sometimes we're hesitant because we're worried Do you know there are people that might just be waiting CareerBuilder did a survey: 76% of people who are in a full-time job, or at least they're open You could encourage them Somebody who opened up was my high school science teacher. This guy was really shy, a real introvert, and you know, I have to tell you, Okay? Sorry, Mr. Bush, But Mr. Bush saw me &quot;Steve, can I talk to you for a minute?&quot; I go, &quot;Yeah, okay.&quot; We go into his classroom. He says, &quot;Steve, have you (Laughter) &quot;Uh, no. I'm 91 pounds. &quot;Well, Steve, I'm the wrestling coach, and I saw you goofing around in the gym, I really think that you You can wrestle in your weight class. I mean, you're a stud.&quot; (Laughter) Let me tell you something: When you're in ninth grade and somebody calls you a stud, you are encouraged to take action. (Applause) I didn't run winter track; And I had great memories. I thought that he was Turns out, Mr. Bush (Laughing) Sincerely encouraged by listening. A lot of people think The best salespeople Forrester Research did a study, only 13% believe that a salesperson and truly help them. The key is listening. The key is asking questions. What kinds of questions? Questions like, What are your biggest goals? Where are you trying to go? What's getting in the way? What have you tried? What's your story?&quot; Robert Collier said, &quot;The key to persuasion is to enter the conversation How are you going to do that Sincerely encourage by listening. And the last L in that S-E-L- loving. Loving. You know, it's amazing. Love is the most powerful We can overcome our greatest fears, We can scale to new heights. And yet when I talk to salespeople I'm amazed that very, very few companies ever use the word &quot;love&quot; It's amazing. Maybe that's why, according people that are excited they're twice as likely to quit I contend that's because they were never Sales, selling, is love; marketing is love. It's about loving people. Now, I've had friends, &quot;Look, you know, but don't talk so much about love. It feels uncomfortable.&quot; You know what I say to that? They'll say, &quot;Don't talk so much about love; I say, &quot;Okay, but focus on loving people, and you will end up It's amazing what it can do. You know, it's one of these things is that it completely gives you Everything that we've talked about And one of the things that I found is that is focus on who you're becoming Because it's easy to get up here but it's also easy to forget I find myself - I get so locked in, sometimes, to my goal and what I want to achieve and I'm a million miles from this message. I'm not loving people; I'm not listening to people. I'm getting irritated. I'm getting frustrated. I've crossed to the dark side. (Laughing) But I learned something from Og Mandino. I was reading Og Mandino, an inspirational writer for salespeople, and I actually was inspired And in that moment, when I'm feeling stressed I actually, when I catch it, I focus on the person I'm there to serve, and I mentally - without saying anything - I say to them without saying any words, just in my own mind, I say, &quot;I love you, I love you, I love you.&quot; And something happens: the crustiness around my heart I become more present and more focused on them And when you do that, you become a much more but you become a better human being. Reminds me of a story that one of my early mentors, He said, &quot;There was a pastor one Saturday and his son kept bothering him, He said, 'I've got to figure out a way So he grabbed a and he found a picture and he tore it out, and gave it to his son, and he said, &quot;Put the planet Earth back together - and let me know when you're done.&quot; He's figuring this will keep Kid comes back ten minutes later - 'Done!' - proudly holding the world His father can't believe it; he goes, 'What? How did you do that?' 'It was easy, Dad. See, on the other side of the page, (Laughter) there was a picture of a person. And I figured if I got the person right, Say that again: 'I figured if I got the person right, Focus on being the right person, and the world will be Focus on sincerely encouraging by listening and by loving, and you will be amazed at the courage you have to go to doors, You will be amazed at how many of those people So whose door should you be knocking on? Who do you wish would say yes to you? I want you to go. I want you - you'll never be I want you to go send them a text, take some action, and begin a conversation with them. That's what love would do. And let me know how it goes Knock on that door today, and if you do, you will begin Thank you. (Applause)