Despite the popularity of Apple's iconic relatively unknown. I'd like to ask Jony Ive, our SVP of design, Without Jony Ive, Apple wouldn't be Apple. Good morning. He created products that are not only functional He made people feel something when they held Design was in his blood. His father was a silversmith and teacher who schools from which his son benefitted. Mike Ive constantly talked to his son about Leander Kahney's book on Jony Ive describes would point out the different types of streetlamps the light was cast. Design offered him an outlet for his creativity, him who have dyslexia. As his Christmas gift, his father would give could build anything his heart desired so Jony told Steve Job's biographer Walter beauty of things made by hand. I came to realize that what was really important By the age of 13, he knew he wanted to be to design. When his work was showcased at a design conference, Group was so impressed that it agreed to support join the company upon graduation. Jony studied in the north of England at Newcastle The Bauhaus design philosophy that emerged its way into British design schools. Bauhaus emphasized minimalism: including only Objects had clean lines, simple forms, and That design philosophy heavily influenced Apple. While at university, Jony interned with the When he had to design a pen for a Japanese around with their pens. So he added a ball-and-clip mechanism to the than to give someone something to do. This humanized the technology. People didn't want to just write with the with it. Much like how they "play" with their Apple Jony worked hard as an undergraduate student. When a friend visited his apartment, he found telephone. Creating numerous prototypes became his signature Even if the changes were small, he felt they Although he designed tech products, he didn't Growing up, the only computer that spoke to He thought it was a lot easier to use than And he believed the designers actually cared they used it. It was a really profound moment, I don't of "wow" with a product before. He told the Design Museum in London: "The company the more it appealed to me..." The bursaries he received for his stellar to Silicon Valley, where he visited the studio Robert Brunner was impressed by Jony's phone Unlike other student projects, it wasn't components. Brunner asked him to consider joining his already promised to return to London to work his education. A few months later, Brunner helped Apple establish Up until then, Apple had contracted its design After his big trip to America, Jony submitted travel bursary, writing: "I immediately hope that I can return there sometime in the Back in the UK, he spent a year and a half to join the design startup Tangerine co-founded Weaver. At Tangerine, the four-person team designed Jony designed a minimalistic comb for a Scottish prize. But sometimes, he found it frustrating working him. For example, a major bathroom company was Raphael, Leonardo, and Donatello. They were named after the teenage mutant ninja The company claimed they were too modern and The designs that he put his heart and soul So when the California designer who had been knocking again, Jony couldn't resist. Brunner was the head of industrial design John Sculley was the CEO of Apple at the time. Steve Jobs had been forced out of the company software company NeXT succeed while keeping When Brunner hired Tangerine to work on some speculated it was just a ploy to try to lure California was a long way from London. Jony also wasn't sure his wife would want But there were too many reasons to say yes. Apple would allow him to focus on his craft He could see a design through from start to Plus, he had fallen in love with the Mac. So, he packed his bags for the Golden State. Jony's first big assignment at Apple was digital assistant that laid the foundation He designed it to flip open from the top rather culturally specific as people in North America to right, whereas people in Japan, for example, He was always attuned to the needs of the He won several awards for the MessagePad though He was humble and focused on his work. Unfortunately, Jony's stellar design wasn't The MessagePad bombed due to battery issues Simpsons made fun of. It was a lesson learned, and, in the future, process as well. Jony quickly emerged as Brunner's second Brunner wanted his design team to come up way they'd get excited over a new piece At that time, in the early nineties, computers homes. But they were big and boxy. Jony refined the design of the desktop Mac The first two units of the Twentieth Anniversary Jobs and Steve Wozniak in 1997. Jobs was brought in as an advisor when Apple But the new Mac failed as well. It was very pricey at $9,000. Other computers were selling for less than Brunner felt burnt out and quit. So, Jony Ive became the new head of industrial But he had his frustrations, too. He felt Apple's then-CEO, Gilbert Amelio His immediate boss promised him things would Amelio was quickly forced out as CEO. And Steve Jobs was back at the helm. It had been 12 years since Jobs was ousted When he returned, he held a meeting of top Ive recalls: "I remember very clearly Steve money but to make great products." Jobs wanted Apple to focus on creating first-class a premium for, much like the way people are Chevy. Jobs had a vision of what he wanted Apple He told the New York Times: 'Most people make the mistake of thinking 'People think it's this veneer -- that the it look good!' That's not what we think design is. It's not just what it looks like and feels Design is how it works.'' He entrusted him to execute his vision of Jobs told Isaacson that Ive "has more operational The first order of business was to create Apple had many products, but no stand-out The company was close to bankruptcy due to PCs with Microsoft's new operating system, Engineers had played a leading role in the They determined the size of the device, and that fit. But when Jobs returned as CEO, the design Ive constantly butted heads with Jon Rubinstein, his supervisor. Engineers weren't happy that they were now While thinking about the new computer, a member translucent. This was a complete contrast to the dark, Ive loved the idea. "A lot of people at that point in time were So, our clear goal was how we can make the Translucency made it less intimidating. Ive also added a handle to the computer. This was not for carrying but to build a bond He explained to Isaacson: "If you're scared I could see my mum being scared to touch it. So I thought, if there's this handle on The importance of a personal connection was The "i" in iMac stood for internet but It was a make-or-break moment for Apple when The whole thing is translucent; you can see It's so cool! Despite his enthusiasm, the reviews were mixed. Journalists noted the lack of a floppy drive He wanted something that represented the future. A reporter with the Boston Globe predicted the true believers." How wrong he was. People went CRAZY for the iMac. It went on sale for $1,299, and by the end desktop in history. The iMac had a huge impact on our culture late nineties and early 2000s was transparent! The iMac was constantly upgraded and also It set a precedent for the iPod, which was designs. There it is right there Jobs saw an opportunity to create a portable technology rather than CDs. He wanted something small enough to fit in A wheel was a clever way to navigate through Interestingly, there was no on-off button. Any button could turn the device on, and it spoke to its ease of use. The iPod was beautiful - besides the stainless Ive decided that the first iPod should be of the device. This was a breakthrough moment because white lineup and is synonymous with the brand. With Apple's success, Jony was generously his downtime and splurge a little. He had an affinity for British luxury cars While driving with another Apple designer his Aston Martin and struck a median. The car was completely totaled, but thankfully, And there was still a lot to accomplish. The wheel on the iPod may have been a clever But what about something even more intuitive. When the engineering team produced a multi-touch changer. He decided to show it to Jobs privately because ideas, and Ive didn't want him to reject the entire team. In this case, he had nothing to worry about. Jobs agreed touch was the future. The idea of a touch device led to the iPhone. As with all Apple products, the iPhone was Most of Apple's employees were not allowed He showed Jobs prototypes of top-secret designs inspired the big open tables at Apple stores. The models were covered with a black cloth Ive believed nothing should detract from the He wanted it to look like an infinity pool with no visible edges or boundaries. Today, Apple is going to reinvent the phone. Apple released the iPhone in 2007. If I want to call Jony, I'll I do is push now. Hello Steve. Hey Jony, how are you doing? Well it's 2.5 years and I can't tell you phone call with iPhone. The iPhone is widely regarded as one of the century. But there is one more thing Why not make the screen bigger and turn it And we call it the iPad Although the iPad came out after the iPhone, Apple once again established itself as the By the time the iPad was released in 2010, cancer. Despite multiple treatments and surgeries, A year later, in August 2011, he stepped down When he was recovering from his first bout wife Laurene and Jony Ive, as recounted in Jobs referred to Ive as his "spiritual partner." They had worked together for nearly 15 years One month after Jobs resigned from Apple, He was only 56 years old. He famously said during a Stanford commencement best invention of life. It is Life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the Jobs' family held a private funeral that four Tim Cook, formerly Apple's chief operating On the 10th anniversary of Jobs' death, that was published in the Wall Street Journal. "I think about Steve every day." He said he and Steve's widow Laurene are "When her brilliant and inquisitive children myself. I can talk happily for hours describing the "I loved how he saw the world. The way he thought was profoundly beautiful." "He truly believed that by making something our love for humanity." Some wondered if Ive might return to the UK In 2012, he was knighted and became Sir Jony But Ive remained at Apple for another two In 2019, he left Apple to start his own design He had reportedly grown disillusioned with increasingly on selling software and services Apple and Ive's design firm parted ways Apple would not be Apple without Jony Ive. The question now is whether Apple can continue