In Season 6 of Game of Thrones, Arya says see "The edge of the world". West of Westeros is "where all the maps Sunset Sea. But some have tried to find out. One of Arya's ancestors, Brandon the Shipwright, he "was never seen again", his tomb in on the island of Lonely Light believe there's winter or want" - but all they've ever Daenerys' ancestors, Queen Rhaenys Targaryen, - but she and her dragon died before she So the Sunset Sea is a mystery, but there's else. Two hundred and fifty years ago, Elissa Farman - an island off the westerlands, "by the - a rebellious wild-spirited girl. She was an archer, and a singer, loved horses She spent most of her childhood on ships. As a teenager, she sailed her own boat, voyaging But her dream was to sail west, and find strange Elissa's brother Androw married Rhaena Targaryen It was weird that a queen would marry into Androw was a pretty unimpressive husband. Rhaena didn't seem that into him - she It's hinted that Rhaena was gay , and that Rhaena and Elissa and friends lived on Fair They were "the center of court life" , and . But the Lord of Fair Isle got sick of Rhaena his sheep - so he asked her to leave. He wanted Elissa to stay and get married . But lord. So she left home with Rhaena. For a month, they mooched off the Lannisters of the wealthiest house" in Westeros . But were scheming , so Rhaena and co. left the Rock, and toured the westerlands of a minor noble family, Elissa got to travel queen. But eventually, Rhaena settled on Dragonstone, happy there - she wanted to build a ship, . Rhaena refused, and their relationship broke the way out, she stole three of Rhaena's Elissa went to Pentos, then Braavos, and sold She used the money to build the ship of her waters and long voyages . Elissa planned to The Targaryens, meanwhile, lost their shit. The theft of their eggs meant that someone is like someone outside your country getting Dragonstone, the eggs will "turn to stone" will only have "three very costly stones" of Thrones, Illyrio Mopatis, a "cheesemonger" which he says have "turned ... to stone" Pentos. The language is the same, hinting that Dany's of years ago. Daenerys' whole story might not've happened But author George Martin does say this is But Elissa built her ship, the Sun Chaser. And from Braavos, she sailed down the narrow came to Oldtown , the city of the Citadel Elissa knew the Targaryens were hunting her, a crew, people who believed in her mission Which was difficult, because many people believed "walls of fire and boiling seas", or "black But the maesters, and author George Martin, round" like ours . So the west must eventually Ti and Asshai . A western trade route to these and spices". But Elissa's dream was bigger than money. She believed that the world was "far larger . She envisioned new undiscovered lands in-between and "plains", "green islands", "strange "strange stars" . Westeros is kinda like Sothoryos like Africa - so maybe there's Elissa hoped to find it. As she looked for a crew, Eustace and Norman convinced them to join her mission, adding She gathered a crew , and just as the Targaryens three ships and sailed west . Three years Eustace and his ship came ragged and exhausted of Elissa's voyage. He said that at first, it was "smooth sailing" Norman's ship was struck by lightning, and . But Elissa and Eustace's ships survived, "farther to the west" than any known land. Elissa named the islands Aegon, Visenya and before she got to fly west, had an island Elissa explored her new islands, and found with venomous bites . Elissa wanted to sail But Eustace and his crew were scared, and Eustace spent a year stuck on Sothoryos and Islanders helped them back to Oldtown. Go watch our video about Sothoryos and the As for Elissa - she "vanished" to the the Sunset Sea". She "was never seen again". "Except..." Decades later, a famous mariner called Corlys And there, "he glimpsed an old and ... weathered Sun Chaser" , Elissa's ship. So maybe Elissa made it all the way across She coulda seen new lands, and crossed the east. And one theory goes further. In Book 2, Daenerys meets Quaithe, a shadowbinder And Quaithe says "To go north, you must To reach the west, you must go east" - just So some fans speculate that Quaithe is Elissa. That she learned magic in Asshai, and lengthened lengthens her life . Maybe Quaithe-lissa helps the dragon queen Elissa once loved. The reason why Quaithe comes to Dany in the dragons that hatched from the eggs that Elissa possible that Elissa Farman still lives as with a cool mask and a love for geography. It's also possible that Elissa just died What we do know is that Elissa rebelled against She travelled across Westeros and beyond, And maybe rebellious Arya could do the same. Like Elissa, she could reject the life that She could escape the violence and horror that Like Elissa, Arya could sail west, chasing Of course, circumnavigating the globe takes Naval navigation without modern technology astronomy. But people have done it for thousands of years. The ancient Greeks accurately calculated the knew the earth was round. Maybe Elissa Farman did too. Maybe Elissa Farman used Brilliant. Brilliant is a learning site with interactive It's better than a lecture or video, cause at your own pace, with guides and solutions It starts with basic stuff, then more advanced, With Brilliant, you can find out. It's surprisingly easy and fun to learn all become a little smarter each day. Sign up for free at brilliant.org/AltShiftX premium subscription. Thanks for watching - please like and subscribe. Thanks to Patrons Tom Salt, Will Devin, Rebecca Rainn Fernandez, Nico Griesshaber, and Lurking Cheers.