This is the story of Princess Xenia best known for her entanglement in the 20th century. the rest of her life is way more Princess Xenia was the second daughter and Princess Maria of Greece and Denmark. i like her already because she was born on my birthday, in 1903. But in case you thought being a think again. Sometimes you catch chicken In 1910, Xenia and her older sister Nina presents from Tsar Nicholas II's kids, when Xenia and Nina opened the presents, But Xenia didn't recover. According to chicken pox turned into blood poisoning, and then pericarditis. The doctors shook and told Xenia's worried parents there Then Grand Duchess Elizaveta Feodorovna, Ella, got permission to bring St. to Xenia's bedside. The relics had never but Xenia's condition was grave enough Two days after priests installed the Xenia whispered faintly, &quot;Mama, you can i am cured.&quot; But cured wasn't the right She couldn't walk for months and weighed Her mom later wrote, &quot;Nobody will In royal circles, it was no secret that wife, Maria didn't return the favor. By the summer of 1914, she was ready for a trial separation. Xenia's precarious health gave her the Maria wrote in her memoir that she left needed the bracing Yorkshire air. Her grandkids heard differently. But two weeks before their scheduled Archduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife in Did maria suspect war was coming? If so, to risk it. Maria, Nina, and Xenia waved goodbye to in Warsaw. But by the time they arrived in Yorkshire, all anyone could talk about war. Armies were mobilizing. Diplomats George sent a telegram asking them to But Maria had gone to London to visit Harrogate to collect the girls, Britain had declared war. Or at least that's what she wrote. i can't help but wonder if she intentionally dragged her feet. In any case, they were all stuck in England now. Maria wrote in her diary: &quot;Completely crushed and so anxious. pity on His world.&quot; Her daughters resented her for separating them from their father. It created a wound that likely never fully healed. Xenia's worried dad sent telegrams every day. And Maria did petition the British government for permission to leave. They refused. Land travel was impossible, and the sea route was too dangerous As the war dragged on, Maria moved to school. They befriended Mrs. Nancy Leeds, a wealthy American widow engaged to Prince Christopher of Greece. Then, in March of 1917, terrible news There were riots in St. Petersburg. The and the government had fallen. Suddenly Duke George stopped. By mid-1917, he'd made it as far as Finland in an attempt to get out of and was waiting on local authorities to He waited too long. They arrested him and Only the occasional letter got through was dated November 27, 1918. Two months later, the Bolsheviks shot him, and two cousins, in the Fortress of Saints Maria broke the news to Xenia and Nina 1919, when she finally learned the truth. Xenia only had one memento of her dad - a half years ago. It was a Steiff teddy bear George had commissioned just for her: a red mohair bear wearing a Cossack tunic. His name was Alfonso. Xenia kept the bear until the day she died. Xenia was now a princess without a The revolution had liquidated her On the plus side, her mom's Greek family Maria, happy at last, declared she'd marry return. She wasn't joking, either. That man turned out to be the guy driving the boat who Pericles Ioannides. You can imagine how In August of 1920, Xenia's uncle, Leeds, who took the Greek Orthodox baptismal name of Anastasia - invited them to hang out with him in italy. On the way to Venice, Maria, Xenia, and Nina bumped into Nancy's son from her previous marriage, also on the way to their little family reunion. Since William &quot;Billy&quot; Leeds is going to figure prominently in our story, let's take a moment to meet him. Billy's father had been one of the Where'd he get it all? In a word, metals. he made a crap ton of money from a US Steel. When he died in 1908, he left an estate worth between $30 and $40 million. Not surprisingly, Billy grew up to be tabloid fodder. They &quot;the World's Richest Boy.&quot; With press like Nancy was paranoid about kidnappings. She hired two detectives to follow Billy everywhere, and a chauffeur and footman to take him safely to school every day. But then Nancy noticed something about rich young American men: &quot;they do not work and most of them drink.&quot; So she enrolled billy at Eton instead, hoping the British influence would keep him from turning into an Edwardian drunk, but he did have a taste for danger. He loved travel, sailing, racing speedboats, and flying. In 1921, a year after their family reunion in Italy, Princess Anastasia got sick and needed Billy rushed to Athens to be at her side. incurable cancer, and Prince Christopher asked them to keep it from Anastasia so she could live out her remaining years in peace. He took her to Paris to recuperate, and Billy, Maria, Xenia, and Nina followed. A few days later, Billy borrowed Prince and proposed to Xenia on a moonlight She said yes, eager to escape the mother and a new stepfather she wasn't crazy Both mothers were horrified. They begged but Billy and Xenia refused. Their afraid the kids would make good on their They married in Paris that October, with Pavlovich, one of the conspirators who'd murdered Rasputin, as a witness. She wore &quot;a yellow crepe dress with a cape of the same material,&quot; according to the New York Times. Her Uncle Sandro (Grand Duke Alexander Mikhailovich) gave her away. Xenia was 18. Billy was 19. Xenia and Billy settled in New York, and They were rich, good-looking, and had They hobnobbed with socialites, Billy bought a beautiful estate on Long which they renamed Kenwood. There, Xenia - who was obsessed with animals - kept around 100 pets. She especially loved her big dogs - schnauzers and German Shepherds. She also got involved in show riding and horse In 1925, they had a daughter, Nancy. As for Billy, his restless spirit only strengthened over time and Xenia got swept up in his adventures. In 1927, with Billy sitting beside her, torpedo speed boat over Long Island reaching 63.07 miles per hour, which was Later, Billy bought that boat for $75,000 and planned to take it out with Xenia and their houseguests, Fred and Adele Astaire. Billy and Adele got into the boat first, exploded in flames. Billy grabbed the unconscious and burned Adele, lifting her back onto the pier to board. Then he pushed the boat away boat entirely. The newspapers ate it up. Billy was a real-life action hero. But once again, what should have been a wasn't. In a turn of events that will no one, the couple eventually realized Billy loved being out at sea on his but Xenia preferred to stay home, so they Then, in 1927, Xenia got involved with the Some believed Anna Anderson was actually Grand Duchess Anastasia, a miraculous survivor of the Romanov in 1918. Xenia volunteered to host part to try and figure out if she was She came to believe in her, but Billy He hated the media circus surrounding and didn't care for the woman herself. The strain of Anna Anderson's antics disintegrating marriage. William and Xenia divorced in May of 1930. She got custody of Nancy, and moved into a small cottage in nearby Syosset, Long After the divorce, Billy told the press, &quot;I'm just not the marrying type.&quot; Then he married a girl he'd the 43-karat Nassek diamond as an anniversary present. In 1936, Xenia met a younger man, Island Meadow Brook Hunt Club online that he was her horse trainer, marriage. It's not true. Those rumors confuse Jud with her actual horse trainer, Charlie Plum, who denied any personal relationship with Xenia and married someone else in 1939. Xenia fell in love with Herman, but before pursuing a relationship. She moved to Glen Cove, bought a large house, and focused on her daughter's upbringing and education. Neighbors referred to her only as &quot;the Princess.&quot; But when Nancy turned 18, the timing wasn't right for Xenia to move on. It was the middle of World War II and Herman had joined the navy. So she waited patiently. When her daughter Nancy married in 1945, Herman was back from the war, safe and sound, and Xenia felt free to follow her She married Herman Jud on August 10, at her home in Glen Cove. She was 44; out of the society pages, loved. Xenia died in 1965. In 1989, Xenia's daughter put her Alfonzo, up for auction. A collector named Ian Pout bought the The next year, Steiff released and Baby Alfonzo reproductions. Ian Pout also wrote a book about Alfonzo, calling him &quot;the world's most romantic teddy bear.&quot; It's fitting. He belonged to a princess who survived illness, war, revolution, scandal, and divorce to find happiness in a simpler life, out What's more romantic than a happy ending? If you enjoyed this video, please like, hi! There's a lot more content about interesting royal women and their jewels GirlInTheTiara.com. Until next time!