This is the standard English keyboard, also They are everywhere, like on your phones and for texting people or searching something Languages that use Latin characters like English like the QWERTZ keyboard used by Central Europe But what would a keyboard look like for languages Well, if you replaced all the English letters keyboard. You might be surprised at how well the Korean there's a simple reason for that. English consists of 26 letters, with 21 consonants Korean, on the other hand, has two letters Unlike English, which scatters vowels all keyboard into two halves via an imaginary and vowels on the right. Let's look at the left side first, the 14 There are giyeog, nieun, digeud, rieul, kieuk, tieut, pieup, and hieuh. This video will focus more on the writing in learning how to read it--like each letter's you go watch this video. After all, it's easier to write Korean if alphabet. Just like English, Korean has a correct order The numbers indicate the strokes' order, And unless the number changes, you shouldn't Let's start with giyeog, which is written It's as easy as drawing a 90-degree angle. The angle is 90 degrees when giyeog is at top, it will usually have a sharper, acute We'll come back to top and bottom consonants there are two slightly different ways of writing Korean fonts also do the same thing. The next is nieun with also 1 stroke, and This letter, however, does not have differing The next is digeud with 2 strokes. Essentially what you do is write a horizontal The next is rieul with 3 strokes. You can think of this as a combination of Just make sure that they're small so when The next is mieum with 3 strokes, and as This is actually how I always draw my squares; The next is bieub with 4 strokes, the highest Simply put, write an "11" and then an bar connects smoothly with the two vertical The next is sios with 2 strokes. Many people put the second stroke starting a little nub at the top, but you could also at the top so that it looks like an upside-down ways of writing the same letter, think of "g," for instance. The next is ieung with 1 stroke, and it's The direction should be counterclockwise, people. The next is jieuj with 2 or 3 strokes, depending The longer way is putting a flat bar on top The faster and more popular way is combining The result resembles a Japanese character, it. The next is cieuc with 3 or 4 strokes. It'sjieuj with an extra stroke on top. That stroke can be vertical, horizontal, diagonal--it When writing fast, my strokes always look writing styles. After that, you add a jieuj underneath. The next is kieuk with 2 strokes. You first write giyeog then add an extra stroke Similar to how giyeoghas a different angle The next is tieut with 3 strokes. It's written the same way as a capital "E," it on the left. The next is pieup with 4 strokes, tied with In simple terms, put a flat bar on top, write a flat bar on the bottom. And the final consonant is hieuh with 3 strokes. It's really ieung wearing a hat. Start off with the same small stroke that write ieung underneath. The ieung may or may not touch the flat bar; Great, we covered how to write all the consonants Now let's move on to the other side of the You might have noticed that the keyboard has bringing the total count to 12 instead of An easy explanation is that since Korean has to English, it had to fill up those extra If you're wondering why those vowels look "double vowels," which we'll talk about We can classify vowels into two main categories: Horizontal vowels are those with long horizontal By the same token, vertical vowels have long Many of these vowels have short strokes attached Horizontal vowels have them above or below Vertical vowels have them on the left or right Korean writing generally follows a left-to-right, Therefore, you would write the strokes first For instance, eo, yeo, o, and yo have On the other hand, you would write a, ya, the short strokes afterwards. The last two vowels eu and i are straightforward As you can tell, writing vowels is much easier There we go: now you know how to write the But that isn't enough to write Korean. Unlike English, which is written linearly first combines letters to form more complex Each character has a box-like shape and four horizontal vowels, and vertical vowels. The rules when it comes to writing Korean 1. You need at least one top consonant. I say "at least one," because spoiler But it's not possible for a character to 2. You need at least one vowel, whether it's even both, but it's not possible to have And finally, You can have up to 2 bottom consonants. This also means you can have one or none on Similar to how there is a correct order of also a correct order of writing letters for then horizontal vowels, then vertical vowels, Let's talk about top consonants, which there You might be wondering how that's possible because Korean has something called "double There are 5 top double consonants: ssanggiyeog, "ssang" means "pair," which makes sense put together. Writing these are obviously incredibly easy: Let's look at bottom consonants. There are a lot more bottom consonants than This includes the 14 normal consonants, 13 "Nothing" is when there is no bottom consonant to have one. The bottom double consonants look slightly Listing them in alphabetical order, they are: top consonant; it works both ways. gs (giyeogsios), nh (nieunhieuh), lm (rieulmieum), ls (rieulsios), lp (rieulpieup), bs (bieubsios), and as a top consonant; it works both ways as As a result, ssanggiyeog and ssangsios are the top and bottom. Writing these are incredibly straightforward so I don't think I need to explain any further. Now let's talk about vowels. We already covered the 10 vowels earlier, there are also double vowels. There are 11 of them. In order, they are: yae (yae), which is ya and i combined. e (e), which is eo and i combined. ye (ye), which is yeo and i combined. wa (wa), which is o and a combined. wae (wae), which is o and ae combined. I guess this could even be called a triple but let's not go there. oe (oe), which is o and i combined. weo (weo), which is u and eo combined. we (we), which is u and e combined. Again, technically is a triple vowel, but wi (wi), which is u and i combined. And finally, Writing these double vowels are very simple Just take a left-to-right approach. For example, ae is a and i combined, it with i. Another example is we: since it's u and to it. Now let's look at a few examples. Keep in mind the order of writing: top consonants and finally bottom consonants. This is ga, one of the simplest characters How would you write this? It's easy: just write giyeog and then add What about bul? You start with bieub, add u underneath, Let's try something challenging then. This is bwelg, which looks intimidating at first You would write the top consonant bieub first, vowel e, and finally the two bottom consonants This is one of the more complex characters it's not used in everyday life. Korean has a ton of characters that are useless the end of the video. I'm showing you this to demonstrate what to their limits. Now that you know how to write Korean in handwriting, Typing is much easier than writing because All you have to know is the order of writing vertical vowel, and bottom consonant--because The difficulty of typing Korean for most learners key is, so to make visualization easier, let's This is actually what Korean keyboards look If you want to follow along while watching select Korean as your language, and press Each English letter has a Korean counterpart might be easier. For example, the "Q" key is home to bieub, Hopefully with enough practice, you'll memorize Since both Korean and English have identical things in English that make no sense at all. A notable example is Instagram usernames of However, if you were to type those English realize that it spells their Korean names. Let's take IU's username for example. "D" is ieung. "L" is i. "W" is jieuj. "L" is i. "R" is giyeog. "M" is eu. And "A" is mieum. This ends up spelling "ijigeum," which On the Korean keyboard, you'll see that To access the upper letters, you have to press On the top left corner, these extra letters So for example, pressing SHIFT and bieub CAPS LOCK doesn't work in Korean, so you Moreover, on the top right corner, there are the SHIFT key for. Pressing SHIFT and ae gives you yae, and It's convenient since they look very similar By the way, I promised earlier that I'd unlike other double vowels. It's because they are the two most commonly sense for them to have their own keys. Double vowels other than these four are typed example, to type wa, you have to type o These double vowels don't get their own Let's see some typing examples. To type gyul, you have to press giyeog, yu, One thing you might find interesting is that Korean letter "yu" sharing the same key, their left hands but type "yu" with their It might seem odd that Koreans use different but it feels psychologically correct. Since yu is a vowel and all vowels are on simply seems more natural. To type yes, you have to press ieung, SHIFT And to type the strange character bwelg, you Typing in Korean is scientifically easy. As I've mentioned in the beginning of the and vowels into two halves. This results in the left and right hand alternating QWERTY keyboard. For instance, the three most common letters and "A"--are all on the left side. Moreover, while over 3,000 English words can words can be typed with only the right hand, for left-handed people. To visualize how each hand is used for typing, The darker colors indicate more frequently less frequently used letters. For instance, the most common letter in English Overall, the left side is significantly darker, The QWERTY layout has a left-to-right hand does nearly 60% of typing. On the other hand, the Korean keyboard has The most common consonants are on the left This, along with the fact that frequently position, underscores the efficiency in Korean Therefore, it may come as a surprise that better than English: 58:42. There are reasons for the heavier left hand First of all, many Korean characters have hand inevitably works harder than the right. Furthermore, the right hand has a disadvantage that are used much less. Still, despite the similar left hand use between advantages that the latter doesn't have. Simply put, alternating hands when typing and less tiring. If you're wondering how Korean is more efficient hand ratio, it's because English has a ton and "stewardesses" that overwork the left Meanwhile in Korean, the most keys you'll only 3, reducing long-term stress and fatigue. There is a more efficient alternative to QWERTY Its logic is similar to how the Korean keyboard most common consonants are in the other, resulting and a much better typing experience overall. Moreover, the left-to-right hand ratio is However, practically nobody uses the Dvorak than English. In fact, Korean as a language is quite efficient Among the most popular languages in the world, Hebrew, yet has the most words in the dictionary: The fact that over a million words can be This might be due to the fact that there are after all, words are a series of characters put So how many Korean characters are there? It's actually quite a simple question to To recap, there are 19 top consonants, 21 This becomes a multiplication problem: 19 This is the total number of characters that Every single Korean word comes from these So really, you could organize all Korean characters thick, with each sheet being a 21 by 28 grid. This is a good way to visualize Korean: each same bottom consonant; and each layer has Like English, Korean also has the concept Take a look at this: these are all the top arranged in alphabetical order. If you put together the first top consonant bottom consonant "nothing," you'll get You can think of it like the letter "A," is "ganada." Using the same method, you can get the last The last top consonant is hieuh, the last is also hieuh. Put these together and you'll get hih, which As a result, while you could use "A~Z" similarly use "ga~hih" to represent all You might find it interesting, though, that In other words, it's not used in any conventional Characters like this exist simply because used anywhere. This is only the tip of the iceberg for unused To put it into perspective, out of over 11,000 used in everyday Korean words, meaning that What you see right now is all 11,172 characters. The colored ones are the only ones you'll The blank ones are complete gibberish and If you rummage through the entire list, you Take a look at these, which have 20 strokes It looks intimidating at first even to Koreans, characters that look like QR codes. Realistically speaking, however, the most purposes is 15 for this character: "bbaess." For context, "bbaessda" means "pulled It's very unlikely you'll encounter anything Then, is 20 strokes the craziest Korean can Well, actually... no, not if we go back in time a bit. You see, we've only been talking about modern But hundreds of years ago, there used to be And it will completely shatter your mind. The best example is this monstrosity. At 29 strokes, it's the character with the To top it off, it ignores almost every single consonants, three bottom consonants, and an I don't even know how to pronounce this. Is this what Korean looks like to foreigners? Some Old Korean characters can get quite funny. Stacked consonants! Stacked vowels! Triangles! Which I guess makes sense because we already me of Squid Game. I guess the point is that you should be relieved and less complicated to learn. Old Korean had 125 top consonants, 95 vowels, 1.6 million characters alone. That's half a million more than the number It is simply staggering. The most notable examples of Old Korean today hangeul and this chestnut snack brand. Both of them have this little dot in the middle the vowel a that we see today. There we go, now you know how to write Korean. Hopefully it was pretty simple and straightforward, Leave a like if this video was helpful on forget to watch "How to Read Korean," More Korean videos are in the description want to see more. Since I did so much research about Korean I'll make a video on Korean fonts, like and how they changed Pepsi forever. Thank you for watching. See you later.