The Roman legions are often seen as simply than to kill and conquer, but this is very much of people of all sorts of skills and trades. The from winning wars in enemy territory to managing the exploitation of mines throughout of what these military units were able to achieve, often misplaced. The backbone of the legions was with their own tasks, responsibilities and rank. had the MOST complicated internal organisation times to consist of at least 150 unique ranks. while others are to this day overshadowed by ones despite being just as fundamental In this video we will go over these positions, terms of rank. This will be presented from in continuation of our previous video featuring This video is sponsored by MaggelanTV, by filmmakers. As a result, MagellanTV has available anywhere, covering all sorts of topics and biographies. Our personal favourite is the overlooked topics of Roman life, like food, games, to understand everyday life in ancient Rome. 15 so you'll never run out of something to watch. on your television, laptop, or mobile device. Google Play, and iOS. Click our special link in free, and then $4.99 per month, and get access The complexity of the Roman ranking system a wide range of ranks. This was because each to the Legate and even governor, had their Now, let's example this structure from the his 4 month trial and became a legionary. If he he will be subjected to the hardships of other collecting wood, and other physical labours. This upon recruitment. But If the recruit possessed throughout his service, he could be promoted would receive the same amount of pay as other labours. Professions in this category included musicians, and more. But as you could assume, literacy was the highest asset. Literate and despite still being in the immunes category, The clerical positions included but The Exacti, the archivists or bookkeepers; for the clerical tablets, or the librarii After achieving these posts, one could expect which could be broken up into officers that received one and a half pay, and Keep in mind that all these positions are which was considered a very respectable post and time of the empire, consisted of about 80 men. worked in each century, helping the centurion These consisted of: The Armorum custos - The one of the weapons and armour of a century. as "chief of the watch" in the century Of the staff that received double pay, carried the standard of each century, like overseeing the savings of each everything was alright with the unit's finances. second in command, performing a wide variety Polybius tells us that centurions would pick their the empire is unknown, but it tells us how close would be the highest ranking staff under their The frumentarii - were Men tasked with the the legion and the dealings with local couriers and internal surveillance officers. who could be trusted", and their rank was either a prefect, legate, or governor. All we variety of tasks, from administration and maintenance of public order in distant regions. the legion's unique eagle standard. administrative duties and responsibilities. gathering of intelligence, as The Commentarienses - Were men responsible resolutions adopted by the staff and the After them were The cornicularii - and the highest ranking military staff governors. The cornicularius is the highest grade There were also those called Optio ad spem but soon to surely receive We know for sure that these 3 categories and from examining tombstones we can see that a step in this hierarchy. This means that ranks of the officers receiving double pay. is if there was a further hierarchy Unfortunately, very little evidence survives evidence of its existence, like the letter of "I asked Claudius Severus the Consularis and he said, 'there is no vacancy, but meanwhile I shall make you a librarius This letter suggests two things: one, that and two, that there WAS an idea of status within principales too. Thankfully, the Romans not only gravestones, but also the ones they held before we can construct a hierarchy of all the 1st and 2nd centuries, in increasing a fairly accurate understanding of as it works for all the known legionary careers. aquilifer was only promoted from the ranks of branch in the army. But we have an interesting Legionary Sammius Severus enlisted in the army . year to Aquilifer, which was very unusual been because of a very good physique and He remained an aquilifer for 13 years, after What we can take from all this is that the ranking ranks one must hold in order to become a senior But we must remember that, for our species, a professional ranking system, and it cannot be today. Regardless, this system was very effective the legions were all involved in complex civil amphitheatres, and the transportation of wheat office of provincial governors, as we saw. In the governors would consist of over 100 staff from Pannonia, for example, had over 200 legion staff, The system isn't without any pattern however, the Signiferi, which indicated this was a we found an interesting career For a further understanding of the Roman promotion from each rank below the centurion. the rank at any given time and the amount that This gives us some vital information post to receive a promotion, or We can immediately see that the post of high chance of promotion, as out of the 60 men in remained in the same rank until discharge. was far more competitive, as 39 of them never that it was already a respectable and that future promotions were rarely expected. the speculatores, which guaranteed With this new information, we can see that more complicated that it seems as, for and tesserarius are on the same level and had the seems much more favourable, as it boasts As for the amount of time each and it is likely to have also varied. it took to become a centurion was between 13 and This tells us that the rank of and many principales never attained it in their this was useful for the discipline of the legions. tasks is needed to effectively lead men; from to understanding the general strategy during Secondly, the more distinguished an officer important for a centurion, to ensure their men the fact that centurions also commanded from the and you get highly respectable characters, after The third reason is that centurions were known service and advice, so they also had to be and conducting research or presenting the overall to be developed in all spheres, not just combat. the hierarchy provided the centurion From the higher ranks they learnt to work with from the middle ranks they learnt of heavy ranks gave unique experience, as the rank of gave them experience in commanding and leading them constantly to follow orders and to follow What's interesting to me in this whole system, subtle roles like managing supply lines or admin the most fit legionaries. This tells us that the soldier; one that the lower ranks would look up and highly capable in combat throughout his half a lifetime. We have records of Centurions in the 2nd legion for 61 years. He died at centurion in the Roman military; you had to try It's no wonder Julius Caesar always thought of In the last video, many of you showed interest in requirements to become a centurion, so I decided 3rd century: We can see promotions to centurion and EVEN Optio. This serves as proof of the in this century, and the effort of creating a This was most probably due to the lack of the 3rd century. Towards the late Roman Empire, the requirements seem to drop even further, and Now, lets talk about the higher positions of the of families in the 1st, 2nd or 3rd centuries, it through immense displays of skills, intelligence, the additional honour of leading a century in the experienced and elite soldiers in the legion. the size of the other 55 centuries in the legion, led these centuries were rightly seen in a higher The next highest rank would be the centurion of as the "centurio princeps", the 2nd centurion in of the 1st century of the 1st cohort. He was known legion, and he would have the most experienced aquilifer, who carried the distinctive eagle both had extra responsibilities, on top of those in charge of the management of orders for the of administrative tasks relating to supplies for legion. Both of them were assisted by large teams than those working under other centurions. the prefect of the camp; in charge of camp this was the highest position that a regular ranks of the tribunes and legate were all reserved those part of the senate and equestrian order. the most experienced soldier in the legion, and This is all I could give you regarding the ranks even the tasks and responsibilities of many of minor ranks that were lost in time. But hopefully the legions operated, and how one could move Thank you so much for watching. As I stated diving into the intricacies of the Roman army, so thank my patreons for always greatly supporting