What are you doing here after I passed the exam? If I go back to class, even if I go to school, the teacher will throw me back and ask for tuition. If I don't go, it's just our class. I haven't paid the tuition. I won't go either. Mom , everyone else There are new textbooks, and I want them to be like this at home . Can I still get admitted to this university ? Sorry, Mom, I didn't pass the exam. It doesn't matter. You are not the material to go to university. You will bring glory to our family. We still have to look at Xiaoyuan. You loser spent so many years in vain. Since you didn't pass the exam, you should quickly find a place to work . I already know you are not this material. Brother , you have spent so much money on my family . Why can you only embarrass my family? Brother , I I told you that you should work hard and then support us in college until we are successful. We will let you be prosperous and prosperous until you are successful. Let me be prosperous and not go to school for a lifetime. Even if I work eight jobs, I will be two years late. The university also needs to earn its own tuition fees , and then transfer the five thousand yuan to me that my younger brothers and sisters have provided to get ahead. Our school needs to go out to study. Hey , I am the only one in our family who is the focus of training for college students. Please give me the money . Find a way to get 5,000 yuan and go buy you an apple. Fourth brother, hurry up and transfer 8,000 yuan to me. I'll repay your loan. Don't bully me again. Hey , please wait a moment. I'll be there soon. Hey, brother, I want it. 20,000, life -saving money, feed mom, Ye Tian, hurry up and remit the 3,000 yuan back. Your father sprained his waist while working , mom. Didn't I just pay you 2,000 yuan the day before yesterday? Why do you want money again two days ago? Your brother was sick and had a fever. I have a high fever and I used it for him to see a doctor. Why do people keep getting sick at home recently ? What do you mean by this? Do you suspect me that you want to make them sick if you give me money? Isn't this an accident? Isn't this an accident? Isn't it an accident for your father to ask for money from you ? If you don't want to give it to someone else, just don't give it. Mom, don't I care about you? Okay , so I'll call the money in the afternoon. I called and hung up . It seems that this guy still has money on him and hasn't given it to us. No, I have to give it to him. He wants to keep the money. He has no way of doing it himself. It seems that I have to find a few more part-time jobs to be able to take care of this family. Transfer me 5,000 yuan. Our school is going out to study. Brother, please transfer 8,000 yuan to me. I want 20,000 yuan, but I don't want to give it. Forget about the life-saving money. After six years of work-study, I finally got this degree certificate. Mom , I will go home to celebrate the Chinese New Year this year. What kind of Chinese New Year will we celebrate? How much travel expenses will it cost? It is not easy for your younger brothers and sisters to go to school. You are still spending money. Don't come back. My family is really scared of being poor. What I want to say is that now that I have started my own business, I am not short of money at all. Forget it. 8 I will try my best again next year. 60 Returning home in glory . What is Ye Yuan getting married ? Ye Yuan is getting married and he has made someone else pregnant . Why don't you let him repeat for another year? You two brothers, who are more promising than you ? Ye Dong is admitted to college. Although Ye Yuan is not admitted to college , he can do it for me if he knows how to play in the New Year . I have a daughter- in-law who is the mayor's daughter. Our family is really going to climb high this time. Mom , Ye Yuan, he is still a child. Now he will get married and have children. Will he be able to live a good life in the future ? Let him go back to school and study . God, you are just jealous. Ye Yuan is looking for someone. But the mayor's daughter-in-law can think highly of us. It's your brother's job to be our in-laws . Hurry up and raise money. It's delaying your brother's marriage. I'm not done with you . Ye Tian , you white-eyed wolf. You don't even want to give up the money. Your conscience is eaten by a dog. If you don't pay, we don't have you. You are a spoiled son who is as good as killing his son. They will spoil him like this. Secretary Liu gives 200,000 yuan to Ye Yuan. Mr. Ye is so good . NEO ISTS This surveying and mapping must be done accurately NEO ISTS If we do this project well, our company will be among the top ten in the country Hey, you don't have eyes, you 're so sorry , you 're so small , you've got the wrong person, you 're a dirty and smelly beggar What are you writing and shouting about? iro is rs, what are you looking at? o is rs. Get out of here, boy. Why are you talking ? It's okay. You go and do your work first. Okay , Xiaodong, why are you doing this to me? He O ISTS, you are yelling and scolding me . How is it possible that I know them? How is it possible that I know a beggar who writes the same thing? Let's go. I forgot my things in the car. Please wait for me. I 'm sorry. Weiwei's family is also a well-known person in the city. I'm afraid he will look down on me if he knows that I have a brother with the same temperament . I think it's you who looks down on me. How can I look down on you? Look at you, you're just like a beggar . It will embarrass me. Are you worthy of being looked down upon by me? I'm leaving. Remember , give me an extra five thousand yuan every month. Is this the younger brother that I gave up on my own? He said that I am a beggar NEO ISTS. It is embarrassing . I have worked so hard all these years . Where can I get a million? Mom, Weiwei, is the daughter of the Li Group. If I marry her, our Ye family will cross the class and become rich. This opportunity is not available to anyone else. We have to seize it, Ye Dong. We all understand this, but we don't have this million in our family. Why don't you ask your elder brother to give it a try? He has contributed a lot of money to our family over the years . He is the only one who has contributed a lot and is going behind our back to get some of the money . It's not enough. Mom, I've asked about all the things we have on us . Each of these things is worth tens of thousands. Especially these corneas, which can be sold for more than a million. Mom , you mean, mom , our family has been very successful and has become a master. The opportunity is right in front of us. We are only a million short of it. Press my brother and let him bleed one last time . This time our family will soar to the sky. I paid for him to go to school because he didn't have the ability to pass. He deserves it now. For the sake of our family , for our family to live a good life, if he sells this thing for one million, he should pay for it. Is it right for Ye Dong to sell things? Will it kill people? If not, he will be crippled at most. Even if he dies, he will be considered dead. His glory is the most At least it is bringing honor to the Ye family and we have not raised him in vain. I Declare Yes hi Group has successfully developed 8 G technology open a new era of cloud networking Relying on aerial stealth projection technology Successfully entered the stock market I declare Yes hi Group has successfully developed 8 G technology has opened a new era of cloud network and has been successfully launched through aerial invisible projection technology . Now , I would like to ask Secretary Liu to explain the project in detail to everyone. Hello , there is a big event in Ye Tian's family. Mom, ? Ye Dong is getting married. The woman is from the Li family. Their daughter comes to our family, and the whole family follows suit. But they are very good at marrying each other, and the bride price is one million. Look at this one million, when will you call mom ? Mom, are they marrying their daughter or selling her? Don't be deceived. You, a working man, do n't know anything. Your brother Ye Dong is a top student who graduated from university. How normal is it to be attracted by a girl from a rich family ? Mom , you also said that I am a working man. I don't have this million. You should be better than me. I also need to know where you want me to get so much money. Mom, I thought about it. Mom heard that there is a business in the city, especially corneas, which can be sold for more than one million. Mom, I am also your son. Why did you do it for Ye Dong? You are my son, but you are the least promising one. Now you still have the strength to make some money. Later, you won't be able to do anything anymore. Who can I count on? Then you have to count on your younger brothers and sisters. You will have to count on them in the future . Mom , even if I am the least promising one, you can't let me become a man just for Ye Dong's one million gift . How can I become a man? Selling one is enough. No delay in eating. Why are you exaggerating for delaying your drinking ? Ye Tian, this is your only chance to bring honor to our family. Now if you don't pay, I wo n't be able to count on you in the future. Mom, haven't I paid enough in the past eight years ? You have to let me ride with you. Ye Tian , please stop talking nonsense. I'll give you three days. I don't care whether you sell this or that. You can bring back one million to me. After three days, I will crawl to give you this million. You can't get it back if you send it here . Don't go back to this home and don't recognize me as my mother, Mr. Ye. Your special plane is ready and there are also the things you asked me to prepare: four villas, four luxury cars, four pieces of precious jade , and four hundred copies of the Ye Group. The current valuation of five-fifths of the options is at least 200 million per share, not counting future appreciation. Also, give me all the information on the Jiangcheng Li Group help me prepare a set of the most ragged, oldest, smelliest begging papers. Mr. Ye, what do you want these for? I want to pretend to beg and write when I go back to my hometown. I want to read it. What do all my efforts over the years count? Mr. Ye, you are all ready. Do you really want to dress like this to see your family? They say wealth does not return to its hometown until it is like walking at night in brocade clothes. Today I have to wear this begging suit to go back and take a look. Is there still true love in the world? Let's see if my family members are all white-eyed wolves. If they accept my identity as a beggar , then they will all be billionaires and will enjoy endless glory and wealth in the future . If they dislike me, then The wedding is about to start. Ye Tian, why haven't you come to give me the money? Mom, he won't come, right? No, he said , he will send me one million even if he is crawling. Don't worry, he will speak. You are still telling the truth, dear, when I asked for money, he never refused to give it for eight years. You have never looked at me as a son , a big brother, or a family member. I am unwilling and unwilling to believe that I must go and see for myself this time whether it is someone else. Instigating you or are you really a bunch of white-eyed wolves and stinking beggars ? Where are you going? Ye Yuan, I am your big brother. If you fart , I will have you as a begging big brother. Ye Yuan , I am really your big brother . Take a good look at me. I will beat you. You just left after a meal. Are you really Ye Tian ? Are you really Ye Tian? Ye Dong recognized me . Brother, your eyes are dazzled. How could this stinky beggar be Ye Tian? Don't leave us Ye family members here. The beggars should leave quickly today. Our family is having a happy event , so don't bother us here. Mom, I'm really Ye Tian. They don't know me. You should know me and take a good look at me. Don't keep talking about me . Who is your mother? You just need to look at me carefully. You can recognize me. What's so good about you? You're dressed like a beggar. Except it's dirty and stinky . Don't embarrass yourself here . Get out of here. You are so sure that I'm not Ye Tian. Even if you are Ye Tian, you become a stinky beggar. If you come back and bring shame to the Ye family, we can't recognize your mother . Stop talking nonsense with him. Hurry up and ask your brother to drive him away. Don't wait. The Li family is coming. There's a misunderstanding. What should we do? Just let the Li family know that we know this stinky beggar . Then you will look down on us even more. Go away, don't force us to do it . Are you really going to beat your elder brother? What's wrong? He is really Ye Tianqin . Yes, I am Ye Tian . That stinky beggar brother you look down on has been like this for eight years. No wonder we didn't recognize you just now. Ye Tianqian , both of you have good eyesight . Mom, I definitely didn't bring this money. Our family's only chance to turn around and become a master is gone . Mom, don't call me mom. I didn't tell you. My dear, you can't get back one million. My dear, don't recognize me as my mother. Don't come back to this home. What are you doing here without bringing a penny ? Come and beg for food. I tell you that you can't come up with one million. Even if you come to my doorstep to beg for food, I won't. I'll give you a bite to eat. Do you mean to say that if I don't have money, I can't even return to this home? Shut up , Ye Dong. My dad has no patience to wait for one million. If I don't take it over, I won't marry you . Weiwei, my family has already collected a million dollars , and I will send it to you right away . Mom Weiwei said that if she doesn't send this million to her , she won't get married to me. It's all your fault. Didn't you say you're selling corneas? Is n't it better to beg for food with one eye blind ? Why don't you sell it? Ye Tian, I don't care what method you use to get me one million in half an hour. If you can't get it together , we will just treat you as dead outside. Do n't come back again, okay. Sure enough, no one is forcing you. It's you who asked me to sell my corneas to fulfill your good life, right? Very good. I'll fulfill your wish. I 'll get Mr. Ye's one million real money. In exchange for one million ghost coins , do you mean that you want to give money? This person has passed away. At least in my heart, he is dead . Ye Tian , where is your money? I have already arrived. Why don't you come in quickly and send me the money? Mom, Ye Tian Where's the money ? Oh, it's all here. The wedding is about to start. You hurry up and give the money to your dad. I'll take you out. Mom, for this one million , I didn't even sign a contract to sell my corneas. Can you keep your voice down? The money is to bring glory to the Ye family. It's okay if the family knows about it. Just tell the outside world that this million was raised by the family. You should go home and don't be embarrassed here . It's embarrassing , mom. I already gave out one million. Who am I embarrassing ? If you don't even look at the people at home , you're just like a beggar. You're dirty and smelly and you can't even get on the table. What are you doing up there on this special day ? It's making everyone sick. Dad , no matter how dirty or smelly I am, I'm still your son . It's not too late for us to go home and close the door before we recognize each other . Now let the Li family know that your father and I recognize each other. Now, tell me, how can Ye Dong be happy in the Li family in the future? Do you think it's possible that I want to take this million away even if you don't acknowledge me ? Do you think it's possible that I want to take away this million even if you don't acknowledge me? Why are you so pretentious? If you were as good as your younger brothers and sisters, could we disown you? My dear , look at you, you are a living stinker and you deserve to be despised . Today I will not take away the money. I will give it to Ye Dongguo personally . You are shameless and we still want to be shameless. You gave it to Ye Dong with your own hands because you were afraid that they would not know that there is a stinky beggar in our family. Why don't you give me the money? Below you can invite our groom to welcome his bride. Ye Tian is too late and your dad can do it. You are about to go on stage to give out betrothal gifts. This is a good opportunity for you to gain face for the Ye family and Ye Dong. Give the money to my mother. If the Li family knows that this money was written by my stinky person, will you feel more embarrassed? Shut up and give the money. I heard that the groom's parents have prepared a big gift for the bride. Are you looking forward to it? If you are looking forward to it , then the groom's parents will be invited to the stage to give gifts to Ye Tian . This is an occasion that saves Ye Tian's parents' face. Do n't embarrass me. Give me the money, Ye Tian . Didn't you go back on your promise to give Ye Dong one million ? I didn't go back on my word, but I have to give this money to Ye Dong personally. If he recognizes me, I will take the money. If he doesn't, I will burn the money on the spot. Ye Tian, are you crazy? You invited the groom's parents to come on stage to give this gift. I, the eldest brother, gave it to him. You have an eldest brother to give this smelly beggar horse to you. Where did it come from? Even a blind man begging for food has to come here. Ye Dong, how come your parents are with such a stinky horse ? How come you don't even know your eldest brother anymore ? This stinky beggar is your eldest brother. Big brother , Weiwei picked and picked. There is a beggar in the house. The eldest brother , yes , the brothers and sisters have to help. From now on, you will still be a dragster. Ye Dong , who he is, you must explain clearly. The wedding is cancelled. Ye Dong, you, get out of here now. Weiwei, dad , don't be angry. Listen to me and explain to you. Don't call me. I'm asking you if he is your brother. Tell me. Is this beggar your brother? If he is not my brother, he is dead a long time ago . Your eldest brother is dead. Then every penny you have spent these years Who gave you the money ? Your eldest brother is dead. Who gave you every penny you spent these years ? Ye Dong , what the hell is going on? Weiwei , listen to your mother explain to you. Ye Dong did have an eldest brother before him. But he had already died outside. I don't know why he suddenly appeared again today and chased us here to threaten us. Even the hundred square meters he prepared for you just now was robbed by him. This incident happened suddenly. We all just I know that if you recognize me just to humiliate me and insult me, it is better not to recognize Ye Tian . The Ye family will be embarrassed. Go back quickly. Weiwei , although he is my eldest brother , don't worry , I will never care about his Ye. Dong, our Li family can be considered a respectable person. It's better not to have a father , a relative like you who can't stand on the stage. Don't worry, it's like a big brother who can't stand on the stage, like him who robs me of my money when he doesn't come back for a few years . I will never admit it. If I do what you said and I robbed you of your money and threatened you, you can call the police and arrest me. Ye Tian, today is the Ye family's big day. Stop embarrassing yourself here . Leave the money here and go home. Ye Tian, these years we thought you died outside . We didn't recognize you just now. Your mother apologized to you. Listen, mother, don't be angry. Put your money here and hurry home. This kind of occasion is not suitable for you. I'm dead. Then why are you? I have to use dead people's money again and again. Will you feel at ease with dead people's money? If I die, then why do you have to use dead people's money again and again ? Will you feel at ease with dead people's money ? What are you talking about? Who asked you for money? It's you. This money is for the Ye family to prepare for big things. Hurry up, put it down and leave. You guys think I'm embarrassed and want to drive me away, right? It seems like you don't really want this money. For Ye Tian, don't you know how to do it? Your mother and I have already recognized you in front of so many people. How do you still want to behave like this? How dare you come to my wedding to cause trouble. I think you are just jealous. I am better off than you . You have the ability to think. You 're going to ruin my wedding, right? If you really don't welcome me I can go, you can leave the money, I warn you. If you open the door of the Ye family again , never think of entering the door of the Ye family. If you invite me in , I won't enter . Don't you feel embarrassed this time to grab money ? Stop talking nonsense . Even if I burn this money, I won't give it to you . Ye Tian, we are all your family. You would rather destroy this money than give it to us. Are you not afraid of fate? Dear, you should say this to yourself, you bunch of ungrateful white-eyed wolves. I will not only burn this money today , but also destroy all the hundreds of millions of assets that I prepared for you before. From now on, you can never think of taking advantage of me again. Take away a penny, Ye Dong, your brother is really good at bragging. You also have hundreds of millions of assets for each person. Do you know how much that is? With my status, I can't even think that he can actually brag. Can you not be embarrassed? Do you know how much it costs to repay hundreds of millions of assets? All the people present together don't have that much . You are such a stinker. Writing about you as a stinky beggar is such a daydream. It is ridiculous. And you are so brazen that you won't give us a penny. I don't want this stinky beggar's money . I do n't have it. But Ye Dongke wants a lot. What did you say? When did I ask for money from you ? From when you were in high school to college to getting married and now I give it to you . You should have hundreds of thousands of money, right? You're such a lousy beggar. If you could come up with a few hundred yuan now , I'd believe it. You 'd be ridiculous. You want to take the opportunity to extort our family's money. I don't have a few hundred yuan. I don't have it because I've never I don't use cash. I only pay checks . Did you hear me right? Is there something wrong with you? Are you pretending to be addicted ? Li Weiwei, I transferred 500,000 yuan to you and Ye Dong for your engagement . My mother and Ye Dong should know best. When you fart, it's Ye. He earned it by his own ability . My dad only agreed to our marriage because he saw that he was so capable at such a young age. And it came from you, Ye Tian, you really brought shame to our Ye family. It 's over and there's no future, forget it. You still lied to me for a while. You don't even think about it. You're just a stinky beggar. If you open your mouth and get tens or millions of dollars, who will believe it? It's because you clearly know that I'm an uneducated and incompetent migrant worker, but you still do it. I am asked for money again and again. The amount of money ranges from hundreds to thousands to tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands or even millions. I want to ask you, when you ask me for money, have you considered where to get the money ? In order to get this money for you, how difficult it is for me. Have you ever thought about what I am calling you without you? Who asked you for money? You have never come back even once in these years . You have relied on your promising younger brothers and sisters to support the Ye family. Do n't say you didn't give me the money, you just gave me the money . That's what you should do. Ye Tian, was it easy for your mother and I to raise the four of you brothers and sisters ? All of them are promising , but you are the only one who has been so embarrassing and frustrated all these years. If you don't want to repay us, forget it, but if you are still here to cause trouble for us, you are such a white-eyed wolf . How do you want me to repay you? I have been working to earn money since I was eighteen years old. All the expenses of the family, my brothers and sisters, are all provided by me. Yeah, just ask me for money. I am alive or dead outside. Have you ever considered money, money, money ? Opening your mouth and shutting up is money. I see that you have no purpose in coming back today. You just came back to ask for money. Parents, don't continue talking to him . I think he is. If you are here to make money on purpose, give him the money and let him go. Don't continue to be disgusting here. This ten thousand yuan is enough for you to spend for a while. Take the money and leave quickly . Stop making trouble here. If I remember correctly, this money should be the same. I'll give you the one million you took out of it. What's one million? Ye Tian, you are just a stinky beggar. Why are you talking about a million when you open your mouth ? What are you talking about ? Where can I get more than a hundred? Thousands of dollars in savings. This money was squeezed out by your mother and me through our teeth. If you want it, take it away. If you don't want it, get out of here. Brother , aren't you embarrassed? You're so old and you 're paying back the family's money. Forget it. Okay, just take the money and leave. Where did you do it? You have used the three of them all these years. You should ask me if the money I want is more than a few million. What are you talking about? I didn't give you the money. Where did you get the hidden money? Ye Dong said You just finished learning to get your driver's license My parents asked me for 20 yuan to buy you a car. Did you buy this car? Are you talking nonsense ? Do I need my parents to give me money to buy a car ? I can buy it myself. Another time, my parents said that you need start-up capital to start a business. He also asked me if I asked for 300,000 yuan to kiss you. Do you know that this is not the case? Lang Yetian, you are still making trouble . Ye Yuan, you married the mayor's daughter after graduating from high school. You asked me if I asked for 200,000 yuan as a bride price. I don't have much, and my parents probably didn't leave much money. But later they said you wanted to buy a house again and asked me for 600,000. Did you receive the money? Did you buy the house? When buying a house , I have been living in my father-in-law's house. That's ust for y Then this money belongs to your parents. Ye Tian , just make it up. Ye Dong, Ye Yuan, do n't listen to him. He is a madman . Ye Min, you are the youngest in the family. You really don't need much money, but your parents regard you as studying and seeing a doctor. Yuya asked me that I asked for nearly 300,000 yuan. What kind of deception are you talking about? Am I making it up? The three of them know what is wrong . According to what he said, the total amount of money alone is several million. He relies on his own strength. How can a part-time worker have so much money ? Don't be deceived by him. It's really heartbreaking . Everyone knows that it's not easy to make money by working part-time , but they still asked me for so much money regardless of my life or death. Fortunately , I later established Ye's. The group became the president of the Ye Group. Otherwise, how could I have so much money to attract them ? The Ye Group is the top business group in Jiangcheng. How dare you pretend to be a stinky beggar ? Before, I was still a little skeptical , but now I I'm sure he's lying. Everything he said before is true , but you ended up boasting so much that no one would believe you. My dear, I was almost led astray by him just now , but now I know this guy. He is a liar . Ye Tian, you are such an unfilial son. You haven't come back for more than ten years. When you come back, you still frame me and your father and sow discord between our families. You are such a white-eyed wolf. We really shouldn't be angry with you and let you be so angry. We have shamed our Ye family member , Ye Tian, you actually know about the Ye Group . It seems that you have done a lot of homework in advance to deceive us . It's a pity. You shouldn't pretend to be him . He is so awesome. Even our Li Group is in front of them. It's not enough to read , let alone what you, a stinky beggar who picks up garbage, write for. Hey, this Yip Group, I know . I heard that they want to set up a factory in our town with the help of subsidies to solve the employment problem in our town. You said that my father-in-law belongs to this town. I have never seen you dare to pretend to be the president of the Ye family. You are too courageous. Parents, hurry up and find a way to let him go. The Ye family group is so powerful . What if we find out that his impersonation involves us? Ye Tian , don't let it go. You are so shameless, you are a lousy beggar with no culture, no background and no connections. How dare you pretend to be the president of Ye Group ? Hmm, how do you know that I have no culture, no background, no connections and no culture? I am a legitimate college student at Qingbei University. In terms of background, I have won the first prize of the world's top design awards five times . In terms of connections, I don't need it at all because I am the first place in the world's top design competition at Qingbei University. The more you talk, the more outrageous you are. Ye Tian, for I find you so What a bragging thing, brother , you forgot that you told us in front of our whole family that you didn't pass the exam. Now, just to cover up the lie you just said, you said you did pass the exam . Aren't you just making this up? Ye Tian, even if I am uneducated , I still know that Qingbei University is the most famous school in the country. If you really get into it , you will be a proud ancestor. But you are not the material. You told me personally that year that you didn't get into it. Do you admit it? I admit that I did lie to you at that time , but in fact, I have already passed the exam . But what? You passed the exam, can we not let you go? You are not the material. If you really pass the exam, your dad and I will have to sell the iron . It's for you. You 're the one for me. But what about my two younger brothers ? One of them has to drop out of school. As a brother, I can't bear to see all this . That's why I hide it from you. I'm also afraid that you will be embarrassed and guilty. It's time to start a drama about love, right? You're an actor, do n't take me with you. I won't take the blame for you, and I won't take the blame either. It's not you who said you didn't pass the exam, you didn't pass the exam. You're pretending to be brave here, and you still blame us. Ah, if Ye Tian didn't pass the exam, he just didn't pass the exam. You don't even look at yourself, how do you look like a college student from Qingbei? Three of the four of you brothers and sisters are promising , and You have no ability and no future, and I admit it. But you 've been bragging here and making up lies to embarrass the Ye family. Face , then I don't want to be right. If you really get admitted to Qingbei University, the security guard will beat gongs and drums to congratulate you. But why didn't it happen back then? What you wanted to see before is now here to welcome the 2012 Qingbei University class. Graduate Ye Tianrong returns to his hometown. Welcome Ye Tianrong to his hometown . Ye Tian, I caught you. Principal Liu, how did you know I was here and you still said that ? You have donated so much money to the school over the years . I have called you many times to say that you are coming. Thank you , but you rejected me. Yesterday, I called your secretary. He said that you were going back to the city to attend your brother's wedding. It's close this time. I came directly without consulting you . You won't blame me, okay, okay, okay . I really underestimate you. In order to fulfill your lie , you even invited the gong and drum troupe to come here and invited so many extras. You really took so much trouble. Why do you talk like this? This gong and drum troupe was admitted to Qingbei University when Ye Tian was admitted. You should come at the right time. This was canceled because of his strong opposition to the school. So why don't you come earlier or come later ? But come at this time. Aren't you here to accompany Ye Tianlai to act? You, a prodigal, don't mention the money you earn for your family. You can pay for these. What are you doing to save face if you don't have any ? Face is not earned by pretending . You earn it by yourself. If you hire these fancy things, you will not gain face for yourself, but will embarrass all of us. Ye Tian, why do they say that to you? Ah , didn't you tell them when you were admitted to Qingbei University ? Hey, this actor teacher is just good at acting. Do you think he is the material to be admitted to Qingbei University? Anyway, I don't think you are admitted to Qingbei University. I don't want to go to school yet, hahaha , you can insult me, but you can't insult Ye Tian. Over the years, Ye Tian has donated hundreds of teaching buildings to primary and secondary schools in various areas of our city, solving the problem of many children from poor families attending school. The problem is that he is a hero of our county. A hero like him should not be treated like this by you. Add money . Hey, this actor and teacher acted so well. If Ye Tian doesn't give you more money, I will give you more money . Okay. Okay, don't be embarrassed here. Take your people and leave. Hey , Principal Liu, forget about them. You really look down on me . No matter what you say, they won't believe it. You go back first and wait for me to sort out the matters here. Take care of it. I'll come to the school in person to visit you. Hello. I'll wait for you at school. You guys will regret it. The actors are gone and you won't leave. You haven't given me the million yet. Mother is leaving. Keep the money as a kiss. Do you insist? Okay , I can give you this million + but you, the newlyweds, have to kneel down and serve tea to me . You are such a stinky beggar, so let me kneel down and serve you tea. How dare you say that? Let me give you this. I will not get married if you are a humble and humble beggar. My mother, Ye Tian, this tea is for my parents. Who do you think you are? Your mother is the eldest brother, just like my father. Besides, I have spent so much money on him over the years. Kneel down. It's not too much to offer you a cup of tea. Brother, you are such a stinky beggar . Why should you be our eldest brother? I feel sick just listening to it. Just because I have spent so much money on you over the years. Just because I don't have this million to marry you today. Why don't you die outside before the wedding ? If you die outside, you won't interfere with my wedding, and you won't embarrass our Ye family so much. If I die outside, who will get you this million? Please tell me . Who would sell something for your one million, Ye Yuan , Ye Min, are you willing? Stop talking nonsense , Ye Tian, this money has nothing to do with you . It was collected by our family. If you still recognize this family, just give this money to Ye honestly . Dong, I reluctantly asked my in-laws to arrange a seat for you. I want more than just a seat today. I want them to kneel down and serve me tea to comfort my relatives. Hey, dear in- laws, Ye Tian is the eldest brother, right? to kowtow to him. If you want to offer tea, just follow his wish. Offer him tea and kowtow . Li Jianye will give up his daughter for just one million . You are indeed a liar. Dad, we are here to defraud money. Kowtow doesn't matter. As long as we get the money. Ah, you really agreed , haha, dear, he also said it just now, right? Elder brothers are like fathers, right? Oh, let them offer him tea and kowtow, that's what he should do , haha , dad. It's really hard for you. Don't worry , I will never have contact with him until after the wedding . Ye Tian, did you just say that as long as they kowtow to you and offer you tea, you will keep the money? Of course, I will keep my word and someone will serve the tea. Brother, please drink tea. Kneel down. If you ask you to kneel down, kneel down and offer him a cup of tea . Brother, please drink tea. This tea is delicious . Ye Tian is enough. You can give us the money. Okay , here is the money. You want us Ye? God, I'm not done with you . Ye Tian , your father and I are not dead yet. What do you mean by taking so many ghost coins ? In my heart, you are already dead. Today, I brought this ghost coin and burned it to you. You are really unlucky to have a family member. You traitor, you are crazy. Ye Tian, you crazy person, you are about to kill him. I am not crazy. I am just unhappy. Let me vent my unhappiness here. Ye Dong, one million, you don't have a family, and there is such a lunatic . Why am I so angry if I don't get married ? You spent a lot of time to defraud money, and now you are about to lose a million dollars. Who is not angry? Ye Tian, you just made this bunch of junk to fool us, and you framed us as liars. You deserve to be punished by your family. Everyone looks down on you as a bad person. I framed you, Mr. Ye, and the Li Group. I checked that it is a small workshop. The person he relies on behind the scenes is his brother-in-law Ma Long. You should also know this Ma Long and have cooperated with us several times. Ma Long should also participate in this time. The problem of weddings arises here. Mr. Li of the Li Group only has one son who has already been married. He has no daughter at all. Eighty percent of the people in this house who want to marry your brother are liars. As far as I know, the CEO of the Li Group is not married at all. He has no daughter, and his only son is already married. I want to ask you, didn't you check all of this information before you committed the fraud ? You are so angry, what qualifications do you have to check our information? You made it all up. You say it's you , that's why you are so unscrupulous because this family has no connections, no background, and no way to find this information . But today you met me, who do you think you are? I am the president of the Ye Group and the big boss behind the Li Group. My name is Ma Long and we often cooperate. If you still don't admit it, I can ask him to come here in person. Ye Tian , please stop bragging . If you are a big shot, just take out this million. I said I won't take any of this money . I will give it to you . Even if I want to give it to you, do you dare to pretend to be the president of the Ye Group ? Are you brave enough? Hum for the ignorant and fearless. I'm afraid this garbage doesn't even know what kind of existence the Ye Group is in Jiangcheng. Behind the Li Group The boss, Ma Long, contacted me some time ago and told me that he has a small workshop that he wants to increase production . I think this is the Li Group. He also asked me to invest more in this matter, do you know? He didn't seem to be making it up. Could it be that he really made this kind of business decision that is related to the survival and development of the Li Group ? You, as the boss, don't know about it. What a ridiculous decision. I think you just made it up out of thin air and wanted to frame us. Yes, this is all your fault . Did I make it up? You can call Ma Long now. If you ask us to fight, we will fight. Why should I listen to what you wrote ? After you fight, you will know whether I am the president of Ye Group. You have the guts to threaten Weiwei when you write so stinkingly, who are you? Oh my god Ye , you really have a way. You almost deceived all of us. It seems like he usually deceives people a lot, Brother Ye. If you don't want to give me this million, why bother to get a beggar to stop us ? How dare I ? We have this money. Brother Ye, I just heard that your family has more than one million in savings. Mom. If you have it, take it out quickly and pay it back to you twice in the future. How can I have so much money? Hey, our in-laws only have this 500,000 yuan. If you agree to let them get married, I will give you 500,000 yuan from this card. Ten thousand is fine. Actually, what we care about is not the money, right? Our old Li family is not short of money. What we want is your attitude. The password is six zeros. Just keep it. Hey , OK, who are you ? Ye Tian, what are you doing with this money? Not eligible to get it I am not qualified . The source of this money is me. I am not qualified. Who is qualified to fart ? This is the gift money prepared by parents for Weiwei. Please bring it to me quickly. I will say it again . This is the money I have given to our mother for so many years. And Ah, I checked with the bank. It's more than half a million. Why do you regret that you have less money ? Huh, it's hundreds of thousands or one million. We don't care if we have that money. It doesn't matter. If you don't care so much, why do you still carry it with you ? With a credit card machine, I tell you, you are a liar. Although the Li Group is not as powerful as before , a mere five hundred thousand is not enough for them . But when you see this money, your eyes will light up like It's like seeing a life-saving straw, so I concluded that he is not the president of the Li Group at all. You farted, Ye Tian , did you have your brain kicked by a donkey? You insulted your in-laws, Ye Dong, is he still married? Ye Dong, you just don't want to give money and deliberately found such a person. Begging to write to insult us . I won't get married until we get married. You can't take the money . You can't even think about leaving this person today. You can't even think about leaving this person today. Bastard, why don't you die? You didn't show up earlier. You didn't show up later. But you showed up at this time. Come to ruin my wedding. You might as well die outside. Who cares about you? I just don't want to let these two liars go . Shut up. I think you are just jealous. You are jealous that we are more capable than you and have a better life than you , so you are deliberately messing up the situation. Are you capable? Are you really doing well? Is there anything I can envy you for? You all follow the crowd and only want to take shortcuts. If I had known you would look like this now, I really shouldn't have endured so much hardship to provide for you . Don't put money on your face. Don't say that you didn't support me. Even if you did support us, it's because we are more capable than you. You want to curry favor and think that we can support you in the future. You are all white-eyed wolves. Hurry up and give us your money. Give this to me for my marriage to Weiwei . What nonsense are you talking to him? Hurry up and send the money to Weiwei. Weiwei, this five hundred thousand is not enough to express my feelings for you . Later , I will find a way without waiting for him. Didn't you just say that your mother can't take away more than this five hundred thousand? You can't even take away this five hundred thousand. You can't even take away this five hundred thousand, let alone more money. Ye Tian Now, when you said you were the president of Ye's family , we almost believed it. Fortunately, your family exposed you. You are just a poor beggar. How could you be a big shot? Am I a big shot ? There is no need to be like you . Planting counterfeit goods to prove what the counterfeit is. Ye Tian, please stop talking nonsense here. Mom, they are not the president of the Li Group at all. He and Li Weiwei are liars who specialize in deceiving people and defrauding people of their money. You are so shameful and talk nonsense. You are really shameful. Please wake up. If you think about it carefully, how can a second-generation rich person care about half a million and carry a POS machine with him ? Do I care about that half a million ? I am giving you, Mr. Ye's face , because you, Ye Dong, want to enter our Li family, don't you? Even if you show some strength, you would think that he came to our Li family to eat soft rice. As for why I brought a POS machine, you country people are dishonest. I have suffered losses and been cheated. What if the card is empty ? I will be embarrassed at this wedding scene. Now, it turns out that you have been deceiving those phoenix men who want to reach the sky in this way, and bullied Ye Dong. Did I lie to you? No , it was all of my own free will . Ye Tian, did you hear it? It's your Ye Dong who wants to stick to our family, Weiwei, who wants to join. Our Li family has called us liars, okay, let's go now, let's go , no Weiwei, he is our enemy, he doesn't want to see us well, so ignore him. Originally, our family did not agree with our marriage. Now I know that you are such a mean person. The poor brother will not agree to it . Let alone the five hundred thousand. Even if you really spend one million to marry me now , my father won't agree . I'd better go. Weiwei, don't worry. I 'll remove him from the family tree later. After the name is removed, no one in our Ye family will have anything to do with him . Ye Tian, I will find someone to remove your name from our Ye family tree. After that, you will have nothing to do with our Ye family. Get out of here and stop standing. If you disturb our family here, we won't be able to live in peace. If you are really kissing us, why are you pretending? Of the four brothers and sisters, you are the only one who is incompetent and has no future. Forget it . Now that you are interfering with our family's good life, I have raised you for nothing. Now, except for you, this rat turd , our hearts are clean. Let me ask you again, do you really regret it if you take it seriously? If you make this decision earlier, you won't regret it . After all, if you had made this decision earlier , you wouldn't have been able to spend a cent of my rat shit money before . Who would spend your money? You stinky beggar, how many do you have? Money, I don't care whether you spent my money before , but after that, you don't want to spend a penny to the point of being beautiful . Although you are not from the Ye family, we are dear, but the Ye family gave birth to you and raised you. You have to repay the money and you will still have to pay it to Ye in the future . God, please leave quickly and do n't be embarrassed here. Since you are ruthless, do n't blame me for my unrighteousness. From now on, I will no longer be a member of the Ye family and I will no longer be your eldest brother. Whatever happens to your Ye family will have nothing to do with me. In the end, I will Let me warn you again. If you continue to destroy me and frame me again , I will no longer care about this worthless blood relationship, and I will not be merciful to you. After ruining my wedding, we will be enemies . Ye Dong , you said. That's right , I'm just here to ruin your wedding. You can marry me. After all, if you marry the Li family , it's a matter of honoring the ancestors. How can a mere five hundred thousand be enough ? Isn't it Mr. Li ? Let's not get married to Ye Dong. Your family's financial background is so weak, even if you are Our family won't think highly of you even if you take half a million. What if we add another million ? One million to one million will be different. You can put this million here, right? All the guests are here. Knowing that your family is rich and wealthy, I feel relieved that we, Weiwei, are married to you. Isn't it Mom ? Ye Tian, is what he said true? Does our family really have millions of assets? No need to ask. I have already checked the current deposit of 800, 000. #Regular 200, 000 Total assets 1, 600 Under Wang Sujuan's name # Others 100, 000 My asset information is for reference only, please refer to the actual account information and amount. There is a total of 1.6 million . Why didn't you just take it out before me? I didn't take it out because I didn't want to break the window paper for fear of embarrassing you. But now I don't care what he said. The deposit amount was all faked by him. Am I lying ? They know better than anyone else whether Ye Tian has really been giving it to your mother. You shouldn't transfer money . How can he have the ability to make so much money? Mom , no matter who gave you this money , just tell me whether you have this million. If you do, take it out quickly . I can't keep more than one million, so I have to find a reason to get away, otherwise I will definitely have a grudge against me if I kiss these three children. Oh, forget it , it's better not to embarrass your mother . I'm not getting married. Oh, don't, don't, mother. It's better . I'll give it to your mother . She has been taking money from Ye Tian in our name for so many years . Is he really the president of Ye's Group ? Otherwise, how can a stinky beggar who picks up rags get so much money? Mom , please tell me something. I don't have him, so I'm lying to you. My dear, that one million is what I got by selling my kidney . My dear, you can really make it up. Weiwei , I gave my life in exchange for this million . In the future, your Li family will get it. Don't worry, dear mother of the Ye family who is helping us. Ye Dongqin gave me a gift of 1.5 million yuan this time. The Li family will definitely think highly of him. Is our family's business our Li family's business? Oh, Weiwei, kiss you. This mom's scream is so nice . Mom, I will remember what you said in the future . Mom, this is really the money you got from selling your kidney. Of course, if I don't sell my kidney, how can I get so much money? I can count on Ye Tian, who is worthless. Can you give me money? Then you can't give all this money to Ye Dong at once. Dear, at least you can't share it with us three brothers . You can't give all the money to Ye Dong at once . Dear , at least you can't give it to us. Should the three of us share it equally ? Yes, mom, you can't be too partial, right? This is the money our mom prepared for my wedding. What fun are you two having here ? What do you mean it 's specially prepared for you ? Mom, you're not the only one. Mom, why does our mother's money have to be yours alone? You just heard that this is the money my mother sold her kidneys to prepare for my wedding. Don't say it's a kidney. Every organ in her body belongs to us. The three of you should share the money equally . Don't think of one person taking it all to yourself . Ye Yuan, I'm not the one to get married to you. Did I also give you two hundred thousand? Hey, don't confuse me. The money I got when I got married came from Ye, God, it wasn't earned by me. You didn't give me a penny . Mom , take out one hundred at once . Isn't the difference of five hundred thousand a bit too big? Kiss me , kiss, don't look at me. I've already said that I won't give you another penny from now on . If you don't want these two sons to disown you, then hurry up. The money I gave you before should be divided among them. Stop talking nonsense here . When did you ever give me money ? Hey , do you still want to take this money? If not, we can go, go , mom , hurry up and get the money. Yeah , when we get married, you can enjoy happiness for the rest of your life . Stop talking. I promise you each will give you 1.5 million. Stop talking. I promise you each will give you 1.5 million. Ye Tian, you still have to give the remaining three million to your inescapable mother. Are you telling the truth? Old man, go get the paper and pen. Ye Yuan, Ye Min, now your brother has an opportunity to be with a rich man . It is also a major event for our Ye family to honor our ancestors. I can't delay his 1.5 million. I'd better give him our 1.5 million first. I'll give you an IOU first and I 'll give it to you within two years. How dare you issue an IOU? You don't want to ask for money from me. Even if I sell my kidneys and my heart , I won't ask for money from you. Heng Ting is ambitious and you'd better do what you say. Is it useful to write an IOU ? Besides, you said the three hundred between us Where are you going to get it ? Didn't I tell you that I will sell my kidneys and my heart to get the money for you within two years ? It 's better to have an IOU than nothing . Oh, by the way, Mom, you have to calculate the interest on the three million. Come on, you have to worry about this little interest. You are really good. What qualifications do you have to say that I have written the IOU ? You all have collected it. There are no fingerprints. It's not easy for our mother to bleed and break her skin . It will be fine. Poor people must be hateful. You two white-eyed wolves, the children you raised are even more white-eyed than you. This is really retribution . The Ye Group's congratulatory gift went to Ye Tian, the president of the Ye Group, and presented four luxury cars and four buildings in Jiangcheng. Four copies of the sea-view villa worth tens of millions of jewelry, emeralds, gold, and four copies of the 5% share transfer contract of the Ye Group. One copy in cash of 5,000 square meters was given to each of the parents and siblings as a homecoming gift and to congratulate the younger brother Ye Dong on his wedding. Happy Uncle and Auntie, all the gifts from Mr. Ye are here. The luxury car has been parked for everyone in the villa. Wait a moment. I will send someone to take you to your respective villas. I am not dreaming. How much is this worth? If this is Is it true that each gift is worth at least 200 million ? Are these things real? Oh, I'm making a lot of money . Wait, is that angry photo really the president of the Ye Group who just offended him so much? Can I still give him this money? If Ye Tian doesn't act this time , these things will last us a lifetime, right? Is Ye Tian really a big shot ? These things can't be true, right? Mr. Ye, we will arrive half an hour later than you according to your instructions . It's all been delivered. Thank you for being half an hour late . Otherwise, I really can't see the true face of these white-eyed wolves . Mr. Ye, what do you mean ? I mean, even if I destroy these things , I won't give them to these white-eyed wolves . Mr. Ye. You are insulting me and looking down on me . You think I am embarrassed . You want to sever ties with me and erase me from the family tree. Do you think they deserve this kind of thing ? You, Mr. Ye, gave you money to spend. You actually treat Mr. Ye's conscience like this? Did you let the dog eat it? Don't talk nonsense. Who spent his money? Who are you? You are making up things about our family here. I am Mr. Ye's personal secretary. Every money you have asked Mr. Ye for these years has been remitted by me. I keep all the transfer records of the pledge receipt. If you don't recognize it, we can reconcile the account on the spot. The actor is also the actor invited by the actor himself, Ye Tian. Ye Tian, you have acted enough. Without Ye Tian, why are you so vain now? You spend all the money you earn. You 've been using it to save face one after another. Don't we know what your abilities are ? You started such a big battle and bought so many props to fool who? Who can believe it? Are you really asking these two liars to come over and test it out? If you don't know, if you call me a liar, I'll kill you. Believe it or not, how could it be fake? Let me see if dad's jewelry is real and how much it's worth. Oh, they are all real . One necklace costs 20 million . Are those luxury car keys props ? I have seen them and they are real. Oh, did you touch the property ? Is it real? It turned out to be a professional scammer who only used one. You can tell the authenticity with your hands . He can't really be the president of Ye's Group. How is it possible that Ye Tian has never gone to college ? He has been inferior to me since he was a child. How can he be the president of Ye's Group? For Yes, hey, even I, who have never gone to school, can't even compare to him. How can I make so much money? Yeah, Ye Tian, tell me , where did you get so much money ? Although Ye Tian sent me millions before , this is hundreds of millions. Ah, how could he get so much money as a part-time worker? Unless, Ye Tian, you didn't come back to rob a bank just to save face . Their family members don't believe that he can earn so much money. Maybe he really robbed the money, then he is not. The president of Ye Group, hey, no matter how he gets these hundreds of millions of things and cash , he really has to find a way to get the money and leave quickly , Ye Tian, you won't rob the bank, right? Haha, don't care if he robbed it. Those who don't know are not guilty. Since he told us to give it to us, let's just accept the money . It makes sense. To rob a bank for the sake of face is something you, Ye Tian, can do. Hey, I think Ye Tian is right. He is the president of the Ye Group. This money is earned by the groom's hard work in the past few years , right? Oh , yes, yes , yes, yes, yes . Stop acting. No matter where I got it from, I can't do it today. Stop acting for you. No matter where I got these things , I won't give them to you today. What we just did was indeed a misunderstanding . But now the misunderstanding has been resolved. We are blind to Taishan. You are indeed the president of the Ye Group. This money It's just a trivial matter to you, right? You won't take it to heart. Haha, Jiang is still old and spicy. His reaction is so fast . Even if Ye Tian snatches this money , he can't let Ye Tian admit it in public. Otherwise, no one can take this asset. So I can only follow Ye Tian and say, brother, I was blind just now. Look, I really didn't know that you were the president of the Ye Group. Hey, sir, you have a lot of people. Don't care about me, right ? Xiao Min, apologize to brother , are n't you? Believe him, you brother. When I first saw him, I thought he was the material to be the CEO. You just misled me. Please tell me , brother, I'm sorry . Brother, I was blind just now. I really didn't expect you to be able to go against the wind. Comeback, oh my, I admire you so much. Brother Lang , I was wrong. I didn't expect you to be so powerful . Compared with our Ye Dong and you, it's so far behind. That big brother, in my heart, you will always be my eldest brother and always our Ye Dong. Dad Ye Tian , the most promising child in the family , also wants to say sorry to you. You also know that dad has always been a brainless person. I really didn't see that such a big man like you was going to stop here. Oh, you see, we are all a family . If you have done it , let it go. Don't worry about your father and younger brothers and sisters. Oh, Ye Tian won't care about it. You see, this is not a promising person . He has given such a big gift to our family. It is worthy of being acknowledged. Brother, this scene is really good. Brother, I know you are angry. Please tell me how to calm you down and we will do it. Brother , you see, Ye Min has knelt down for you, right? Please forgive us, Ye. Min, hurry up, please, big brother, big brother, I was wrong , I beg you to forgive us , big brother, big brother, I was wrong, I was wrong , just forgive me, right? From now on, you will always be my big brother. Hey, hey, we also know that big brother. If we are wrong, please forgive us. Hahaha, brother, if you don't calm down , we won't get up. One by one, for these money , you kneel down and slap someone in the face who you despise from the bottom of your heart . I really admire you . Brother, that's what we see. Blind, we dare not look down on you now. You are our eldest brother, forever eldest brother, please forgive us. Then would you still be like this without these things? Would you still recognize me as your eldest brother? Oh, eldest nephew, you see they are all like this. Well , they are all sincerely repentant. It has nothing to do with those pornographic things. Just forgive them. Okay, Secretary Liu, go find me a stick. Since they said it has nothing to do with the things we brought, then I will put them all away. Smashed . Those jewels are priceless. You don't really want to smash them. There's so much money . You can't smash them. You can't smash them. Ye Tian really can't do it . Mom, I'll kneel down for you. These things will make your feelings for me have impurities . Today I ah We have to smash it , no, no, no , brother. Our feelings for you are true and have no impurities. Don't smash it. Hahaha , brother, my feelings for you are world-famous. You must not be impulsive and waste money . Oh, brother, you If you don't believe Ye Min anymore, Ye Min will cut her wrists and commit suicide. Do you want to do this? Haha , you can't smash it . Brother , brother, that's several hundred million , not two hundred yuan . Don't be impulsive. Brother, I know you hate them , so just don't give it to them . I'm an outsider. Instead of smashing it, why don't you show kindness and give it to me ? You're the least qualified to ask me for something. Are you Ye Tian, this is hundreds of millions, it's money that can't be spent in a lifetime , and this The money was originally prepared for us. Don't waste it. Can't you just leave it to us and your brothers and sisters? Even if I smashed it all today, I won't leave it to you white-eyed wolves. Hey, bodyguard Ye Tian can't, Ye Tian, you, you. Don't smash it, do n't smash it, my son, brother, don't smash it , my God, just don't smash it. Crazy, if you say no to these 200 million yuan, there will be no brother left. My 200 million yuan is gone . It 's okay. If it can't be smashed, Secretary Liu will go to the Housing Authority and transfer all the properties in my name to my river view villa. Don't even think about it. Ye Tian , you crazy person , oh my nephew, these are your family members, don't you? It has to be like this, right? This is your brother. It's too late now that you want to be a family. Secretary Liu, I also smashed these luxury cars . They were so smashed . I understand Ye Tian , you white-eyed wolf. There are so many good things that you would rather destroy. You are a wicked mother and you are an unfilial son. You can no longer pretend so quickly, right? Don't forget that you still have the shares of the Yip Group and 50 million in cash. You should act like this. I am heartbroken. Maybe I'll give you all these things. I can't identify the shares of Ye's Group, but the money is real . I'll throw it at my nephew . As long as you relieve your anger , don't say it's worth tens of millions or a hundred million . And there's that. The house book should be torn up, should it be thrown away, right? What's the matter? As long as you vent your anger, you can pack your luggage. No wonder you can pretend to be rich and cheat money. Your reaction is really fast . Haha, where did you go ? Compared to my eldest nephew , I'm so bad. It's far away , yes, yes, yes, yes, I, I, I can tell you, that jewelry, that emerald, you, you smashed so many, it doesn't matter , and that house book, you can tear it up and throw it away , but you can't damage that money , that's illegal. Yes, ah, yes , you can't ruin Ye Tian's money anymore . This is the backbone of the family. What if he breaks the law because he ruined the money and gets in ? What will the whole family do? Yes, brother, please don't be impulsive. Don't be impulsive. Brother, if you haven't vented your anger yet, why don't you come to me ? Don't attack our money . Our money is our money. Are we afraid of losing your people? What are you talking about? Brother, you are the Ye family. President of the group, we are afraid that you will think we are embarrassed. Hahaha, for you are right. What qualifications do you, a group of despicable and shameless white-eyed wolves who follow the trend of others, have the qualifications to discuss with me, Ye Tianma , I know that what you say is all angry words. In fact, you have already said that. It has been allocated 10 million to each of us. You won't regret it, right ? Yes, I did regret it. I can't even get the points . Ye Tian, what are you doing? Just now, your younger brother and sister really made you sad . Have you apologized to you? Why are you still here? Yes, Ye Tian is about right. We have been coaxing you for a long time. You said you, your anger should be gone. You have endured until now for this little money. Isn't it uncomfortable? I'm not forcing you. I don't need to coax you at all. You can reveal your true colors at any time . Ye Tian , it's useless for you to be single. You want this money. You share it with your younger brothers and sisters. They will support you when you get old . As the saying goes. You say an elder brother is like a father , right he can move to our Lao Li's house now In order to deceive Ye Dong, you probably rented a house in your house . Ye Dong probably wouldn't be able to live in your house for more than a few days, so you would kick him out, not to mention my brother , Ye Tianbu , Weiwei, they are not liars , so don't frame me. Ye Tian said that we are liars and we are liars . Is it your turn to interrupt? Brother F on, you can come and stay at my house. You are always welcome in my house . We should be filial to you. Brother, I live in the city. I can't help but I have to go back to town. Come and stay at my house. Okay. Since you all welcome me so much , how about we take turns? Let's stay together as a family for two days . It's okay, Lang Xingxing. Can you share the money with your younger brothers and sisters? Who can tell? I want to share the money . Didn't I just say that? You can't even get a cent of this money . Ye Tian, what do you mean you want us? You've seen it. I can't stand it. I can't pretend. If you can't stand it , you can't. I'm not forcing you. Ye Tian, please don't go too far. Our patience has its limit. I think your patience has not reached your limit. Otherwise, you would have yelled at me. Brother , please calm down. Look, they are not sincere . I think you deserve it if you decide not to give them the money . Old man , you are an outsider. Is it appropriate for you to say this? Your eldest nephew , don't give them this money. You won't give it to them either. Do you think this is okay? The bodyguards put him away and I took them to the bank. Do you think it's okay ? Uncle Luggage , you are so despicable . Mr. Li, you think I'm just Are you treating me like this just because you care about my little money? You took me away and robbed me of my money on the way. Scammers like you are indeed more tolerant than them. What are you talking about? How could you test me like this with all my good intentions? Do n't bother and stop pretending. I won't give this money to these white-eyed wolves , let alone you two liars. Pack up the money. Pack up the money . You can't take away my money . It's this money. It originally belonged to you , but you are ungrateful to me. I have completely forgotten all my kindness to you before, and now you are here to add insult to injury. So you don't have these assets and money. It's your own fault, and it's the retribution you deserve, Secretary Liu. Donate these assets to society in the name of Ye's Group. Don't take them away. The money is mine and you can't take it away . Ye Tian , go and give me the money and ask for it back. I raised you. All the money should be mine. They can't let them take it. Go, go and ask for it back. I have repaid you enough for your kindness in raising me over the years. Besides, you were the one who wanted to sever ties with me first. Since there is no relationship between us, not to mention, I have enough money. This drama has me . You 've acted enough, Ye Tianfa, haven't you pretended enough yet? Do you think we really like you because we coaxed you and held you up ? You are really the president of the Ye Group. Fart , we just like you. Those assets and money don't have those things in you. It's nothing but a kiss. I didn't force you to act at all. It's you who want to humiliate me and then make me hand over all my assets to you like a fool . Don't forget that I, Ye Tian , am not the same Ye Tian as before. Ye Tian, are you? You were determined not to give those things to us from the beginning. Of course, I just want to see you with hopes raised but disappointed and heartbroken. Ye Tian , you are a robber who robs banks just for the sake of face. Why do you think we are flattering? You just said a few words and you really became a big shot . It's really pathetic. Even now, you still say that I rob banks and I am the president of Yip Group. You still don't believe that even though I have moved so much money here, you still look down on me. It's really sad. I don't know if you are pathetic or I am pathetic. You are right. I just look down on you. If it weren't for your poor money, we would look at you. You are right. People like you are despicable, shameless , and extremely poor. I just knelt down for you . It's the biggest shame in my life. I know in my heart that Ye Tian's money is not clean. Since you got it back, you might as well be a favor and split it up with us. Who knew you were so unscrupulous ? I'm really pissed off. You deserve to be expelled. Ye , please get out of here. I 'm getting upset when I see you now. I should have given birth to you and strangled you to death. I'm leaving. Since you all think I am a bank robber , I will be brought to justice soon. In prison, I can no longer make money for you in the future. You can no longer rely on me. From now on, we have severed all ties with each other. In order to prevent us from asking him for money, you even took yourself to prison to kiss Ye Tian. It's so cruel . You should turn yourself in now and try to come out early to kiss your mother. Until now, you asked me for money. I 'm still heartbroken, are you going to suck my blood until I'm lying motionless on the bed ? I'm not talking nonsense here. Don't get involved. Let's get out of here . I'm leaving. From now on, I have nothing to do with you, and you don't want to contact me anymore. I have kissed our blood relationship, and from now on we will be cut off. Stop talking nonsense. I am so upset when I see you now. It is really unlucky to see you making trouble on a happy day. Secretary Liu, we are going to give birth. The grace of giving birth is greater than a person. I bow to you. I thank you for giving birth to me. Although Now you have abandoned me , but the grace of childbearing is unparalleled. Thank you for raising me. Thank you for raising me. Although I didn't have much love , you at least cultivated my healthy and independent character . Therefore, I Only in this way can I succeed. Thank you for this last farewell to my parents. I don't blame you for being snobbish , and I don't hate you for being mean . I just blame humanity . You have made me see the worst side of human nature. Thank you. I don't owe you anything. I don't owe you anything . I don't want you to pay anything back. From now on, we will break up our relationship. I am no longer your son, and you are not worthy of being my parents anymore . Huh , don't say anything. You all did this to him, and he gave you a head when he left. This child is considered There is love and righteousness . Why is this child so difficult to deal with ? He thinks that if I kowtow a few times and I am soft-hearted, he will keep him . He is overthinking it. Stop inking . Take the 1.5 million and withdraw quickly. Well, this stinky beggar left the wedding. It's time to hold it normally. The money is all here. You keep it and keep it. Hahaha , in-laws, don't worry. From now on, you can enjoy the blessings with our family . OK, OK, Mr. Ye, we have to go back. Tomorrow is the establishment of the Ye Group. There are some things that you need to decide on in advance for the tenth anniversary celebration . You should go back first. Mr. Ye, are you worried about the Ye family? After all, if you encounter a liar like Li Weiwei, your family will be defrauded out of everything. Even strangers are cheated. I will take care of them if they meet me , but they are obsessed with me. Li Jianye is full of flaws . They still haven't discovered it and there is nothing they can do about it. Li Jianye is so good at acting. Even if the police come, it will be difficult to convict them. This is a loss for the Ye family. After all, maybe they will wake up after suffering a loss this time and come forward to report Li Jianye's fraud so that he can be convicted . I hope, forget it , go back to the company and come to see you today. I have a particularly important task to assign. What instructions do you have from your security chief? You said that the Yip Group , which invests and builds factories in your town to provide employment, will hold a tenth anniversary celebration tomorrow and invited me to go. But I have a very important meeting tonight and I can't make it there for fear of losing my etiquette . Let you, the project leader, rush over first and wait for me to finish the meeting. I will rush over immediately. It is our honor to attend the 10th anniversary celebration of the opening of Ye's Group and to meet the great people who have made contributions to our county. Haha, show me well. Are you still hoping that he can invest in some charity projects in our county in the future? What are you doing , useless mother ? Go away. Our wives from the Wang Group have always been business elites. You have been in the company for two years and your performance is like shit. What else do you want ? I am already working hard to dream of joining our Wang family, but the current environment is really not good . Fart , the interns who have been in the company for one year have better performance than you. Mom, Ye Min, just hasn't encountered an opportunity. As long as she encounters an opportunity, she will definitely do well. There's no chance, right? I'll give her a chance. This is the invitation letter for the 10th anniversary of the founding of the Ye Group that I spent 10 million. All the big shots and business elites in Jiangcheng will be there tomorrow. You two will come with me. Damn, you are so awesome . I only spent 10 million to buy an invitation letter to the 10th anniversary celebration of the Yip Group. Thank you, Mr. Wang. I will not let you down. If you can get a big shot present at this celebration, our Wang Group will become a high-class group . It's possible. This is the last chance I'll give you. If you can't seize it again, even if my son likes you again , don't even think about entering my Wang family. Mr. Wang, don't worry . Ye Min, I'll bring you to such a big occasion, but don't do it. Embarrass me and try your best. Don't worry . Mr. Ye, you see, if this treaty doesn't Is Ye Tian your art writing brother who was kicked out of the house? Why is he here and why is he kicked out of the house ? He must have a grudge. He wants to take revenge on you. Who wants to take revenge on you? Ye Tian, Ye Min, her. Crazy brother didn't expect to be followed this far. I'm sorry. I really didn't know he would come. You stupid son . How much money is there? Miss. If you don't love me, you have to choose her . What kind of family do you think she has? Mom, what's the use of talking about this now? It's such an important occasion. We can't let him ruin our big event. It makes sense. Fortunately, we met here. If he meets those high-class people after entering, it will be difficult to control him if he makes trouble again. Mr. Wang, you are right, look at your worthless appearance. Wang Haifei, if you don't want to marry me, I won't bother to care about you. Why are you still standing there ? Hurry up and stop me. What do you want to do ? Ye Min is my sister . Don't associate me with you. Who is your sister? Why are you here? I should be the one to ask you this, right? You guys, I am Ye Min's fiance, why don't you go to jail and surrender, and follow Ye Min to this place ? This is where the Ye Group's tenth anniversary celebration is held. Everyone who knows You are either rich or noble . How could you, a low-level person, know such a high-class place ? Ye Min, you said you were not following me . Do you have delusions of being persecuted? Shut up. Why don't the police arrest you? Why did the police want to arrest you? Last time, I gave them the money, house and jewelry. They thought I was robbing a bank to rob a bank . Do you, the president of the Ye Group, need it? You are bragging and pretending to be addicted, right? You have to hire extras to give you a big head wherever you go. You are really shameless. Stop talking anymore. It's too late. Let 's go in quickly. Who are you? This is the chairman of my mother's Wang Group . We are Today we are here to participate in the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the founding of the Yip Group. You should go quickly. Don't dirty my mother's eyes. You are going to attend the celebration of the Yip Group. Are they on the invitation list? Yes, the Wang Group. It's impossible. I don't blame you for the invitation. They are a small workshop and have never heard of it. It is normal. How dare you look down on our Wang Group and dare to pretend to be the chairman of the Ye Group. It is so bold . How do you know that he is a fake? What if he is real ? You're a beggar, a country bumpkin , and the president of the Yip Group. You wouldn't even dare to write that in a skit, right? It's so naive to think that wearing a suit can hide your poor and humble smell, for a low-class person like you, no matter how expensive it is. The clothes you wear cannot conceal the despicableness in your bones . This kind of thing should be said to yourselves. You are bright people on the outside but dirty on the inside. I feel sick when I talk to you. The celebration is about to begin. Let 's go. Okay, why are you going? I'm natural. I 'm attending the Yip Group's celebration . By the way, don't you want to join us? Let's go together. Are you kidding me? You can go to the Yip Group's celebration if you want to. Don't think I don't know you. You just want to sneak us into the venue and then I know the revenge of those upper class people . I want to destroy our Wang Group, right? Ye Tian , take a good look at this invitation letter. Do you have it? I really don't have this invitation letter. So why are you still pretending to be here ? Get out of here. We can't let you. Why don't I have this invitation letter that followed us in? Our senior management of the Ye family are all fake. Only big bosses from other groups will receive the invitation letter . Did you hear that? This is why I don't have an invitation letter. What do you mean, you are the Ye family? You are really a high -level person in the group. You are wrong. I am not a high-level person in the Yip Group . I am the president of the Yip Group . By the way, why did Wang Jian and the others have this invitation letter ? Isn't it normal for us ? After all, my mother's heart is Wang. You are the chairman of the Ye Group. This is a matter for the upper class . What qualifications do you, a low-end person like you, have to ask? I don't understand, but I am the president of the Ye Group. I have seen this invitation letter, but I don't seem to look like you. Just make it up. Those who can get this invitation letter are all big shots who are either rich or noble. What qualifications do low-level people like you have? Hurry up and hide the invitation letter. This person Ye Tian is despicable and shameless . Don't let him snatch it away. What's so valuable about a fake invitation ? What's so valuable about a fake invitation ? You can't say that . In our opinion, it's just a piece of waste paper , but they may have spent a lot of money to buy it. You say Who spent a lot of money to buy it? It turned out to be Wang Jian . Well, they spend on this invitation? Wang Li If I'm not wrong, you should have spent 10 million on this invitation letter . How did you know to shut up and stop talking nonsense? This invitation letter was given to us by the Yip Group and we didn't spend a penny . Oh, these liars. Ah, it 's getting more and more exorbitant year by year . It's soared from five hundred thousand at the beginning to ten million now. It makes me want to do it. Enough is enough. What the hell are you guys doing there singing along ? You're all listening to this. Don't you want to come out ? This invitation is fake . It was forged by a scammer . You guys were deceived and said nonsense. You're a stinky shop and you probably don't even know what the invitation looks like. You actually said it was fake. Mr. Wang, don't be angry, Ye Tian. This person is despicable and shameless . Ye Tian, you are really good at deceiving people. We have been fooled by you before. I will never fall for your trick again this time . This invitation letter was designed by me personally . There is also mine. I don't know if your autograph is on this one. I don't care what kind of onion you are. How could it have your autograph on it ? As the president of Yip Group, it's normal for me to have my signature on it. Shut up. Come on, you pretended to be the president of the Ye Group at the wedding banquet. Now that you are under the nose of others, you still dare to pretend to be you. It is really shameless. You need to let the president of the Ye Group know that there is a lowly and low-level person pretending to be him. And this fake If he still knows us , wouldn't it be impossible for our Wang family to go around in circles ? Ye Tian , we have severed our relationship. Can you stop pestering me like a mangy dog? Get out of here, you robber . If you don't leave, I'll call you. Call the police and ask the police to arrest you . I'm not stopping you . Report it to the police station. Mr. Ye's celebration is about to begin. Don't make ink with them. Let 's go in first . It 's not over yet . Ye Tian, are you just jealous? I don't want to let you go. I'm better than you, are you just trying to destroy me? Are you sick? It was you who was messing around here from beginning to end . If it weren't for the fact that you are Mr. Ye's sister, I would have made you disappear. Don't rob me with this trash picker. I have nothing to do with him. Ye Tian committed suicide. Don't take us with him. We don't owe him anything. He is a bunch of white-eyed wolves. You owe him too much. Don't talk nonsense to them . You are nothing more than afraid that I will ruin it. This is a rare opportunity for you to communicate with the upper class. I 'm afraid I'll embarrass you if I get in. But don't worry, it won't happen because you can't get in at all today. Why can't I get in even though I have an invitation letter ? You still want to stop me. I, I have already told you that this invitation is fake. If you don't believe me, you can give it a try . I can't do the interview in front of you. What should I do if you sneak in while we are not paying attention ? Do you think anyone in the Ye Group can sneak in ? You're right. The security of such an important celebration will definitely not miss you. It's impossible to sneak in so easily . What if he wants to use our card ? You should be relieved. Why should we listen to you at this distance ? Who knows what you, shameless villain , have in mind ? I think you are scared, right? It's a joke. What am I afraid of ? Naturally, I'm afraid that this invitation is fake . You're talking nonsense. How could it be fake ? Why don't you try it quickly? Who says I don't dare ? But I'm warning you that we're in . If you dare to make trouble outside, I'll find someone to kill you. What's wrong with the card reading error ? Mom, the card was read incorrectly . Mom, this card can't be broken, right? Lord, try again. Warm reminder: If you swipe again, the police will be called. At that time , the Ye Group will sue you for destroying the security system. Shut up , Mom, and try again. Yes, Mr. Wang, don't listen to their nonsense. Try it again. Shut up. Wang Li, didn't you say he was the actor I invited? Do you believe it if he is an actor ? Mom, he is an actor. Let's do it again. Who are you to dare to destroy the security of Ye Group here? The system is so brave. We are the distinguished guests you invited today. This is my invitation. Take a look. Not only did you destroy the security system of the Ye Group to deceive us, you are really shameless. This is the invitation I bought for 10 million. How could it be fake? Please take a closer look. How could this invitation be fake ? Yes, did you read it wrong? Shut up. If I don't even recognize an invitation letter , then I won't do it. Have we really been deceived ? Invitation letter bought with money If I'm not going to lie to you, who are you lying to? Mr. Ye , is he really the president of the Ye Group ? How is this possible? How could he be such a big shot ? Yes, mom, he is just a worthless beggar. There is no way he is from the Ye Group. President, it doesn't matter who I am. What matters is that you were deceived. Can't you go to this celebration today? Mr. Wang , do you want to ask the person who sold you the invitation if he got it by mistake? You are not the only one who is deceived. There are many like this every year. People like you who don't want to rely on strength and want to take shortcuts to cross the class should buy our Ye Group's celebration invitations. After Mr. Ye found out, he began to publish a version on the surface in the third year for those scammers to imitate and the real ones. The invitation letter is another version signed by our Mr. Ye. I am releasing this version for no other reason than to punish people like you who are greedy for shortcuts . You, you are really the president of the Ye Group, but you just don't believe Mr. Wang. Don't be fooled by him. How could he be the president of the Ye Group after being so worthless and picking up rags for more than ten years ? Yes, mom, a low-class person like him is not worthy of carrying our shoes . How could he be related to the Ye Group? Look at me. That's right. They still don't believe you. It's impossible. So what's going on with these bodyguards ? Are they all actors invited by Ye Tian ? Think about it. He robbed so much money from the bank. As long as he is willing to spend some money, what kind of actors can he hire ? No, oh, what a weirdo. Mr. Ye, the guests have almost arrived. We need to go in and greet them first. Well, let's take a look. I know that he is not the president of the Ye Group at all . He is just a fake Ye Tian . It 's so despicable and shameless. How long have you been pretending to be here? Ye Tian, you are really asking our insiders to pass . Insiders, insiders. Are you an insider of the Ye Group? No, this is impossible. What is going on? Why can you pass? I can't, Mr. Ye, your facial recognition is not recorded. Why not record it? You are the president of the Ye Group. There are people following you in and out. Why do you need to record the facial recognition yourself? Mom, I am now sure that he is the president of the Ye Group. Mr. Wang, don't be deceived by him . How could he be the president of Ye's Group? You idiot. It 's all because of you. If it weren't for you, I wouldn't have offended Ye's Group. I still have a small workshop and now I have nothing. No, no , no, your small workshop has nothing to do with the Ye Group . It's all because of your poor management . I don't blame Ye Tian. I don't believe you. Why are you more promising than me? I'm the only doctor in the family, don't you? You may be more promising than me, but you are a liar. You don't even think about how I can make enough money from my part-time job to suck your blood. You just look down on me and have prejudices against me. Now if you don't believe it, you have to believe that I am the president of the Ye Group. I am better than you. You are so promising, brother . I am your sister. You are so promising now. You can't ignore my sister. You are the sister who refuses to acknowledge me, is disgusting and ungrateful to me. Brother , I was blind at that time and I didn't recognize you. Huh, what do you mean? If I'm not the CEO of Ye's , I don't deserve to be your brother. That's not what I meant. Ye Min, don't explain. What you did before was wrong. It was wrong. Apologize to my brother. You are brothers and sisters after all. I will definitely not argue with you. You guys really think I'm the one who was taken advantage of. You treated me like this before and now you still want me to forgive you easily. You 're really wishful thinking. No matter what, we are a family. Even if this sister makes a huge mistake , the blood relationship is still there . You can't deny it. Ah, it's not that I don't recognize her , it's that she doesn't recognize me. She wants to sever ties with me again and again. Brother , I kneel down for you. I beg you, please forgive me. Mr. Ye , otherwise she is also your biological sister. What if? You don't admit it and it won't look good if it spreads out. Mr. Wang , are you trying to kidnap me morally ? If I tell you, you will give up. Don't say that Ye Min has nothing to do with me now. Even if he has a relationship with me, it's not qualified for you to want to cooperate with our Ye Group based on your small workshop. Mr. Ye, we are all relatives, you, Mr. Wang, and me. Let me remind you again. If you think your small workshop is not closing down quickly enough, I can speed it up for you . I will let you go back to retire tomorrow. What do you think, Mr. Ye ? Don't do it. Mr. Ye doesn't want it. Then shut up. Let's go. Ye Min, this is your retribution for being a white-eyed wolf . I advise you to be kind to you and to those who really like you and love you. Don't be cold. Brother cough, it's ridiculous to think about it. You said yesterday that evildoer in our family was still at home pretending to be the boss of the Ye Group. Today we will see the president of the Ye Group soon. You said shut up. People are too blind. What if you say this? If others find out and spread it to the ears of the president of the Ye Group, we will all be done with it. The president of the Ye Group comes to Ye Tian. Ye Tian is pretending to be the president of the Ye Group and is addicted. How dare you come here? Take him away quickly . Do n't stay here. Embarrass me, Ye Yuan, come here. You are so brave . This is my brother. Let him go . Another white-eyed wolf. What happened today? Did the white-eyed wolves come to your place to cause trouble? Because they don't know that I am Ye. Ye Tian, the president of the group , you pretend to be the president of the Ye Group at home . Even if this is really the Ye Group, you are still pretending. Are you deliberately trying to destroy me? Another one, why did you come here today? Why did I come in ? I also want to ask you, how did you get in? You look like you're dressed like a dog. You haven't acted enough yet. Are you blind or deaf? Didn't you hear someone call you just now? President of Ye's Group When he comes, Ye Tian wants you to stop acting with him here. Ye Yuan has already told me that he is a stinker. How can he be the president of the Ye Group ? Ye Tian advises you to get out of here. If you anger my God of Wealth, I will never end it with you. Your God of Wealth , President of the Ye Group, wants to invest and build a factory in our town. The oil and water cost for one time is at least one million. If he keeps investing in the future, wouldn't he be my God of Wealth? You'd better get out of here and don't miss me. It's a good thing . Listening to what he said, I seem to know how they got in . Listening to what he said, I seem to know how they got in. What 's going on? Do you still remember that every year you donate a sum of money to your county and deliver it to Li Baozhang? They report to me every year what the money is used for. This year, they seemed to tell me that they were going to build a factory in your town to help solve the employment problem of local people. Unexpectedly, this money actually got into their hands and you blew it. You can't brag enough at home, why don't you come here to brag? Chief Li, that's my leader. How do you know him? You really have done enough homework to deceive us . Chief Li held a meeting and said that he had arranged for two idlers to celebrate. It turned out that it was you who arranged the arrangement . How could anyone know so clearly who I am? Wait until Baozhang Li comes and ask him to introduce it to you in person. Then you will know who I am. Inform Baozhang Li that all projects handled by Lin Qiang will be strictly investigated . As long as Lin Qiang is in office, our Ye Group will not Invest a penny in the town where he lives. If you say you won't invest, you won't. Who do you think you are? You want to cut off my wealth. You think you are my God of Wealth. I am not your God of Wealth. But you today You have met the path of me, you, the mayor. Even if you come to an end, wealth and power will have nothing to do with you from now on. You fart, Chief Li, to Lin Qiang. How dare you be so rude to Mr. Ye? Mr. Chief, you are here. Lin Qiang actually dares to talk to Mr. Ye like this. Mr. Ye is really sorry. Don't be angry. I will definitely teach them a lesson. This Ye Tian is the most hopeless child in our family. Now he has been reduced to a rag-picker . How can he be Mr. Ye? Mr. Ye, how can your children learn from I never heard you mention it because they were afraid that I would embarrass them. To avoid suspicion , they said that my eldest brother was dead outside. Why are you so safe ? You must have made a mistake . See how he looks like Mr. Ye and he dares to do this. Mr. Ye has donated money to our county for so many years. Will I still admit my mistake? Ye Tian, you are really the president of Ye Group. I have told you many times, but you just don't believe in the project in the hands of Bao Zhang Lin Qiang . I'm not going to invest anything. Mr. Ye, with your personality, I believe you won't terminate the investment because of personal grudges . Have you discovered what shameful things Lin Qiang did ? That's right . As long as you go back and conduct a thorough investigation, you will be able to find out Baochang me. Donating money is for you to benefit the people. But Lin Qiang is so corrupt that I really can't believe it. As long as he is in office, our Ye's Group will not donate a penny to the town in the future . As long as he is in office, our Ye's Group will not in the future. Give another penny to the town Doesn't what you say mean that you will directly remove me from the position of mayor? Yes, my attitude has been very clear. Now it depends on the security chief's decision. Mr. Ye can rest assured that once I find out that Lin Qiang has done anything illegal after I return, he will Just step down from the position of mayor. You can't suffer all the people in this town just because of you. Mayor , I beg you, please, don't, don't , do n't , it's useless to beg me like this . Ye Tian , no, no , no , Mr. Ye , we are all one family. Man, you can't push me to a dead end. I'm a self-inflicted sin. No one forces you to do it yourself. Mr. Ye, you can't be so heartless. After all, I am Ye Yuan's father-in- law. We are all family. Besides , can I continue to be the father-in-law of Ye Yuan? Isn't this town mayor still a matter of your words? You are not flattering me with your words, but insulting the security chief Lin Qiang. I have never done anything for personal gain in all the years I have been in office. If you really do something illegal, it will be Mr. Ye. I won't give You Baochang such an attitude. I'm relieved . Ye Yuan, you are Mr. Ye's younger brother. Hurry up and beg him for me. You are the president of Ye Group. If you don't believe it, you don't have to believe it. There is no need to ask me this over and over again. Oh, Ye Yuan, what are you still confused about? What is there to doubt? He is the president of the Ye Group. If you don't accept it, you have to accept it. Hurry up and beg him for me. Brother, we have severed ties long ago. I'm not your eldest brother. It was all my fault before . Don't be familiar with me. You said you are rich and have status now, so you can't ignore me. I was wearing rags and you thought I was just begging for writing . How come you didn't think of someone to take care of me when you ignored me? Big brother, the one we ignored before was the rag-picker. You said that you are now a big shot like President Ye , so naturally we have to fawn over you. Are you right? I'm too lazy to talk nonsense to you . I 'm too lazy to talk nonsense to you. Brother, my father-in-law and the mayor quit . When I go home, you say I can't find a job like this . You are my elder brother. You can't ignore me. You say you are like this. A big company can assign me a director, general manager , chairman, or whatever. This stubborn piece of trash, get out of here. Brother , if I don't leave , you are now my only supporter, so I'll stick with you. If you don't give me this job, I've arranged that I won't leave. I've been bitten once by a white-eyed wolf before. I won't be stupid enough to be bitten by you a second time. The security guard kicked me out. Big brother Ye Tian didn't lie. It seems that he is really the president of the Ye Group. This Ye Dong is still valuable . Weiwei, why are you here? I've been looking for you for a long time . Mr. Ye is here. Let me take you to see him. I suddenly have a headache. Maybe I didn't rest well last night. I'm going to see you in this state. Mr. Ye is not suitable. Why don't you go ? I'll take a walk around here . Okay , I'll come over and see you later . Hello Ye Dong, I'm at Jiangcheng Hotel. If you want to see me, come here. My brother asked me for such a big occasion. Mr. Qian Ye should give it to him whenever he cares about some face . Ye Dong, you see I'm not lying to you. Your brother is really the president of the Ye Group . How is it possible ? He is obviously the least promising person in our family. How is it possible that he is the Ye Group? As for the president of the group, don't worry about this. The most important thing right now is to ask him for the money. But if I treated him like that before, will he give me the money? That depends on your ability. Is it true that Ye Dong broke up with you before ? It's because our family has financial problems and we won't be able to raise that much money for a while. I don't want to implicate you, so I asked you to leave me. Now it's okay . Your brother has money. As long as he can help our Li family tide over the difficulties, our Li family's wealth will be better. If you are a first-class family, then you can continue to return to our Li family and make great achievements. Weiwei , I believe in you and I know that you are all doing it for my own good. It's good to know that your brother has a crush on me. You must not follow him. He mentioned me , um, go ahead, your brother will definitely give you money, Ye Dong, why are you here? Brother, your career is so successful now. Of course, I came here to celebrate you. You already know my identity . Brother, you are all speaking on the stage. Can I not know? How did you get in here ? Someone brought me in. Oh, brother, just leave it alone. I'm here to find you now. I have something to tell you. If I have something to say, wait till the celebration is over. Wang Jian , please go ahead . take him down No, I have to say it now. Mr. Ye is speaking now. It's not appropriate for you to say it now. The situation is urgent and I must say it now . Okay, tell me what's going on. Brother, give me a hundred million or something. One hundred million. I need so much money at once in such a public place with my brother. If you want money, you will force Mr. Ye to give it. Yes, Mr. Ye will probably give it for the sake of face . This younger brother is really ignorant. Big brother, so many people are watching. You won't refuse to give it, right? That's right, this one hundred million, I 'll give it to you. I won't even give you this 100 million. I won't give you even a penny . Mr. Ye is trying to annihilate relatives out of righteousness. Aren't you the president of the Ye Group? 100 million is nothing to you. Why don't you give it to me ? Do I have this? My brother is not as important as your money. Of course my brother is more important than money. It's a pity that you are no longer my brother. Big brother, you won't even deny me as your biological brother just because you don't give me money , right? It was you who denied me first, isn't this? You forgot about it so quickly. Big brother , there was a misunderstanding. At that time, I didn't know that you were the president of the Ye Group. It's too late and the relationship has broken down. How can it be so easy to mend it? No matter what, I am your blood relative. Brother, this 100 million is nothing to you, just give it to me as charity, okay? Just give up on this idea. I won't give you any of this money. Brother, please give me this money. It's really important to me . Did Li Weiwei ask you to get this ? She asked you to ask me for it, right? No, I asked you for it myself. She's cheating you of your money again . Hey, you love brain, forget it. I can't control you, so go away. I won't give you this money. Ye Tian , a group boss with a net worth of one trillion, is not even willing to give 100 million to his younger brother. It is said that the Ye Group's face is gone. Li Weiwei is indeed your fault.