Pele's card has been locked in the Discard Dungeon and there's only one way to get him out Pele: don't let me get discarded :( I have 25 player picks to build and if I win, he goes safely back to the club but if I lose... that is 15 million coins going down the drain and I'll be really sad now this might seem like a pretty easy when I open a player pick I can't see their face their rating only the country they're from pick one has been opened and a Spanish flag and a Belgian flag and I think it only makes sense that because Pele's Brazilian who did we get? Fred ah... not the best start to this squad maybe pick two will be a bit better we got - oh we have a special I have no idea who that is though but we're definitely going to take that Forsberg! 87 rated our other option was Kimmich to be honest, the there's no way we go back to back okay so I own all three of them, let's take the middle, one we've that was one of my worries going into this and luckily Lola has saved 5'8 not bad luckily none of the three players we've because that letter is cursed every time we pick a player that is one goal I will have to score because I like a challenge no special cards in this one we got Spain, Netherlands and... I'm not even sure who is it? it's Traore, okay at least up to this point I've only been opening but I do have some better ones, we're going please give me a special card no special card but we do have that are sticking out right behind the card and we're going to pick one of those two - let's lock it in Parejo - we got a walk out which is decent, and we actually picked the highest rated one I just realized something Parejo starts with a P - which means we I was so happy he joined our team and I we got Brazil, US and Chile let's take Brazil let's see if we got Joelinton he is not a five star skiller how has it only been one special card? OOOOOH Portugal - and I do not think so we're going to have to lock it in please be Ronaldo... Pedro, P! that's two goals already Pele is literally 15 million coins, if I lose and they're not going to be happy okay both the 80 plus and the so we're going to try this one of three 88 plus winter wild card versus TOTY honourable mention anything basically in this okay we got three great nations, now we just have to be very smart here this looks like strength, that would be a good one and that's a V not a P a German defender? who could this be I'm kind of - I think I'm going to take Brazil it just makes I want to keep the chemistry up as well but first let's see who we Kounde 89 rated! that would have been beautiful second one Goretzka, another 88 rated well no to be honest why am I getting which means this could be Neymar if this is Neymar this is the greatest Roberto Firmino ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh I was so excited! now we really don't have many defenders we got USA Mexico and Cote d'Ivoire Cote d'Ivoire who could we have Kessie maybe? Mexico would give us maybe Chucky Lozano? we're going to lock in pick number one Kingsbury! another keeper though you know what it's a higher rated keeper 5'8 again to be honest we got the highest rated we got to be very strategic we is that Messi in the middle? I don't have him in the club, the first one is probably Aubameyang so it only makes sense to take the middle one just be Messi or a defender either or is fine Rodriguez, 51 pace he is a defensive midfielder not even halfway through these picks which is why this time I am please give us something good big flags, big flags okay this is actually pretty decent I never use heroes in my squad oh no which which one would you I already own the first one so that's which Portuguese heroes are there? I can't think of any! and seeing slightly the play styles I I'm just going to take Germany but first pick number one was... McManaman - that would have been so good why did I not take him? Rui Costa 91 rated please, do KebIer! don't even know who that but she's a centre-mid, at least it's not a p name and is that pronounced Kebler? that looks like a be to me - this team is starting to look pretty and I do have KDB in the club, which means this first one could be do I have Ruben Dias in the club? I might which is why I'm going to take Portugal please let this prediction be right Lopes - another goalkeeper this is not what I well to be honest, whichever one I would I have never seen this before I'm really hoping we get a a little bit uh ridiculous that we can't find one we got Italy, Nigeria, and Spain I think there's actually a please just don't have the letter P Jorginho! oh why am I getting so happy about him he's not even a defender Chukwueze and Alex Moreno, why did we we have won so far now I feel that France has so if we see a flag right but then again we have Portugal and Argentina this is a very tough pick actually I think we just have to take France please just don't be messy in pick number three... it's not, perfect okay, please don't okay another striker this is good we've picked the best one probably now is it a defender? it's not another midfielder I think we have 10 midfielders these one of three 80 plus a one of four 88 plus winter wild card that's what we got to open I have never been so desperate for a defender England, Brazil, Brazil and Portugal oh if this is Neymar that card we're locking in pick number two I want that Neymar card in my club oh I'm actually I'm getting nervous pick one was... Alexander Arnold a defender of course but luckily we already have a right back number three... Marta that's fine pick number four... Joao Felix, that's fine did we get Neymar... NOOOOOO it's Marta again how is this possible!? how is this - two of the same NO! NO!! at least it wasn't the letter P okay which is why I'm going to take him I don't care about the please just be a centre-back... beautiful okay ball knowledge W! Orban get in this team I didn't even check who the I'm still upset about that Neymar bait okay French flag in the middle, we got to right wing back! okay I guess he he can play right back - damn and the I don't think we have many and this is an interesting one... do we I really doubt we're going I didn't even get excited, seven picks remain which is Ronaldo's lucky number and it didn't work out - no Portuguese we're going to take the one we don't have in the middle centre mid again at least it's not a P still only two P's which means we and if we play someone good, hopefully we can get some better players and again French! I feel like this time it's it's a striker I don't think we have a left back and luckily I do have another hero player pick English, Argentina and Netherlands the first one has double play style, pick number three... Schneider oh that's such a number two... Tevez look at these cards and the one we took... McManaman! we didn't get him the first four star four star though? what? at least his name doesn't start with a P four picks remain still no other Center back but I think we're going to take this one it shows locking in pick number one EASY! Hummels, we got our second centre as long as we don't get another could this be Son in the third one? we're locking it in Son! 87 rated what a pick two picks left Spain or Netherlands? I think they're really like 81 plus I'm going to risk it - Spanish BOOM okay well - the last pick for this team to save I'm feeling a special card, I really am never mind the second one is probably Keylor Navas and at this point do we want him in this team? I feel like we have a lot of Spanish players but let's see what we missed out on first pick one - Alexander Arnold no way Tayler Navas, Eriksen and what did we get? Parejo again?! and that's another P! that is the worst possible pick I could have taken we have to start this match 3-0 down 25 player picks later - this is I hope and yes Marta is on the bench, I'm now as long as they don't have a good gold keeper is already a good sign you know what this is possible that's one - don't celly though don't celly on me I'm giving you free goals! the disrespect don't celly don't celly - and goal number three... do it I dare you! okay, I won't forget that come on good start good start Son! I said you're not going to Son what are you doing? two mor,e we're not letting 15 million coins are you serious? come on, from here tap in! that's two! grab the ball 13th minute we almost have it I told him not to celebrate! oh tap in well done! it's 3-3 we are winning this match Firmino... what a move, what a move, tap it in! well done it's 4-3! celebrate on him I said don't celly! let's go to make it five... Kebler! blocked - wait? tap it in five hold on, hold on, hold on, yes there it is never griddy on me - rage quit incoming a win means Pele is safe, I and if you did it's time to SUBSCRIBE and check out this video right here I'll see you guys soon PEACE:)