- [Joanna] Apple is kind of. - This power of Apple Intelligence means that Siri can understand - Why the delay? - This is a big lift, and we feel like we want to get it right. This is a many year, honestly, even decades-long arc of this technology playing out, and so we're gonna do it responsibly. - Yes, Apple Software is leading our iPhones into cautiously, that is. In late October, when iOS 18.1 hits, the company will begin releasing the first of many promised that work only on the iPhone They're coming to Macs and iPads, too. But while other companies Apple's behind, or at focusing on privacy and I sat down with Federighi to get a better look Apple's late to generative AI. It's almost two years but Apple's never really been first to a new tech product category. What is new with Apple Intelligence? - We looked at this as not how and bolted on the side of but how do we create something Most importantly, we The bulk of the focus in have been around products They're powerful and interesting and they have some fantastic uses, but I think the real as it pertains to how our are intelligence that understands you. And with that comes a great because to do that, that intelligence has to that you've stored on your device. And that means privacy is a tremendously important consideration. - ChatGPT and other large language models sends every prompt to their Apple, however, is prioritizing privacy by running AI models only when more processing power is needed. Does it tap its encrypted Apple calls it Private Cloud Compute. Explain to me how you're deciding what should be done locally and what should be going - Right, right. There are some cases, let's An on-device model could try to do that, but would probably not If we run that instead in the cloud, it can both be faster in that case and also provide a higher quality result. But the important part is that message that you asked to be summarized was encrypted to a trusted that then performed artificial to return you the result and never recorded anything Apple had no access to that It's gone. - Why doesn't all cloud - It's hard to build, for one. I think it also runs counter to many companies' entire philosophy about how they see data. For many companies, I &quot;Send us all your data, store all your data with us in a way that we can read and process.&quot; And so when you ask our cloud a question, we already have your data, and we're going to use whatever to answer your question. But as a user, you're not quite sure. Is that all they're gonna do? And maybe they aren't doing but they have my data. What are they gonna do I don't know. (pensive music) - But when it comes to AI plus Apple, (iPhone chiming) there's long been one promise. Siri was introduced 13 years ago. - Which is kind of hard to believe. - Siri is your intelligent assistant that helps you get things - Is Siri gonna finally - The journey never ends. Siri processes today, I think it's something like And Siri gets things done for me. With Siri, I'm opening my I'm turning on my lights, I'm sending messages, I'm setting timers. There are all kinds of things that I and hundreds of are doing every day. So, Siri does a lot of that. But as humans, our to use our voice to is almost unbounded. The great news is Siri's useful today, has been useful in many ways but it's getting more and more useful because this power of Apple Intelligence and large language models means that Siri can understand and is gonna have access to to do more for you than ever before. But is there gonna be &quot;Siri is now my sentient pal,&quot; that... No, it's gonna continue - [Joanna] Apple's promised that Siri will be able to answer deeper questions based on your Calendar, - Siri, what's the name of a couple of months ago at Cafe Grenel? - [Siri] You met Zac - It'll also incorporate ChatGPT to answer certain questions, but none of that is out yet. Where is this smarter Siri? It's coming in waves. So with Apple Intelligence, we've created this foundation that understands personal context and the ability to take action. Siri is adopting that in stages and will benefit in stages - Recently, OpenAI released How does Craig Federighi do his hair? - [AI] Craig Federighi's with a naturally voluminous look, typically brushed back professionally... - [Joanna] And then their Siri. - [Siri] I found this on the web. - Is that kind of large on the horizon for Siri? - Well, I'm not announcing but I'll say that I think It's just showing how and what has all of us so excited about the potential for The properties of something like that OpenAI Advanced are quite different. That OpenAI mode is great. If you want to go ask a question and have it write a poem for you about it, and then answer another It's not gonna open your garage. It's not gonna help you There are many, many useful things Siri does for you every day, does them quickly, does There's a spectrum here. There's a trade off across capabilities. Will these worlds converge? Of course, that's where - One of the tools that is notification summaries. I get too many notifications every day about my garage door opening and closing. And then it summarizes it, and then it will tell me like - [Craig] Yes. I mean, all this technology, and we can now solve garage door problems. - We've done it. - [Joanna] But some have and yes, humorous. When AI summarizes a personal message, say about a breakup or a fight. - You're right, there's a that can come through. Sometimes, those are sensitive matters. And there are a few cases where we would say the kinds of cases, where today we would say, We're not gonna deal with it.&quot; Where we actually won't the notification because &quot;We're probably not gonna Other cases, though, I mean, there was a story who got broken up with- - And it gave a very sort of what had happened. I don't think it did a but I mean, no one wants on a text anyway, so it was not gonna be a - Another one of the AI tools I wanna see if we can take - Okay. (camera shutter clicking) - Select Cleanup, and you can tap to remove items and AI will fill in the rest. I can edit the mic out, I can Some companies have chosen to being able to generate - We got a lion here sitting - I was maybe thinking an explosion, and then 5:00 news, here we come. (compelling music) You've taken a different approach. - Yeah. - Why? - Yeah, I would say, even the ability to is one that there were a Do we wanna make it easy to remove that water bottle or that mic? 'Cause that water bottle was The demand for people to want to clean up what seemed like extraneous that don't fundamentally change has been very, very high. And so, we were willing But we are concerned that there's a great and how people view photographic content as something they can rely And our products, our and it's important to us that we help purvey accurate We make sure even if you do remove a little detail of a photo, we update the metadata on the photo so someone can go back and check that this was an altered photo. - Right now, Apple Compared to what you showed in June- - Sure. are not there. - Why the delay? - Yeah, we knew at the time that the breadth of our and the road to deliver it all was not all of it landing kind of moment. And we communicated that from the moment we introduced it at WWDC. This is a big lift and we feel You could put something out there and have it be sort of a mess, or Apple's point of view is more like, &quot;Let's try to get each piece right and release it when it's ready, right?&quot; When we think about the road but certainly Apple Intelligence, this isn't a one-and-done This is a many year, honestly, even decades-long arc of this technology playing out, and so we're gonna do it responsibly. - But on the other hand, You launched the iPhone, - Which makes sense. We want customers who are to know, &quot;Okay, if I buy this phone, is this the right phone And yes it is, and so I think while trying to make that this is gonna be coming not all today. - But what is coming soon? Best way to clean your AirPods. - We're putting out a That'll be much better which is too unsanitary to mention. - Is that a scoop there that I have- - I think... I'm afraid you might have a scoop. - Scoop on how to clean your AirPods? - Yeah.