Time to take a look at Artillery Tactics in and Infantry Tactics before, it is now time Note in this video we will look at field artillery Now, to give you a basic idea on the artillery of the Wurst System. This was a horse-artillery gun, yet in total 6-pounder. Sadly, I couldn't find that much information a general orientation: yet, the carriage was the heaviest part with The Wurst seat had: 69 kg Note: which fit to the gun carriage to aid its movement Then the ammunition amounted to 60 kg in total almost 1.5 tons (1497 kg) at length Yet, be aware that the 6-pounders were considered Additionally, although only about 4 men were assigned to a gun ranged from 8 to 20 men. As you can imagine, moving those guns required around 1360 kg at a distance of 30-40 km per "The weight dropped to 860kg on hard un-metalled These figures were halved if a rider was carried [...] The goal was that each horse's share Now, give you a basic idea on how many horses A British Royal Horse Artillery 6-pounder and 1 howitzer needed a total of 185 horses the equipment, 71 riding horses for the personnel Well, Afghanistan might be the graveyard of is the graveyard of military horses. Anyway, let's look at the gun types. There were basically three types for land and mortars. The latter two were mostly indirect fire weapons. Yet, more importantly in open field battles "Mortars were used primarily in siege operations (Nosworthy, Brent: Battle Tactics of Napoleon Constable: London, UK, 1997, p. 360) but those were exclusively used by navies. For more information check out my video on Now, the mainstay of the artillery throughout This was in contrast to howitzers, which were battles and were used mainly for siege warfare Howitzers unlike cannons could be fired indirectly but also fired on sight, but that is rather They also had shorter barrels, since velocity Why was this the case? Well, unlike most cannons they were used to not solid shots like the cannons. Now most authors point out that the common by howitzers. Yet, Dawson notes: howitzers and guns." Whereas Kiley notes: Yet, he also notes a bit further down: fragmentation shell that could be fired from Did I ever mention that I like precision? Anyway, this brings us to the next point, Let's start with the simple one: was roundshot, sometimes referred to as 'ball.' It was a solid, cast, spherical iron ball When the ground was dry and favorable, the by ricochet fire." Round shot was primarily used at long and It had a penetration power, thus ideally used it had limited impact if used against the The next one is the previously mentioned common with a bursting charge. Note that the shells were transported empty The common shell could be used similar to and definitely was a psychological threat, Since the charge inside it could still detonate Additionally, the explosion covered an area, and material directly in its path. The next ammo type or better ammo types are These ammo types basically turned your cannon Of course, one could fill his cannon with But there were two issues with this. First, it wore out the barrel and second, reducing the effective range to a minimum. Yet, discovered that these problems could be reduced in a container of some sort." Now, what is the difference between grapeshot "Grapeshot consisted of a number of cast wooden spigot and secured with a cloth wrapping Canister consisted of a thin metal or wooden from 50g to 450g (2oz-16oz) weight; the case its contents with the effect of a giant shotgun." So, grapeshot used larger balls, was less Generally, grapeshot and canister were used use was limited. Unlike a round shot, they had little penetrating the first line would be affected. The final ammo type was the Spherical Case-Shot inventor. In simple terms this was basically a shell with projectiles, so a combination of a common "Upon detonation of the charge the small more efficiently than conventional canister. Its great disadvantage was that it tended rectified until after the Napoleonic wars." Whereas canister shots were limited in range case with shrapnel since the casing held until As such shrapnel could also be used offensively. Additionally: at the most extreme range, tended to be comparable Of course, some of you might be preparing one important question is: How much ammo was Well, Rothenberg has some numbers here: with between 200-300 rounds per gun depending was carried by divisional and corps parks. But in battle expenditure outstripped supply." At the Battle of Wagram (1809), where about Austrian forces. The French artillery with about 500 guns spent Meanwhile at the Battle of Borodino (1812), the same number of Russian forces, the French 000 shots. So, about 192 and 155 shots on average per shots given by Rothenberg in the text. Yet, this is the average number and I wouldn't far above those numbers. Also note that all these numbers are from Now, when it comes to range, the determining "Although a gun was able to project its of artillery, such as a mortar or howitzer, [1097 m] was the extreme effective range for Beyond this range an artilleryman could not so aimed fire was impossible." Similarly, that field artillery should never fire at would equate to the modern term of 'maximum Yet, even that range was to a certain degree aimed fire. Since gunpowder at that time produced a considerable As such after the first few shots, some guns Now, Nosworthy describes an episode where of the smoke of the other half and thus being Similarly, on one occasion that the 'gunpowder smoke with varying degrees of density. [...] Gunners often fired blind into a distant Now, one way of firing increased the overall if the proper conditions were met: the effective range of roundshot could be Here you can see the approximate flight path as depicted by Dawson. Note that this could also be done with shrapnel Next let's look at the basics of artillery "The basic tactical element for the artillery pieces. If losses were heavy enough during a campaign gun companies would man fewer pieces." Note that these batteries or companies could the first made up the majority of the artillery "The term 'company' was synonymous with six guns and two howitzers in the foot, and [for the French in 1804 to 1814]." Which brings us to foot and horse artillery, provide great fire power but it lacks shock To put it another way: cavalry assaults be supported by artillery, melee weapons, could not generate firepower Consequently, artillery batteries were attached Known as horse artillery, these units had up with the cavalry." As such, foot artillery enhanced firepower firepower to the cavalry. Additionally, able to occupy speedily any unoccupied and of his own lines before the enemy could, by situation dictated, supported by horse artillery." Now, let's look at tactics and employment. Generally, "For tactical purposes field - those in direct support of the infantry This was also important for one of the key Napoleon was well known for concentrating As he stated: in mass if one wishes to attain a decisive - Napoleon" In order to achieve this, he organized his This allowed him to concentrate his artillery during a frontal attack the grande batteries and cavalry assault. One key element of tactical employment was placing the artillery high was the best option. Yet, this was not particularly the case. An elevated position was preferred, but there "French artilleryman usually chose positions with good fields of fire and little or no howitzers might emplace in dead ground which You might ask, why not high hills? Well, one issue was gun depression, generally, Another issue was the slopes of the hill itself, Since both convex and concave slopes lead proper gun depression as you can see here. Now, some of you probably will ask, but what Well, for this era, the answer is mostly no: was to dispense with counterbattery fire and that the Russians and Prussians learned the The British, though their artillery was less - it took too long and used up a lot of The rule of thumb was that if the enemy artillery hurting theirs, only then would you engage Now, in general there are many similarities it comes to artillery. Yet, there was a distinct difference on how "During the Napoleonic Wars, therefore, and the French artillery lay not in the quality they were used. Napoleon used artillery offensively, whereas their cavalry and infantry." Generally, artillery before and during the in effectiveness. In some cases, this is attributed to the fact Overall, battle. Increasingly after 1805, artillery organization, improved among the major belligerents. The number of guns assigned to the armies organization at division and corps level increased Yet, we should not forget that infantry remained "Calvary could not be counted upon to break Artillery, although able to break enemy infantry to achieve converging fire, was unable to Echoing the informed sentiment of the time, during the 1820s: 'the infantry is the real of battles.'" Well, this video about Artillery and Artillery on Patreon and Subscribestar. Big thank you here to all my supporters. As always, sources are listed in the description. Thank you for watching and see you next time!