What if there was nothing to bind and things broke out into a total Civil War? Rito vs. Gerudo, Hylians vs. Gorons. Which nation would be the ultimate victor? It's a concept I've explored before, but with so a war, I think we need to take a closer look. chances for success not solely and the abilities of their average soldier, like I did in the last video, looking at things like how they how they could go about attacking and re-evaluating some of the more Going through every single nation in a so today I'll be focusing on Hyrule's The Yiga are also one of the most (sorry Rito, you'll have to wait until next time), where many of you disagreed with their fate. But before I address some of the criticism, in our little simulation here. In this analysis, I'm going to severely Champions and Leaders. I think we all know army and win by himself. So for the sake these leader characters will just be some of who also have special abilities Riju's Lightning or Sidon's Defense Bubble. items, or circumstances that can be exploited One example being the Yiga's ability that Yiga soldiers could always just heal up and then return in a limitless We can't negate their ability to teleport just endlessly do this until they wear everyone But enough yammering on about rules, We'll get into how they'll go about but first, let's talk about their abilities, and address some of your criticisms. well rounded armies out there when it comes Yiga are seen wielding bows, and They can also disguise themselves like trees and cuccos. Yiga Blademasters can also teleport or blast their Militarily, the Yiga are also very which would categorize them And there's much to say about the there's a clear leadership hierarchy. Footsoldiers are overseen by Blademasters, who then report to Master Kohga. There's even evidence that this system works, as the Yiga army has continued to fulfill gone "missing" for long stretches at a time. very well positioned. Back they have teams of engineers who work on something even the brilliant Sheikah Wooowwww congrats you guys made a clapping* *unenthusiastic cheers* stores of supplies that can be moved and Sure, these massive stores are mostly bananas, but as far as I can tell, that's the They're also the only group seen It's unclear how familiar they are with but they could potentially use it to move any risk of detection or interception. at the moment, yet I didn't let them Well, the Gerudo were able to beat them But was that a fair assessment? As many of you have pointed out, Yiga don't get They only lose their awareness when coming across a banana where they believe no one I got that one wrong. some of their other shortcomings. The biggest of Despite their ability to sneak and cloak, they for fits of laughter as they reveal themselves The Yiga are also not the strongest exclusively at their foot soldiers, their health is equal to that of a Blue Bokoblin. to assume the Yiga could steamroll Hyrule to But this is a video on how the Yiga could win, so let's take our hypothetical If the predetermined outcome is a Yiga what that could look like- would defend their own land. it's reasonable to assume that each these land areas, which I determined based on the location of the various settlements, as well about the accuracy of these borders, as I've One we'll be having on the Average Hyrulean Discord server (link to that is in the But in any case, we'll work Most in Hyrule are well aware of the Yiga Hideout, located within the Gerudo borders. But this They recently brought areas and the Aldor Foothills under their control. And then as previously mentioned, they are the Depths, with countless outposts how should they go about their We'll start with the easiest outposts to defend, The Depths are completely undiscovered with the only exception being Researchers who have ventured And well, me too now I guess (TEXT ON SCREEN: more videos on the Depths BUT This small group of researchers don't of fighters, and they would likely be recalled to One could argue that given the dangers of war, the Hylians would invest more time exploring the but I think if they weren't picked off by Yiga Footsoldiers who have a technological an encounter with a Frox would send them Why open a second front to the war in a Thus, I would conclude that the Yiga Depths and could operate relatively unimpeded. Their Surface based outposts however, Limited fortifications. Isolated. MILDEW. These outposts are just waiting for a better equipped army to blast the or set the place on fire in order to smoke em out. This decision may be I think they would be best off abandoning these outposts completely. "These outposts give the Yiga forward operating distribution hubs from which the Yiga can these locations up would be relinquishing some there's merit to all of those points, I And to those points, I think their underground This is also not to say that they never establish it's just that these current outposts are coordinated efforts. They're better off expanding front line camps as they advance. let's give it a proper assessment, because if out the remainder of their days underground. fortress, that no Hyrulean In order to reach it, invading armies would which is beset with monsters and sand storms, or scale mountains with 90 degree walls imagine a Zora army trying to get into this place? It's not happening. In fact the only nations that have a are the Rito, with their ability to fly, and the Gorons or Gerudo, with their ability Even upon reaching the hideout, the rocky exterior with the outside walls highly excavation. The only feasible way in The front door is accessed which could allow the Yiga to The front gate has also been recently which allows a guard to keep watch on the And even if this gate is breached, invading where another ambush or trap could be laid. The other entrance also lies behind a heavy door, which opens up to a chasm courtyard area. but for an invading army to access this area, they'd have to pull the Hyrule by finding a way to navigate up and So despite these incredible obstacles to overcome, let's say an army manages to breach an What they'll find is a confusing maze of hallways and passages, with nooks, crannies, and overhead rafters from which the Conducting any kind of coordinated attack So with their home base secure from attack, and commence their invasion of The first step is to remove the Gerudo. The Gerudo are a powerful enemy to. But they aren't invincible, and the Yiga as seen by their theft of the Thunder Helm. The Yiga will likely lose in a direct play into their stealth abilities, and And what is that weak point At least that's the only thing that can gaping hole in their town, that leads They believe they're too strong for someone to Well they're about to find The Yiga begin their Gerudo Town one of the many schematics their engineers have the Gerudo soldiers take up defensive positions, while the children, non-military citizens, The Gerudo are confused though, why Seizing the opportunity, the and begin returning fire Riju stands atop the outer wall, doing her Yiga positions. Without Link's aid however, Suddenly, laughter is heard amongst Those unlucky tourists were in fact disguised catching the few guards by surprise, and Riju and her army attempt to break into the have sealed the bunker from the inside, and the the fortifications they themselves built. surrender herself and her commanders to the The choice is both easy and hard. Riju surrenders It's a big day for the Yiga, but they still have Taking a look at their battle map, they that poses the biggest threat to Possessing the power of flight, the Additionally, Rito Village is a natural water, and only one bridge in or out, the In terms of direct conflict, the Yiga may stand a and Yiga are skilled enough with a bow that they And while the Yiga can't fly, and are also agile fighters who can The Rito are about to have their wings full. squadron of Raiding Planes off the advance like an angry hive of bees, The Rito spot them coming from a ways off, and The two groups make contact as a flurry of arrows are exchanged between the Yiga are severely outmatched by the and begin to take heavy casualties. Perhaps The remaining Rito watch from afar, their village. A group is high atop the rocky have positioned themselves around the cliff so no Yiga can sneak across. The Rito for laughter after teleporting, so their eagle Yiga will be located in seconds. There's But suddenly, each of the perfectly Yiga Eightfold Blade against their necks. no planes that flew across, the jump on them? That's when something Emerging from a crack along he realizes how the Yiga infiltrated their home. After teleporting into the the Yiga laughter is too far away in undetected through the hidden Grounded and unable to fight, the There's two nations down, but the might of the But the Yiga decision to attack the Zora rests far on the other edge of Hyrule, taking the Zora land, they'll be surrounded Until now, I have failed to address the neutrality I referred to Tarrey Town as a Hylian While it was founded by a Hylian, the community represents a diverse And remember, this scenario isn't if so, the Tarrey Town community would But this is a Civil War, where Since Tarrey Town is made up I think it's fair to assume that as a community, as they would not support a war that Instead they would likely serve as diplomatic conclusion to the conflict. a hostile nation, instead having a Another point to consider is Unlike Lookout Landing, or Lurelin Village, with its Zora's Domain is surrounded by which create a natural defensive If the Yiga can find a way to they'd be in possession of a critical piece of But given these seemingly impenetrable it may not be as difficult as you think. Zora's Domain, the biggest weakness Don't get me wrong, the Zora are fearsome That is of course, if their enemy Once establishing a position on the high ground teleportation, or a series of acrobatic the Yiga can then unleash an arsenal and other jolt inducing weapons to that can slowly close until the Zora are either Any Zora prisoners could be locked away in the can keep the way in and out electrified at all a way to run Zonai devices indefinitely, devices never run out of juice. clutches of the Yiga, the other nations are If it's the Goron thinking this, then the isn't so easy to infiltrate, and the Gorons Yiga blades and arrows will do very Not to mention, Goron City nestled against the base of one But what about the chasm leading into Death out of the mountain, claiming the high No. They can't. While Death Mountain has cooled on its surface, the land beneath the surface's crust burns So they'll have to find another way in. a sneak attack from below is out- Perhaps we're spending too much time we should be thinking about the Gorons. beings, but only when you've One of the things people love most about exploit to bring about their demise. I'm speaking, of course, about their kindness. for the everyday person to exploit the but this is the Yiga we're talking up their targets. Here's how they'd do it. slowly trickle into Goron City, posing as YunoboCo As they go about their YunoboCo duties, sense of peace... then after a time, without As YunoboCo employees they managed and devices with the sole intent of taking this version of events, they do, completely But the Yiga rampage still isn't over. enjoyed the fruits of a centuries old thus far protected the citizenry of both their scientific expertise to develop Zonai attempted invaders. But while their numbers also control nearly half of all Hyrulean lands, If they hope to keep it that way, the often underestimated but all important a thing or two about. Hang on tight, their all out assault to the next level. as the Hylian guards patrol the The recent explosions atop Death Mountain have arrival of additional Hylian troops from Hateno moment. Purah peers nervously through of movement along the mountain. the village fishermen are counting Apart from repelling a Zora scouting the village has enjoyed relative Rumors of Goron City falling have by the time it reaches them, and The Hateno pastures sway gently as the cool That is of course, until a chorus of deep breeze is quickly turned into a razor, as Windcleavers slice through the sparse numbers hadn't anticipated an incursion this far Amongst the wind razors and earthwakes, Lookout Landing with a single message- Meanwhile, in Lurelin Village, Villagers are windows. The villagers run to their windows what the waiting Yiga footsoldiers were planning for them to see the incoming bomb bouquets, that With a significant portion of their army form up in Lookout Landing, as the Blademasters of surprise is gone, and the Yiga are now tee'd their own Zonai inventions, as squadrons of Yiga Tanks come tearing across the open Hyrule Field. Zonai Cannons drop explosions on the Yiga and it's starting to look like they aren't going the Blademasters come teleporting onto the scene, the Footsoldiers to break through to the Landing. with evenly matched Yiga and Hylians tearing into their match, as special Sheikah warriors have Surely something will have to give! comes bounding onto the scene- it's Master of his own making! As he swings the heavy even the brilliance of Purah hasn't prepared as Master Kohga snatches Purah and carries her to With an incapacitated Purah in his grasp, Master Paya's house. Not willing to sacrifice one of words of surrender- "Glory to Master Kohga." wondering how the Yiga would perform in the Hyrule At least that's what happened in the event we where members representing each of the 8 nations Surfing, or Hyrule Geoguessr. But the biggest leveled up their own custom average Hyrulean went in the land. Congrats to Furiza there, and the is 100% free to join, will never be pay to win, RPG system in Discord where you can create buy special items and more! It's actually part of out... building out the community there has been so check it out via the link in the description. Are the Yiga most likely to conquer Hyrule, Is it time for the Koroks to rise up? Let me in on all the games, discussions, and adventures Thanks for watching, and I'll see you