- Today, you're gonna learn the secret to perfect crispy hash browns. Check this out. (upbeat music) Hey everybody, it's Natasha We are making hash browns, one of my favorite breakfast foods. I love potatoes, and this Also, if you haven't already, make sure, make sure you and when you do, click that bell icon so you'll get notifications Plus, we're playing a game. Let me know if you can find I think we did a good job So let me know in the And I'm craving some hash The most common potatoes are russet potatoes, also called Idaho potatoes Peel your potatoes, then grate them on the To contain the mess, I do like to set my box grater and grate right into the bowl. Just make sure you're otherwise, the potatoes will turn to mush. Here's a quick safety tip. To keep from slicing my fingers, I do love these safety gloves, and I will link to these (upbeat music) Ooh, it's so easy (giggles) Potatoes do release quite a bit of liquid, so once you have all of it's important to squeeze Now, there are several ways to squeeze out the excess liquid. First, you can just use your hands. Grab fistfuls of potatoes and squeeze out as much liquid as you can. Another tool you can This is the same tool we use But this is probably my I find I don't get quite and it's a lot more work. Now, for my favorite method because it gets all the and it's the easiest. Place a cheesecloth and add the grated potatoes. You can also use a thin tea towel. Just keep in mind, the potatoes Now, wrap the potatoes and squeeze the ball of potatoes to get as much liquid out as you can. Squeezing the potatoes is a crucial step and it will ensure you have It not only releases extra liquid, but it also helps remove which can make your hash browns gummy. And it's strangely satisfying to see how much liquid you Transfer the drained and sprinkle with 1/2 The onion powder adds and I think it's better than because they won't burn in the skillet. Stir that together. And that's the only seasoning I like to add the salt and pepper later so the potatoes don't Now, it's important to use depending on how many If the layer of potatoes is too thick, it won't crisp up properly. I'm using a 10-inch cast iron skillet for 1 1/4 pound of potatoes. Preheat your skillet over medium heat, then add one tablespoon and a tablespoon of butter. Now add your potatoes, spreading It should be about 1/3 inch thick. Let the potatoes saute undisturbed without stirring for six or until the bottom of the Do keep an eye on them, though. If they start to brown too quickly, you may need to reduce the heat. Just before flipping the potatoes, sprinkle the top with All right, these are on the first side and it's time to flip. Now, it can be challenging so what I like to do is use a pizza cutter to cut the hash brown in You can also cut them into fourths if you want four individual servings. You can see, if you wait are nicely browned up, they should be fairly nonstick Drizzle one tablespoon of oil or bacon fat around the edges of the hash browns. Also, dot the edges with butter. That extra grease will travel to the and help that bottom to Season the top with a little and saute for about another six minutes or until the potatoes are golden brown and crisp on the second side. (upbeat music) (chuckles) I just love potatoes. Where are my potato fans, come on? (laughs) My husband's got both arms in the air. All right, now, all that's And I do love to add a with some fresh chives. And remember, there's some so it goes really well together. And these are actually chives (chuckles) Let me know if you guys are into gardening or what you're planting this year. Lots of onion. Okay, and I also have my bacon cooked up. And make sure you don't miss the tutorial that we just posted about how to make the Seriously, this is gonna become And it is so crisp and crunchy, just the perfectly cooked bacon, okay? Perfect also with hash browns. All right, we're gonna jump 'cause I am hungry. This is great for breakfast, but right now, it's so we're gonna dig in. And I wanna show you this texture because these are truly and so moist and juicy inside, just the perfect hash browns. So, let me just show you a bite. And exactly what I'm talking about. Take a look inside. See how moist and tender and crisp on the outside, so you've got that little crunchy bite when you bite into it. I'll show ya. You hear that? Mm, oh. (giggles) It's so good. Oh. All this needs is a little bit of ketchup. I love hash browns with ketchup. Who else? Let me know in the comments. This is gonna be the perfect brunch, that's what it is. I'm gonna go enjoy this with my husband and I might just share (chuckles) I hope you guys love this. Let me know if you spotted Let me know in the comments and we'll see you in our next Mine! (chuckles) To serve the hash browns... (chuckles) just totally winging it right now. Let's see what happens. Hey, oh, oh, oh. (Natasha vocalizing) (laughs) It worked. Yeah, look at that, like laced with crunch. The best. Here you go dear. - [Cameraman] That's for you. - Ooh.