I know what it's like to feel lost. For many years, I struggled I've often found myself in cycles of feeling lost, then found only to get lost again. And honestly, that's part of the journey. Even when you're working it's so easy to fall off track and lose your sense of direction. This video is for those of you who feel stuck, like you're not where you wanna be in life. Maybe you can't quite pinpoint what's off, but deep down, you know with who you are or where you wanna go. And that's okay, we all have those moments where life feels unclear or out of balance. But the good news is just you can also find it again. Life is like the ocean, constantly in motion with its highs and its lows. Sometimes the tides pull us but just like the waves return to shore, we can always find our way back. The key to moving forward is understanding that the lows don't last forever. It's in these moments when we feel lost that we need to take a step back, reflect, reset, realign. (gentle music) When you feel lost, the first thing you should do is reflect. Take a moment to pause and reflect on yourself and your life. Sometimes we get so caught that we don't stop to actually where we're headed, and why Some questions you can ask What areas of my life feel What's been weighing me What do I want more of in my You can start by journaling your thoughts freely and openly, with no expectations. Write down everything on your mind, even if it doesn't make sense at first. Just getting those feelings out can bring clarity. It's important to be honest with yourself, even if the answers feel uncomfortable. This is your time to tune into what's really going on beneath the surface. Reflecting allows you to create awareness, and awareness is the first (gentle music) After reflecting, the next step is to reset. Resetting is about releasing everything that's no longer serving you. Whether it's negative thoughts, toxic habits, or old beliefs that are holding you back. It's about clearing the mental, emotional, and even physical clutter And creating space for Think of it like resetting You're giving yourself the Maybe that means taking a break, stepping back from certain commitments, or just slowing down to recharge. Sometimes it's simply about Whatever it looks like for you, give yourself permission to This is your time to clear the way for the person you're becoming. (gentle music) This is where things truly start to shift. After reflecting and resetting, Realigning means reconnecting passions, and the vision you have for your life. It's about asking yourself, what do I truly want? Who do I wanna become? Often when you feel lost, it's from what matters to you most. Realigning is about coming back to yourself, and ensuring that your reflect your true priorities. It's not just about setting goals, it's about making sure with your authentic self and dream life. You're not just chasing you're moving towards a and fulfilling to you. This is where a tool like can make a huge difference. It's designed to guide you through the process of setting clear intentional goals that align with who you are With exercises for self-discovery, goal setting, and tracking it's the perfect tool to help you stay aligned, focused, and accountable as If you're ready to take to creating the life you want, the 2025 &quot;Artist of Life It's more than just a journal. It's a comprehensive tool on where you've been, reset your mindset, and realign with your true purpose. With 152 pages of powerful goal setting, and accountability, to empower you to take control of your life. Whether you're looking to or realign your goals to match the life you want, this workbook is the tool that from where you are to where you want to be. Over the years, tens of thousands of people have transformed their lives with the &quot;Artist of Life Workbook.&quot; And I'm excited for you to be a part of this incredible journey. You can check it out at shop.lavendaire.com and start transforming your life today. Remember, feeling lost it just means you're human. We all have moments where Take this as an opportunity and what you truly want. The journey isn't always brings you closer to the The important thing is to keep moving forward with intention and purpose. So what's the first step you'll take today? (gentle music) (screen swooshing) All right, my friends, it is that time of year to introduce to you the brand This is the ninth edition of the workbook, so it is &quot;2025 Artist of Life Workbook&quot; in brand new colors, turquoise and sand. I can't believe it's been that many years creating this thing. But if you are new here, I of what this workbook is and what's inside. And I'm also excited to talk as well as share the exciting that we have coming up very, very soon. In a nutshell, the &quot;Artist of Life Workbook&quot; is a guided journal to help you create your most intentional and successful year yet. It's jam packed with the best exercises for self-discovery, self-love, mindset, goal setting, goal achieving, and so much more It's basically a tool to to where you want to be. So it is such a great tool and focused as you go throughout the year, and keep you on track to It's been so loved by our community. As you can see, I've been putting this out for about eight years now. So the first version was the 2017 workbook. And each year since then, we've So it's evolved through surveys and feedback. And we've just been until it gets better and better and better. So it's honestly just the best. Like, I just love the format of the workbook as it is right now. And I'm so excited for you to see it, if you haven't already. If you wanna check it out, you can go to shop.lavendaire.com. On the page, we have a full flip through video where we show every single so you can see exactly what's inside. But I'll give you a general overview of the different sections right here. So it begins with a reflecting on 2024 section, so you can reflect on the past year. And then there's a planning for 2025, so setting your intentions for the new year. Then there's a self-love section, and this is one of my favorite nurturing your relationship with yourself. Then we have the 2025 goal planning section, where you start with envisioning your dream life and best year. And then we guide you through setting goals in all the different areas of your life, from health to relationships, career, money, home, and so on. Then there's a section with and overcome challenges, or anything that might get you stuck. Finally, there's my favorite part of the workbook called the goal book. So this is the part where you take your goals and your dreams, and you bring them to reality. So this is the part that keeps you accountable throughout the year. So there's a whole section like quarterly goals, quarterly reviews, monthly Habit trackers, gratitude journal. There's just so much here, It follows you throughout the year, and that is what makes this different from other goal setting is that you actually make time to review your goals every And you can even break it if you wanna get nitty gritty. (gentle music) Another thing I wanna mention that we've built around this workbook. So this workbook has really And there are tens of thousands who use it and love it. And my favorite thing to and videos and your posts how you're using the workbook, because everyone uses it Like, I love seeing the all of us are on our own unique path. Like, my dream life is different from her dream life. And it's really amazing to to guide you through creating your version of your ideal life. And that can like manifest And it is so fun to see. I checked the stats recently and to date, I believe we've sold over 47,000 physical workbooks over the years. And if you include the digital workbook along with that number, then it's probably over 60,000 workbooks. So imagine, over 60,000 people It's like impacted so many There are people who do meetups and do the workbook together, Like my favorite group are They met every single month. I don't know if they're still meeting, but I just, I love you guys so much. I love everyone who is a work-booker, because it means that at truly trying to create And I think we need more of Not to mention, we have a lot of people in our Discord group. So we have the Lavender Community Discord. As well as our Dream Life Club, which is our exclusive Discord. So in both of those groups, using the workbook, sharing their vision boards, current me/future me. Just so much, and I just love seeing it. I love seeing all of you thrive in life. By the way, if you haven't it is our exclusive community, a little more support and accountability as we go towards our goals. So it's a discord group with a So we have like weekly journaling prompts, weekly reflection, daily inspo. And a bunch of little your monthly goals, dream life, about this personal growth journey. And we also do monthly online live events. For example, I'm planning to host a new year planning So if you wanna join, (gentle music) Finally, I'm excited to that we'll be hosting on our every single week until the new year. So starting this Sunday, there will be a new weekly challenge. And every month, we'll be from this challenge to win So make sure you follow us @shoplavendaire for these challenges. So the official name of this challenge is Reset and Realign for 2025. So throughout this we will be guiding you to Like, if you notice the theme of re. So that's essentially the theme is the theme of all words that begin with re. Because re means like coming back, taking a pause, like, it is a part of life, right? Life is not just like going full force all the time. Life happens in cycles and seasons. And I feel like that's a theme a lot this year, and it's a So going back to the visuals the ocean, the waves, the beach, how the waves are coming in and out. It's like the ocean is constantly in motion. There's always the highs, the and that is life. And so that's what I love about this theme. It is so relevant to what We have to take moments to pause, reflect, maybe reset and realign to ourselves. Realign to our true selves, or our original dream, whatever that is. Like, whatever feels truest to you, because it is so easy to get sidetracked and misaligned in life. So that is the heart of the theme of this year. And that is why we are weekly challenges every Make sure you follow to I'm super excited for you Even if you might live far away, let's say like international we have a digital version of the workbook. It's the exact same thing. It's a PDF that you can fill it out on a tablet or And also, I forgot to mention that if you purchase the physical workbook, we give you the digital workbook for free. We've been doing that ever since the beginning of the workbook. So it's something I forget. I think it's obvious, but at the same time, I don't think other people do that. So anyway, once you have you have the digital one as well. So that you can plan your life in whatever format is best for you. Thank you so much for being here, especially if you watched to the end. I truly hope that you find realignment to your truest and highest self. And your truest and most purposeful, meaningful, beautiful path in life. All right, sending you love, bye. (pleasant music)