Hi guys, you are watching Railways Explained. channel. The idea is to talk about different the world. This means we will present main which will include some history, some discussion that country, dominant rail companies present being transported, main corridors, traffic other cool and, for all rail lovers, interesting If you find this concept interesting, please us which country would you like to see next. your proposal. If you are wondering why Switzerland, reasons Switzerland is among the top rail systems but also network usage, service quality, punctuality addition, it maintaines strong safety scores and its railway network is 100% electrified. the best examples of how modern rail system If we got your attention, let's proceed with the video. BRIEF HISTORY OF SWISS RAILWAYS Switzerland s railway system, like many others in Europe, went through three characteristic initial construction by private investors, the way to the period of reform and modernization. topic in a video dedicated to the development that one out. Now, back to Switzerland. the world, the railway mania in Switzerland were the ones who started construction of later prove to be problematic. overconstruction took place, resulting in led to the bankruptcy of many investors, which nationalize private railway companies. if this decision wasn t the subject of a referendum February and on that occasion voters approved of Railways on Behalf of the Confederation Swiss Federal Railways&quot; (386,634 votes in which took place before the vote was also Railways for the Swiss People&quot;, supporters which certainly might take place if railways process of nationalization was carried out date can be considered the &quot;official&quot; birthday - SBB. in case of the rest of the Europe, railways technology improved, lots of freight and passengers something happened. In a few words - road bussineses started using trucks, the economy goods suitable for trucks, and all was followed of debts. Railways were in crisis. If you you are already familiar with all these details. it was kind of different compared to the rest analyze it in a bit more detail. The reason by the European Economic Community, the forerunner Switzerland which wasn t a member state of s introduce three main characteristic reform The first phase of the reform of Swiss railways the transport of passengers on the regional into force on 1st January 1996, among other, railway companies and public administration. requiring public authorities to subsidise clearly indicated in the contract. Another the cantonal authorities. In the past, only for regional transport together with SBB, alone. The idea was now different - to make services on their territories. to the intention to end the SBB monopoly for undoubtedly the most innovative solution, competition. by introduction of a new regulatory framework. out in EU legislation, in the first line Directive rail activities related to transport from management. It also enabled the access to authorized railway companies. It also significantly of SBB. One of the main goals of this part power of federal administration over the SBB. proposed a new package of laws branded as the transposition of the first and transpose However, the Swiss parliament returned this to implement it all at once, but rather through that important. What is important is that accepted, for both international freight and domestic traffic, the &quot;Swiss model&quot; actually European Commission. and is more akin to a particular type of governance The Swiss rail system is vertically integrated, this fact, that Switzerland has a single rail behind its exceptional performance. The Swiss system, somewhere between liberalized market, and, on the other hand, stiff national and in the case of Switzerland, this EU philosophy in terms of traffic performance, which will RAILWAY COMPANIES IN SWITZERLAND The liberalization of the rail market in Switzerland and the emergence of large number of private of goods. According to the latest report of there are in total 59 companies on the Switzerland Of course, we ll not gonna talk about all We will start from the largest - SBB Group. company structure. SBB manages four operating These are Passenger Services Markets, Passenger Division. group company at the start of 2019 and emerged SBB Cargo and SBB Cargo International. SBB Cargo International owns two companies: SBB and SBB Cargo Italy as its Italian production SBB s governing bodies are responsible for particular for the strategic and financial independence of the group companies and all provisions. jointly owned by the cantonal and federal km (91.3 mi) of railway lines, out of which Voralpen Express service (Pre-Alpine Express) express train from Lucerne to St. Gallen. in May 1993 operates high-speed trains between Lausanne, Basel and Zurich in Switzerland. Railways (SNCF) and 26% in the ownership of The German national railway company Deutsche German border to Basel Badischer Bahnhof station, and operates an east west line across the the largely German High Rhine Railway, and with SBB. DB also operates long-distance trains ICE services to Basel, Zurich, Berne, Chur run several services to Germany, for example The Austrian Railjet by BB is also in the and several destinations in Austria. The?? connections with the cities of Innsbruck, If you agree, now is the right time to bring FACTS AND FIGURES For the purpose of this section, as a source from SBB website. lines managed by SBB is 3260 km (2025 mi), the multi-track lines. The longest tunnel with a lenght of 57,1 km (35 mi). This tunnel and deepest traffic tunnel. We mentioned this about the Guinness World Records related to The Degree of electrification of railway lines in the world. In addition, Switzerland posess where the line length per country area of screen. covered with the European Train Control System of the service. had a total of 33,498 workers. This may seem largest number of employees are engaged in the passenger transport in Switzerland is... However, this number is followed by 9,978 of railway infrastructure, as well as the deal with freight transport services. The group-level units. performance. Here we will present the data in 2020, like everywhere else, left a significant So, the number of trains on the Swiss railway heard right. Over 11 thousand trains per day, 3260 km long. Within this number, 9,522 trains for freight operations. which means that SBB transports about 488 you, Switzerland has a population of about animation on its website relating to the passenger except for enjoy . This is really fascinating. with over 400 thousand passengers a day. Next What is also amazing in the story of the Swiss trains. In Switzerland a train service is any station on its route with less than three of on time services in Switzerland? Over 91%. tonnes per day is being transported by SBB railway network. Other private companies also we did not manage to find any reliable data know, please let us know in the comments. as well, however, we had to give up on that that case last too long. Instead, we encourage available on the SBB website. Link will be Also, let s now mention one interesting news in April this year, SBB ordered 60 double-decker euros, aiming to expand its train capacity from 2024. As you can see on the screen, in the last result where operating income was higher than Covid pandemic caused the change in this trend. in 2020 and all expenditures increased, which We really hope things will improve in the well as other European and world railways In any case, we hope we gave you enough information it can really be a good benchmark for all This was all for today, we hope you enjoyed of the world. Don t forget to like this video, of course, subscribe to our channel. Until