Few video game characters we know are as flying, multicolored puffball of joy is one had the opportunity to control since his debut inhabiting such a bizarre world, there theories that have sprouted regarding the Kirby which ones hold the most water and which I'm Kifinosi with 1upBinge and this is Kirby As usual, we are sticking this list. Any outside conspiracy Right Back At Ya will be overlooked unless they With that said, let's get the theories out theories either have so many holes that evidence... or they've been confirmed false Kirby is actually the villain. Kirby is often portrayed as one of the most there be a darker subtext to the character like Dreamland's biggest hero but if you really its residents as well as other creatures from simply a relentless eating machine that poses a We do admit Kirby does sometimes tends to eat a hard time believing this cute puffball contains with many characters throughout the games which he does swallow are ones that clearly mean him harm We will say that if Kirby ever did switch Popstar in a lot worse shape than it's in now, multicolored Kirbys. Because of that, we don't Master Hand was originally a Kirby character. Many people know that the Super Smash Bros. and man, Masahiro Sakurai. As such, a few of the be traced back to Kirby originally. One is that of Hand and Crazy Hand. These floating disembodied usually as the final confrontation. Master Hand is but some people have speculated that his first In Kirby Super Star, the titular puffball comes character's face appears in the background These hands share similar attacks as Master Hand Kirby as well as grabbing the player and crushing of Wham Bam Rock? We do only see Master Hand as is actually a bunch of rocks. We're putting this Rock's hands have similar attacks as Master Hand hands from the Smash series having a wider array Wham Bam Rock who wasn't really the hardest boss. how Master Hand and Crazy Hand appears as enemies we see no sign of Wham Bam Rock's face which more Moving on from the BS, these theories to say they're completely debunked, but Kirby's mouth is a portal to another dimension. Many fans have come up with theories larger than him while remaining the same size. but could it actually be sending Kirby's enemies Kirby is also swallowing food, drinks, a pretty small guy so where does it all go? for a few reasons. For the most part, Kirby can copy abilities. Whenever he either rids himself the ability usually ejects itself from Kirby's while Kirby eats a lot, he is not bottomless and Also if either to food or the enemies were we don't understand how it could body. Kirby's digestive system does make we don't believe this theory is giving Dark Matter exists in both The main overarching enemy in the Kirby games is a threat to both Popstar and other planets in Dark Matter are actually comprised of the same We do definitely have evidence that suggests place in the same universe. This is due to on a stage in Kirby's Dream Land 3 as well as through The Great Cave Offensive in Kirby to suggest that the Phazon substance that shares too many similarities too many similarities actuality there really only seem to be two major They bot-**h are somewhat intangible and in contact with them. In our opinion and not enough to definitively prove With that said, we're now into may be stumble onto some truth... Kirby is a different protagonist every time. We do know for sure that Kirby is indeed a how there can exist many different colors etc. The main Kirby adventures always seem to character. However, is this a different Kirby game? Some fans seem to theorize the former. we think there is one case where this theory is Dreamland. Not only is this Kirby portrayed as copy enemies unlike every other interpretation of on the other hand, we believe to be the same an established history with characters neither of which would make sense if it was a Meta Knight walk the line between being an ally depending on which Kirby they encounter. We do legitimacy of this theory but not enough Kirby and the Amazing Mirror is a metaphor. One of the most unique games in Kirby's platforner many other Kirby games feature a lot of secrets levels. This game turned the format of Kirby branching pathways for the player to explore. On plot for Anazing Mirror is deeper and more For those unaware, the story of this game follows him into four enemies before thrusting him through Mirror World and collecting pieces Kirby faces off with Meta Knight who turns out to Meta Knight reveals his true form, Dark Mind, wY the events unfolded have led fans to speculate uncovering hidden truths and exposing liars in we are putting it in the middle because no one if any this metaphor pertains to. We're not it is a theme of the game's story. All things These next conspiracies make we think they're more likely to be true Meta Knight is an older Kirby One of the most prominent yet mysterious On top of switching between being Kirby's friend naturally leaving fans to fill in the blanks. occasions where Meta Knight is unmasked, with yellow eyes. Unmasked Meta Knight even certain Smash Brothers games, which in our eyes Further speculation has led to wonder how believe this is because Kirby is younger and copy abilities. Meta Knight realized at some to being a swordfighter rather than constantly is testing Kirby to follow in his footsteps and is gone. Either or both of these theories confirmed to be true. Maybe it's time we had a Kirby was born from Dark Matter. While we're on the topic of Kirby species, let's talk about a theory that explains its regarding Dark Matter. Even though Kirby some fans have theorized that Kirby may There are a few things that point to this being its enemies in order to attack through their from how Kirby eats his enemies and steals Kirby also finds one of the Dark Matter entities of Void Termina in Kirby Star Allies. Lastly, can sometimes die and be reborn as friendlier existence. There are some gaps in this theory such the first place but there's enough here for us Finally, we've reached the truth. the whistle on these theories with be true or a creator confirmed it. Shiver Star is post apocalyptic Earth. In Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards, Kirby and in order to take down Dark Matter. One planet in very own third rock from the sun. Shiver Star can be observed by looking at the Earth but structure as well as a lone moon. On top of resemble many areas you would find on our home These similarities do raise some eyebrows if this theory is true. Many have speculated in the planet being completely frozen over seem to make sense to us. The only part of this moved from our own solar system into Kirby's as Kirby and friends have ventured through many led to that event. We think there's enough What about you? Have you heard any crazy below. While you're down there don't forget to