I'm going to do a double style, please? Thank you. In-N-Out really is part of You think of great weather, think of In-N-Out. In 1948, two burger joints just a 45 minute drive from One would grow into a $25 over 40,000 locations The other now brings in an net sales, with just over 400 While smaller, In-N-Out has no other American fast food Mcdonald's, at one point, you determined that we're no real estate company, In-N-Out No, we're going to stay who Even 75 years later, you could In-N-Out burger to order from since its founding. It's always just the and quality that's like the I could taste an In-N-Out sleep. In-N-Out has always kind of factor of like, there's want to go there, too. It's Consumers look at them as the authentic. Today, In-N-Out still controls has refused calls to go expand too far east. Yet it remains one of the top They are the gold standard of of ways. So how did this family owned, grow into the cultural In-N-Out burger was founded Snyder opened a small burger California. Harry actually system that created the Today, it's run by the Lynsi Snyder. When she took the age of 35, she became one in the world. The company has with about 70% of its California. It's estimated largest burger chain in the $2 billion a year. They only have around 400 player on the list has about We have them having the any other player in the outstanding what they're able footprint of locations. This may be due in part to to In-N-Out as a group versus At a place like Carl's Jr. 50% maybe more of those occasions. That's one diner. If you look at In-N-Out, it's solo occasions. So it kind of aspect of what makes a meal Oftentimes, it's the people If you're born in California, I'm going to do a double style, please? Grilled and I'll add chilies as well. A fry and a drink, please. It's not like just going to McDouble, or going to get Boom. The price point is the experience is just more Cy, who worked at In-N-Out in the restaurant that he and secure a spot as the first chain's new locations in We're excited to have you over second location. First meal officially. The shirt I got for free as It's pretty rare to come by. It says it's good for one for like hundreds of dollars. on to it and keeping it. Its small footprint has also In-N-Out feel like an Locations are mostly in the East Coast. Each drive away from one of its for a company that prides ingredients. French fries are burger is cooked fresh to We put In-N-Out to the test burger spot from the East Classic burger. Lettuce, tomato. Pickles just I think having vegetables that into them. As far as like a it's high quality. For me, Shake Shack, I feel I do prefer the Shake Shack I like that it tastes like a It has the crispy edges. I also like the bun more, but In-N-Out is basically price to quality ratio. I do tend to gravitate a In-N-Out. In-n-out fries are like, fine, They're a little limp. It's I would definitely say that fries. Not to mention that in them, they actually hold a milkshake, depending on what Consistency is key for You know, there's not a lot of In-N-Out is a pillar of In some ways, it's like going In-N-Out's menu includes just When you only have a few People then perceive those quality and more desirable. Unlike other fast food chains, edition items, and new the menu. When you are publicly traded, the whim of your investors, time. Since they're privately to ever consider anyone's But it's their not-so-secret consumers the feeling of It features options like a animal style. Their menu is a handful of it however you want. You're pun intended, but you really They kind of speak their own Starbucks did when they came a grande was. And when people have a secret insiders. They're members. You know, if it's a rainy day that's 12 and under, they get This is something they don't It's not something that's a Now, who doesn't love that? You can't imagine a Burger King doing that. Burger prices at In-N-Out have 2020, but prices still remain total control of its having to negotiate prices A big part of the In-N-Out They have a lot of employees. They're never understaffed. So you can go to an In-N-Out, you're going to get a You're going to be helped The starting wage for wage, and managers can make happy employees are noticed In fact, In-N-Out employees Lynsi Snyder favorably on has a 93% approval rating. They have very little Turnover costs restaurants a well and they have such a people want to work for them. One of In-N-Out's challenges their brand and legacy. Over the years, there have places that feature items In-N-Out. In-N-Out also sued delivery app added the The burger chain does not doesn't do delivery. What I think is going to be seeing how they navigate that know that there's a lot of ordering. The engagement that of Amazon-ification of their In-N-Out is currently planning the farthest east the company Nashville area locations are 2026. When they open a new one it's You would have thought, you They'll crush it at first factor, but if it gets much what will happen, you know? Does it just become like a everywhere? Does it become We'll have to see. After over has certainly figured out I mean, it's kind of American business ethos, Which is you cut corners, consumers, you treat your widgets. And they've done They've shown that you can be quality product, and you can You can treat your consumers on the stock exchange. You don't have to be on every I think that's their legacy.