It's July 12, 1979 and the Chicago White the second game of a double header. The baseball park had a capacity of 44,000 But that night, 55,000 spectators showed up. This event is remembered not because of the It was Disco demolition night. The main attraction, the Disco Demolition, spearheaded by morning radio man Steve Dahl and his anti-disco army called the Insane Coho Lips. Ooh. That felt good. Steve Dahl, a disco-hating radio DJ thought it would be hilarious to blow up hundreds of disco records in center field. Much to the dismay of those that approved bum rushed the field, inciting a riot. Many of the fans are scattering on the field now, where they fight the police. The baseball game never happened. This moment went down in history But it didn't. Within just a few years Chicago's youngest dance music by playing those disco records In the city that disco died, it was reborn travel the globe. Frankie Knuckles, one of the Godfathers of In 1989 James Wiltshire was working in a record One Saturday someone came in and just "Wowwwwww." The song they wanted to hear was "Ride on Obviously in this clubber's mind, it was heard. This happened at the tail end of an underground drug-induced movement in the UK, dubbed the "Second Summer of Love." Some very clever people suddenly realized out into a field and get 20,000 paying punters In 1989 "Ride on Time" went from being at number one on the pop charts. By the end of the year it was the best selling "Ride On Time" represents some of the From the vocals and piano, to the drums, each how House music came to be. &quot;Ride on Time,&quot; Black Box. Top of the Pop's 2, BBC 2. Starting first song, now. This is Black Box performing "Ride on Time" show. Despite what this performance might have you She's lip syncing to one of the most widely sampled disco records in house, Loleatta Holloway's "Love Sensation" Loleatta Holloway was a gospel singer turned Her song "Love Sensation" was released While the track itself fared pretty well, single, that Chicago DJs remixed over and They didn't just do it in clubs - they did WBMX is a Chicago radio station that was home &quot;The Hot Mix 5 on WBMX. Chicago's number one dance party. Here's another hot mix on 102.7 FM. These DJs played a pivotal role in popularizing From Ralphi Rosario To Farley "Jackmaster" Funk. Through the 1980s the Hot Mix 5 went from remixing house music tracks that Chicago DJs produced. It's estimated that a million people in Chicago Fans would record these programs on cassettes That process is literally how I'm able to Love Sensation live in 1984. There's always been this association with So it's of no surprise to me that vocal samples that had them out and piecing them back together. By some estimates "Love sensation" was likely started that trend, it was "Ride a house music staple. Even the most diehard instrumental techno that scene still love that vocal. What you're listening to is the kick drum instrument in house music it's this drum It's a big chunky beige box with proper 80s You've got 16 buttons at the bottom, a series drum sounds. The 909 was invented in 1983 by Ikutaro Kakehashi, This man gave us, probably by accident, machines The 909, or the 9 as lovers of it would like You probably know the 808 as the drum machine Kakehashi invented that too. Both used analog synthesis to generate sound, and hi-hats were samples of real drums. There's something and especially the open a frenzy straight away. I mean the kick is one thing, but it's really "Yep that's that's a track." As much as the 909 is really iconic today, back in Only 10,000 units were actually made. When the producers were wanting to create most of them were broke so they just went to and the one thing that was nearly always available sold very well. But it just so happened to have that particular The belting clap, the snare drum that you And those sloshy four or five cymbals and That punchy sound of the 909 quickly permeated producers were taking inspiration from house You can think of Larry Heard, &quot;Can you feel it.&quot; You can think of Derrick May's &quot;Strings of Life.&quot; You can hear it in "Jack Your Body" - the first Chicago house music song to reach number one in the UK. All the way to early house hits made in the UK like If you take away to 909 from that, a lot of It's no surprise then, that in the opening 909 kick drum and those crunchy hi hats. And then the pianos started, and then it got In the late 1980s different house subgenres There was acid house, developed from the song Its iconic sound came from the squelching There was deep-house which leaned heavily And then there was Italo-house, which more rhythm of a digital piano. "Ride on Time" is a classic Italo-house So much so, there's a solo piano version The Italians really knew how to do this mixture of great big pianos -- and you add it became a staple. In 1986, three years before "Ride on Time" "Move Your Body" dubbed the house music It's this song that helped establish how riffs. The way pianos are used in house music is Listen to the piano in "Ride on Time" immediately hear the similarities in rhythm. The musical exchange between Italy and Chicago Italo-house and "Ride on Time" in particular of Chicago artists. And that was met with a lot of controversy Time" wasn't properly cleared when the credited for it. But if we rewind back to Chicago in the early genre of music was taking off: Italo-disco. Italian disco had a massive effect on the Because they effectively had this going before house music had really come to the fore and was the new sound in clubs. Just like House, the sound of italo-disco And it's this genre that forms the link Take a listen to this WBMX radio show again: That was that Loleatta Holloway acapella you "Shame (you were the big sensation)" an Go through any Chicago House DJ set in the italo-disco records, and that influenced what Take the italo-disco song "Dirty Talk" That opening bassline and arpeggiated synth including the 1986 classic "Your Love" By 1990 House music was a global music genre, dance floors with a 909 kick drum. That was almost inevitable. From its inception in Chicago, House music What happened when "Ride On Time" came storm of a great big monster club sound with knew, and B, sounded powerful. You could almost put it as an actual pivotal it all just blew wide open.