Online Weekend Retreat Online Weekend Retreat with Mooji Observe with Detachment and 18 March 2023 [Q: Brandon] Hey, Mooji. How're you doing? [Mooji] I'm doing just fine, sir. How are you? [Q.] Good, good. [Q.] So I've been following you since 2020. I came upon a video of you on YouTube. And 2020 was a year for me, where, I guess, I had a conceptual awakening as I was reading And then, once I started to read, and nothing else fulfilled me, nothing could like ... So I was always just reading, reading, reading, and I just couldn't find anything So, I guess that whole time, I was searching for the truth. And that truth that you relayed to me it touched my heart. And I am forever grateful for my inner Guru to introduce me to my earthly Guru. So, I appreciate you, and I love you, and I just thank you for as I continue to go through my journey, because I am still in the process [Q.] through my daily life. [Q.] Because once I had that initial insight I thought it was over, I thought it was done. But then, go back into the real world and hence the mind attacks. And so, now, the integration process [Q.] like just going through daily life. Returning to the real, or the unreal world, whichever way you want to say it, I'd prefer to say a bit unreal, it is a highly subjective experiencing. [Mooji] So much so that of the phenomenal world, the mind takes it to be But you see that as you change, As you experience the world that you perceive is transformed So I am aroused a little bit when you say, 'I must try now to integrate these two'. And I want to look at that, to find what you mean by integrating the two. [Q.] Integrating means [Q.] with things that are coming up. If you don't identify emotionally then there is nothing to actually physically It becomes integral. You see, this is why I wanted to find out what you mean by Because you don't need to integrate If you are real, then your worldview, everything, somehow it will prostrate to the real. But as long as we have a conception of ourself as this ever-changeful being we are a victim patterns of the manifest world. as part of the dynamic world Now, an aspect of ourself is manifesting as a person navigating through life, and that person is growing from its experience, becoming more and more refined. But if that personal sense that went on for years and years but ultimately it just becomes a refined person if it holds on to the notion of itself So therefore when I say, Observe, which is also supported by our imagination include all of that as one sphere or plane watched from a place but you intuitively know the sense of being. I may call it a sense of presence. I may say it's the place I may call it the 'I am'-ness. I may call it the sense of being The person becomes, somehow, The Self is not projecting. It is simply on everything, And I want to clarify it because once we are imbued strongly the person is a restless state searching for rest in fulfilling its projections, [Mooji] It just moves from one state [Mooji] It's like having an idea that the ocean is only purely ocean So when the wind blows we say, 'Oh no, it is not quite the ocean'. The Self is not like that, the true Self, And so I'm only calling to be here, If we have a strong conviction in personhood, then the attraction to come This is why sometimes suffering and pain accelerate your receding [Mooji] Once we have the power it is always going out. Through the senses and the mind, our energies are going out, to control something, to balance something. But from the place of being, you watch. The beingness is not observing the world The world becomes like a mirror that's constantly reflecting the stillness. So even in the midst of activity, it's like you are the stillness Have you come to this recognition? Because I believe you have. [Q.] Yes. I used to be attached the 'I am' presence. And then I remember [Q.] and you said, 'You're not even that'. [Q.] And so I was going through a loop [Q.] like, hold on, What do you mean I'm not that? And then, I saw. I said, Hold on. I'm the one that's actually watching that. Because I kept trying to turn [Q.] but it's impossible. [Q.] I am That. [Mooji] I'm so happy you say this. At one point in my life, I was very confident that I had reached my state. I came across a saying where he spoke very much of that, And it so disturbed me. Almost for a moment [M.] Whoa, I don't want to hear about this! [Mooji] Because it disrupted But it disturbed me so much, because I had to keep probing into this I could not find anywhere, What does he mean? So you continue looking. And if, say, you try and turn around which is looking out towards the world, it cannot see this. It itself becomes seen. But I didn't want to say this too early, because there's a tendency of the intellect, which is still under the sway that feels, 'Oh, if he's saying that, I'm going straight for this. But it has not conquered This is the dilemma. This is the trick that can happen for the intellect of the person that feels, 'No, if he says that there's something But he hasn't lost his 'I' as a person yet. So, therefore, I say, from the place of the no-person. The sense 'I am' or beingness is not a person. If it is a person, it is the divine person, It is the Christ Consciousness or whatever you want to call it, As you keep being aware of the world the fullness of your 'I am' returns, It is a place of pure joy and peace Then you gradually begin to, begin to also learn to observe the beingness. You will not be able to do that if you're in a state Because the personhood goes out from there, But then you realise that in front of the shapeless. I hope ... in this level of the conversation now, What became curious for me in your talking, was about integrating something, and I felt, that's not an action that can be taken. Because remember that has already integrated everything. There's no person that can come If he's going to integrate, and not into something-ness. Because you're going back into the wilderness, maybe not wilderness, Please be reminded, everyone, that, we are not having a fight We're not saying, 'Life is no good, It is no emotional dismissal or cynicism But simply seeing this, to integrate with the earthly existence and personal intentions and so on. But something must have been built, that questions that at some point, either through experience helped to turn the attention within. Your real journey begins within. And in this within-ness, you begin to discover the capacity Is this of any value to you, Brandon? [Q.] A whole lot of value, a whole lot of value. And I just want to say that, when I started to just continue to go on my path, I started to really experience it. What I meant by integrating, do you know how you have the juicy thoughts, [Q.] your attention goes to the juicy thoughts? Well, now, when I go out into the world, well, the attention gets attached but then a negative thought will come in and it will wake me right back up. It's just like, oh, I fell asleep for a second and I will just get right back up. I enjoy that because it's like, oh, basically, it's burning the identity of all these things, it's burning it. [Mooji] Before you said, 'I enjoy that', Don't enjoy it too much. [Q.] OK. [M.] Because sometimes we can become addicted and we keep an identity to keep enjoying that. Make use of it, make use of it, until somehow you find yourself in the effortless. And the effortless It's beyond the play of interrelated opposites. Nevertheless, of course, you can go into life, into any aspect of life where you find yourself, and you'll find that And everything becomes more spontaneous. You don't have to try to twist life because you're without projections. At least ... You know, I cannot put the truth into words. I'm happy that you say, the concepts But those concepts must combust into spirit. Meaning that they cannot just be held like in some resevoir that you turn to It is automatically one with your being. [Q.] An investigation happens spontaneously. [Mooji] Yes. Very good. I'm very happy to talk with you, Brandon. [Q.] Thank you. [Mooji] Yes. Very good. You will hear from me. [M.] I love you. Thank you. Wonderful. [M.] Wonderful. Copyright 2023 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.