,(slow music) - [Narrator] Elizabeth II. (crowd cheering) Queen of the United Kingdom. Service of her country for 70 years. - There's nobody else on Earth - [Narrator] Although she the political power in her 14 prime ministers have held Tradition demands that once a week they report to Her Majesty - All of them come to find it one of the most treasured - [Narrator] These meetings - It has never ever leaked what a queen has said to a prime minister or a prime minister to the Queen. - [Narrator] We take a And we discover secret but also genuine friendships. (slow music) The British love their queen, maybe because she doesn't - It's often said she's and that is true. But she has understood of not expressing her (slow music) - [Narrator] 10 Downing Street is the headquarters of From here, the prime on a little business for their weekly audience with the Queen. The Queen has already (projector whirring) The first was Winston Particularly close was her relationship with prime minister number five, the Labour lefty Harold Wilson. At the end of the 70s, the Margaret Thatcher, the Iron Lady. Equally difficult was her Neither he nor her latest were born when she held - We, the rest of us We love the idea that once even if we voted for him, has to go and bow the knee to somebody. That's its greatest significance of all, that once a week the with all his connections and everything, has to go and give an account, has to literally bow the knee to somebody who represents (slow music) - [Narrator] During the audience, the Queen listens more than she talks. But she's always well prepared and guides the conversation (slow music) During her youth, Elizabeth spends many carefree summers in the countryside. She is a conscientious, - I think the secret to is to realize she was For the first 11 years of she developed all the for her grandfather George V, but there was no prospect So it never went to her head. I think the fact that she is the essence of her success. (slow music) Suddenly, in 1936, her grandfather, whom she actually called Grandpa England, died to be succeeded by Uncle That was King Edward VIII. And within months, King Edward VIII is wanting to marry an American divorcee. He's been thrown out of his Who's to take his place? The stuttering George VI. (slow music) He had an enormous the constitutional monarchy in particular. And that's what he (slow music) (guns firing) - [Narrator] But then the Even during the Blitz, Prime and the royal family stay in London to boost the morale of their people. (crowd cheering) During the victory 1 million Britons celebrate and their prime minister. (slow music) The close relationship between impresses Elizabeth so much that she makes a solemn - I declare before you whether it be long or short, shall be devoted to your service and to the service of our to which we all belong. (slow music) - [Narrator] Soon, on 6 February, 1952, she has to fulfill her pledge. Her father dies of lung cancer. Elizabeth cancels a holiday trip. Winston Churchill greets her back home. - Everybody who lived through it will remember the moment and this young girl appeared at the top, the first time really of that she brought (slow music) - And then began the life of service. But she was probably than other girls of sort because she is such a dutiful person and she always wanted to do her best. But it can't have been easy. (crowd cheering) (slow music) - [Narrator] Out of Elizabeth waits 16 months before she is finally crowned For months she's prepared and worked through state papers. 3 million spectators cheer the young woman who at this moment becomes and of 15 other countries. Her old friend Winston Churchill becomes her first prime minister. 78-year-old Churchill has known Elizabeth since she was born. When she was only two years with her authority and thoughtfulness. Now, during their first that he feels a lot more - I think there's a sense in which all the Queen's prime ministers have been in love with But it was most overtly He made no pretense at it. There were tears in his Sentimentally he loved the with Queen Victoria, and the fact that this will be a sort - I think the Queen valued And he, of course, loved the Queen. He did love her. I mean, she aroused in of sovereignty and monarchy, and the new Elizabethan (slow music) - [Narrator] But they also Churchill fought five wars for the Empire, and he wants to retain by force if necessary. Elizabeth, on the other hand, favors a loose confederation of states. Five months after her coronation, she embarks on a world tour Churchill doesn't think much of this idea. - My grandfather was a child And you wouldn't expect him, I think, to be overjoyed probably. But he was a pragmatist, the movement of events, (slow music) - [Narrator] But unlike his young queen, Churchill finds it difficult to accept Britain's new role in the world. He fights against the Increasingly, he is plagued by depression. - My grandmother tried very hard to get him to retire after the war and to end his political career But he couldn't. He was like an old warhorse, you know. He couldn't give it up. (slow music) - [Narrator] Then Churchill has a stroke. Officially he says that he But Elizabeth knows the truth. - She must have been very you know, this was her She had known him all her natural life. And it was the end of as you say, looking back, the end of the Empire (slow music) - [Narrator] In the years after, Elizabeth settles into her Each year, she opens Parliament And each year, she reads a The prime minister puts - Today, for the first time, not only by those who are but by many millions of my subjects. (slow music) - [Narrator] Elizabeth is She meets Marilyn Monroe The Queen, who doesn't have a passport, makes 43 state visits during the first 10 years of her reign. She is Britain's most important diplomat. (upbeat music) Back home, her kingdom is in upheaval. The 60s usher in a new era. The young rebel against tradition. (projector whirring) After decades of Conservative rule, the Britons want somebody The new prime minister the Labour Party leader. - Everybody, the establishment of Wilson when he was in power. I mean, what was he going to do next? (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Elizabeth's Wilson's supposed to be a lefty and plans a social revolution. - There was quite a lot of as to what this chap would be like. But to their surprise they was quite a monarchist, a royalist. (slow music) - [Narrator] Elizabeth's advisers is not only the leader but also an Oxford don. - Wilson, I think, was the and not look down on her, and certainly to make it clear that he wasn't looking down on her. (upbeat music) (slow music) - [Narrator] But Wilson's government is facing huge problems. The industry is still suffering from the consequences of the war, and exports are low because trade with the former colonies has broken down. The workers revolt against Wilson. They want him to nationalize and go on strike. The palace doesn't understand the rift between the workers and the Labour Party. But the prime minister can explain. - He saw himself as teaching her a lot about whole sections of her kingdom which she didn't really From first hand she that old-fashioned Conservative like going shooting and having But she didn't really know She didn't really know about (slow music) - Interestingly, over the years, Harold Wilson's audiences with the Queen, with the Queen's agreement, And he would stay for drinks afterwards. (slow music) - [Narrator] That has Alcohol used to be taboo Now brandy and gin are being served. (slow music) The prime minister spends with his family in Cornwall. Picnicking and golfing, Harold Wilson loves the country life. Just like his queen. She traditionally spends her and invites all prime ministers - On the second day, a and it's cooked by the Duke of Edinburgh. And the Queen herself does the washing up. And Harold Wilson thought it (gentle music) (crowd yelling) - [Narrator] But in the the riots are becoming more violent. High inflation rates, turn Britain into the sick man of Europe. (slow music) March 1976, after eight years in power, the exasperated prime minister requests a private - I did ask him myself He said, &quot;You know, it's &quot;that I've seen the &quot;and they're coming round &quot;and I don't have any new answers. &quot;So I decided it was time to go.&quot; (slow music) (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Over the next three years, an ambitious grocer's fights her way to the top - Margaret Thatcher became and she was determined to confront what she saw as the enemies within, the enemies of the state, by which she largely and to try and crush union power. And the scene was set - Yes, I am an iron lady. After all, it wasn't a bad (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Margaret Thatcher's success is the result of hard work. The advertising agency Saatchi &amp; Saatchi designed her campaign. She employed a style - Well, she was talkative, incredibly argumentative, loved arguing, fierce in argument, respected people who stood up to her and argued with her, extremely well organized, You might say an official's dream. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] The State sees two women who are both the same age, equally ambitious, and status conscious. - Britain was unique in these years. We had a head of state and a chief executive Stuffy old Britain was ahead And you have these two women, a woman who loved confrontation, with a women, the Queen, who'd do anything to avoid an argument. I mean, one of the reasons why the Queen is a successful constitutional monarch is that she much prefers She hates a row. - I don't think that the hated each other, but I think certainly in the early where they rubbed each (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Margaret Thatcher immediately deregulates The stock market is booming. Privatization boosts the economy. But the gap between the - The lady's not for turning. - [Narrator] She quells - There was more social and lack of social cohesion than at any other time, partly because she felt and her style was confrontational. And there is evidence was deeply unhappy about what went on for a lot of the time under Mrs Thatcher. (slow music) - [Narrator] But when she she turns into the Thatcher always arrives a for her weekly audience. And every week the Queen - I think Margaret about everything than Margaret Thatcher was extremely She is a monarchist. And she was very respectful to the Queen. You've only got to look at to realize just how I mean she went so low whether she would get up again. - [Narrator] But Thatcher's curtsies don't impress Elizabeth. - The stage was set for And for quite a long time they were quite sticky, the And I don't think they ever... Mrs Thatcher is not someone and kick your shoes off with and sort of have a glass They were both quite - I mean, one of the best examples of the Queen and Thatcher was that Margaret Thatcher apparently rang up the Palace one day to say that she was going to a that the Queen would be at, and she wanted to know what so that she wouldn't clash with the Queen. And back came the reply from the Queen, &quot;Don't worry, the Queen never notices &quot;what other women are wearing.&quot; So, put down, you know. (people singing in foreign language) - [Narrator] The two ladies also disagree on foreign affairs. The Commonwealth countries against the apartheid But the prime minister with the problems of the Commonwealth. - African countries were effectively supporting, And they knew that Margaret She had actually delayed in the British parliament about sanctions. (cameras clicking) (slow music) - [Narrator] Against Thatcher's will, Elizabeth travels to a meeting effectively supporting their claims. Thatcher must give in and (bells tolling) And at home, the royal family On the 29th of July, 1981, Prince Charles marries Diana Spencer. - On the day it was wonderful. It was just, the whole It was a lovely fairy tale love story. There's never another wedding in my view that could equal it. It was just wonderful. The bride was the most beautiful. The whole world was The sad thing was that the prince wasn't. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Thatcher's as she introduces the poll tax. A quarter of a million people take to the streets in London alone. Rioting breaks out and more The country is in turmoil. (slow music) In the end, even her own party has had enough of Margaret Thatcher. John Major succeeds her. She leaves Downing Street in tears. Elizabeth shows sympathy towards her beleaguered prime minister. - In the end, I think they did get on. And I think that Mrs the advice that the Queen gave her. - The Queen was very upset by the way in which Mrs Thatcher was deposed by the Conservative Party. And she told somebody that, &quot;All right, Mrs Thatcher may &quot;but it was a horrible And that's why I think that there was the Queen (triumphant music) - [Narrator] Politically, returns to normal. But suddenly her family for the tabloid press. (upbeat music) In 1992, her son Andrew and And then Charles and - The poor queen, you &quot;Gosh, she's been on &quot;and now it's all falling apart.&quot; She was called the mother They all thought it was her fault that her children had bad marriages. I mean, the monarchy was under threat because people thought, &quot;of having a monarchy like that?&quot; You know, they're all scandals It was just a disaster. And then suddenly in December they announced that Charles Everybody thought, &quot;God, &quot;It's terrible.&quot; And then suddenly Windsor it was on fire. An electrician left some hot object around and it set fire to the curtains and then the whole place went up. And in a funny way, although it gained some sympathy for the Queen. They thought, &quot;Oh, the poor woman. &quot;What else can go wrong, you know?&quot; (slow music) - [Narrator] During a the Queen shows her true feelings. - 1992 is not a year on which I shall look back with undiluted pleasure. In the words of one of my more it has turned out to (audience murmuring) (upbeat music) - [Narrator] The mood (projector whirring) John Major's government seems lackluster. Britain is yearning for a fresh start. 43-year-old Tony Blair is He promises to change things. - Victory at the next general election. (audience applauding) - [Narrator] And indeed, Tony Blair enters Downing - Blair came into office So I think it would that the Palace might have as to what he was going And you know, he was very, He walked to the state holding his wife's hand, which made the state procession or at least that was the impression. It was all New Labour, it Everything was going to change, things were going to (slow music) - [Narrator] During their first audience, Elizabeth cuts her down to size. - When Tony Blair first his very first audience with the Queen, he told me the Queen said, &quot;Ah, Mr. Blair, &quot;welcome to your first &quot;Of course, my first prime &quot;and you weren't even born then.&quot; And he said, &quot;That put me (slow music) - [Narrator] But after a while, Tony Blair seems to enjoy Although large sections of his party think the monarchy is out of date. - But on the other hand, to show that they were now a doing the things that any party And having a good and with the monarchy is part of being a responsible (slow music) - [Narrator] Just three months Princess Diana dies in a car accident. Her death is a test for the relationship between the Queen and her prime minister. Elizabeth is on summer She hears the news of - The Queen's first concern was her grandsons, William and Harry. She said to Prince Charles, &quot;We must take the radios Then she clicked on the television And of course, every channel had pictures of the dead princess, the crash. Her life was endlessly rehashed. She said, &quot;We've got to get them out. &quot;We've got to get them up on the hills, &quot;organize a barbecue Her preoccupation was with her own family. And she forgot that she had us, all weeping, and laying our wreaths, and feeling that we have been deprived. And when she did come to think about us, she shrugged her shoulders and thought, &quot;Well, you can all get on with it.&quot; (slow music) - [Narrator] Tony Blair, however, comforts the grieving Just hours after the accident, he steps up to the microphones. - [Reporter] Prime Minister, can we please have your - I feel like everyone else in this country today, utterly devastated. Our thoughts and prayers are in particular her two sons, the two boys. Our hearts go out to them. She was the people's princess how she will remain in our hearts and in our memories forever. - Tony Blair summed up and devastation that most (slow music) - [Narrator] The grief over Diana's death turns into rage against the silent queen. The newspapers attack Elizabeth. - The extraordinary emotions the gap between that and the totally stand-offish, And Blair did advise the as to how she, the Queen, should behave. He'd only been prime minister To be advising the monarch towards her own people (slow music) - [Narrator] The Queen confer every day. He urges her to address the nation. - I guess history will say that was slow to come back from not necessarily a personal mistake, but a mistake by the institution. Actually, I think it's unfair because it was for the best of reasons, to protect the grandsons after their mother's death. But history judges harshly and that will be one of the judgements. (slow music) - [Narrator] Five days Elizabeth finally returns to London. - The atmosphere changed at And she and the Duke of Edinburgh and looked at flowers and then And I remember when they came inside, I was there with a group and we were all talking. And they were in some ways with what had happened, the (slow music) - [Narrator] Downing Street and the Palace agree that the Queen must make a speech showing that she shares The Queen's private secretaries - Just at the last minute they not for approval, but to And it was Campbell who on Tony Blair's behalf, could &quot;Speaking as a grandmother.&quot; And they grabbed it. - So what I say to you now, as your Queen and as a First, I want to pay She was an exceptional In good times and bad she never lost her capacity nor to inspire others with (slow music) - [Narrator] Thanks to the Queen wins back the But her relationship with the prime minister remains difficult. At her 50th wedding anniversary, Blair blabs about the highly For a moment Elizabeth - Actually your majesty's at Buckingham Palace on Tuesday at the end of our weekly session were, &quot;Please don't be too effusive.&quot; (audience laughing) - [Narrator] No British prime minister can afford such a mishap. Maybe one of the reasons why Blair's audiences with Elizabeth are often over after just 20 minutes. - You are our queen, with and mean ability for mimicry. - Tony Blair's own memoirs about the Queen are quite interesting in terms of how you get on with the Queen. He said, &quot;Sometimes she be matey with you, be sort of friendly and informal with you, but you should never try Because if you do, then you get the look. And it's quite interesting 'cause Tony liked to (slow music) - [Narrator] But in the end, Blair loses both popular He vacates Downing Street to make room for his (projector whirring) Brown's government is hapless. And after only three years, he has to make way for the Queen's 12th prime minister. (slow music) In 2011, Prince William and makes the monarchy more popular than ever. (upbeat music) Politically however, the United Kingdom is facing one of the biggest Although David Cameron is he promises his people a referendum. He hopes this will strengthen his position as prime minister. Above all, he doesn't - [Crowd] EU, bye bye. - [Narrator] But he's wrong. In June 2016, a wafer-thin voted to leave the EU. - The British people have to take a different path. - [Narrator] Cameron resigns. His successor, Theresa of making Brexit happen. - Brexit means Brexit, and we're going to make a success of it. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] The second in British history has a with the Queen. But she is unpopular within After three years she finally gives up. While the government stumbles the royals add some (crowd cheering) In May 2018, Meghan and Harry get married. At the time, no one would have guessed that the marriage would soon spark a major family row among the Windsors. (slow music) In July 2019, Boris Johnson and becomes Elizabeth's - Well, I think she would The last time I saw Boris at the Foreign Office, he had a picture of the Queen and Prince So this is a man who is a monarchist. So I think there'd be certainly from Mr. Johnson to Her Majesty. And equally I think the She was married to a character who wasn't afraid of speaking his mind. And therefore I don't think she'd have any problem whatsoever handling somebody like Boris Johnson. (slow music) - When he was born, she had already been on the throne for 12 years. Johnson's government stands for much that runs counter to nationalism, confrontation, And what does the Queen - It's complicated to even try and go into what the Queen thinks about because she's spent her being politically impartial and because she's never given any interviews. And therefore, it's probably whether she was for or when it came to the referendum. (crowd talking) (bells tolling) - [Narrator] Early 2020, the The Brexiteers celebrate. (crowd cheering) But Brexit is far from over. Johnson faces months of difficult The prospect of a disorderly exit exacerbates the economic crisis. (slow music) Brexit is followed by Megxit. Harry and Meghan retire from Their accusations, too racism, too much media hype. (crowd yelling) Meghan even speaks of suicidal thoughts. The USA is to become their new, free home without financial support A heavy blow for the Queen. - So she's having to deal with it both as a grandmother but also as head of the monarchy. And there is this sense that you have to preserve the monarchy. No one or two people are bigger And that's what she ultimately did. (slow music) - [Narrator] 2020 turns into another annus horribilis for the Queen. Besides Brexit and Megxit, COVID hits the country particularly hard. The NHS is overwhelmed. Intensive care units are overcrowded. Great Britain is recording Several members of the royal The Queen and her husband go into isolation at Windsor Castle. Initially, the audiences with Johnson are only held by telephone. The Queen no longer leaves her home. - Well, I think it was a hugely genuinely worried for the biggest national emergency (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] London Prime Minister Johnson gets But then his condition deteriorates. He has to go into intensive care. A government crisis is looming. (slow music) In this extraordinary situation, the Queen becomes a symbol - There's a sense that she's as well as head of state. And particularly throughout coronavirus, she's been proved to be a and the type of person in a time of crisis. - Everybody was saying, &quot;Yes.&quot; - [Narrator] Johnson survives. A successful vaccination campaign saves the country, and the NHS. Nevertheless, the British from COVID, but also (slow music) Politically, Johnson can After months of tough negotiations, London and Brussels agree on a trade deal. - Keep distance. - Then here we go. (speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] A no-deal On the 1st of January, 2021, - In record time. Thank you all very much, thank you. (cameras clicking) (slow music) - [Narrator] Johnson But Brexit has deeply All the more important that the Queen remains strictly neutral in this conflict. On top of Brexit and COVID, she now worries about her husband. For over 70 years Prince Phillip has been the man at her side. But in spring 2021 his (siren wailing) (slow music) The 9th of April becomes probably the most difficult day in Prince Phillip dies two months They had been married since 1947. (&quot;God Save the Queen&quot;) The Britons mourn with their Queen. - It is to Her Majesty and her family that our nation's Because they have lost and highly respected public figure, but a devoted husband and grandfather and, in recent (slow music) - [Narrator] The next few But with her typical sense of duty, she soon resumes her public engagements. - Her whole reign has been taking a couple of steps behind her in support of queen and country. And she no longer has that. However, subsequently we've looking really bright and clearly delighted And we understand that is had a pact that whoever the other person shouldn't dressed in black, grieving They should just enjoy And I think the Queen of all people, would not You know, she's 95, she (slow music) - [Narrator] And that she does. Whether Brexit, Megxit, COVID, her duties take priority. Two months after the she and Boris Johnson open - Her greatest success is her continuity, her ability to move with the times and not look like a fusty, On the other hand, could she Could she have seemed a But the great Victorian Walter Bagehot said, &quot;Be very careful. &quot;Don't let daylight And it's a very, very difficult balance. And I think she's let and it hasn't spoiled the magic. (slow music) - [Narrator] During the past 70 years, the Queen has held more with her prime ministers. No one has more experience in office, and no one talks less about it. Elizabeth's power lies in - My Lords, pray, be seated. - [Narrator] She has never - My government's - [Narrator] She has never But every prime minister knows, governing with Queen Elizabeth is smart, governing against her is impossible. (slow music)