Welcome to the MEP Academy. In this video we're What's the difference between a bid and how much do bonds cost. Welcome to the MEP Academy in this video we'll bonds. So what is a bid bond? Basically when it's because the owner wants you to guarantee requirements, and that you'll be able to secure bond will roll into a performance bond. where you were the successful low bidder, and if you're the low bidder and you decide not to and you provided a bid bond to bid the project, the owner will file a claim against you and you're a small company, most likely you put up You're personally and financially for the owner to secure the next lowest bidder and the next lowest bidder was a $110,000 your liability is the difference between your liable for the $10,000 difference if So, if you back out, you're liable to your bond So, they can come after you if you don't pay the contract to determine your liability exposure. knowing you're going to take a loss, at with careful planning and great project change orders allowing you to recover some of Bid bonds are usually in the range of 10%, authority. The bid bond percentage Again, to reiterate, if you back out and you made could be at risk. So, you want to read the fine the terms and conditions of the bond. Often such as submitting a cashier's check, or some other asset that can make good If you're the low bidder, other assets that that is something that can be converted into Most likely on all your Federal, Are bid bonds required on privately held or now requiring bid bonds. We've seen as the larger a requirement to bond a project. If you're or within the larger private sector projects, You can't just start a company, expect a surety of bonds on your behalf unless you back it up completing bonded work, and have the area of project. The bonding company will also track how This is for any work which is currently under bond releasing the bond of any further risk. So, $400,000, and this number can change depending free if you have a good relationship with your be any charge for smaller projects, there may be a It's possible they have an annual fee which covers but check with your bonding company. what happens if you submit a bid without a bid What will they do even if you're low bidder? Your bid will definitely be rejected, they will So, now what are Performance Bonds? They're used to ensure the project gets completed The bid bond usually also guarantees that if you're the successful, responsible low bidder. will definitely cost you some money. This is especially if they offered you the bid bond for you'll need to pay for the performance what happens if you fail to perform under and you have been executed your contract, that to perform. If you don't perform then the bonding on your behalf. So, your bonding company will whatever it takes to finish the project that The bonding company may pay another but may risk having to pay more than Maybe you file bankruptcy, or something. They the project. You can see why the surety companies and financial resources required to complete what are payment bonds? So, we have bid bonds, The payment bond is usually coupled with the payment bond. The payment bond ensures that you behalf for the proposed project. They want to be equipment and material suppliers, including bond was issued for. So, how much cost? Performance and payment bonds are often where maybe it's just a performance bond. Bond depending on the contract amount, your let's say that you have a construction and your bond rate was $7.00 for every $1,000 of of the total contract amount. So, your cost One, take the $100,000 divided by a $1,000 a $100,000 in contract amount divided by a in the contract, a hundred times $7.00/$1,000 of way. So the second calculation is just take the Both ways are going to give you $700, or a point seven percent rate. It's going to cost If you are just starting out then your bond rates but as you gain experience and grow your credit, check with your bonding company for the rate Some companies may require to have That is the small company owner personally any claims against the bond. So, you really want and are thinking of securing a bond for a project. covered and you have an experienced including the funds to pay for the payable will exceed your accounts receivable. That your bills before you receive money from executing payables, meaning you're collecting more money on won't have to worry about financing your project. have to provide a personal guarantee and if you're sign the guarantee. But, check with your bonding conditions. Large companies usually qualify so until you get some experience and establish personal guarantee. So in summary the bonds what you said you would, and that is to and pay all those who helped you build the the vendors that sold you equipment and materials, Make sure to Subscribe to our channel so that you also hit the Like button if you found this video