Jason Momoa is one of Hollywood's hottest Standing 6 feet 4 inches and absolutely jacked, for years. While he may be best known for his many on-screen dad who paints and plays various musical instruments. From an early Baywatch gig to his love of facts you may not know about the motorcycle Baywatch gig Momoa's big break was playing a fresh-faced 2001, and the gig caused a 19-year-old Momoa &quot;I was actually really nervous at first, but is what my future's going to be. I love it.&quot; But unfortunately, it wasn't all fun in the Momoa said the role haunted him for years, He told Movieline, &quot;Just because it's Baywatch, people don't I'm constantly fighting that stigma. When I got cast as Conan, people were like, Momoa struggled to find representation after own hands. He explained, &quot;No one would take me seriously, so I went, I traveled the world and finally got in there &quot;I wanted to gather life, bring it back, get Family man Sorry, ladies, Momoa is not on the market. The actor, perhaps best known as the fierce to actress Lisa Bonet. The pair tied the knot in 2007 and share two about his kids and their mama, he's clearly He revealed on The Late Late Show with James her days on The Cosby Show in the late '80s. &quot;I am a full-fledged stalker. I didn't tell her that until we had two babies, He went on to say he had, quote, &quot;fireworks met. The pair ended up at a diner later that night &quot;We had Guinness and grits and you know, the Zozo and Papa Bear Bonet has a daughter, Zoe Kravitz, from her and Momoa seems just as tight with his step-daughter A 26 year old Zoe told Ocean Drive magazine &quot;My dad and my step-dad get along really well, and sister. It's really beautiful.&quot; Momoa and Zoe have flaunted their adoration &quot;Zozo&quot; and she calls him &quot;Papa Bear.&quot; And in case you needed more proof that they've matching tattoos. Sure, according to Popsugar, the tattoo translates &quot;Be always drunk.&quot; But it's the commitment that counts here, Body of work Momoa's physique is not just the result of According to a 2018 Men's Health UK profile, but he claims he never lifted weights until 2011 reboot of Conan the Barbarian. The actor says he gets up at 5am for intense including climbing, hill-running, boxing, He told the magazine, &quot;It's very hard sometimes to just work out. It's monotonous and you can get stuck in a [...] When I have to change my body type, His diet is what you'd expect from a shredded He told Men's Health UK in 2014, &quot;Eat as much lean meat and green veg as possible &quot;Eat boiled chicken breast every two hours get that body.&quot; Even with his strict diet, Momoa admits to meal, adding, &quot;After finishing a one-month cleanse, I had it was like I was on heroin.&quot; Trademark scar Although plenty of fans are infatuated with dark story behind how it got there. As Momoa told Access Hollywood in 2011, a during what the actor believes was some sort According to NBC Los Angeles, the 21-year-old not guilty to assault with a deadly weapon. Momoa revealed, &quot;A guy smashed a pint glass in my face. I got a little over 140 stitches in my face. It helped get those mean roles.&quot; The scar tissue left a white line that cuts Momoa explained that hair no longer grows &quot;I got my wife beforehand, so...if she doesn't More than muscles Don't judge a book by its muscles and cool Momoa has brains and brawn. According to the University Herald, he studied in college in Iowa and Colorado. Above all, Momoa wants to be respected for He told the New York Post, &quot;People are like, 'Momoa's got his shirt off It's not funny. I grew up in the Midwest. I'm raised to actually think, to use my brain.&quot; The actor is quite cultured and well-traveled, According to the New York Daily News, Momoa He's closely studied Buddhism, which he learned be his focus. He shared, &quot;I play the guitar and drums and I'm learning Extreme sports Momoa is built like a linebacker, but he's passion is surfing. In his younger years, the actor reportedly an athletic scholarship, but he turned down too alluring. He told ESPN, &quot;I knew I was going to climb [mountains] and Instead of focusing on his studies, Momoa and spent his free time on the slopes, calling bum.&quot; But his vision of himself changed after watching Hawaii. He explained, &quot;I saw that and I was like, 'I'm outta here.'&quot; From there, he looked to his own family's waves. Momoa may be willing to brave oceans and cinematic open to trying any sport. UFC happens to be something he's not willing He told ESPN, &quot;Oh, no. Those guys, they're amazing. I act it. I'm not really tough. I'm definitely not to that level at all.&quot; With friends like these... If you thought Momoa's willingness to go full nothing compared to what he did to gear up Momoa didn't feel like his mug was rough enough slaughters his way through countless men and would be a good idea to have his friend pop According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Momoa him, barely waiting for him to ask before He shared, &quot;After it was over, I said, 'Dude, didn't The physical pain continued on the set. On top of breaking a rib, Momoa claimed, &quot;I almost died on the horse a few times.&quot; No Crow In a crushing blow to his fans, Momoa's highly-anticipated fell apart after eight years of pre-production. Set to begin filming in Hungary in the summer exited the passion project just weeks ahead and financial differences with the producer Momoa lamented leaving the project on Instagram, &quot;Sorry. I can't play anything but what this film I'm ready when it's right.&quot; Still, it's safe to assume we'll be seeing With a lifetime box office gross of more than of screen credits, the man is a bankable star, likely get as much Momoa as they can handle Thanks for watching! Click the Nicki Swift icon to subscribe to Plus check out all this cool stuff we know