Thanks to LEGO - presenting LEGO City - for their support of PBS Digital Studios. Humanity's future is glorious. As we master space travel, we'll hop from Life will blossom in our path and eventually the galaxy will shimmer with beautiful Earth-like orbs. I mean... maybe. Sounds a little science-fictiony. But it wouldn't sound so far fetched if we proved we could do it at least once. If we successfully terraformed Mars. We already have the technology to bring humans to Mars and to set up small settlements - or at least we could do within a generation. But those settlements will need to be cocooned and the fatal lack of atmospheric Surely if we want to thrive on Mars - to or their descendants, will need to be able and step out onto a survivable surface. We'll need to terraform Mars, as our first Terraforming Mars has long been a science Mars trilogy to Total Recall to the Red Faction But what would it really take? How science-fiction-y is the whole concept In the end it's a question of atmosphere. Mars' current atmospheric pressure is 0.6% within a minute for an unprotected humans. But it also means almost no greenhouse effect. Light from the Sun, which is already fainter back out into space. On Earth that same light first bounces around At an average of -60 Celsius, water freezes But even if the planet were warmer, liquid atmosphere - it sublimates directly from And of course Earth's atmosphere protects ultraviolet radiation from the Sun. All of that bad stuff has a direct path to So, the most important step in terraforming ideally as close to Earth's as possible. In the imaginations of sci-fi writers all After all, Mars WAS once a warmer, watery I mean, that's conclusive - our rovers and orbiters of an ancient watery surface. The hope then, is that this water and the locked in the planet's crust and ice caps. We just need to release it. Surely we can just nuke the poles, melt enough a feedback cycle of greenhouse warming and that'll release more gases... and voila! Earth 2.0 OK, not so fast. There's a real risk that Mars actually lost it into the surface. The issue is that the planet is relatively At 11% the mass of Earth, it has a weaker to an atmosphere. And that small size means that the Martian core solidifying long ago and shutting down its global magnetic field. Earth's magnetic field protects us from The unprotected and loosely bound Martian by that wind over billions of years. And in fact that is exactly what happened. The ablation of what is left of the Martian MAVEN spacecraft, as we've also discussed And the lack of atmospheric material in the by observations of the Martian surface. In a nice Nature Astronomy article last year, Edwards calculate the plausibility of using the Martian atmosphere, based on observations of NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter and Mars Odyssey spacecraft. They focus on CO2 because it's the only abundance on Mars. They assess whether release of the accessible Earth's atmospheric pressure. And... unfortunately they conclude that no the recovery of any useful atmosphere. But, you know what? Let's go ahead and run the numbers real After all, these researchers only ruled out What about medium future? Far future? So there are 3 broad sources for CO2 on Mars. First there's the south polar icecap - which interspersed with thick layers of CO2 ice Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter. If all the polar CO2 were released, it would the atmosphere - which is a factor of around And by the way, that CO2 couldn't be released Sorry, Elon. The second accessible source is CO2 absorbed Unlike, for example, Earth's permafrost, It would shift in its equilibrium over At any rate, even if we managed to heat the entire we'd only get 4% of the Earth's atmospheric The final source is carbonate minerals in the crust. These carbonates would need to be mined and But complete strip-mining of even the largest carbonate than melting the polar ice caps. So much for near-future accessible carbon. But those carbonate minerals probably And that's really our only hope to find material - to replenish the atmosphere. Let's do a quick calculation to see what First, let's pretend there's an accessible the entire surface of Mars. There isn't, but hey, we're dreamers. We need about 10,000 kg of material per square Seriously, that's how much atmosphere is No wonder it's so hard getting out of bed High density limestone is 2500 kg/m^3 and when heated or exposed to acid. So to get 10 tons of CO2 for every square over 10 meters - across the entire That's a few quadrillion tons of rock. I hope you have your diamond pickaxe ready. In reality of course we'd need to first we could access most of the carbonates. Extracting such a quantity from depth is hard We can either heat the carbonates to hundreds out the CO2. We'd need to process around 20% of all Martian The electrolysis path might be better because it would The energy cost in both cases is similar, though - several septillion joules. Several thousand times the total annual energy That's definitely sounding far-far future. But not quite impossible. Finally we actually have a picture of what Let's say we want to finish the work in We'd need to cover much of the surface of in the crust, or build 10 or so million gigawatt There's really no other viable energy source. We'd need to channel this energy deep into miners-slash-processing plants, meanwhile entire globe. This could get us a carbon dioxide-oxygen ... or millenia if you scale down the power Nonetheless, our descendants could see a Mars effect to allow liquid water to persist on Now, Mars actually does have enough water for a few The ice cap water would cover the entire surface to start a proper water cycle or have oceans, but there may be a lot more water deeper in We'd better hope so. Our brand new CO2-oxygen atmosphere is not exactly earth-like. In fact, it's instantly and fatally toxic and not so great for plant life. Certain algaes can survive in a pure CO2 atmosphere - cyanobacteria - was responsible for first And we'll need that photosynthesis because the atmosphere as it oxidizes the surface. So, there's our next snapshot of the far future of a terraformed Mars - brand new oceans green with photosynthesizing, probably genetically-engineered, slime. And perhaps eventually a breed of post-humans to deal with a CO2 atmosphere. I just described the "easy" path to building It may be the only way to do it only using Variations are possible - like introducing But that still doesn't give us the needed At any rate, to get a true Earth-like atmosphere CO2 sucks. Nitrogen is much better - it works great on Earth To really build an Earth-like atmosphere we One popular idea is just to smack some comets Comets contain tons of frozen volatiles - gas-forming molecular nitrogen in comets was only recently But how many comets do we need? Well, assuming comets contain an amount of pre-solar nebula then can guess that around That gives the typical medium-to-large comet So, to build a quadrillion-ton nitrogen atmosphere O-kay, so we're still in far-future la-la But it's actually not significantly less What would THIS effort look like? Imagine this - a vast fleet of robotic spacecraft iceballs in just the right way to send them Hopefully with exquisite aim, otherwise Earth It would presumably take centuries to put to "de-orbit" those comets. Once Mars has been suitably bombarded there's The good news is that those comets brought so we have deep global oceans at this point. OK. Let's fast-forward several centuries. Mars has an atmosphere - either released the far outer solar system. The last step is to protect the new atmosphere. We canNOT restart Mars' magnetic field - to core. But we can try to build an external magnetic The easiest would be to do that in space - an and the Sun, like a giant space umbrella. The resources and energy needed to build this so why not? Honestly, all of this is pretty insane. And frankly, unlikely. Would we really muster the resources to terraform Earth? But there is another option. Why build a sky if we can build a roof? Instead of terraforming - what if we paraterraform. Build what is known as a worldhouse. We could cover vast tracts of land with an Or, more likely, many many connected bubbles. These would be tall enough to encapsulate plenty of Earth-like natural wilderness. Oh, and I'm still a proponent of centrifuge Earth gravity. Also shown rather beautifully If we wanted to cover, say, 10% of the Martian it'd require several orders of magnitude less material than building an entire atmosphere. So, say a handful of comets and/or the polar ice caps should be enough to fill our worldhouse with air Now, without a real atmosphere, space radiation as is the constant bombardment of micro-meteors. People who live in glass houses shouldn't But perhaps there are advanced or just very, So there's our final image of humanity's spread across the still-barren landscape. And inside each bubble an oasis - a lush, However we do it, Mars will surely be our that destiny - if we choose to terraform space Thanks to LEGO - presenting LEGO City - for Can you believe it's been 50 years since It started out with one small step for man Featuring sets inspired by real aerospace future space explorers to imagine what role To discover more go to the link in the description. So we missed a couple of comment responses. Today I'm going to cover two episodes: The in which we look at eternal inflation. As well that the North and South magnetic poles may Wabi Sabi asks why the inflaton field is assumed Well, that's a great question - but I'm afraid the answer It's because a scalar field is all you need. This is the simplest type of quantum field, consisting Give such a field a constant energy density But more complex fields like vector fields and some inflationary models use them, resulting But many physicists argue that you shouldn't tends to be the default for inflaton. Joshua Kahky asks whether the Inflaton Field Well, the answer is yes, possibly. Inflation supposedly happened because the and it stopped when that energy dropped to But that low value may not have been zero. If the inflaton field was left with a very then it's possible that it could now be powering the But for that to happen, the inflaton field two stable or semi-stable states that are Now, we can try to imagine a single field with It's not clear which of those two imaginings There were a lot more great questions on eternal the eternal inflation challenge question answer For now, let's move on to the possible flipping EarthKnight points out that while Venus lacks an the solar wind striking its atmosphere creates That's a nice point, EarthKnight. It's a very cool effect. The solar wind partially ionizes Venus's upper Electrical currents are induced and these against the Sun's magnetic field. Venus's magnetic force-shield isn't nearly floating cloud cities had better still have As many viewers noted, what we currently call magnetic pole - as in, what we would call You know how the magnetic north pole of a bar Well, your compass's north pole is attracted north must correspond to a magnetic south Nolan Westrich, while laughing in Australian, poles it will be America's turn to be upside Well, given that the northern hemisphere is means that North America, Europe, and most this time without realizing it. So hold onto something and don't look at the