We have now released issue 3 of Download it for free at New Thinking Allowed Your contributions to Foundation make a our ability to produce new videos. Thinking Allowed. Conversations and discovery with Hello, I'm Christopher Naughton. I'm happy to be working longtime host of New his co-host, Emmy Vadnais. Fifty years ago, the term near-death That's because the first of my two guests his groundbreaking book, Life In fact, Raymond originally directed this found out that it was a worldwide hit. Over 15 million copies have Raymond has also written his life on topics such or co-authored, I with our second guest accomplished author in his own right, Paul has written on near-death experiences, the shared death experience, He's also written on esoteric topics such of Jesus in Egypt, and Their book together, Seven Reasons to Raymond Moody joins Paul Perry is in Phoenix, Arizona. Raymond, Paul, it's good to Thanks for joining me. Obviously, this is not your Sixth book that you And Raymond, you've written so many books first time you've ever used the And I know you've been, for separating what from science. I know some other little quote unquote like proof in their title. I mean, Eben Alexander said the publishers Why did you put it in I did because as a professor There's a lot of different you know, ranging or logical proof down to the But where I'm headed to make this statement are concerned about I now say that there it is rational for somebody of what we have now that there's an afterlife apparatus or the thinking so that you can think through the question have to get into the And that's in the background. It's not something, you want to hear when they They want to hear about stories, right? And they'll listen to the But Plato pointed out stories that doesn't afterlife because you use to connect statement that there's an afterlife? And that has always been unsolved. But I say it's solved now. And I mean, and so that's why I'm confident and test me on and I'm ready. And Paul, I would have focus, of course, of death experience. And I think that takes Raymond was talking that life after death, that consciousness brain is supported by the What is it and why is that whole water? Well, a shared death experience is when death experience of a by virtue of two people a death experience experience that has So let me give you a couple of examples. If if you wake up, say middle of the night at the foot of your gives you the news that died and in the morning you find out that experience. In other cases in mist rising from a dying oddly enough many death experience because dramatic that takes place Another example would an operating table and arrest, their heart has stopped. That's the gold standard used as being a gold experience because you actually near-death if But if they're able to recount accurately or maybe what occurred they leave their body that would be a shared death experience. That's the type of evidence that proves Right. So you've got an objective it's not a double-blind white lab coats in a these stories are common throughout countries, throughout history. Raymond, when you Life in the 1970s, and I'm not stating that this is science. These are stories that I'm sharing. But you weren't shared death experiences You really were writing When did that start Well, I wrote, when I I already had one You did personally? I did. One of my own medical professors. And when I went to was, the faculty knew these things. So very shortly after I woman, the psychiatry me in the bookstore and she said, her exact to you about some meditation I had She took me across about when, as she her mother, that she body and rose up and there in spirit form. She saw a passageway with a light and saw mother's coming forward to meet her. But that was only one case. Plus, I didn't want to I just couldn't figure had one case and also I couldn't figure out identified. I mean, you were already you know, relatively the mainstream. So maybe the shared death experience Well, it was, but I, you know, I just was I didn't know, you know, it's hard to make it was genuine. So I just remained silent like I said, I would have that I was afraid might Yeah. So Paul, I guess Raymond remained curious, area. That is a gold, definitely Raymond says goes, but, together now for 33 the book, The Light on to other, to other books. But through all of these even reference in The death experience. We've had a couple, we had And over the years, we just collected And then Raymond and I happened to And that... Tell me, tell us a little bit about, And then Raymond, I want Well, my shared experience She had, well, I was working, I'd worked named Vernon Neppe. Vernon was the head of neuropharmacology And we were working on a book on Deja And we went as far as then we both got So I didn't talk to Vernon He wasn't in my mind at all, and I But my mother was dying of Alzheimer's. And the day that she died, before And Vernon says, you know, I was sitting And a voice, a female And I ignored it. And he said, about reading the sports And the female voice So I'm calling you and I want to And I said, well, Vernon, you know, You have like the perfect And so we did. He talked about some done experimentally In the middle of this, I started I was starting to get system that told me a through. And I said, Vernon, And I took it. And it was people at the care facility And that easily is defined Raymond's is a little bit different. He had a lot more people involved with his. He should tell his story. You were right in the room, Raymond, right? When your mom is passing, correct? Tell us, give us the context. And But I was out in the West. This was in May of with a group of scholars way to study shared death experiences. Okay. Because we had a lot and Paul We were just assembling a lot of them. And that morning after the conference, it I called my mother in Macon, Georgia, And when I remember, hello, I'm doing great. Her voice was so uplifted and cheerful. And then she said, but a rash and then my taken her to the ER, but And I don't think this but he gave her an doctor on Monday, the But on Sunday, the picture Well anyway, then the the doctor, the doctor said, lymphoma and you have And two weeks later, up tundered a couple but my sisters, my and I there, and I say it's ineffable and it is, I don't know me, it's like the room, it's a But I was no longer in a cubicle. It was like a space funnel, like two And it wasn't, you didn't feel dizzy, but the energy, I guess. And the light turned quality. It wasn't like from a I don't know how to describe it. And I felt I was looking at the And my sister, for of my father who had And my brother-in-law felt something. And it was just like there was You could feel like some And my mother said twice, I love you. She had been unconscious but all of a sudden, I love you, it was, it was obviously coming ears is the best way I can describe it. It was very insistent. I love you twice. We all heard it, but it wasn't coming I'm always amazed at who have had these a near-death experience or And I did a thing early writing books together experiment. And that would be that I and I would announce, a book on near-death experiences. I'm curious to know how many people And I've done the same with And I'm amazed at the number of people. The first time I did it, I'd gone to We went into a Denny's afterwards, And we talked about the people I was with anything. So I stood up in Denny's I was working on and had had these experiences. And out of 20 people, who said they had had grandparents had had they had talked to other experiences to this. And it intrigued me connected with it, and spoke about it, because someone I can only think that that was the case. And that's one of the experience or the people have generally I mean, Raymond, you you, right, or they may you. Well, yes, there was some of that, and it But in reality, there I had been doing this research for a long my friends who were word among the medical was coming in and had studied this. And within just two weeks of when I got to called me and said, Dr. Moody, And about half of them, because it happened had heard it from their patients. Where I got into the from medicine, because, doctors realized this do you do for the Where I got into trouble was That was, you know, I'm of You know, Raymond, pulled you into this of George Ritchie. George Ritchie. Yeah. And I want you to tell that I'll tee it up this way, had more problems than with the scientists, scientific materialists but George Ritchie, who had that near-death time you were in hadn't written a book his story, and he says he saw Jesus in the even a thing then, or wasn't a thing, because the road yet. But when he started Robertson over at 700 this guy on. He talked to Jesus. We want to have him in the studio, until he at the Edgar Cayce Association across town him. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm sorry. I just, you know, Pat but, you know, I'm now. Well, no, I think it's still going. It's his son's. But I guess, you know, it's interesting. I went to the IAN's D.C. recently, and Association of Near-Death Studies, which I and Paul, you were But what's interesting workshops and sessions, of a woman who was and she had a near-death entire life changed, your relationship now She says, well, I really couldn't go back book. So there's changes taking place everywhere. There are changes, because it's, see, what is what happened once. These things have and the Greek philosophers I came in was the developed CPR, and so all of a sudden, this became, in a common phenomenon. And so I just observed it, and I knew full psychologist who read simply take the move patients would confirm it, It wasn't anything like courage, I knew what would happen. But you were a pioneer. You were at the very, Mishlove, when you're one of the first ones old adage, first they then they violently accept what you have So it is like that. I mean, so at the outset, and I'll ask you the beginning as well, was real pushback, and Raymond, I'll ask you, I'll Well, yeah, there was yeah, yeah, it's just, is so fascinating to every day that I studied because it sure does give you an insight. Well, yeah, I got some, things that is amazing is like in academe, for example. When I was working at a department and my paper, I would just this is so wonderful, paper and so on. But I quickly found in that profession, a paper and my paper is better, he And so, I mean, it's way of avoiding work people want to form other or have meetings to talk to, you know, hear themselves If you want to work, you work for yourself. So to me, I just, you know, that stuff I've never been competitive. I just, what is the point of competition? You know, working together, it works Paul, what of it, your experience, what When I first started out, which was really writing a book on reversing heart disease Herman Hellerstein, cardiologist. And he asked me one day, we were at and he said, what else are you working And I told him about And he shook his head and he said, you They always say hundreds or thousands. They have a lot. I've resuscitated hundreds of people and And then he got called away from the and they said, we hear them all the time. And the problem is that included, they don't or they don't really dig in on what And that was the persistent Now it's changed, I think So with this book, I'm amazed at how I'll just call them paranormal experiences. Well, they now have the It's not as it's not as out there anymore. And again, I have to thank you. We have to thank you, Raymond. You say, okay, I'm not a hero. Okay. But you're a pioneer. You were there at the outset. You know what's interesting? My wife and I are my part Valerie and I, one night we decided, okay, So Valerie suggests, why don't we go programs from the 1980s, the old gum shoe, And it was on NDEs. And of course, there's Raymond, But also there was Melvin Morse, who And also there was a very young There you go. And there was a very who is with the University program, the division which is again, where you met when after being a student you actually ended up being taught And sounds like your souls were Oh, I think so. Bruce, you know, as you know, I He's just so real and so good. He is! And the co-founder And Kenneth Ring and some others as well. But when you when you when you OK, you weren't in the School You were still collecting stories So you were. OK, OK. All right. And that's when you I was collecting the stories. I first heard George in 1965. I heard one other person while Gleb Botkin, by the name. But in 19 September of 69, I And Plato's Phaedo was So that's one I taught a lot. And students would just naturally come. Oh, this is really interesting. And like and I remember a kid said, she had this experience. One of my students told me I started Faculty members, you know, who would hear yeah, that happened to me. And then the then club needs a speaker on Right. So, oh, this guy. And so I'm pretty soon. And every place I went, But so that's how it developed. And anybody who looks is going to find the same thing. It's just no big deal What you have to do. I mean, you know, somebody who's brusque that you're willing to listen. You know, you know, what's interesting Life After Life came I think you were being by fundamentalists who didn't like what Now I greatly enjoy it. Well, of course, all these years later. But at first, there's that This can't be possibly be real. But here's what's interesting. It started to seep into And I love looking at popular culture. Three movies within 10 years. So the 1980s, we think of, you It was also the same decade where But that movie Resurrection with And correct me if I'm wrong. I think Bruce thinks Grayson thinks along a lot earlier before that. But growing up as a young man in 1980, that took people through death off the operating seeing the light, seeing friends and So it your work, because before What had been popular it into a book yet gratifying to see movies and even I think to somebody with such as myself, I just that type of I'm I'm I you know, the I wasn't even socially apt enough to be able to respond I I don't know. But did you ever see those movies? Did you ever see Ghost or We never did. Your handiwork's all over that. But go ahead, Raymond. Well, I just, you know, like I recently started putting books up And I figured out just and eighty five academic I had never caught kept track But now that I've changed mine. And so, you know, I'm just and my kids, my kids and my wife and my And I'm not so interested Got you. Paul, any any feedback Well, I was just going day, I picked up a copy, Resurrection. Yes. Yeah, I just picked that one up. Gotcha. But, you know, there is still kickback. I mean, it's not everyone doesn't And on Sunday, it was it I was invited to speak at a And then I was disinvited in the same day. Because because, quote, We don't need that stuff. ...we need is Jesus. And this is as sophisticated when they ask me if I'm a Christian, It's a big, big, big difference there. I'm glad you said that But, you know, on the as you know, Jeff research on who has what when And he's gone through hundreds. He's got he literally has gone And one of the things he's found is that a very high percentage of people, see Jesus. It's a very high percentage. I'm not a Bible thumper, I've had three Muslims near death experiences Now, even at the time when it is going you know, there is the prohibition of So I didn't know whether But anyway, they did say seeing Jesus. Yeah, there's a lot of them He's supposed to come in on a white So he's part of the team. But I went to Egypt several years ago and I And I was amazed at a couple of things. One is that the trail was created Because the Muslims consider And how many Muslims looking for because You see, and some gentlemen are talking because I've written polarization, religious stripe, but especially right here But it's really it's all around the world. But one of the things or some of creating common ground are things such as what Jeffrey has talked kind of on a continuum And although I hear you, Paul, that there don't come in. I mean, Jeffrey was was a scientific group, I He was invited then disinvited because But there are people who to be dyed in the wool yeah, my grandmother went This happened. I had a shared death experience. So these are common experiences, regardless your race, your religion, et cetera. In some ways, it's a Yeah, it is. It is because it's Although people can make anything out of But for the most part, it's not political. Another thing is it goes And a lot of people can't Yeah. And I would like to think, again, in young people are stepping and mosques and religious group now are that near-death consciousness is sink their teeth into, something that speaks to their sacred What does this do? What does the study and the work and the and right now are involved in with the what does that say to millennials? What does it say to people of Generation Z? That generation, those up, see, they don't And this is a cyclic phenomenon. Every few years, some new event occurs. What Paul and I have been thinking at least a million That is actually an understatement because that they can calculate the true number. But for now, it's over a million. So you think of all the grief out there, getting into the midlife Plato pointed out that successful people, and they've spent their whole life it's 50, 60, 70, people suddenly people he was talking about saying I've done my business very well, I've been but now I'm this age, I suddenly remember afterlife when I was a kid and I heard that constantly in my psychiatry. It's like just like clockwork. And, you know, people life after death is a It comes on at certain One is when you lose a loved one to death, or perhaps the most When they get to a certain age, they That's true, although it's funny. I'll still get some pushback as well They'll ask me what I tell them it's easier involved in law. That's simple, right? When you start talking I actually had one friend of Are you trying to turn me into a believer? And I'm not here to sell anything. Raymond, neither are you and Paul. But again, it's our curiosity and it's our I have no interest in trying to persuade People have to go through But in terms of where I am, I give up. I just, you know, I have a good friend Anthony has a PhD in physiology and and professor of orthopedic surgeon at NYU. And I am a fanatical walker. I have to do it. It's an addiction. And I ask myself, if heaven forbid would I surrender my foot to Anthony? Sure. Okay. Now, here's another fact about Anthony. In 1994, Anthony was hit in the neck by was resuscitated by a nurse on the scene. But from his point of view was out of his where his family reunion, saw people said, not only Raymond but it was more real That's what people say. Now, after this, Anthony, who had never suddenly became interested in the in which he's playing concert stage, learned learned how to play the piano. And now, in addition orthopedic surgeon, is Things like that just don't fit into this That is the reality. And I could sit here and list a dozen Eben and all of these who've had these yeah, this was real. How can I deny their unanimous And still, yet, I would them for medical I had an illness. See, the afterlife is kind The older you get, this is addressed more The older you get, you're the greater percentage of your friends of stepping over to some And it's gotten to where there's lots of just like, oh, yeah, I've been there. So there is a collective way that people So what that means to me simply is that the is kind of sinking And what we're relying I mean, this is a book and we've been able to meld science which, again, is something People have problems with but they have, I think, less problems because people have the exploration, And that's what we've Well, true scientists are. I mean, again, it should As to the nature of life, unfortunately, as some people are wed to They're wed to their job. They're wed to having tenure, et cetera. So maybe those folks can break out of it. But I would agree with you, Paul, if we could look at the data and look like the work they're doing at and again, some people may So Dean Radin would disagree with you, that they're really putting bones to but actually has some body to it. And that's what you I see it as maybe the that maybe near-death experiences is scientific fundamentalism. What do you guys think about that? Well, let me tell you and I've thought this for some time now, since almost since we and then I spent a lot of time in and Raymond has spent a lot of time And that's this, is that I think religion sprang out of experiences I don't think it's the other way around. I think near-death experiences and there's a lot of proof behind that. You see it all over the walls in Egypt, and you see it in other archaeological digs where people are buried as And so there's a lot that's there, and that needs to be accounted for as well. That is, there's a reason this sprang up. There's a basis, in fact, and other things have gone Do you buy that, Raymond? Yeah, yeah. It's, you know, there's a shift here, and we can't be exactly sure but I sure see it coming. Yeah, this is, and it stands to reason. It stands to reason. This is a part of life if we've to the point where we can that for eons was considered death, and they're telling us that, you know, not only did they lose consciousness, but consciousness is and that, I think, is I see it all the time. Before I let you gentlemen go today, I mean, to me, the most fascinating aspect of all of the near-death experiences, shared-death experiences and your writings have shared over time is the whole notion of a life review, which to me even goes beyond, you know, these are experiences that people have. Not all the people have gone and you guys are going to tell me what the percentage is in a second here, but to me, it's the most but one is that, of course, and seeing your relatives, et cetera. Now you've got this and you relive every second and the telltale sign of this is you get to step into the shoes of the people you've interacted with that you've even either Tell us a little bit about the life review, why this is such an important part of it and why it's not fantasy, but actually makes some Raymond, you first. I think this is probably the part of the near-death experience that has most impact on people. I mean, it's basically and a panorama appears around them consisting of everything and they often review it in the presence of a being of absolute compassion in the form of a light who And, you know, it's difficult now to make the logical inference. I think that we will soon be able to make a logical inference I can see how it's coming, but not yet. But I think that there that we can make about these life reviews that nobody, I can't see how And it's startling. And it is that, at least for some of us, life is a two-phase process. First, you live it forward Then, time stands still. There's a 180-degree turnaround, and you see the same action through the eyes and Now, that, to me, is indubitable. I mean, it happens, And the implications of that, to me, are just absolutely profound. Now, we're all one, right? You talk about the oneness. There's an ultimate unity. That's right. It all connects up. Yep. Paul, what are the percentages that you guys have is part of the near-death experience, and then maybe share a story Now, Raymond, I'm going 30% to 40% of the It's very hard to say. I would say probably in that range. Wow, that high, that high. Yeah. But it's also very hard to say. It depends on how you And I know you, Paul, Sorry, I know that you co-wrote and, of course, his life review. That was one of the first Right. Yeah, it was pretty amazing. I mean, the one thing about life reviews is that they're like great psychotherapy, and they only take a few seconds. And you see that across the board. Yeah. And one of my forensic psychiatry there was this guy, I think he was from the University of Nebraska Medical School, who at that time was And he said that he felt the only that if they saw everything directly from the point that the people with whom they... He said that would be curative. But otherwise, he didn't know of anything. Interesting. Paul, what of that? Tell us a little bit more from your work dealing with the life review perhaps made you sit up and take notice. Is there anything that you wow, this is a story that I did do a book on the transforming with Melvin Morse. And what Melvin did was he who had had near-death experiences. And then we examined with questionnaires and the like, to see how much the near-death experience And the two things that they were all affected for their lifetime. We would examine people who when they were 10 or 15 or 20 years old, and then look at them later and The light, I felt that the light of the near-death experience. And there's something about that The life review, of course, is Because it seems to come out of the light, that was also very transformative as well. But one of the amazing things that hit me in that study was that people are four times as likely to have Have you run into that, Raymond? Well, yeah, I've heard a they became more intuitive after this. Yeah, there's a lot of intuition increase. But he was actually able verifiable psychic experiences. A verifiable psychic experience would be, if you had a dream that the plane you and you got up in the morning I think this plane is That's an extreme example of But there's a lot more of those than have not. And that surprised me Well, at this recent conference who after her near-death So, you know, and pictures of what a I never heard of Eckhart Tolle's But I was just just fascinated. Just fascinated that the work that you And Raymond, I've got to ask you If you could have peered into the future and look 50 years hence, would you and receptivity to those ideas when Well, yeah. Yeah, I mean, it's trying to look. I don't think I ever would have imagined But then in another way, I'm not surprised You know, I mean, it's just that that you just can't stop listening to them. And so I'm not really surprised. I would not have anticipated that but I'm not really surprised that it did. Yeah. Interesting answer. Paul, what do you think? How far have we come since some of which you co-authored, and where we Well, I think the acceptance is wonderful, and I think that's an indication I think people's view of an their view of spirituality by the study of near-death experiences. I was always going first toward. My claim about where it's methods, very simple reformat people's rational so that subsequently when they they will be able to overcome And it's already been done. It's just that this is something I mean, it's conceptual work but it will happen. It's already happened that we and teach them how to think in new have a near-death experience, they'll And what this will give us is what How do we know it's 4.3 Because when the sun is wait six months later when raise the angle again, and that's parallax. And so now we have a able to hone in on the So in the next 50 years, Yes, absolutely. Do you think we'll be I think people are It's like I've known a lot of people and near-death experiences, most commonly or people who are very open to see There's a lot of people who And the older you get, the more who just sort of don't see an but rather say that it's kind of Paul, do you mean that Is that what you're suggesting, Paul? I would say that's possible if he can hone That's sort of what I Yeah, if you look at some of the research, if you look at some Erlendur Haraldsson, he found that 60% of their husbands after their Yes, and that's like 60%. If you can conjure up of that word, to that's sort of what you And in some ways, you've done Yeah, you can do it. The difficulty here is the fact is it's relatively a process during lifelike apparition of The difficulty is that it's the psychological, people They used to be able to. People in ancient Greece could, but now it's against But nonetheless, the easy to oddly to visit Gentlemen, I hope that not necessarily warrant Maybe we can continue And Raymond, I'll try not to wait another because it's been that while. And Paul, I know there are plenty of but I do want to remind the folks Raymond Moody and co-authored by Paul Perry Seven Reasons to Gentlemen, thank you so I greatly appreciate it. For Jeffrey Mishlove, Emmy Vadnais, all the I'm Christopher Naughton. Thank you for joining us. You are the reason that we're here. I imagine that by now that in conjunction we've just launched the Dialogues book imprint Is There Life After Death? New Thinking Allowed Your contributions to the New make a meaningful difference in