- So, I bought a petrol pump You might call it a gas pump nozzle. The reason I cut it in half is because I want to answer one question. How do these things know You hear that click sound? That's the nozzle turning itself off. Like, when you go to fill you don't have to worry That's because these nozzles when the tank is full, but how? My first thought was that of electronic sensor in there, but the way these really work There are actually two very The first one relates to this tube you can see that runs to and the second relates to The whole thing's quite compact, so I built a few different things to illustrate each part of the mechanism, to make it clearer. Let's start with this hole that's usually located here or here. It's called the Venturi sensor, which sounds like it's electronic, but actually this is It's called the Venturi sensor because it works on the Venturi effect. The Venturi effect happens but to be able to see what's going on, I got this made; it's because it demonstrates It's a wide tube that and then you have this coming off the restriction in the middle. There are two other U-bend but we're ignoring those for now. Look what happens when I with water, and then You might expect air to causing the level of In fact, the water level here goes up. That means there must be a in the constriction, and By the way, the water in the U-bend is there just so that you can There's no equivalent to that But why does the pressure go down? Well, it's Bernoulli's principle, but actually, we can from first principles. The air traveling through the must be traveling faster than the air in the That makes intuitive sense. To get the same amount of the mass must have to travel more quickly, but you can also think about it in terms of conservation of energy. The gas here has kinetic energy, but it also has potential a bit like how you can store energy in a spring by compressing it. But that total energy, kinetic stored as pressure, needs to be conserved. That means that when the in the fast moving fluid of the tube, the potential The pressure must go down. By the way, those two either side of the middle the fact that the pressure goes down in the wider parts of the tube, as well, when there's air flowing, but as it does in the The two outer U-shaped with the discussion we're having I just thought I should But thinking about that what does that tell us about Well, this pipe in the model The constriction in the pipe actually happens here in the nozzle. This spring-loaded stopper under the pressure of the petrol to reveal a really narrow ring for the liquid to pass through. And you can just about there's a tiny hole there. Actually, there's a number of holes. The one I just illustrated There's also this one, on the other side as well, and then into this hole, which feeds into this long tube. This tube that runs to the is equivalent to this tube in the model. So, this constriction here There is low pressure here That means air is actually That air simply mixes with the petrol in this part of the nozzle. So, how is this used to or your gas tank is full? This bit's really clever. The tube that comes away in the flow of the main One tube goes off to the end but there's actually a second Because of the way this it's not that easy to see, but there is a tube coming off here. Most of it's been cut And that tube leads to this cavity here. That cavity is sealed by a membrane. You can see part of the before it was cut in half. In other words, before I cut it in half, this whole chamber was So, schematically, it would look like this with two tubes forking This now represents the tube that goes to the end of the nozzle, and this represents the tube that goes to the sealed chamber. So, when I blow through this pipe, it will reduce the pressure But look what happens when I It turns out that this tube was relieving some of And when I put my finger over it, look, you see a sudden jump in the The same thing happens This opening is allowing some to be relieved by allowing But then, what happens when the reaches the end of the nozzle? Well, it covers up that hole. The tube is now sucking Petrol is heavier than air, so It can't relieve as much And just like when I put my finger over one pipe in the model, the other pipe experiences This is my attempt to So, you've got the main tube. It has a constriction here. Here's the tube coming Here is where it forks. One tube goes to the end of the nozzle, the other goes to this chamber that's sealed off with a membrane here. And look, when the liquid of the Venturi tube, you see that membrane gets The membrane moves up That's because I don't know I'm sure there's a lot of things like how much is the pipe constricted? How wide are the Venturi tubes? Where does the fork happen? All that sort of stuff. But for me, it was incredibly satisfying to see that membrane move at all. So, when the petrol in your tank reaches the end of the And you'll notice that this membrane is attached to something. It's attached to this rod here. And that's really important. That's how the nozzle actually turns off. It's quite hard to see so I built another model. So, imagine this is a valve I need to push this thing In the actual nozzle, this In this model, I'm representing The mass is pushing back down on the valve like the spring in the real thing. And this here is the handle of the pump. So, hopefully, if I pull this handle up, it will open the valve. But look, it doesn't actually work because we've got a lever happening here. Pulling the handle up just What I need to do is so that this becomes the Now, when I pull the handle Great. Now, one way I can hold is to put a couple of circles in here. And then, I put this piece in place, to stop them And there you go. That works perfectly. Now, here's the clever part. This funny wedge thing is And remember, when petrol it causes the membrane to pop up. And when it pops up, it And when it does that, to fall into the middle. They're no longer jamming and this point stops being the fulcrum. Everything collapses, and the valve shuts. In three dimensions this is in these two positions, and one round the back that you can't see. So, let's put all those inside the nozzle itself, and recap. So, petrol comes in here under pressure, and it meets this closed valve. So, you pull on this handle here, you'll notice it doesn't open the valve. Instead, this thing moves. But look, you get to this point here, and these ball bearings, they get jammed against the constriction Of course, because I've that doesn't work, the and the thing can move when it shouldn't. So, I'm just gonna use brute to illustrate the point. And look, now... oh, I've Doesn't matter. Now, when I put on this handle, this point acts as a fulcrum, opens the valve, and So, let's imagine the valve is still open; petrol flows through here. It looks as if this housing but actually there's a gap underneath, and there's a gap on the top as well. So, petrol flows around and then the pressure of the petrol pushes against this which creates a thin circular channel for the petrol to continue Now, because it's a thin channel, and due to the Venturi effect, the pressure is lower in that part. And look, there's a hole that links to that low pressure region. And that hole leads over but it also goes up into this cavity here that is bounded by a that's cut in half. Now, because this hole is open to the air, it sucks air in, and that acts to relieve the negative pressure. But when your petrol tank is full and it comes up to that hole, it's harder to suck on petrol so this tube here is less good at relieving that negative pressure, which means that this chamber here feels a stronger negative pressure, which pulls up on the membrane. The membrane is attached to this thing, so this thing gets pulled up as well. So, let's put all that and see what happens when the makes that clicking sound. So, the ball bearings are And look, you've opened the valve. But now, look, this thing... and do it. This thing lifts up, you fall into the middle of that thing, which means it can now slide down, which causes this thing to move down, which causes this thing to move down, which closes the valve. And of course, that prevents out of your full tank onto the full court, which would be a pretty big fire hazard. This video is sponsored by 80,000 Hours, a nonprofit that helps that solve the world's biggest problems. Like, I remember careers advice at school where they'd ask questions like, &quot;Do you like being outside?&quot; &quot;Do you like people?&quot; And at the end, they'd say something like you should be a flight And you're left thinking, the right questions?&quot; You know what I mean? The thing is, there is for how to find a fulfilling career. It's just that careers advice at school doesn't tend to focus on that. Most importantly, it's hard for people who want to make a difference. The advice tends to be follow one of these well known be a teacher, be a charity worker. But those aren't the only options, and they might not be the 80,000 Hours aims to that's fulfilling and The name comes from the 40 hours a week, 50 weeks Their insights come from alongside academics at Oxford University. And it turns out, the best way might be pretty different And you won't find any at 80,000 Hours either. Like, their recommendations but if they aren't sure about something, they'll say so. And to me, that says a lot. If you care about what the evidence says about having a fulfilling and you want advice that goes then 80,000 Hours can help. And by the way, everything because they're a nonprofit. Their only aim is to help by helping people like you find the most impactful careers they can. If you sign up for their newsletter now, you'll get a free copy of sent to your inbox. You can go to The link is also in the description. So, check out 80,000 Hours today. I hope you enjoyed this video. Thanks to Ulices Mendez for the idea. If you did enjoy it, consider subscribing. And the algorithm thinks (upbeat groovy music)