(wagon rattling) (gunfire banging) (dramatic music) - Yeah. (dramatic music continues) (gunfire banging) (dramatic music) (horse hooves comping) (dramatic music continues) - What's he doing? - I don't know. - I don't give a shit. (dramatic music continues) (gunfire banging) (gunfire booming) (dramatic music continues) (gunfire banging) (gunfire booming) (dramatic music continues) (gunfire banging) (gunfire booming) (intense music) (Elsa screaming) (dramatic music) (Elsa screaming) (dramatic music) (Elsa screaming, slapping) (fist pounding) (intense music) (Elsa coughing) (gunfire banging) (Elsa gasping) - Mama! - Anybody else want to fuck with my family? You? (footsteps stomping) (quiet music) - Sir. - You wanna court my daughter, you can. - Court her? - You can do it. - Not sure what it means. - Well son, it means you can talk and talk and go on rides and talk. - We've kind of been doing that. - You know the drill then. You break her heart, get handsy, you and me gonna have a problem. - Define handsy. Just a joke and a bad time to tell it. - Hmm Sorry. Sir. - Set it right there, son. (grass crunching) We should get moving. - We need to take care of something first. Come with us. (serious music) - John, you get in the Don't come out. Do you hear me? (serious music continues) - You must give it back. - Give what back? - We lost our food in the river. You must give back what you took. - Because you lose your - Your food was our - From who did I take? Huh? From who did I take? - From me. - We traded. I push your wagon and you give food. - You offered to help, - What are you doing? (person grunting) - Let them work it out together. (fist thudding) (fist thudding) - You don't go in mine wagon! - We have nothing because of you. (head banging) (pan thunking) (person screaming) (gunfire banging) (fist pounding) (person grunting) - You eat all this yourself, big boy? Huh? (serious music) (intense music) - You ain't going nowhere. (fist pounding) - Daddy. I love him. - You don't know what that word means. - I chose it. I went to him. I know what that word - I'll take your licks I'm a man, and I'll take 'em. I'll take her too. - Will you? That's how you ask. - I ain't asking nothing. If she loves me, I'm taking. If you won't give her to I swear it. - You got it all figured out, don't you? (quiet music) You say you love her, but you It's my heart you're running off with. You better cradle it like an egg. - I will, sir. (quiet music continues) I will. - Little warning. That girl's going to run you ragged. - It's already got that look to it, sir. - Mount up. You should get back to camp. (scene swooshing) (gunfire banging continues) (gunfire banging continues) (bodies thudding) (horse hooves clomping) - I loved her. - I don't doubt it, son. (somber music) (Elsa panting) (somber music continues) - I like this one. You've got expensive taste, boy. - [Margaret] James. - You gonna shoot me, little girl? - Goddamn right I am. - It's harder to do than you think. - No it ain't. - Look, we just funning - I guess she wasn't having too much fun. - All right. All right. Just, I'll put it down, okay? I put it down. - James. - I don't wanna waste looking - You're not gonna find us if you do. We just heading to Fort Worth. - I'd be headed that way. (intense music) (horse hooves clomping) - What is wrong with you? - Give it to me. You don't point this at anyone - I was gonna use it. (intense music) - Go to camp. You wait there. (intense music continues) (Margaret weeping) (horse hooves clomping) - Wherever we're going, 'cause it's costing us a daughter. If you ask me, it's a shitty trade. - We ain't trading nothing. And she was about to kill another. I look in her eyes, a new I don't recognize. I will never forgive you for this. - You don't forgive me? I don't forgive me. (intense music continues) - That ain't six, Captain. - I count 12. - 13. Run and fan out wide. (gunfire banging) (dramatic music) (horse hooves clomping) You keep running, don't (dramatic music) (intense music) (gunfire banging continues) (gunfire banging continues) (gunfire banging continues) (dramatic music) (gunfire banging continues) (gunfire banging continues) (gunfire banging continues) (gunfire banging continues) - Let's talk about your daughter. - Uh-oh. She's mine again. What'd she do? - Ran off with that Comanche boy. Killed a buffalo. Came back, her face covered in blood 'cause I guess they ate (James chuckling) Go ahead and laugh. She's feral. You always talked about how and you started with her. When we get back to any I'm gonna have to undo all of that. - Do you really want to? - Oh please, James, let me deal - You're a dreamer too. You wouldn't be with me if you weren't. - I'm a believer, honey. - Fair enough. (serious music) What is this? - It's for you. - Why is it for me? (serious music continues) Are you aware of what he's asking? - I'm aware. Take the horse, Daddy. - Young lady, I will not allow this. - You're not allowing it. I'm 18 years old. I'm allowing it. - You think being 18 makes you a woman? - Law thinks it does. (pensive music) - Don't just stand there, stop 'em. Shoot him. Do something! (pensive music continues) (horse hooves clomping) - Strong, fast. - Good horse for war, that one. - Where will she live? - My land is with Quanah Parker, south of the Wichita Mountains. I'll build her house if I think she would rather - She would. But she's young. Young change their minds. What if she changes her mind about you? - Then I will bring her back to you. - How you find me? - White men think the world is so big because you fight against We move with it like the wolf. It's small to us. I'll find you. - No chance you want to come to Oregon? - I fought too hard for Doubt the fighting's over. I'll marry your daughter, but I'll still belong to the people and the people belong to this land. We don't dare leave it. Maybe someday you find land to belong to. You'll know what I mean. - Whoa. What's your business out here? - I could ask you the same thing. You marshals? - Deputies. Wyoming Stock Growers Association. - Wyoming ain't a state. Who appointed you deputies? - We appointed ourselves after we got sick of having - Those don't look much like your horses and I don't see no cattle. - Mister, I don't know who but you better get back to it. We don't waste our time We just fucking shoot 'em. - We have the same philosophy. - Is that right? You're lucky to still be Don't let your mouth start a fight your pistol can't finish. - So, you saying those women - Nah, they're sorry men are the rustlers, when they find their families dead, they're gonna come after us and we're gonna give 'em - You killed all those - Them Indians is prairie You gotta kill 'em where (gunfire banging) - Y'all swing wide. I'm gonna run right at 'em. (gunfire banging continues) - You ain't no deputy. You ain't no judge. You ain't no fucking juror. Them folks wasn't the thieves. You're the thief. And you're gonna die for it. (gunfire banging) - You were a nurse in the war. - Yeah, so. - So how many liver shots you see survive? - We got it out fast, James. - Let me see it. It is filthy, honey. - She's young. She's so strong. - And she's the light of (pensive music) She's gonna die. (hand slapping) - How fucking dare you. I will not lose a child. - She is gonna die and it's gonna cut us in two. And if we don't accept it with some doctor to open her up so badly she can't see straight and we will have robbed her. She needs to see every and we will lie to her and and we will let her look at this world with those big dreamer eyes till they can't see anymore. - Then what are we gonna do? She's gonna be another cross 10 years from now, it's just gone. - Our wagon drive's over Where we bury her is where - Not here. Not in this place. - No, not in this place. I will find the place. By God, I'll find a place. (somber music) (somber music continues) (bird chirping) (bird chirping) - You bird sure are smart. - Hunny. Hunny. - I understand it now. - Understand what? - I know what it is. I'm not scared. I'm not scared, Daddy. (somber music) (James weeping) (somber music continues) (somber music continues)