The Binding of Isaac was never supposed to now Edmund McMillen's biggest game to date. It makes no sense to the indie developer, mainstream games at the time. "From any mainstream marketing perspective, goal from the start." Not that he didn't believe in the project, connect with his weird roguelike shoot 'em and theme. The Binding of Isaac began as a little side critically acclaimed indie game, Super Meat Thanks to that platformer's success, Edmund project another hit since he was all set financially. Furthermore, he wanted to go back to his roots really weird stuff like his earlier games In other words, he wanted to develop something without worrying about making a profit. When Edmund's co-developer and personal vacation, Edmund decided to start a weeklong juices flowing for Team Meat's next game. Since Tommy was on vacation, he asked Florian Florian is a programmer who worked on some anything that Edmund felt like making. So while Florian handled all the programming, and story. From the very start, Edmund had two very clear One: create a roguelike using the Legend of And two: make a game about his relationship It was a challenging assignment, but very After seven days the two developers created and they were too happy with the prototype So what was meant to be just a fun exercise, They continued to work on it in Flash using never even considered if it could become a They just wanted to finish it. Edmund explained he wanted to make a seemingly the roguelike sub genre. He also wanted to combine that formula with Furthermore, the developer also drew inspiration of roguelike games like Crawl and Diablo, 'em ups like Smash T.V. These elements combined with the Legend of an impressive real-time dungeon crawler format. Edmund even said that almost every aspect place with little effort. Besides the actual dungeons from The Legend incorporate some aspects from Zelda's progression Each dungeon in Zelda rewards the player with stronger and provide a sense progression. In The Binding of Isaac, Edmund chose to place rewarding the player with one stat-raising While the items are random, they're designed physical appearance and therefore always gives Fun fact: four of the original playable characters &amp; Dragons. Thief, Cleric, Wizard and Fighter. While many elements were inspired by other other roguelike games by shaking up the way Instead of using the traditional difficulty players as they played, increasing the difficulty The developer felt this made Isaac feel longer, that writes itself. It also allowed the game to reward players items, playable characters and other unlockable and keep the gameplay fresh and exciting. Edmund describes the progression system as "With Isaac, my goal was to create 'magic'. I wanted players to feel like the game was of its own and was writing itself as they I remember the original Zelda having this You weren't sure what things did until you with your friends and put all your findings I felt like since I was referencing Zelda complement it with the feeling of mystery Now that one of his two main goals was taken his relationship with religion. When Edmund was designing the game's overall feelings about religion in a way he was comfortable If you've played Isaac, you might have noticed like child abuse, gender identity, infanticide, might negatively affect a child. It's the kind of topics most games would incorporate them in Isaac. He strongly believes that people want what "I'm not saying everyone who played Isaac or that they even understood why they were adult conversation I dove into with Isaac and kept them thinking." Edmund grew up in a religious family, with side being born-again Christians. The Catholic side of his family practised candles to keep loved ones out of purgatory. The developer said they would drink and eat of mortal sin. He even described some of the rituals as casting As a child, he loved that part of religion He even attributes lots of the inspiration Unfortunately, dealing with the religious a much more difficult time when he was growing Activities such as Dungeons &amp; Dragons and and Edmund was told many times he would go generally condemned him for his sins. Eventually they even took away his Magic: to him as a kid, since it was one of his most These negative experiences sadly gave the but at the same time it shaped and fueled game ideas. He wouldn't be the same game designer he encounters with religion. It's exactly this duality that the developer Furthermore, Edmund mentioned that he thinks book and one of his favorite aspects of it in one passage. This inspired him to apply that aspect to is why the game's endings have many possible The overall story and plot of the game is called "The Binding of Isaac", where God prove his devotion to Him. Besides the Bible and his religious upbringing, films of the 80's also had a big influence A lot of these propaganda videos revolved abused and sacrificed children to gain demonic Danny Baranowsky, the composer of Super Meat pretty much as soon as Edmund started thinking He was out of town when development on the on the soundtrack as soon as he was back. It was a very symbiotic process according or builds of the game which Danny used as Then Danny would send his work back and then the game based on the music. The two developers finished the first fully of part-time development and launched the The devs had some reservations about releasing but after seeing the positive reactions from The Valve owned platform was chosen for a Steam allows developers to sell uncensored because he wasn't going to try and get an to sell more than a 100 copies. The developer also said that Valve knew the backlash, but they allowed it on Steam anyway Lastly, the ability to quickly update games was another huge plus for the two-person team. This last feature would prove very useful there were many bugs to iron out. It was updated every single day for two weeks would discover more bugs. Luckily, the most severe game-breaking bugs Edmund felt very bad launching the game in so many upset players posting about their The number one question people asked was "why "The reason we released Isaac when we did I didn't want to waste any more of my time I was just so worried it would suck that I Edmund further explained that it would have any bugs whatsoever, because the game is based level you pass. In order to fully test all the possible outcomes, days of extensive play time to fully debug This sadly meant that day-one buyers bore uncovering all the bugs. To make up for a less than desirable release, but that expansion was also riddled with bugs. Aside from all those problems, the roguelike mostly came down to the Flash engine. Even back in 2011, Flash and Actionscript Isaac to run poorly on lower-end PC's and doesn't play well with dual-core processors. To make matters even worse, the engine also features, causing Tommy to step in and help for Isaac so it could award Steam achievements One last problem that was tied to the engine Late in development, Edmund and Florian realized game of Isaac's size. Once the Flash file rose above 300MB, it became causing a crash. Suffice to say, if Edmund had known that anyone wouldn't have made it in Flash at all. Despite all of its problems however, more the game. The first few weeks, it was selling about at about 150 copies a day after a few months. This already far exceeded the team's expectations, daily sales were starting to climb up. It's very rare to see an upswing in sales like a sale triggering it. 200 copies per day turned into 500 copies, mark Isaac was averaging sales of more than It left the two developers clueless as to to check out YouTube to discover that fans Play videos that received lots of traffic. Against all expectations, the Biblically inspired A very vocal fanbase to boot, drawing in thousands Edmund's best guess as to why so many people of a creative outcast. The one person that is supposed to care about so his only real escape is his imagination. It's not a story you see in video games a story a lot of people can probably relate In January 2012, more than 450,000 copies attracted the attention of a publisher that Unfortunately, in February 2012 Edmund tweeted of &quot;questionable religious content&quot;. This decision caused quite a stir in the gaming pieces about who gets to decide what blasphemy Edmund himself was surprised to hear about were telling him for a while that they were console. The Nintendo employees said that the only was its religious content. The premise of a mother trying to kill her a bit too much for Nintendo's family friendly During the approval process, Edmund was even to the content in order to get on Nintendo's The developer never received a list, which problem was the game's entire theme and without losing its original spirit. Isaac eventually found its way to Nintendo more later. The indie title was never meant to get any in the first place. However, Edmund did have a few pages of "dream game. Now that fans were clamoring for more content, all those dream ideas into an extra-large All the positive fan reception certainly motivated the number-one reason why Edmund wanted to Danielle. "It was the first game I had designed that happy to see her fall in love with something I just had to continue it." Wrath of the Lamb was released in May 2012 new items, new endings, new floors and much The expansion was well received and by november and Mac and 25% of players also bought Wrath Earlier in 2012, Edmund was contacted by Tyrone publishing company Nicalis. He asked the developer how he felt about porting Now, while Edmund has nothing but love for Boy on multiple platforms still haunted him Therefore, the Isaac creator had a couple First and foremost, it wouldn't be a simple include a big second expansion. This meant ditching Flash and re-creating in C++. Edmund also wanted it to feature brand new one of its inspirations, namely The Legend Additionally, he also wanted to explore adding Finally, Nicalis would have to deal with all versions. The company agreed with the terms and development afterwards. Despite Nintendo not approving the original envisioned Rebirth as a Nintendo exclusive, partnership for a game that's so heavily The remake was released in November 2014 for Vita. It introduced a ton of fresh content like challenges, room layout seeds for floors and In July 2015, the remake arrived on Wii U, Yes, the devs and Tyrone were finally able roguelike on their handheld system and they help from three higher-ups working at the Steve Singer, vice president of licensing, game development and Dan Adelman, head of Binding of Isaac and continued to push for According to Tyrone, Nintendo actually never they also never said yes. &quot;It was a very delicate thing because we have pushing too much wasn't advisable. But the conversations with Nintendo never Ever since those conversations started however, Putting the game on the original 3DS now proved without cutting content and getting decent To give people the full experience, the team the New 3DS, which was more than capable of intact. Yet another DLC pack called Afterbirth was hours to an already jam packed experience. A new final area, 10 new challenges, a new and a new wave-based mode called Greed mode were added in Afterbirth. After this, Tyrone suggested implementing was immediately on board. Sadly, around this time, the developer was stuff. "Afterbirth Plus was developed at a time It was a messed up situation. A lot of stuff in my personal life, I wasn't as I wanted to." Development continued without much involvement was ready to be released and featured the as smaller additions like a few new bosses, The mod support included a Room Editor, Animation the item pools. This was a pretty big deal for The Binding more easily create their own content like Despite giving the fanbase something new to actually caused a split within the community. See, a couple of months prior to its release, to play and it was actually so good that a official content. Especially since Afterbirth+ had a lot of Edmund immediately took notice of the fan the result, praising the mod online. He even contacted Vinh, the lead designer about all things Isaac. Meanwhile, new features were being added to These Booster Packs added smaller chunks of the modding community. Unfortunately, Edmund and his team faced some updates. "There were definitely a bunch of issues I simply didn't have a great technical understanding had one person, Adrian Gavrilita, who was So it ended up taking a lot longer than I The first three Booster Packs still came out and the last two packs were made in collaboration These final updates were very ambitious and to Edmund. While the Booster Packs aimed to fix the lackluster lot of content missing from the much celebrated To give the fans what they want, the Isaac 2018 that another major expansion was in the Edmund tweeted that he was working together the fan favorite mod into the official game It's been delayed multiple times over the the team also wanted to eliminate as many When Repentance was nearing its release, Edmund the amount of content it holds. It was eventually released for PC in March year. According to the devs, Repentance added pretty way way more on top of that. New areas, over 100 new enemies and more than characters, a true local co-op mode, hundreds just some of the new features that were added. Additionally, a lot of the base game was tweaked feel fresh for veteran players. Edmund has mentioned in the past that Repentance but that doesn't mean development has stopped. The team is still hard at work bringing Repentance releasing additional smaller pieces of content However, during some recent interviews with big expansion or updates like Booster Packs That being said, it's safe to say the indie of Isaac. He's already released a prequel to The Binding as well as a board game called The Binding late 2018. "Isaac is kind of more like a universe to making it cooler." Edmund has already confirmed that a sequel it any time soon. The thought of a sequel has been in his head some of those ideas in Repentance and previous As of today however, he has no idea yet what The developer is far too busy with other projects Isaac right now. As for Edmund's previous co-developer, Tommy gone their separate ways. Back in 2012, when Edmund was working hard Gamasutra that Tommy was working on the new most likely would have been an iPhone game. Ever since Isaac kept growing in popularity been more quiet surrounding their work relationship. Tommy made a Super Meat Boy sequel called in December 2020 on Nintendo Switch and PC. In an interview with videogamer.com he talked "I still follow his work and I'm still We are on two different paths that I doubt Our individual paths are going to bring more us both happy with the work we're doing." To close out the video, I'd like to show The Movie", where Edmund summarizes how what motivates him every day to create. "Like, I know that there is a kid out there to come out and then didn't go to school it; and that even far exceeds my experiences To think that I could make something that into thinking, 'hey, I know two guys made It's just cool. It's really cool. It feels really really good."