It's really cool to see arepa written in Japanese. The whole menu translated so that the Japanese band can pronounce it. What a contrast to see the woman with the flour bread in the middle of a Japanese street. Here she is not Dona Carmen, here she is Karumen San. You got far thanks to your enterprising kids. Welcome to another edition of Luisillo, El Gordillo. We meet once again in Japan, beautiful territory to give hard to the fattening. And this time our mission will be to look for Venezuelan food. Change the Te pura for te queno, the yaqui soba for yaqui melasobas, you can never miss a good chinazo. Since we did this same dynamic a few months ago, but with Mexican food and I saw that they liked it a lot, now I wanted to replicate it, but with the gastronomy of our CHAMOS. And I tell you once and for all that making this video has not been easy at all. There really is not a large Venezuelan community in these lands. There are not many restaurants. I would dare to say that what you will see in this video is all there is. Nevertheless, I managed to get in touch with several gastronomic cracks who are ready to delight our stomachs. This video is in support of all the Venezuelan community that follows the channel, because they are going through a very difficult time. So, we want to encourage you, what we want is to exalt your beautiful culture that is expanding more and more around our planet. Say no more, let's start with this. Normally, I would say let's hit it, but we are in Japan, so I will say: Iquimashou. On the outskirts of the city of Tokyo, on the way to Kawasaki, we found this unique place called Kakao Soku, a chocolate shop where desserts are prepared with ingredients from Venezuela. The owner is in charge of importing ingredients from various regions of the country, even from Japan, to delight the palate of locals and foreigners. I am 25 years old in Japan and I have only been making chocolate for three years and eight months. I started making chocolate at home, but with cocoa from various places, and then I got my hands on Chuao. Venezuelan cocoa has very special flavors and that led me to think: &quot;And what should I open the store for? Well, look, I'm going to focus only on Venezuelan cocoa and that's how I started. Hey, I see you have here... This is paprika with lemon. Yes. Oh! The famous one. I make that with a sugar from Okinawa. Okinawa is very famous for sugars similar to papelon. Wow! That's delicious. And then, you can eat an ice cream and you don't come out the same refreshed, because when you put this in and.... It's like the aguitas frescas back in Mexico, it's the same thing. Hey, I see you have some Venezuelan roncitos here. What do you do with these? We have a rum service with the soft cream surf that we have here, which is a chocolate ice cream that we make fresh here with Kumamot milk, which is quite fatty, quite creamy and is super delicious for making ice cream. Okay, you serve the ice cream, put some cocoa nips on top, add a splash of rum. That's how it turns out. Let's see how it turns out. What a tasty mixture. The tasting theme is also very interesting to offer it to people, so that they can taste the chocolate and do the chocolate tasting. I teach them to taste chocolate, because people, in general, when they grab a piece of chocolate, they put it in, can, can, can, can, can, three more than calcium and bring it to you. The chocolate, you have to let it melt gently on your tongue and then move it around in your mouth. Once you melt the chocolate, inside your mouth, I tell people, now you've had a shot of rum. This cocoa has four different Venezuelan cacados. All the Venezuelan cocoa flavors in general in one chocolate. Oh, look at that crazy combination. Neither the chocolate tasted too sweet, nor the rum too strong. There is a good balance. And just what is that you say? It doesn't taste like a commercial chocolate from a store. This tastes like... Exactly, it's very natural. We went backstage here. Alfredo is showing me some of his machines, some of which he has even developed and everything. He's going to show me a little bit of the process. We finish the cocoa, we put it on these trays. Then, you put it in this oven, put the trays, lay it down, and after you lay it down, you take it out of here. This here is a juicing machine, but it works very well to break the cocoa beans. So, you transformed it from a juice machine to a cocoa machine. And it works through a vacuum cleaner. So, let's turn on the vacuum cleaner. But it's a vacuum cleaner, literally from.... From a vacuum cleaner. Hey, what a crack. And we put these cacados like this. And now, here, you see the material going down and picking up what you bury here and what you want there. Wow, what a stroke of genius. And now here, well, a clip of raw cocoa. And then from there you pull it out and pour it into this other machine over here. Oh, yum! It looks great. And well, from here to the molds and from the molds back to the fridge. And when it is ready, it goes into the sachets and is sold. More or less, that's the process we have here. Well, honestly, I loved it. We have come out of the restaurant very happy, we have come out of it slightly alcoholic. It was a delicious place, very good in every sense of the word. We can't be making a video of Venezuelan food without having a good arepa. And wow, how did I struggle to find a place that sold them? The arepa culture in Japan is practically non-existent. What's going on there my boys from this part of the world? Get your act together, you are missing a very, very good opportunity. Luckily, I contacted a guy who has a food truck, a little food truck, called Tokio Arepa, which opens on special events, something like once a month. And as soon as I found out that it would open one day in the city of Kamakura, in Kanagawa Prefecture, I immediately took a train to taste an exquisite Japanese-style arepon. It is very funny to see arepa written in Japanese. Here it says: Venezuela Fudo, Arepa, the whole menu translated so that the Japanese band can pronounce it. What a contrast to see the Harina Pan woman in the middle of a Japanese street. Here she is not Dona Carmen, here she is Harumen San. You got far thanks to your enterprising kids. Well, let's go inside because my mother didn't give birth to Teja. I'm already tired of this heat. Hey, I'm fascinated that the clients here are Japanese people. I don't know, I thought there were going to be a lot of Latinos here waiting for a taste of the tastes of the motherland. But no, at least now that we are here, all the customers are Japanese. For 1300 Y=, about 10 dollars each arepa, I ordered the three most popular ones, which are adaptations of the pelua and the reina pepiara. I also ordered a papelon with lemon for refreshment. And check out how curious it is how they sell you here the little sacks of flour bread, also for about 10 dollars, with instructions in Japanese so you know how to prepare the perfect arepa. Look how beautiful it is, it is a slow but sure expansion of Venezuelan gastronomy to this side of the world. We started in pandemic, my wife and I were at home and one day she was watching a Food Truck program, she called me and said: Raul, what if we set up a Food Truck? And we set up a food truck and I said: &quot;Wow, that's a good idea. We already had that spark of wanting to have a small Venezuelan food business here in Japan. And over the course of a year and a half, we started in 2020, by 2021 we had the project ready, and in 2022, specifically in the spring, we opened for the first time. Our diners are basically Japanese. It has not been easy, it has been a very interesting task, because in the food truck and street food industry, here in Japan, the Japanese are used to classic food, which is eaten at festivals, and then, entering the market to compete with something totally different has been a challenge, but not impossible. Using language, which is, I think, the most important thing here, promoting ourselves on social networks, especially in Japanese and in the Japanese market, has made people pay attention to what Venezuelan food is. And sometimes people also know more about Venezuela than we might think, even when we are in Japan. I think now with Toquerepa, I think we have one more reason to stay longer. Our next goal or the next step is to have a physical location where we can have a restaurant in Central Toki. And we expect this to be the case. Now let's give it a try, I'm craving this! Let's give first to the queen pepiada, this famous recipe that has enchanted generations, composed of chicken, avocado, mayonnaise, silanbro, limoncito, among other ingredients that the cook decides to add. Provechito. I don't know what is happening to me, but in a very natural way my mother's pussy is coming out. What a taste, what a deliciousness. And Raul was just telling me that he likes to make them right away so that they taste really fresh and wow, it's brutal. 10 out of 10. The next one, pork with cheese. I really liked, by the way, the presentation, this good paper wrapper so it doesn't get all over the place. Here we do not waste, but not even a crumb. Provechito. Italakimas. The fact that I was already very hungry from the train ride, with the fact that this is really delicious, very authentic, I'm having a great time. And I love the contrast, eating my arepita, here with Dona Carmen, and over there the parking kanji, the street obviously Japanese, Rio Chan passes by, I greet her. Konnichiwa, Rio Chan. Arepa geoshideska.. I loved this, but I don't know if I loved it more than Reina Pepea. So far that has been my favorite. Before the next one, Buche, tantito papelon with lemon. How fresh and delicious. It is very interesting, the good Raul told me that in order to make the recipe they use the yellow lemon here, because the green one is very difficult to get and very expensive. And I love that beyond selling the ready-made food, the enterprise is to sell the flour in medium distribution. Well, it is one of the only two distributors of bread flour in all the Japanese lands. So, it's good. Look, you know, if someone around here is craving to make some arepitas, contact my brother-in-law, he will even send it to you with instructions in Japanese. And finally, an adaptation of what would be an arepa katira, chicken with melted cheese and some vegetables. Come on, let's taste it. This is better than mango bajito. Well, honestly, I loved it all. Small observations I can make. For example, some good tequenos are missing from the menu. A tequeno never fails, it's exquisite, it's great. There is a lack of fried plantains to add to the arepas and a good guasacaca, it is really delicious to soak your arepa in guasacaca and pour the whole thing over it. Although I understand that this is probably due to lack of ingredients, it's not like you can get everything just like copy paste even in this country, the Asian continent. I loved it. Adapted recipes, but still feel very authentic, extremely tasty. Recommended. We wish all the success to our friend Raul so he can continue to expand. In one of the most luxurious areas of Tokyo, is the restaurant led by the only Venezuelan chef with two Michelin stars. This restaurant is really more oriented towards Peruvian cuisine, but chef Santiago Fernandez inspires some of the dishes with Venezuelan flavors. The other night, we already had dinner here and it is very, very top notch. A high level experience. It is not for nothing that he was awarded two Michelin stars, or Michelin, if you want to get too fancy. Come on, let's go, the chef is waiting for us. I am from Caracas, Caracas, Venezuela. And I started very, very young. I already liked cooking when I was, say, six, seven years old, but from the age of 14 I began to dedicate myself a little more professionally to working in kitchens in Caracas and until I was 17 I was working in kitchens in different restaurants in Venezuela. And although what we do here in Japan is food inspired by Peruvian ecosystems. I obviously have my palate, it's like my taste memory and I grew up in Venezuela, I lived there for the first 18 years of my life. So, obviously, I have that background of flavors. So, when I'm making something, I realize and say: Well, but this tastes just like a meat mechada, or this tastes.... I do it without wanting to, almost, because I am not even looking for it, but these are things that one already has in his DNA. I think it is a pride to have these flavors and that people also like them. So, without wanting to, I almost feel the Venezuelan in the food we make here at Mas. Recently, Santee received two Michelin stars. In fact, I understand that you are the only Venezuelan chef with two stars. Yes, that's right. What an impressive achievement that is. Well, here in Japan it's a big deal, it's the city with the most Michelin stars in the world. For us, I imagine that because of the very different style of cooking and the work that was being done, we were awarded two in one fell swoop. So, it is really a pride to be Venezuelan and to have two Michelin stars is an important achievement and the truth is that I think I carry the flag of the country. This restaurant opens at 6 o'clock in the evening, isn't it? Yes, however, we are being received since 11 a.m. and the kitchen is already alive. Why do they start so far in advance? There are a lot of details that need to be done in a restaurant like this. In the end, we only feed 20 people. The team is nine people in the kitchen and we are all preparing from this hour. There are a lot of details, the product arrives fresh, many things arrive alive, and we even have to kill them and start preparing them from scratch. So, we like to come with time and do things well. 20 people every day? I mean, this is very difficult to book. Yes, in Japan, really, the spaces that are that small and also it's almost a status symbol that your restaurant is hard to book. I mean, the more years you are fully booked, people see it as a better restaurant. There are restaurants that have been fully booked for four or five years. So, that's like a very prestigious restaurant here in Japan. As someone books a table five years in advance, it can even happen that someone dies waiting for their reservation, right? If you die, believe me, part of the Japanese honor is that someone is going to come and take your reservation and they can't lose face with the restaurant. That's the respect restaurants have for you here. Wow, how sad. So you planned to come with your wife in three years, so, and then you get divorced. No, man, how heartbreaking to think about this. Well, now. Let's talk about cooking, let's not get dark. Well, today I prepared two dishes to show you. One of them I chose specifically because I do feel that this dish has a bit of Venezuelan flavors. My dad is from Maracaibo and there is a dish that he likes a lot, which is Chido en Coco. So, when I was making it I remembered this a lot when I was preparing it and I said: Look, maybe a little more coconut milk, a little more of this. And the other one, if it is something improvised, we don't have it here anymore, but I got some live clams and I wanted to prepare a more Venezuelan dish for them. So, I am going to make my favorite dish, which is the &quot;vuelvo a la vida&quot;, using seafood from here, from Japan. So, I am going to open them for you. To start with the dish, the vuelvo a la vida, which is part, I think, of my childhood. We have our old one. We are going to eat this one here, the hoki gai. Here we eat this part of the meat. I have already prepared a little bit of octopus, the clam I mentioned before, the hoki gai. We are going to cut it like this. Look how it is also moving a little bit on the board. Yes, it is moving, look at that. And a little bit of the octopus as well. This is the Japanese version of a flight to life. And here we have the marinade of the flight to life, it's very traditional. And now we add the seafood, we are going to put it in this bayilla, which I make it myself here in the restaurant, it is made with wax. Yes, we make it here. Wow! Wow! How crazy. This last thing that was put on it, what is it? Yes, these are some crunchy ones we made with the octopus ink, to give it some texture as well and use as much of the octopus as we can. I think this encapsulates a little bit the essence of Venezuelan food and using the Japanese product, which is really quite good. Let's try the come back to life with Japanese ingredients. I love the presentation here, they bring you your very specific spoon that the dish in beeswax. There it is, a more than worthy bite. Itadakimas. What a combination of flavors. It's as if Dona Juana had been swimming in the sea of Jocaydo, grabbed the octopus with her bare hands and then served it to me. This is really delicious. Well, here is the second dish I had prepared for you. And this is the one that reminds me a lot of a Venezuelan chivo en coco that you can eat either in Maracaibo or in Falcon or in Lara, which is very typical in the western part of the country. We are cooking a goat, but in this case it is a Japanese goat that comes from the south. It is cooked with these flavors, with coconut, a little spicy. We use chili peppers, a lot of garlic, onion and some crunchy ones, which are these sticks that you see, which are made with mushrooms. And then here we have this special. This is an ancestral Inca cooking technique called watia. So, we are baking in clay, edible clay, and inside what we are going to make is an eggplant. But the interesting thing is that we marinate it as if it were a guasacaca and then it is cooked inside the clay. Then, the eggplant is going to be soaked with this guasacaca flavor, and it is finished with a goat cheese cream and an herb oil. Let's give neck to the goat, to the coconut. I don't know how to start. I think we are going to take a little bit here, a little bit of eggplant here. Let's mix it with the goat, with the coconut. A good bite, a worthy bite. I feel this is going to be a good top. Let's see, I need time to understand what's going on here. Here goes. It tastes to me like a little goat was running through the summer fields, came across a crop of eggplants, stomped on them, rolled in them and out of nowhere Don Santee came along, enclosed it between a few stones and served it straight to the table. A mixture of flavors, but a delicious one. This is wow. I love it and I love the presentation, I love how they bring it to you, I love it. I love the fact that it's an open bar, so you see the team here working while you're eating. What a cool experience, what specific flavors, what a privilege indeed to have been received like this, in such a warm way, in such a prestigious kitchen. Well, how tasty you have eaten, what a great food, how exquisite is the Venezuelan gastronomy. I send a big hug to all my boys and girls. Cheer up, much better times are coming after all this. Thank you for joining me. See you as always, as you know, in a few days with a new video. Good bye.