We've scoured the web and conducted with some incredible paranormal military. From bigfoot-like creatures these are some of the most terrifying military The Vietnam Predator I don't know if whoever made that Predator movie because mine isn't the only one. But I feel like because the movie is spot on. I was with the 281st Assault Our job was to fly special forces guys and all sorts of things. I don't know if they assault operations using helicopters, and it behind where they least expected. But it was and a lot of the time it wasn't, you could end Well, what we did was sort of like that, smaller teams. Anyway, my chopper went down like that; it was the transmission. but the Huey was pretty new and had a lot our choppers in good working order, so I It wasn't that bad of a crash thanks to the tree time, but the chopper rolled over as it fell out that's what killed three of our guys instantly, my co-pilot, and five other guys in the back. We the damn thing wouldn't transmit, only receive. We had about a twenty-click walk back to the sound too bad until you figure in the weather and slowing you down to just a few clicks a day. We we knew we were close to a major VC operational had seen the crash and heard our Mayday over the we could from the chopper, destroyed some of the We didn't see it that first night, but we heard it made this clicking sound like taking them together rapidly. But one of the special were trained to know that kind of stuff, help so I believed him. We thought it But the sound kept catching up to us, and at one maybe thirty-forty meters from us. And it was treetops. We froze and took cover, thinking it was if there were VC out there, they would've pounced During the day, we rested to avoid the worst of day and at night. We were going slow; it was just and it was awful going. We were making three or though, the clicking was there again. It's you guys are up now, and so am I. It didn't make That second night, something walked by front and saw it along with one other guy. and we weren't getting much moonlight through the changed as something moved in front of us. I big just walking across a gap in the trees even though we couldn't really see it, we heard That scared us both witless for a second, and it was gone. We were expecting but this was different. It was like we both The next day, we all saw it. We'd taken provided protection from the sun and we heard it--it was moving through the so we crawled to the edge of our cover, where The copse of trees was next to a small and you could see our trail through the tall it was a fake trail. Two guys had taken the jungle on the far end of the field and in a We couldn't see it, but we heard the on the far side of the field moving like you could see where it was going because of the went up to our fake trail and seemed to stop; it was close enough that you could see that it was like you could see through it, but followed the fake trail back into the jungle, After that, we never saw or heard it again. or maybe it just got bored. I but it was plenty exciting to us we swore we wouldn't tell anybody about what us? And none of us wanted to get put up for I can't tell you much about what it looked from the size of the visual distortion it it pushed out of its way. I don't know I just know what I saw, and I know that plenty The Dream It was the mid-2000s, and I was on a security worked the midnight shift at the time, and and you could get in serious trouble for it, we call "one up, one down." In other words, I and then we swap. When you're stuck in a and overnight on a 12-hour shift, it's One night, I had a strange dream while it was from my nap and looked across at my partner, who and I got really angry, so I reached over to no matter how hard I shook him. Suddenly, of the humvee and turned my attention to a bunch of people stepped out of the shadows standing shoulder to shoulder. But what alarmed at least not in the face. There was just enough they had no noses, tiny, tiny mouths with a and they had giant eyes that almost It freaked me out, and I reached for my weapon, tugged, and I tugged, and despite it not it was as if I wasn't even strong enough I woke up for real and looked over to realize flashback to the dream and a bit of paranoia, woke up when I angrily shook him. He apologized I didn't think much of it until several weeks heat up my dinner. There was another patrol in hushed tones. My ears pricked up when he and then it blew me away when he started it must have been some type of prank, but dream because I'd never told anyone- not I started talking to people and found that in the last two months, and all of us had been I don't know what it means, but to this day, Afghanistan Beast Part of our job in Afghanistan was to provide intelligence guys as they went to visit tribal roads, and it was a dangerous job, but early secure alliances or at least assurances that the the tribes large sums of money to either These people live very simple lives up any that have electricity up there, and if I don't think anyone up there has ever that's important for what's coming next. because I heard it from other guys who 'The chief we talked to on this trip was pretty funneled something like $20,000 to him since people. We were up on a goodwill tour, showed and reminded everyone we were their friends. pass through the mountains and kept the Taliban Anyway, we'd settled for dinner when running up in a panic. He's white as but he keeps saying one word over and over again and a few of the men gathered rifles and started what he could for us but said he'd never So we ran after them, thinking maybe it was the gear within arm's reach, even though it was were supposed to be safe with them. Money and We followed the group of men to the edge herded the livestock into corals for the night. mostly just for predators, though there when we got there, the place was a mess. One lying by his side. He'd been the only one boys. There was a small mixed herd of sheep and the animals were all going crazy. We could see avoided and damage to the wooden fence from where They kept repeating that word, and the still not sure what was going on. I had a and I spotted a large heat source must have been a very big rock that was still the thing stood up. And I do mean, it That thing let out a horrible scream like of the Jurassic Park t-rex and the shriek of ending in a high pitch. We must've been at least I could still feel it in my chest. The men seemed but I could see it through my thermal as out of sight and over a ridge in seconds. Nobody chased the creature further, probably too fast. Turns out, whatever it was had out the oldest boy who had the gun. I don't they had been preoccupied and talking amongst a bunch of white and black strangers. through our interpreter that these things So it took two of the sheep, full-grown animals, it did that because I saw the footprints- And they were clear in the dirt of the pens the villagers told us that these 'giants'- I but it translated to something like devil giant snatch livestock at night, moving up real stealthy with a screaming animal. Nobody was allowed to sometimes, these things would be in the throwing rocks at people or scaring The thing is, everyone treated this thing- description- like it was a totally normal surprised, even though one of them had knocked that's kind of terrifying because it means that was and identify who had it. I guess this been living with for generations, brought to hunt terrorists and bad guys I'm going to be honest with you: After seeing even with all our firepower, I don't group of them swarming down on us from more nerve-wracking than normal as we went down and I never liked going back up The Shadow People My first deployment was to Iraq, and to run because it was when we were most exposed, and I'm only got worse when one of our vehicles broke down middle of nowhere. There weren't even any locals Well, we couldn't just abandon the vehicle so we radioed for help. A tow vehicle would be to be available. It would then take several more and it actually reached us. That Maybe I was naive, but I was sure we'd be ambushed out in the middle of hostile territory with no there's always air support flying patrols 24/7 in know that back then, so it was extra terrifying We'd set up 360 security, with the vehicles what it must have been like for the early wagon in that night, so everyone would take at least one of the guys said he was seeing figures so we went over to check it out. At first, you could spot them. Looked just like people trying to be sneaky or anything. And you could but you couldn't make out any details. We thought they might be Bedouins or us and stayed far enough away that we didn't one of the guys actually shone his weapon's disappeared when it hit it. This is an infrared but the thing just disappeared the moment it hit Those things were out there the entire night, but just walking back and forth. I don't think see them, and let me tell you- I've never Benning Bigfoot I just know that they renamed it. But back when the ranges- you knew Bigfoot was real, and nobody you'd try to warn him, and they'd laugh and think themselves and know we weren't joking around. The Ranger babies out there in the woods during their that knew, nobody talked about it. It was a big So the things would show up mostly around busy. I don't really know why they preferred they'd be intimidated away. But I think they and of course, there was absolutely no hunting or else people would get shot up. The no-hunting much, it meant they didn't get bothered, but That's deer, by the way. I guess but I know for a fact they eat deer think that's also why they might have liked and the deer would have come through there if few days. That big open area was perfect for the it let them run real fast without being worried The first time I saw one for myself, we were just replacing some rotting boards. It was nothing freight train crashing through the trees somewhere sumbitch you've ever seen came tearing out of easily seven, maybe eight hundred pounds. It even from where we were, and it was gunning deer are fast, but this thing was faster, and it steps total. It had so much momentum that they straight into the tree cover on the other side I didn't see it again after that. I but there's no way it didn't know we were beforehand. The deer didn't really and I guess these things were, too. At You'd find footprints; sometimes, the or claim we were trying to prank them. try to make anyone believe either- it would and we liked it that way. It made us feel was a bunch of idiots coming off duty and getting shot up by people doing night fire or I sometimes spotted one or two when the range these things like to hide, and they're experts at hair or fur or whatever blends in with the and their faces don't have much hair on them, of binoculars, you could spot them sometimes. and they'd just sit there and watch us fire off most little boys love to see someone shooting to be honest. They sure did seem The locals know they're there, especially I don't know if it's still there, but it used Benning with Columbus and ran you right past though hardly anyone really took it. Still, if a good chance you'd see one or you'd have stuff one run right up next to their speeding van and they do that, and maybe they just like the thrill We never had any problems with them, and they to play pranks, though. We used to have to ready for trucks to pick them up and take them and then come back, and they would have moved the up or anything like that; it's like they knew want to make any mess for us. That's why I say Still, I don't think I'd ever want to run they mean to hurt anyone, but something The Visitor I shot and killed an old woman when I was tell me it was an accident, but it always crowded street by a small group of gunmen; they crossfire themselves. I admit that I panicked and where I was shooting. She'd ducked into a and I watched her crumple as several 5.56 confirmed it was NATO standard Two of our own died that day in the seeing. They ended up flying me back to was nothing wrong with me physically, but they and I kept saying yes. I did various therapies, going for treatment at the VA, eventually My wife and I had moved to Virginia to be close and I was working security just to make to do much more than that, so both of us were which meant I'd be home alone I started noticing things were off. closed and wake up to it wide open. and my dresser drawers were wide open and despite being easily over a hundred pounds, furniture he could fit under. But whenever She started accusing me of abusing the dog, and I could do such a thing. In hindsight, I think whatever it was. I think it stirred up trouble which is why it targeted it. It to make us fight. It fed off all our negative the stronger it became. And the stronger it I have to pause to say that I owe my stayed with me through everything, when I got back home from Iraq that ordeal. I think that thing wanted me The first time it got physical, I woke up to the bed or on the side, usually on my wife's side. dog- growling at something in the doorway. As now open again. There was nothing there, but Buck entering the room and approaching the bed. Buck still growling and baring his fangs at I was going to get out of bed, it would attack my wife instead. So I stayed put, I felt ice wrap itself around one of my the foot of the bed. Buck started barking like That woke my wife up, and she found me half the bedsheets. I couldn't stand- the thing dislocated my knee. My wife rushed me to the bruised deep purple. After seeing X-rays, been jerked violently and asked if I'd been in told the nurse- I fell out of bed in my sleep. In a way, when the thing hurt me, it actually told her I wasn't doing anything to Buck. on while she was gone- the door to the bedroom and cold spots that seemed to move around the apart, make me feel like my only anchor in the it only drew us closer together. Now she believed I've never been religious despite growing up when I was overseas, but who didn't? And I never me seriously when I did pray. My wife, though, and the first thing she did was turn to the what to do for us; I'm not even sure they believed a church in the next town, and so on and on, But now it was like the thing knew it was under went into overdrive. One night, we were having the remote floated up into the air on its own, then suddenly darted towards me, almost like by instinct, yelled out "Jesus!", and the remote just stopped. It jerked towards me but the remote stopped again. My wife started like a real loud scream, right there in front right between our heads and smashed to pieces was angry and furious at my wife's prayers. with that remote, but something had deflected it. gave me a crucifix to wear, and I wore it daily. barking and going crazy. My vision was dimming could hear my wife screaming and Buck still going me that she'd started praying again- I don't know, was down a long hallway. Anyways, that must have I had a bloody red line across the front of my into my flesh. My wife told me that when she'd looked over and see something pulling on my side of the bed. She said it was like something as hard as it could to choke me out. Then, I don't know how to explain it, but I was ascaredfor my wife and for Buck. I about targeting me and go after them I'm not sure what happened, a neighbor saw it and yard with a wooden picket fence. Buck was big but kids by the fence so they could pet him and him getting loose, but we kept the gate locked he could've jumped that fence anytime he My neighbor said that's exactly what happened. Buck going crazy. According to him, Buck was and he seemed to follow it all the way to as if he was chasing something only he could someone in a big F-150 was barreling down the things knows it's impossible to see anything driver never even saw Buck run out in front I know it lured him out there, and I know it wife up and saving my life. We were devastated us despair, it failed miserably. We were more We knew we had to get rid of it because we weren't and besides, I knew it was personal. Luckily for us, it wasn't too long after that finding any church to help us, but my wife was It was a small town, real rural. The church black congregation, and we certainly raised a few was more because they simply weren't expecting We spoke to the preacher after service. He were talking. Then he said he'd be happy to it was like the clouds parted for the explain it in any other way--it was like God was It took three visits for the thing to talk about what happened during the visits; Real bad. But this thing was attacking me and it was in fight or flight mode, pulling out all came to our house and filled it with light. And a whole group of them. The preacher said God's kingdom works- everyone was there to fill It was like the color returned to both our lives my wife and I are to everyone who helped. The one whose kind can only be driven out with I think- and back then, I did think- that the preacher told me that's just what it wanted feel responsible. It wanted me to dwell The Gulf of Mexico Monster During the Cold War, there was a very real concern of Mexico and carry out sabotage operations the Gulf, like the east and west coasts of the in on anything transiting in those waters. Over the Navy has developed an extensive They use this database to train submariners sonarman that could identify the exact type but now they've got AI for that. The same goes talking about just whale calls. See, everything defecates underwater. Most of that sea life is too to a sensor or traveling in large schools. eerily mechanical sounds or just plain strange were violating its waters but discovered it Big sea life is the most and today's submariners and ASW officers of whales and other large sea life. But coordinating ASW activities for the Gulf of It's hard to describe unless you listen to very loud 'bloop' noise that would repeat. in the early 80s and would repeat during we thought it must be a geologic activity, but across the gulf ruled that out pretty quickly. We out what this thing was, and they came up with given the strength of the signal and the time Very big. Much bigger than any other known sea Whatever the creature was- if it was, in to the deeper channels in the Gulf. I know local talk about monster sharks out in deep I ever heard paled in comparison to the something on the order of 800,000 lbs- This was an estimate, of course, and due able to give them the highest-resolution data estimate better. But clearly, whatever this very quickly underwater. Its estimated speed was As far as I'm aware, the Navy never discovered some buddies of mine that they had tracked SOSUS network. It had apparently even appeared this being a biological even stronger as it would across multiple oceans. However, because these to get eyes on them or anything like that, and so tracking them, even with our sensor network, briefly when they rose to shallower waters Dead Lights of Indian Springs Before deploying overseas to Iraq, my unit training. It's a small Air Force installation not very built up, or at least We spent a lot of time on the range, especially some drones we would be trying out in the general desert training. One day, we booted it the desert. Then, we stayed out there for We set up a defensive position the way we would patrol and had to stay the night out, but despite Still, this was US soil, so spending a night Sometime in the night, I was shaken who told me I had to check some strange things edge of where we had set up, and I saw that including the platoon sergeant, who'd normally seriously. But when I saw what they saw, They'd been watching this for at least ten it was a small light way out in the desert. with a flashlight, but then we watched that maybe only a few hundred feet, but then it floated two more lights- one red and one orange-ish- amber light, and the three seemed We watched them for about fifteen they must have been active for about a half could see them illuminate the desert around them, was just kind of surreal and beautiful at the sat there watching them. Towards the end, it was and suddenly flew up into the sky so fast that it We didn't see anything else the rest of up looking despite it not being our watch. We and when we got back, we talked to a few of the seen those lights before and weren't frequent, air force sergeant with a Native American name I They were supposed to be spirits coming down to with them, or they could do things like make The Big Lie I got my start in Army counter-intelligence, then because I was never quite the right fit but it's less Army than the rest of the Army Thanks to what you saw on TV, I have known about When we were gearing up to knock Saddam I came up with an idea to spook the was that if we could get the Iraqis to be thinking less about some of the advanced US By now, I was part of a working group that Navy, most of them Vietnam vets looking for fresh and it was a simple matter to construct them. All air-to-air live fire training- and stripping we ripped the engine out of them and tossed instead using some pretty durable plastic with for the body. This significantly making it not quite invisible but stealthy on radar rather than produce a solid track. The problem was that the material was make any kind of large aircraft or anything But we weren't concerned with that, these drones and if they crashed or tore themselves apart or To make them more UFO-like, we rigged the that could shoot down at the ground. It was by the time we were done. The problem was that so Air Force boys devised several air inlets that drone sped along. Combined with the jet engine's you wouldn't immediately recognize as a jet, these things putting on a strange light show We knew it might not fool the more senior army at the time was conscripts- and All we had to do was put the spook in with outlandish reports. Days before the we flew our first fleet of drones- four Now, these things had no transponders designed to fly home- when their mission was They had their flight routes pre-programmed, of communications equipment- We could track them when they were close to 20 clicks out or so it was difficult to get a nets pretty deeply by then, and we could listen sector in real time. Sure enough, the reports sky and craft shooting beams of light down at our hands on Iraqi military documents; these air defense networks- which got blindsided by real After Desert Storm, I was invited into a very from the three major branches--the Army, Air psyops background, I was in charge of lying Anytime someone in the US saw a weird light cook up a good lie about it or find a way I'd love to say that it was a challenging experience- but the truth is, it was people fall into two categories- people who absolutely will not or don't want to believe in a little green man comes right up to my door!" All you have to do is offer the most bare minimum explanation. They will latch onto it for all its are the same people who always demand the they themselves are perfectly happy to accept the All you have to do is lean on those people, give and watch them do their job for you. They'll few witnesses are ever really willing to come livelihood. Sometimes, they need a little push, There was one back in 2008, if I just southwest of Fort Worth, big UFO got chased PR disaster waiting to happen, especially on the ball and immediately denied any military Well, we knew we had a ticking bomb on our hands or video camera on them at the time. But with respectable members of various communities, this an explanation through the Air Force. Yes, there training exercise, but a miscommunication That was it. That was all it took to silence tracks. A simple, reasonable explanation that hundreds of witnesses were telling the communities and encouraged people in there and make fun of the locals a bit. even back in the late 2000s. One Facebook infiltrating various groups like the CIA and FBI I guess I was part of the second group of people, feel stupid is an understatement. To say that for most of my career is an understatement. country while having a good laugh with the same See I thought that we were just silencing reports to believe that's what it was, I had no problem and even military personnel. And I'm sure some fact a lot of it wasn't. It's impossible when who spent years silencing or suppressing them, than you think. So when someone tells you that that made no noise and seemed to hover, they're precisely what crossed three state lines back Now, I wasn't yet part of this special group of how to handle a mass sighting and suppress up. What's strange is that even when I was being I still bought the lie--I just did not even was a mile-long spaceship of some kind I think there are a lot of people who'd be and some of them may want to harm me I don't really blame them- and if you're people who saw something incredible and sorry. But this is my confession, my attempt No, I'm not worried about the government coming happens to me there's a way to authenticate a public. Besides, they know better by now. Most so this will be just another story to well, suddenly that makes my story But don't fool yourself--people still so they never will, no matter how until a little green man walks The Kraken of Costa Rica This took place back in the early 2000s. I was Rica to help train their guys and as part Sometimes, we rode along with them on their own boats--which was easy considering we We were doing routine small boat evolutions the radio. This wasn't uncommon given but this was different- the caller but the caller was speaking very rapidly and it As we sped to their location on two small the fishermen said they were under attack by panicked caller insisted that something in the shark and that, with their sinking boat, they attack even a small fishing boat, but it might fish the men were catching and in a frenzy, We didn't have much info to go off,, given but we were at their position no more than that the small fishing boat was halfway two figures were frantically waving top of the small cabin. The men were for my Spanish to really comprehend, and I saw it momentarily as we killed the engine I thought we were just passing over a massive color was wrong. The mass below our boat was a massive eye came into view, easily the size of a to take us all in on that boat, it really gave us us in a way that just felt intelligent. Then long to believe. I took several seconds for the and given its speed, I'd estimate they had to I don't know my marine life well enough to octopus' tentacles, and when I looked down into bell or not had already moved out of view. I just of its tentacles after. You could see the suckers, I felt my legs freeze in fear, and the other Only the shouting of the skipper and the panicked us all out of it. I don't know why, but none to try to get those men off their boat. But their sinking vessel might snag something onto to swim for it as we drew near. The men just about By now, the Costa Rican guardsmen who'd seen the scanning the water as everyone yelled for the they had no choice. The boat and they were in the water. Each one was though, and we tugged them aboard The men told us that they had been fishing and they celebrated, but as they pulled that's when the massive octopus or squid struck. at the same time wrapped them around the side nearly upended the entire boat. The panicked men which must have caused the thing to freak only to get wrapped around the anchor rope. where the anchor rope was attached to along The creature freed itself but continued men were terrified the creature might pluck them it probably could have done that- so they cabin. Once water started flooding it, they Half the crew believed the men, having seen it for boat that had responded with us had been too far none of my American colleagues had seen the Now, I can't stop thinking about it anytime of why I ended my Coast Guard career early, and tropical ever since. There have been pieces have washed up on shore before, but never a and I know that they're a lot bigger The Angel of Landstuhl I was injured in Afghanistan due to an IED out to Germany. It wasn't bad enough that I so I stayed in Germany for a few weeks. The back in the day. It was established sometime in casualties in case of war with the Soviets. It got but it was still relatively small compared I don't remember much about when I first but I do remember one of the nurses clear in her late 40s or early 50s. She was a very it felt like everything was going to be ok. but that nurse's kind gaze and reassuring When I was strong enough, I started pacing staff didn't like that very much at first, but one call from my commander still in Afghanistan concerns. Usually, my little walks would take because the daytime hustle still overwhelmed in fact, they were usually just right felt like I had to throw up. Sometimes, I was I'd often catch sight of the nurse during my on other patients. She'd stand at the door and a few words to the man or woman in their room. and continue her business. I wasn't very fast, and want to shout for her since I didn't know her Over the weeks, though, I'd see her regularly. a really unpleasant dream, right there by the and all the negativity would immediately drain two before I fell back asleep, thanks to the pain The time came to fly me back home and possible med-boarding out of the military. in the days leading up to my departure, so I at that time, I'd never even thought of asking doctor and nurse in my room looked confused at put a hand to her mouth and gasped audibly. like her- not even a nurse her age on staff. apparently, I was the third person to describe I could tell the doctor was skeptical, he probably and with a combination of a TBI, drugs, and know she was real, and I know that nurse knew that maybe a kindly ghost, or maybe angels are real. I do know is that whenever she was around, I positivity. It was like a hit of morphine, but not The Alaskan Stalker We were conducting a ten-day trek were airlifted out via Blackhawk, dropped coordinates. Everything we needed to or would scavenge from the environment. It's but if you've got that unique special forces We carried rifles with no bolts and of real ammo. Our squad did have two defense, but the mosquitoes would Anyone who's spent time in Alaska also Despite being early summer it was plenty cold leaving standing water everywhere as trillions wet slog, and I loved every minute Around the third day, we started getting wasn't just a cross-country trek for fun; we were recon patrol, and the enemy could be anywhere. movement along the shadows in the trees, but we a curious animal. With so many of us together, Eventually, though it was becoming clear that it had gotten bold enough to get closer to us, and even though you couldn't really see it in we all agreed- whatever it was, it sure as we never managed to get sight of it. The thing stepping when we stepped. We tried all come to a sudden halt- the thing took We hadn't brought any thermals with us; back would've docked our pay all the way through on a training exercise. We did have night I finally got a glimpse of it through the nogs- at the thing seemed to wander off and on watch at around 0400 in the morning, caught sight of something large and dark Whatever it was, it hadn't interfered with or This seemed to prompt the thing to move even swore that they finally caught sight of it- huge, estimated it must have stood at least nine feet it was a male because they'd seen the thing's To be honest, I didn't know what to think. Most and you get people in Alaska talking about the evidence for ourselves, it was just with our lives in real combat situations Well, it didn't take long for the rest of us had figured out we weren't a real threat, than normal. I caught a glimpse of it on the squad had seen it already. Sure enough, this NFL quarterback shoulders that must have been no sense, I couldn't reason that a thing that it could've probably killed every one of us, had all been fully armed, it could've killed But the thing wasn't hostile; if anything, it was close enough at points where we could hear its was maybe forty feet through thick brush, and you We tossed some sweets from our MREs out towards you could hear it back off through the brush and we could hear it sniffing and snuffling as it ate time, it never ran again when we threw stuff to every time we sat down for a meal it would start hurt, mind you, but enough to get your attention. that brush- one time it dinged a pebble off my pound cake. Everyone laughed, so I broke off a The only time it appeared to be unhappy was it had no problem with you going no.2, but it that maybe this thing thought it was a territorial no.1 while squatting down and would get the thing would growl menacingly in trees. It must've seen us as rival males at it was probably not seen as threatening Whatever this thing was, bigfoot or something is intelligent. It seemed to know when our trek it kept its distance. But it was sort of like it but as the bird was coming in, it stood out in it following us. There was a small clearing on and this thing stepped out into the then looked up at the chopper as it started Now,, he could've stayed hidden like he'd done seen. I don't care what people think; I think it got on the bird, the pilot and co-pilot were a out there. I told them I had no idea what they line with that. I can't explain it, but while we for our safety, by the end of it, we felt kind of us, it had more than a million chances to do so, on who was walking across his land. And I do mean out there that can rival him- no bear or moose. If he probably had a family out there too, and we We didn't want anyone out there messing with and as far as I know, nobody discussed this two or three of the guys over facebook, and we I feel blessed to have seen it, like I creations. I just hope he's healthy out not alone and that everyone leaves Now go check out Catholic Church's Most Terrifying