You might've heard people say that but eight. But to me, I think that The 'big eight': Cantonese, Sichuan, and Anhui. Now, looking at the map here, I think so no Liangpi... no Dongbei food, so no guobaorou... 'big eight' was never actually meant to it was an extension of the 'big four' reason why Cantonese is there and not Yunnan isn't but because historically Cantonese had an was enjoyed by the Merchants and Mandarins But then if it's not eight, how many exactly are to count, so that's what we're gunna try to do this whole exercise really isn't super obvious. many cuisines you'd say there are - for me, you could also argue one, you could also argue cuisines which're their own can of worms. So I'm interested, but we did also think of a guide us all through this process of culinary start off with the corner of China that we're most Now our big north star in this whole thing Chaozhou food, are different. Like, if these two think there'd be any question about it. Like, in Chaozhou, it can be rice but it can equally be these salty preserves such as the Chinese olive representative Cantonese dishes would be stuff Niuza, you might know the stuff... while Teochew and goose, guorou - that is meat stuffed in tofu oyster being the most famous. Now obviously, and Teochew have nothing to do with eachother especially in Hong Kong - but even the dishes that they both have breakfast Cheongfun, rice noodle restrained and topped with a seasoned soy sauce, and smothered in gravy. I mean, shit, the cities is different than Portuguese, Cantonese is number #1: the 50% rule. If you'd estimate that and a lot of the ones that're the "same" have Now, next let's move up the Han river from central. Now, if you're not familiar, the Hakka centuries migrated from the North of China from there practically to the four corners of the apocryphally come from trying to make flour-based wheat-rice divide. Things like Faban, fluffy stuff, which I guess is supposed be a dumpling fair to say that that's distinct from Cantonese But then we get to something called 'Dongjiang Huizhou, Dongguan, Dapeng in Shenzhen, this Hakka is considered its own separate cuisine. In about that... like, zooming out, Dongjiang Hakka of Cantonese accent. Like, a representative albeit a slightly different stuffed tofu than not Hakka and neither are you. They know their thumb number two: if the people themselves make talking to our friend up in Beijing, Thomas Dubois - and he was telling us if we wanted to do this this rule of thumb should be the definition, and sounds like a fantastic idea but also a fantastic so let's leave it to the grad students and Now for the third rule of thumb then, let's take Toishan is a pretty interesting place - it's got original Chinese American diaspora was actually proud of that identity. So then is Toishan They've definitely got a few famous dishes - their festive rice dish called youfan. But then at least them would refer to their cuisine as Cantonese, think that it'd pass the 50% test. It feels a languages and dialects. To me, Toishan food feels ditto with something like Shunde, or Gaoming... and family. So we wanted try to borrow the idea of these places understand eachother, culinarily. I experiment. Imagine an old, talented cook Steph's Dad. Imagine that you sat them down, had more or less recreate the dish just from taste, Dawei would probably be able to make a youfan. It But now let's swing north to the city of Lianzhou. it's up in the hill, some Yao people influence, beef pancake, leaf wrapped pork, and beef I don't think Dawei would be able to sort And... final rule of thumb before I get to somewhere. So when you're doing this, you'll Yup Cantonese feels like it really should Sze Yup Cantonese with Sam Yup, Yangjiang and Beihai over in Guangxi together with Leizhou. feels totally different. I think of this as a pin in this somewhere. It's gunna be arbitrary, we but you could totally have your So this is Guangdong, to us. Six cuisines - I but I've got a lot of confidence that this is breathlessly break down the rest of the China, but know the best. To a lesser extent, other provinces Sichuan, Guizhou and Yunnan. The more you get here. We've definitely missed stuff, circle back to this video and fill in all Next province over, Guangxi, criminally noodles in the world depending on how you rate Guangdong-ish coastal cuisinary zone... moving north system with its predictable Cantonese influences, drew the line here at Wuzhou but a little east or internationally maybe a little infamous for its vegetarian - but other representative dishes and, my favorite, ol' buddy noodles. Moving by the Zhuang ethnic group, a Tai speaking group serving up fare like five color rice, yaba, and a it has anything to do with pho ga - I'll leave definitely starting to get into a contiguous zone of the country by the way, where you can get the Moving north, the Guizhou province: Rugged, - but probably a more accurate food map here would latitude and longtitude. In the lowlands the cities of Guiyang, Anshun, and Zunyi. goat rice noodle soup, which's super popular and Anshun posubao, a lard-laminated very best bao in the world. In the mountains which we'll kind of cluster as one and focus there the Hmong fermented tomato catfish soup, like niubie and fermented shrimp paste beef pot... kinda hurts my brain. In the west of the province zone with Han Yunnan, so for convenience sake So real quick, this is me from the I should pause here and maybe address the elephant the room. So... I think about "Chinese cuisines" in a taxonomy perspective. The traveling perspective political entity of mainland China. With the low to all these cuisines. The taxonomy angle because you could make the argument that, like, to 'Chinese' than Hmong is. This video is but we've also included a few of the of mainland China. You can disagree, So Han Yunnan, meanwhile, is centered around the of Kunming, together with Yuxi and Jianshui. which might be the very best places to eat out of this world. Representative dishes the not-spicy crossing the bridge and the traveler favorite of Shao Er'Kuai which Intermingled with Han Yunnan is Hui or Muslim call distinct. Representative dishes including a dasu niuroumian, and niuganba jerky, which Famous because these mountain ranges in the and historically really sliced Yunnan into three as much with Upper Burma and the Shan hills Xidoufen porridge, and my favorite - the A Chang especially around Pu'er and Sipsongpanna had a so in addition to some spicy dips called there's also Dai flavor salads which're a Chinese culinary worlds. The Honghe hodgepodge, and is famous for stuff like and peanut milk soup. Then moving up is what mountains with its famed acid-set cheeses, And as we follow north we've got... Tibetan Yunnan, if you've traveled to the Tibetan communities in might've been introduced pretty exciting looking on the plateau, in my personal experience at than exciting? I think to really appreciate the Tibetan plateau is an unfathomably harsh manage live thrive here is testament to just how we tend to have this stereotype of Tibetans but that's not my stereotype. People are people, badasses, and so is the food. I mean, the staple almost eaten straight... the tea's salted - you're of your cool guy hipster fusion bar in Austin... but Now, of course this plateau is huge... extending regions. Most of what you'd recognize as Sichuan east of the province together with Chongqing, but which has a unique cuisine heavily influenced by oat baba, and Yi style barbecue. Sichuan cuisine three sub-cuisines - shanghebang, the upper river yanbangcai, the salt gang school, name because of this is one of those internal classifications, Sichuan restaurant environment. Of the three, the least spicy and representative dishes might and Twice cooked pork... the lower river, name centered around Chongqing and Wanzhou is probably Wanzhou grilled fish, and Mao blood is somewhere between the two, and could maybe be got a particular notable love for the savory whole swath, and the area is also the birthplace Then moving down the river past Chongqing a little hard to parse because there's ton of cluster around certain concepts - fish and beef, and baijiu for breakfast. Representative doupi a sort of savory and incredible sticky famous Wuhan Hot Dry Noodles. There's probably bit that's obviously different is the Tujia area So then, Hunan province. I could think of be xiafan - awesome with rice. In my opinion, with a big bowl of rice and go along for the ride, eggs. That said, I'd be remiss not to also give Rice Noodle is probably the most famous throughout probably my personal favorite. In the west of the quite a bit by the minority groups in the area, with my favorite of Guizhou. These pounded chili sandwiches which are just as good as you think though these days you can also find blood Then, moving east, we're starting to get to a which does share a lot of similar ideas. there I'd ask about Jiangxi cuisine and often a cuisine. Which's obviously bollocks because stir-fried rice noodles, lajizhua, and were a lumper there does seem to be a lot Northeast of the province though around is does start getting quite different though and nut tofu. In the south, in Ganzhou it's start of as bordertown between the Hunan-slash-Jiangxi Moving due east is Longyan, which I think but then we get to the Fujian coast with Minnan But to me what's really interesting is the food's owing to the area's historical status as a but there, findable in dishes like but more classical Minnan dishes would xianfan, and their own variant of oyster omelet. Fuzhou which impressed me personally with its dish of nanjiangan, flash-fried in lard. Other buddha jumps over the wall, and guobianhu. Going Sanming and Shaxian, famed across China because representation of the food, but like, it's... so lard, Shaxian wontons, Mipidong, and these Shaomai something else. This little mountain town should Then moving north, is the Wu which you'll notice has a lot of divisions. This history in the country and so the food world so a lot of sub-cuisines. Most synonymous with the sometimes derided by Northerners as too sweet, and longjing shrimp. Moving over is Shaoxing you've probably heard of their rice wine, and wash that down like the steamed double stinky, Gorgeous walkable old town by the way, well worth which does share a lot with the rest of the ricecakes and Ningbo braised three delicacies. and Taizhou - is collectively referred to as jiashao fish, loaded sticky rice, and smashed there is this one little She people autonomous edamame tofu and black sticky rice. Then the city kind of a shatter zone between the Ou, Hangzhou, They're famed for their ham but their jidanguo And then, there's... Shanghai. Now, this disagree - they've obviously got a bunch of on our map there were four places that were Tianjin, and Ha'erbin - which you could easily each area has this imprint of western influence - things but it undeniably also brought bread. but then the question is what to do with Cha love so much on this channel. Is Canto-western swiss chicken wings and macaroni soup - its own in Hong Kong, and they're also common for home don't also eat a bunch of Cantonese food. So our it's an element of a cuisine that makes Hong Kong a similar thing going on with their curries and Northern cuisine. Heilongiang, meanwhile, is very accent, with their love of Kielbasa and famed shengjianbao and their fantuans, also has and like, schnitzel is a homecooking classic But there is undeniably a lot of philosophical door, where you can get dishes like cherry pork, of the river is Huai'yang, which is probably what words "Jiangsu food". It's a delicate cuisine with head meatball, dazhugansi, and Yangzhou-style awkward about this area, in that that was the was humble sometimes even a little firey fare cuisines being referred to as 'Tucai'. Both so we counted them as one, but do know that the Nanjing, meanwhile, being the has some historical differences but these with their roast duck, stuffed duck, salt Then we move over to Anhui, a.k.a. the big find outside of China. Now what's thought in the South along the Yangzi river - representative dishes being hairy tofu, fermented in Anhui there's also this little mountainous such as stinky tofu guoba and their hanging firepit. Then moving North in Anhui we get Now central China plain is the historical extensive definition includes northern Anhui, Hebei, and especially Henan. Now if there's one it's this: flatlands connect and mountains divide. South it sometimes can feel like there's a lot but that's also not totally fair because we're Southern. So for this bit, we enlisted some help, wrote a small thesis on the topic and I'll leave too. He was actually a little bit more of a lumper So right. Northern Anhui we've got lamb noodles, is quite distinct from the rest of that province and diguo chicken, but you could maybe lump it Henan, meanwhile, does have some sub-schools be a little difficult to parse the differences incredibly underrated fare like Huimian their famed Hot Pepper Soup. The Zhongyuan side classically called "Lu cai" and was one of the China. So there're these famed banquet dishes like but there's also more humble fare like Chinese so tender you can chew through the bones. Hopping quick is an not-Zhongyuan area that's much more like scallion braised sea cucumber, everybody's dumplings. In Shanxi we've got a province that capability per capital of anywhere in the world - kaolaolao, knife cut noodles, and stone baked is often kind of slagged on culinarily by the rest And a little like England, I personally don't c'mon, there's lionfish, braised donkey sandwich, getting looked down on by anyone. Nestled influences - so, imperial hotpot, naibobo, and Then, for the Northeast... if you're eating it's usually all lumped together as 'Dongbei the coast and a Dongbei food of the interior. Dongbei food with classics like guobaorou, The coast definitely has some crossover shrimp paste braised squid, seaweed pancake, and if you're eating around this swath of the size would make the Cheesecake factory blush. bit right here which has a lot of ethnic Koreans Koreans arguing online about whether China has Koreans in China and from there the rest of right here is also a nice area to maybe try some curious and didn't feel like springing Then we get to Inner Mongolia which is a little the place is massive, and a lot like outer map of the place would probably look a little populated cities are one thing, the physical land the Mongolian and non-Mongolian nomadic influences the urban east that's blending with Northeast And speaking of Northwestern Chinese, and Xinjiang. Outside of the region, themselves as Northwestern or Xinjiang. is fucking incredible... if a fusion of Northwest and it should, you'll love Xinjiang food. groups that make up Xinjiang, the predominant the Han and the Uighur, and I think would make be stuff like Xinjiang rice noodles, while Uighur would be fare like Polo and Naan, but or Uighur run - restaurant menus usually'll have For the rest of the Northwest, probably the Lanzhou pulled noodles. Muslim Chinese and Muslim like niangpi and sweet fermented oat. And lastly, classification of North, Central, and South. what people generally think of as "Shaanxi food" and the legendary rou jammy. The North, region, with specialties like potato caca and potato ciba and hot mipi is sort of a Sichuan And that's it for mainland China. 63 cuisines, in the linked Substack post where there's um... I know some people are going to yell at hope this video can convince you is that if you Is it the easiest place in the world to travel Mobile payment systems for foreigners are klugey foreign travelers, outside of that ecosystem, Immigration has taken a page from the United border - not the most welcoming feeling as a and Dianping - the Chinese Yelp - doesn't But if you want easy, go to Disneyland. Because (one) has the such mind-numbing culinary there's diversity in India, in Southeast Asia, in are commercialized, so you can actually eat rail system and you can easily get to practically boop your passport, and you can be from urban hours. Long term, will this convenience lead interstate highway system did in America? Maybe. a once in a generation chance to explore all of