November 21, 2011 marked the burial of one of the airplanes to ever roam the skies. As transport trucks broadened the one after the other over three days, Australia, became the final resting place of the Many did not consider this ending to pioneered some of the most revolutionary like afterburning turbofans, which could significantly Terrain following capabilities that the ground at speeds exceeding 600 mph, automatically, And the absolute feat of engineering allowing the aircraft to adjust The F-111 was the first equipped with these capabilities. But why the F- 111 had no ejection during emergency landings, why Australia went through ten F-111s and at the end buried them underground, how this two seat aircraft once and how the F-111 once dropped is Not What You Think. Most military aircraft are but the F-111 had an ejection cockpit. During tests, ejection seats proved to The pilot could experience You can see the dummy's arms and Let's just say it was Compare that with the where severance of the capsule crew because they're completely Now you might be wondering how such slow down the capsule's descent. Luckily, that's just for stabilization. The main chute is much larger, In fact, let's hear it from someone who ejection handle in an F-111. Now I can speak to you about an ejection from the F-111. When you do pull the handle, In that time, cut all the electrical cables, and then the rocket motor fires. Let me tell you, that quarter of a second What a marvelous system. One of the new technologies on the F-111 The pilot could simply turn a knob to would follow the terrain at This included all weather conditions, where the crew were unable to without night vision goggles. You don't sense anything So it's just pure adrenaline and rush. And that was pretty scary. The slow flying capability not but also allowed the F-111 to hit Generally speaking, the more lift they generate, which means they can take carry more load, On the other hand, but allow for reaching higher speeds, and are especially important This is why combat which are pointed backward. There are, exceptions, which uses a forward wing sweep. But on June 20, flew an aircraft that, could change the angle And that was the Bell X-5, It would take another 13 years until the first production aircraft Now, you can probably already see how an of its wings during flight could It could take off and giving it the ability to including the flight deck And once airborne, it could sweep back its wings Such an airplane could literally the role it had to perform. But the series of events that left the US an aircraft that was out of this world, would make your head spin, Thanks to Novium, Hoverpens may just look like stylish and but they're also functional, This is the future and is available as a two-in-one with interchangeable tips, that are also refillable. Now, I mostly type and rarely write these days, it feels a lot more special when I do. And a heads up. It took me a while to get over It's like watching magic. The interstellar edition is a 5 degree angle on its base. That's the same as the Earth's axial tilt, A spinning hover pen on your desk would or it could make for a unique gift So click the link below and use the There's free international shipping The date is May 1, when the US government receives thought to be invincible U-2 spy 000ft has just been shot This shattered the hopes of US which was planning to use the B-47 Because just like the U two the B-47 was also subsonic and The US Air Force needed a new airplane. At the same time, the US Navy was also looking for a high its carrier battle groups against long soviet jet bombers and submarines. Coincidentally, Robert McNamara had just been I've asked Robert McNamara to assume the responsibilities With less than four weeks on the job, McNamara made the bold decision of to study the development of a single Tactical Fighter Experimental or TFX. This was despite Air Force and Navy because they knew that eventually to take precedence over the others. Proposals were received from Boeing, Lockheed, And in November 1962, McNamara himself selected General greater commonality between An order was placed for 18 Air and 5 Navy variants designated as F-111B. Compared to the F-111A, the Navy's F-111B would have a the aircraft carrier elevators. Around this time, Australia was also on the search for a deterrent against potential threats including Indonesia. The F-111, with its long range and was ideal for deep strike missions, capable of reaching targets So in 1963, Aussies also decided to place an order the F-111C. This was a bold decision, since the first pre-production The UK also signed up the F-111K. Two years after placing the initial order, the first pre-production F-111 Dynamics facility in Fort Worth, Texas in October 1964. Hundreds rushed to see this beauty and sweeping movement of her wings. By early 1968, the decision was made to try combat conditions in Vietnam. This proved to be catastrophic, Six F-111s were sent from missions in North Vietnam. In the first two weeks, two of the six airplanes Then less than a month later, The three remaining aircraft were where they'd be examined to determine Engineers traced the losses in Vietnam to rod for the horizontal stabilizer. But more bad news was about and this time... it was at home. The US Navy decided to The Navy had been unhappy from the get-go, but they had come along to satisfy an all service fighter bomber. After performing carrier trials the Navy ended up turning down weight and performance issues. Basically same reasons why The same year, the UK government also cancelled citing increased costs along with the The final nail in the coffin of 1969, when an F-111 based out of one of its wings mid flight, resulting in a fatal crash. The US Air Force grounded It was at this time that the Royal received their first F-111C. And the first thing they did was It was their load. Since Australia's initial the cost of their order had by 1969, The grounding of the F-111 fleet resulted rest of Australia's order until And the Australian government 700 per aircraft per day which may seem like a lot, but the alternative was to cancel cancellation penalty. Plus, they had already spent over including a simulator for training. The wing issue was traced to a The team at General Dynamics got to low-stress &quot;wing carry through box&quot; Once all the upgrades were done, the F-111 would go back four years after its But this time around, 800 combat missions, giving the F-111 the highest aircraft in the theater. The F-111 not only had but had also redeemed its reputation. Finally, on June 1, the first six F-111C Queensland. Since originally ordered, Australia had gone through five prime last of which must have I'm sure that this aircraft will still be And could he be any more right? Because the F-111 was Aircraft sometimes have to get rid of This typically happens when an aircraft Since not enough fuel may the aircraft would be So some of the fuel is expelled But in the case of F-111, the fuel dump nozzle was located This turned the F-111 into a fuel dumps with afterburners. In fact, dump and burn was a party trick whether it was in air shows where or the annual Brisbane river fire Heck, even at the closing ceremony as the Olympic torch went out, it was an F-111 that Dump and burn had no operational purpose. It was just a harmless, accidental side effect of where the But the Royal Australian Air Force would which was far from harmless. Soon after their delivery, personnel noticed that the The fuel tank sealant had deteriorated. In 1977, a fleet white sealant removal Over 23 years, hundreds of maintenance staff were a work practice that ultimately caused tragically, A new multi million dollar study will of workers who serviced F-111 jets. The Australian government would end up for former F-111 fuel tank maintenance On February 14, an F-111 took off from Oklahoma A 46 year old man named Richard Reinhart and lucky for him, The issue was that Richard A heart can only remain viable for transplant must be completed, which meant even a chartered flight Lucky for him, Within hours, with the help of a KC-135 tanker, while a second F-111 accompanied them. They gave Richard a heart on Valentine's Day, But aside from the human heart payload, this aircraft could carry from air to air and air to surface But in low level bombing, it was possible that an aircraft blast and fragmentation This is why the F-111 used called Snake Eye, with a four bladed tail unit that The fins would increase drag to slow could safely pass over the target But in 1982, a revolutionary targeting one that transformed the F-111 from a &quot;Pave Tack&quot; was a targeting looking infrared sensor, optical camera, It was a fairly large system, 385 pounds and measuring Pave Tack was placed on a carriage bay when needed and retracted This pod enabled the F-111 drop laser guided bombs, A few seconds prior to impact, a laser was activated to guide In the 1990s, Australia's F-111Cs were also The strike capability of the successful for Australia. Now, they did have some close like a wheels-up tailhook The aircraft never actually saw combat, it did destroy a North Korean This ship had been caught smuggling and after confiscation, it was bombed by F-111s to show take all measures necessary to stop illegal drug importation. Australians also fitted some of equipment for reconnaissance. Designated as RF-111C the aircraft would intelligence for their missions. Americans also developed including the FB-111 strategic bomber and the EF-111 for electronic warfare, which was distinguishable by the By the way. In Australia, while in the US they which literally translated These names were inspired by terrain following capability, and it was quite fitting, because the F-111 was a Typical day to day maintenance was but deeper maintenance was and that's where the panels would be the components and determine if This also included major tasks, anything from engine overhauls and vibration analysis. The F-111s lived long enough That looks healthy to me! To appreciate how consider that it ate up a whopping of the US Tactical Air Command, but only made up 9% of the fleet. Now, one could have justified these back in the 1960s and 70s, when the F-111's original low flying supersonic jet was necessary. But the introduction of the followed by other meant that the F-111 no high-speed missions to drop bombs. It could accurately hit its and because of that, it also no longer had to carry In the early 1990s, the F-111 performed quite well but so did the cheaper and Plus, with the introduction the F-15E could match the This is while in the mid 1980s, the supersonic FP 100 Eleven's by the more capable B-1B Lancer, which also had variable sweep wing. With no good reason left to by 1998, the US Air Force had retired The Royal Australian Air Force fleet for another twelve years. Following their retirement, 13 of the surviving aircraft museums and Air Force bases, while the remaining 23 were Many were upset with the decision but the Australian military had with the US government to The fuselage was constructed out of a toxic material that was commonly This made recycling quite a costly option, The F-111 has inspired an with variable sweep wings, including the Italian/British/German the Soviet MiG-23, Tu-22, the American B-1 Lancer, which in fact is what the US Navy canceling their F-111B variant. The F-111 and its Pave Tack pod once We have a fascinating video just on this Click the link below and check out these get 10% off all Hoverpens using the shipping for most countries.