- [Yatesy] If anything happened, it was squarely my fault. (knocking on door) - [Narrator] Mother of two, Amita, has been searching for since he ran off more than 30 minutes ago. - [Narrator] The temperature and the Amita has been carrying her five-year-old - Managing the parents We need them to help us and What was he wearing? What t-shirt - He's wearing like a white singlet and short shorts. - What's his name? - Manny - Immediately I went off and started the search she checked the girl's toilets. We looped around the pavilion. - [Narrator] It's the end of the day. And light is fading. - The search reaches the 40 minute mark. And there is no sign of the young boy. I've lost one of my children and it's something that I'll never forget for as long as I live. You literally feel like It's going to be all right. You need to be okay yourself, okay? - [Narrator] As light fades, Lifeguards call police. Chappo needs Amita's assistance but she's suffering from heat stroke. - I was trying to get her getting her to try and help us. You okay? I hadn't dealt with a - Amita Hey, we're just going to sit Hey, Amita, hey. - The search had gone The worry's really The mother couldn't help us so the five-year-old - [Narrator] Lifeguards in a white singlet. - The big brother kept the - Amita, listen you need to help us now. Are you awake? - Then, Deano spots a - When I first saw him, there and I went and asked her, I said, is this your child? And she said no. - [Narrator] Deano confirms the child is unaccompanied by a parent. - I hope it's this kid because I've just picked him up and taken him. - We just needed some confirmation before we got all the - This other buggy, is this Manny? - Is this your brother? - Is this Manny? Yes, that's him. - It's him all right. You want to have a race? - Race him. - Let's go. Let's go see Mum. - We got him, got him. Found him. - They got him on the edge somewhere. (child screaming) - Well, I just seen the little I thought it was just a missing kid couldn't find her mother. And then I come out, onto the stairs and the mother was already on the stairs. - We knew something was wrong here, and we needed to find out - [Narrator] The woman just a few words of English. - She pointed out to one of the only rips that are pulling on the beach. And I just had a bad Jesse and I looked at each other, and we thought this isn't good. Jesse grabbed the defib straightaway. - I was a bit rattled when they because, you know, it's when people point at the water. - Where is he? - Tell us what's on, we need to know. We're trying to help you. - Is he out there? They're pointing just when there was a big gutter. - [Narrator] The woman last saw her son when he went swimming 20 minutes ago. He was wearing a white t-shirt. - Can you tell us what's happening? - All these other tourists which is really nice because But unfortunately she goes, nah, she speaks Korean. I go, oh no that doesn't help. - We need to know what's going on. - If someone can't swim and five seconds they're under. - [Narrator] Several minutes woman approached lifeguards. And there is still no sign of - Can't see anyone in shallow waters. - I think she knew that and she thought the worst as well. And that's just for a mother, - [Narrator] Then, a boy is He has a white t-shirt in his hand. - They found him, they found him. - [Narrator] The teenager he's caused his sister and mother. - I just felt like the whole of the world just lifted off my shoulders. - Settle down. It's all - Deep breath, deep breath. - I felt so sorry for her. You know, she just broke down. You know, she obviously - When he came out of the like you were throwing a - Yeah, he would have been - You're not allowed to swim in this part. - I was kind of looking at the water, concentrating because there was a pretty bad rip running. - You hear noise, the background noise. You always hear noise. It's getting louder and louder. - Your daughter? - [Woman] Jennifer! - What does she have on? Purple skivvy? - Her name was Jennifer. She was 10 years old from Shanghai and yeah, they come - Hey mate what's happening. The yelling I can hear in the background. - Ya screaming, top of their lungs. Mate, I'm not joking she - Mate I can't believe it. - [Woman] Jennifer! - The megaphone, it works and everyone will hear what you're saying, but I think mum's on about level 12. We've only got level 10. - She got pink gloves on? It's 30 degrees. - Jennifer! - Could you show my other - And she's got pink gloves on. Okay. We should be able to see it then. - Okay. Thank you very much. Jennifer! - The worst thing that was drown or get kidnapped. They come straight to you, straight to your mind straightaway It's just like, okay, we've got a missing person. Is she dead? Or is she alive? - Is there any girl out in If anyone sees a Jennifer or your mum's looking for you. - You gotta really trust your instincts and look and think All little girls dressed the same. They're wearing pink, your eyes tune into everything pink. - I tend to like, look around It's like, there's pink everywhere, but I just can't see it. - Got her, got her. - Bondi Central B, we've got She's got the gloves in her - I'm actually interested And I think the whole beach is too. - We found Jennifer. - Exactly half way up the beach. - Surprisingly, she was not too far away. Definitely in her mum's earshot. - Jennifer? - [Woman] Oh, yeah. - Hello, is that your mum Jennifer? She's been worried. - I know if I was Jennifer's mum, I wouldn't be able to speak the next day. - No more tears. See you Jennifer. - That's all right. - Where are you gonna go? - [Narrator] A young boy was found alone in the crowd of 20,000 people. - We'll find your Mom and dad. - Harries just found this lost, crying, and he obviously doesn't know any English and Harries can't speak any Chinese. So it's a good language barrier. - [Narrator] Harries needs a translater to get a name or a description but he doesn't even know - Korea? China? Malaysia? This is a hard one. It's all right. Here have some water. Come on. Come on, it's all right. Settle. - [Narrator] Lifeguards mobilise in a search for a potential translator, as Harries babysits. - No, no he's throwing sand. I'm trying to help you. Even hand signals... he's only so young and the He's just hamming me with sand. It's all right. Well that's good, he's - He's not a very happy chappy. - He's not happy. - [Narrator] The lifeguards that they think can help translate. - I can't understand what he's saying. - He's lost. You got the poor little chap, doesn't know what's going on. This is good, this is what I like. - [Narrator] In the tower, - Anyone there? We're Ready? Zero and you go. Which one? - [Narrator] But just before - Thank you. - He doesn't like the Even Harries couldn't - Hi guys, this is north, 8 years old, it's a girl, she's got a two-piece blue bikini on and she was last seen in the water. - I was down in the north She was kind of okay, you I've lost my child. Can you help me out? I asked if she could swim. She knew the rules and that kind of stuff. A hundred percent, there's no kid being sucked out here because I've been here in the shallows, looking for her. I hope she comes back and tells - Initially. I wasn't too worried. The beach is so crowded for a small kid, you get disoriented really easily and before they know it, they're lost. - And then this lady came swimming in the bay. - Thank you. I guess before that stage, I wasn't even thinking When that lady came up to me. who didn't know what was going on and actually said that to me, that made me think maybe, This is north, could I pretty much quickly. - She saw a little girl and then she disappeared. I'm going to try and I'll call and let you know. - Mum was having a breakdown. She was screaming and she And I started stressing out. - It's going to be okay. - Having a hysterical parent, just adamant that that and then drowned, you know, obviously you're gonna, you're gonna start to - If anything happened, No one else, because I was watching. It's the flagged area, so that just triples Well everyone down here. Look, we've got a lost child she's been missing for half an hour. She's 8 years old and she has a blue two-piece bikini on. - Mum's getting pretty frantic so. Beardy's just walked down and staying back and trying - A blue bikini, a one-piece or two-piece? - Two-piece. - And what was her name? - Anicha. - I'm gonna stay close to the mom, they're just gonna go back to the tower, it's not far, then I'll have a good search up the beach. I'll let you know how it goes. - Yatesy was pretty much down there. He was just ready to strip off and start basically looking for a body. - Chappo, I'm gonna come - And what was the, what was her swim ability. - I'll get to that in a minute I just didn't really want to upset her more than she already is. - The longer and longer it went on and we hadn't found this little girl, I know all of us were starting to think she could be in the ocean. She might've gone under. - All boys stand down. Pretty sure we've got her. There you go. - Thank you so much. - Not a problem. That's all right. - I'm so sorry. - That's okay. It happens. - She kept coming back to - With that many people It gives us good training - The girl has found her way back so all good boys, that was good effort by all of us. - Yeah, it was one of the most anxious and stressful times I've had down here in over 10 years. I thought I missed a drowning and I just nearly vomited. I'm pretty stressed right now, actually.