- [Host] The 1990s were a magical, optimistic time for technology. The Cold War was over, economic opportunity was booming, and it appeared as if to achieving world peace. The future was finally here. Although these were factors that primarily applied their effects were also felt worldwide. Thanks to a new technology, which quite literally, connected all of us together and manifested an attitude which at such a large scale, the ambition to change the world. On your mark, get set We're riding on the internet - [Host] You may have been born too late to explore the Earth, and too early to explore the universe, but don't fret. There was now a whole new world out there that remained largely untouched. The cyberspace. You just had to dial in and yeah, you were there, eventually. Travel would now be for You could meet whoever you want, be whoever you want instantly and with just a click of a button. - I'm perfectly serious say that year 2000, we may have brain surgeons in Edinburgh operating on patients in New Zealand. - Much like the vasts unending space to the internet itself, people felt there was no limits to what their capabilities were. And naturally, hundreds then thousands providing services for Venture capitalists were all over it, throwing money at just about taking the already flourishing economy to limits that were beyond comprehension. For the first time, anything was possible, and any opportunity was good opportunity. But what happens when What followed would be an economic disaster As much as $5 trillion lost, thousands of businesses now bankrupt with very few survivors left over, and a recession has formed. The once booming, of the worldwide web, now returning to the valuations it had before its commercialization in 1995. Perhaps this wasn't a new medium for achieving the American dream. But instead, just an economic bubble. (keyboard clacking) as it would soon be coined. The entire ordeal showcased was really just a and its very real problems, rather than some utopian escape from it. It was the illusion of success and a false pursuit of happiness that led to such devastation, which left people no other choice than to lose most of their instead of, you know, looking inward. But what do these things entail, in retrospect, avoiding of the Dot-Com Bubble seems very obvious. How could some of the brightest make such ridiculous decisions? Did people really not learn What's interesting is that it does share many that have surfaced throughout history. But just like the internet was something new and faced problems that And these problems were intensified by a sensationalized yet So what was the strange and how do we prevent something like it from ever happening again? New setting for now. Now life can be stressful, especially in my case, for Just dealing with stuff, it has been stressful. It's been hard to stay focused. I've never really had the But recently, something has really been and that is today's sponsor, Endel. Endel is an app that uses to create unique combinations of sounds that help you to be more calm, focused, and even help you with falling asleep. Of course, as humans, we So Endel's collection of sounds such as beach waves and white noise, do a great job at separating you from an overwhelming environment, and immersing you any new, Just go on the app, choose what activity you want to do and it will provide you the sounds best suitable for that activity. You can even make any adjustments to the sounds that you want. Now, something I really love about Endel is that it uses patent technology that learns from the and uses that person's and heart rate to create a in that particular moment in time. Something that I was was being able to for long periods of time. I don't like to read in silence so I keep the TV on, but that's distracting. It's a bit of a catch-22. So I put on Endel and it was perfect. It was the most reading which has helped me be And right now, Endel is giving The first 100 people to download Endel from clicking the link on the screen, will get a free week of audio experiences. Thank you to Endel for and for boosting my productivity. Now, the science and art of economics can get very, very complicated. Something I cannot fit And even though I studied it in college, there's still a lot about But thankfully, the foundation, the root is very simple to understand. And that is all you really need to know to see the big picture You most certainly already at the fundamental level. We, as society, agree that all things some things more than others. We have collectively decided that green pieces of paper with a president's face on it, have the monetary value of whatever number is And we trade those pieces of paper for products or services that we have agreed are Let's say you own a bike that you think is worth around $100. If a person who is looking to buy a bike also agrees that it is worth $100, they will give you $100. And yeah, that is quite literally it, and that is how a global economy runs. We even see this occur in nature. Crows will often give people rocks, or even things like lost car keys in exchange for food. The concept of value is a social construct, but it is something also and it kind of has to be. We have made it an because it is the only thing for cool things to cool services to continue happening, and quality of life to It is what makes life worth living. But you know what would Is if we made our economy Everyone's income and life situations are Say you only have $50 well, no worries, I'll give you the bike now and I'll give you a whole year to pay the rest of what you owe But since you're kind of I'm going to add another $12 to the remaining 50 that you owe me. This practice is called And this added on money Again, there are a million that make it much more flexible But these are the main takeaways to understand how something could have even happened And the best way we can use these concepts in real world examples, is by looking at the economic Let's take a trip back to October of 1929, the start of the Great Blackbird singing the blues all day (fingers snapping) - Now we're setting the mood here. Damn, Downton Abbey. Cousin Matthew, I'm on my way to steal your girl, who is also your cousin, Totally didn't steal that Only original content here. Boardwalk Empire can't because she's dead. I killed her. What was I talking about? Great Depression. Now, the Great Depression is going to be its own separate video, so I'll be omitting a lot of details here for the sake of time. And I'll be using the as an example. But in short, World War I increased Henry Ford's innovation made this productivity And when the war ended, the US had the benefit of and not suffering as many compared to everyone else. So they could now use these factories to create non-war More factories meant more employed people, and therefore more people with money. So this, in addition to the from European debtors following the war, they had a lot of money People could buy more than ever before. They were called the Roaring It was a decade of economic prosperity. Well, sort of. You see, a lot of the Roaring Twenties was actually a bit of a facade. As F. Scott Fitzgerald described it, the 1920s was the most And this was because of a one of the big causes The decade's popularization of credit. Buy now, pay later was the mantra. People were buying things Paying it all off in installments rather than just all at once. People making minimum wage were now buying Model Ts. This created the illusion of wealth. People were even buying stocks on credit. And when you have too many people getting really big loans from the bank, bigger than they can afford to pay off, the banks eventually run out of money. And because all these people were living beyond their means, they can't afford to pay the loans back. Everyone loses, the stock market crashes, and the most devastating economic crisis in modern history follows in the 1930s. (fingers snapping) in the 1990s, you basically have the same problem, but in reverse. Spend a lot of money right now, get what you paid for later. Now, who on Earth would do a Well, let's take a look at the The decade started off with Although not the most by the middle of the decade, the United States Federal Reserve wanted to prevent further trouble. So, they decided to lower interest rates in order to increase the and in turn encourage economic growth. So, thanks to an all-time and capital gains tax cuts, things were much cheaper, which meant investors had more money, well, to invest. And the more excess cash people have, the more likely people are to But the question was, what were they going to invest in? Well, it just so happened that the '90s were the Personal computers were more powerful and cheaper, and the percentage of was only snowballing since And of course, when this would just go berserk. Microsoft's new OS made personal computers so much easier to use than ever before, and at an affordable price. But something else also happened in 1995. The internet officially became commercially available to the public. Very soon after, just about everyone had a computer connected to the internet. Much like Windows 95, the worldwide web was now thanks to a new browser It was the most reliable web browser when it came to loading text and graphics on a page at the same time, which was what made it become so popular. And Netscape would do something in the online world. It would go public on the Nasdaq. Despite just being nothing investors saw that the And with the excess cash that they had, they were more willing to take some risks. So basically, you have all these investors just throwing money at Netscape, and its share value ends up in just the first 24 hours. Seeing the monster success that Netscape had on the stock market, they didn't wanna stop there. Because the internet naturally, websites were providing all kinds of services, online bookstores, online garage sales, website builders, internet directories, online pet stores, et cetera. And all of these websites wanting to get these same also went public, and they too just blew up. It was getting to the point where just about any name was just getting all in. Again, reaching share values that had never been seen before. But how do you determine value? Well, it is measured based on whether the price of something is elastic or inelastic. If something is priced elastic, that means the price can before people decide whether or not that If Apple decided to make they would start selling like hotcakes. But if they decided to make ew, no one would buy it. Something that is priced inelastic doesn't really have this problem, at least not nearly to the same degree. This means that no matter or service in question, its demand isn't really affected much. A good example of this would be insulin. You cannot put a price on human life, so people will pay to keep themselves alive. In an attempt to be as this is a big reason why the US healthcare system is so terrible. Corporations are well aware of this, so they set the prices insanely high because they can. It is a system that is far from perfect, but it is one that has been able to work for the past couple hundred years, as long as there's some kind of balance, just like with everything in life. But when this balance gets skewed, things can go awry. And dot coms are elastic. The price can only get to a certain point, and investors didn't Like we said, this was basically what but in reverse. So how did investors not catch onto that? Aren't they smart enough to know not to repeat the mistakes Well, that wasn't really their concern, because they were exhibiting digital myopia. Where investors and business owners focus on the short-term rather than the long-term. Something typically associated Basically marketing myopia, And a dot com is different It is a speculative investment, at least it was in the '90s. Because websites are digital, they don't necessarily need or have to hire tons of employees making their business as they only need to This makes the value of their business much more difficult to measure. That's the thing with Its value relies on subjective rather than objective such as the business's productivity, the quality of their products, et cetera. It is the same thing with It is a legitimate investment, but a lot more volatile. The only reason an Andy Warhol painting is worth tens of millions of dollars is just because people love Andy Warhol. It doesn't get deeper than that. Dot coms in the nineties They were only valuable because investors want it And the success of Netscapes going public reinforced that. And the problem with is that the higher the return, the riskier the investment is. In other words, you either gonna make a ton of That is why speculative investments should be done in moderation. With non-speculative investments, you are much less likely but it takes longer to make a return. - Get rich quick schemes never work. - This is why retirement accounts often take entire lifetimes They are often investing such as bonds, the S&amp;P Because the internet was so new, there was nothing really to compare it to. So a lot of these investors just thought that the mistakes would just not be applicable in this case. Like we mentioned, the more money investors have, which was the case in the '90s, the more likely they are to partake in speculative investing. Heck, it's also why Beanie but that's for another video. Measuring the value of an was not impossible. The approach was just different because the internet was different. But even then, investors just didn't care. They saw dot coms as this gold rush, and they put all their eggs in one basket, completely ignoring all rationale, and were instead purely fueled by media sensationalism, and a false perception of what this moneymaking machine. But for the first few years, numbers were going insane. Some dot coms having their and that can be great and or idea that's very promising. But you should also be careful. If something grows much higher in a relatively short amount of time, you may have something an economic bubble. And as Tears For Fears once said, nothing ever lasts forever. You can't keep interest If they are low for too long, you can have too much borrowing and then demand gets bigger than supply. This causes prices to go up, and now you have inflation. More inflation than you want. To combat inflation, you have to raise these interest rates up, which is exactly what ended up happening by the time the millennium came around. In addition to people overspending on upgrading to Y2K-safe equipment, investing decreases, demand becomes higher than supply. And when that supply eventually runs out and assets appreciate that excess money that And nearly all those dot either had unrealistic business models or no business models at all. An example of this would be pets.com, an online pet store that spent more money on advertising its mascots, than actually figuring out a way to make shipping costs cheaper than just going to the local pet store and buying stuff in person. These companies had nothing to justify their insanely People began to panic sell, and these websites values and eventually, they just disappeared, and so did all the money The bubble has now burst. March of 2000, the NASDAQ Composite Index And then just completely at insane levels. So quite literally, individual websites went from being worth hundreds to nothing, all in the course of around six years, with only a handful of them surviving. And as for Netscape, well, Internet Explorer which would cause it causing its entire stock journey Many people lost their entire retirements by exclusively investing in dot coms. And other tragic events such as the fall of Enron, one of the leading energy and the September 11th attacks. Now, why would domestic terrorism somehow make internet It seems like a complete non sequitur. Well, they are indirectly related. Following the attacks, the stock market closed for four days due to the devastating damage This would create a sort of domino effect and eventually affect making the economy even more If you would like to learn more about the World Trade Center, I have an entire video about it, which you can find linked on this video. The early two thousands were then met with quite a pessimistic outlook on dot coms as a viable business. - Well, there was some He quit a government think (group groaning) - (whistling) One time net - It's really not all that different from the way people in more recent time. Not all crypto investments are bad, but a lot of them are. So its reputation is now tarnished. It was the same thing for dot coms. And you could make the argument that this wouldn't really change until the internet would with the rise of social media, streaming, and other things that and more convenient than the real world. It was only then that the internet finally that it's so desperately but this time, with So in that way, the Dot-Com Bubble was a bit We shouldn't make life-altering decisions based on things we know nothing about. And we most certainly We need to be patient, and to better understand what That is the only way we can ensure that we have a better future. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please subscribe and click so that you never miss a future video.