[Mooji] We're going to do an exercise Your instruction is 'be'! [Mooji] Just 'be'! There is a power in learning Even if you think you fail, just do it. This is going to change your life. A Commitment to Self Discovery The Greatest Gift You Will Receive From YourSelf The guidance that you will see it is very simple But you may find it very difficult to follow. You will see, And I said that, where I can share with you and that you participate, but you will have to have and a little intention Because your mind is always going to And especially if it is for Self-discovery, the personal mind, will try to sabotage your opportunity But actually, it has no authority And so, this is why I feel so good So, when I start like that, I'm going to start with less, [Mooji] We're going to do an exercise And what I want, is to let go of all your ideas, It's very simple. Even the intention, No, just leave everything. Just be empty! And you can. And I want you to sit, by yourself, I want to say to you, The mind will come. And I want you just to be aware That is the most permanent thing about you; It never leaves you! It is the root of your identity that pure space of beingness. It's not even on a journey. It's just the sense, 'I am'. Just this. [Mooji] Your instruction is 'be'! Just 'be'. Not beingness plus ... So it's a beautiful opportunity! When the mind comes, don't feel, as some things will come like that. Like, 'This is just too strong, All this kind of chatter will go on. I expect that's going to happen. Stay again, empty. Try and be empty. OK? Now, it's going to feel that, It's going to feel like that. Or you are also going to realise, It's like I have no control about 'I have always felt like it's me thinking, But the personal sense of [yourself] Your personal identity is not your beingness! The sense of the person and its activities is actually watched [Mooji] Can you follow? [M.] After this, when we go for lunch and you go off somewhere, Even though you may feel, there will already be a difference. There is a power in learning to observe Even if you think you fail; just do it. And I can reassure you. I can assure and reassure you, this, with the exercise we have, in the time we have here, not just today, but today and tomorrow; it's going to change your life! But only if you persist, for this bit! Here in Sahaja, I say to each person here, we must learn to sit Half an hour each day. [Mooji] How many hours are people awake? [Mooji] 16? 16 hours times half hours, [M.] You are awake 32 hours a day? [Mooji] 32 half hours per day. Just one little half hour You can break it up into 15 minute But you learn to sit. The biggest discovery! not a mental discovery, not a religious discovery. You're going to find a change [Mooji] Are you up for it? [Mooji] Can I see some reaction? [Mooji] Very good, very good. now you sit by yourself I'm with you, I'm going to be here also. And your intention is only to be by yourself. By yourself doesn't mean by your person. You are aware of the mind, but most of your awareness is on the fact that, you're aware of your mind So we are going to start with ten minutes. And Shree is here. We start now. [long silence] Just be. Only on the natural sense of just 'be'. You are not doing 'be'! And you are present and aware. And now, if the mind comes in, You are aware of the mind moving, moving, suggesting, fidgety, fidgety, scratchy. You are aware of that, but you are not to go with it, Just stay as being. Remain detached. For some of you, It doesn't matter! The beingness is not loud. Notice this. Just be. Not become. Don't create. If thoughts or any energies come up, it doesn't matter. It's not a judgement. Just bring your attention ... Don't fall asleep. If the mind becomes extra busy, it's OK. You are not the mind. Empty. It may take some effort, but it's OK. The beingness itself is without effort. You have no shape. Mind appears as shape. Don't become involved. Stay empty. You are very awake! Don't drop off. Even if you feel a certain discomfort at trying to stay only as being, you are doing good. Don't worry. Don't go with the thinking mind. Stay empty. Only be. You are doing well. Stay as being. Don't be distracted. Only be. Awareness, awareness. Not thought. Empty. [Mooji] Stay as being. OK, that's it. Eyes open. [Deep inhale and exhale] Very good. How was that? How was that? [Mooji] Terrible? How strong was the mind? [M.] I'm not interested in failure or success. [M.] I'm just asking if you're seeing like that. You will feel ... And to stay just as beingness, Again, like some reflex, I say, don't worry. It's been going on for a very long time! It's been going on like this Maybe before this life, also. OK? So I expect it will be [imitates noisy mind] [Mooji] No, no, this is already wonderful! [M.] Emptiness didn't come from somewhere. But it's as though, by the exercise, And one realises, not in a mental realisation, an experiential realisation, Do you see? OK? Shall we go again for a second round? [Mooji] Very good. Very good. OK. Three, two, one. Now. OK. You are not creating. Only be. For some of you, you are noticing And it has not been challenged. And it's not being challenged now, Simply keeping the attention You are not creating awareness. It's already there. Spotless! The mind force may come Because now you are conscious you may feel, It's OK. You are discovering this. So it's a very powerful thing Don't go with any reaction. Bring the attention back No images are there. No plans. No next. No past. Just be. This is the greatest gift [Mooji] Transcending the turbulence Stay as awareness. No shape. No belief. And no journey. Empty. However often, or however many times Just come back to awareness. Remain conscious. Don't be caught by sleep. No judgements. You are not waiting. Just being. There is no time in awareness. Empty. You're going to get better and better Don't believe what the mind is saying. Don't sleep! There is no waiting. No shape. No drifting. Stay only as awareness itself; [M.] Even if it seems as though the mind [M.] is trying to intrude and to break, [Mooji] to break in, to cover up; [Mooji] Stay empty. [Mooji] Remain as awareness itself. Very good. OK. [Mooji claps] [Mooji] Well done, well done, [Mooji] Well done, well done. Thank you for participating. And this is how it begins. Like this. This is your gift to yourself, reawakening to your natural state. Now, some of you, you may feel, 'Whoa, maybe this is You didn't do anything. It's OK, it's OK. It may feel as though not even to focus on, But this simple exercise, twenty minutes or so on this exercise? Can you feel something already? [Mooji] Yes. The mind will say, Yes, yes, you can go. 'Actually, there is something in this. If you want to see a real deepening and a change into your inner sense of being, follow, trust my words when I tell you this. Stay with it. Stay with it. Because you can see how easy it is reshuffle something and start to take it like No. I say, just stay as the beingness. And the fruit of your exercise I say this is a tree that, when planted today, will bear fruit today! You follow and see if it is like this. So, very good. And have a good lunch, I don't know if it's lunch or dinner. But thank you for now. Good, good. [Mooji] Very good. Copyright 2023 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.