Hello, I'm Arthur Dark. Uh, no, over here. That's better. Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard. Something a little different for you today Sometimes the stories surrounding a grave So today we're going to explore some of across in cemeteries around the world. I myself am strange and unusual. Rest in Peace - that final request we make be peaceful and uninterrupted. May their sleep as it is lasting so be deep, Allan Poe once said. But finding that eternal slumber is not always the famous dead, whose public fascination The famous dead often have to take extra precautions and treasure hunters. We're in Switzerland, where movie legend He's one of the great icons of cinema, remembered character. He spent his final years here in Switzerland, He was laid to rest here, but the following body and held it for ransom, re-burying it The bodysnatchers demanded money from his The two were soon arrested, and Chaplin's this time placed in a reinforced concrete This is Eden Cemetery in the San Fernando Here we find the niche of another comedy legend, He was one of the famous Marx Bros, Groucho wit. He died, curiously, the same year as Charlie a similar fate. Groucho was cremated, his ashes inurned here In 1982 the urn containing Groucho's ashes But what makes this story even more unusual day without explanation or demand at the gates miles away. His ashes were eventually returned here and cameras. Our next unusual tale of disturbed slumber Columbarium. This is the urn of Sigmund Freud, known as He died in 1939 at age 83 and was cremated. You'll notice his urn is now protected behind That's because in 2014 thieves broke in ashes, but broke his urn in the process. I'll let the caretaker here at Golders tell From London England to Milan Italy. If you've seen the musical Evita, you know wife of President Juan Peron, hero of the But the story of Eva's body after she died as her real life. Shortly after her death Eva's body was embalmed Her body was on display to the public for But before the memorial could be completed, and was forced to flee the country, before Evita. The new dictatorship of Argentina wanted Eva's of night. The whereabouts of her body after that remained Graffiti even began to appear in Argentina In 1971 it was discovered that Evita had been Maggi. Her remains were exhumed and returned to Juan, Juan kept and maintained her corpse right Juan Peron eventually returned to Argentina Juan suddenly died shortly thereafter, and restored, body was placed on display next But civil unrest would once again derail plans Eva Peron was finally laid to rest in a fortified Argentina, some 24 years after her death. Sometimes those who disturb the slumber of fans, but friends and loved ones. We're in Joshua Tree, at the Joshua Tree This is room 8, where popular singer/songwriter It is now appropriately known as the Gram In 1973 Gram died from a drug overdose at Before his death, Gram had expressed a desire Joshua Tree. However, after his sudden death, his stepfather In an attempt to fulfill Gram's final wishes, stole his body from the Los Angeles International They then drove it back to Joshua Tree, to There they would attempt to cremate Gram Parsons' setting it ablaze. This is the site of the attempted cremation His body only partially burned though, and to Louisiana for burial. As for the two friends, since there was no for stealing the casket he was in. For a time, there was a memorial here at Cap moved to just outside room 8 at Joshua Tree ghost of Gram Parsons. Gram Parsons wasn't the only entertainer one last ride. This is the Calvary Mausoleum in Los Angeles. Here we find the crypt of the great profile, legendary actors -- a giant of silent and He was the grandfather of actress, Drew Barrymore. John died in 1942 at age 60. Distraught by his death, close friends Errol sorrows in booze. While the details of what happened late that was this: Walsh left the bar before Flynn, mortuary and "borrowed" John's corpse They took the body to Errol Flynn's house When Flynn returned home and saw his dearly he ran from the house screaming. That's one hell of a story, recently confirmed But this wasn't the end for John. He wished to be cremated and laid to rest But as a catholic he could not be cremated, Nearly 4 decades later John Barrymore's and transported it to a crematory. His cremated remains were then re-interred crypt is now empty. Where most folks have one final resting place, Here in chapter II, we explore the unusual We don't mean those with multiple monuments are actually divided amongst multiple locations. Take Dinah Shore for example. She was one of the most popular female vocalists a major television star. Dinah died in 1994 and now has two graves: She was cremated, half with half of her ashes the other half placed in a niche at Forest In our tour of Paris, we found several French Among them is Louis Braille, the namesake of raised dots used by the seeing impaired Being blind himself, Louis invented the system After his death in 1852 he was laid to rest anniversary of his death his remains were However, in a symbolic gesture, his hands Our most recent tour brought us through Italy. If you saw that tour, you'll remember our in Florence. Galileo was a famed Renaissance scientist in astronomy and physics. After his death Galileo was denied a burial for his teaching that the Earth went around Nearly a century later he was moved to this In moving Galileo's body here, three fingers display in the Museum of History and Science The removal of body parts to be put on display at the time for saints... but quite unheard Which of Galileo's fingers is on display? The middle one - interpret that as you will. Also here in Italy, in Rome to be precise, He was one of the great Romantic poets, with Percy Shelley died in a shipwreck off the His body washed up on shore days later. There, on the sands of Viareggio, a small But parts of him didn't burn completely, of which were given to his wife Mary, who life. Mary Shelley, you'll recall, wrote Frankenstein. That piece of Percy Shelley's heart that in the family vault in England where Mary Our next stop is Westminster Abbey in London This is the grave of novelist and poet, Thomas He's best remembered for stories like Tess He died in 1928 at age 87. After his death, his ashes entombed here... Hardy had expressed a desire to be buried his estate executor wanted him at Westminster As a compromise, before cremation, his heart beloved. Burial of the heart separate from the rest think. At Pere Lachaise back in Paris we find the composers and pianists of the Romantic era. He wrote this song that you all know. After his death in 1849 at the age of 39 he But being Polish, Chopin left his heart in literally. Before burial his heart was removed and entombed If you've ever wandered a cemetery, surely that stood out among the rest. Within these unique monuments is imbued the up in a sculpture or witty phrase. Some can make you laugh, &quot;That's All Folks!&quot; others can be thought than answers. In chapter III of our treatise of the unusual grave markers, and epitaphs we've come across. Most people have two dates on their markers. Actor Richard Conte, of Godfather fame, has Planning a comeback perhaps? The most sought-after grave in Westwood is Sometimes people have trouble finding it, of that fact. So, he was kind enough to put directions on around the corner. This is one of my favorites, which you'll Billy Wilder's Some Like it Hot. &quot;Oh you don't understand, Osgood! I'm a man!&quot; &quot;Well, nobody's perfect!&quot; We're in Salt Lake City Utah, Zion, home expect to find the most devilish epitaph on Here lies Lilly Gray, "Victim of the Beast And beyond just the obvious epitaph, the flowers Even the dates of her birth, June 6, 6-6. And 1881... 1+8+8+1 is 18, which is 6+6+6. No one knows what Lilly's husband meant she a victim of some Satanic ritual? Not likely. Most people chalk it up to mental illness But that hasn't stopped stories from spreading after visiting the grave of Lilly Gray. This is New Boston Cemetery in New Hampshire, A casual stroll by this grave might not grab Sevilla, murdered by Henry N. Sargent, age Thus fell this lovely blooming daughter. By the revengeful hand - a malicious Henry. When on her way to school he met her, and This chilling inscription is perhaps one of is called out by name, on the victim's very And adding to this unusual tale, just a stone's grave of her murderer, Henry, whose last name of what he had done, before turning the gun If you've visited Rudolph Valentino, you wall. It contains a strong indictment of our healthcare looked a lot like actor Sean Penn. My son had no medical insurance, that's Barbara Sue Manire had a wonderful sense of On her grave here at Highland Cemetery in "time expired." Pere Lachaise cemetery in Paris is full of One of the most unique here belongs to Fernand A likeness of Fernand lies in repose here head. But the truth of this monument is far less Fernand died in 1942 during Nazi occupation. It was his dying wish that he be able to forever wife. And so this monument was sculpted, in which all eternity. His epitaph reads: "They marveled at the the end of life." Some graves we've visited aren't even If you've wandered the southern end of Hollywood this odd-looking tombstone. Well, it's not a tombstone at all. It's a large slate chalkboard shaped like And this little trap door is where the chalk This is known as the Epitaph Project, where leave messages, or even artwork, all in a in general. Also here at Hollywood Forever is a headstone You music fans will know the label DEF Records. This is where DEF was laid to rest, symbolically DEF Records was founded by legendary producer Public Enemy, the Beastie Boys, and Run-DMC. In 1993 Rubin decided to change the name of so he held an actual funeral for DEF, filling with a eulogy given by the Reverend Al Sharpton. The casket with the various DEF memorabilia This grave that isn't a grave is found at Magicians Penn and Teller purchased this plot of clubs as the payoff of an elaborate magic They help you set up this magic trick in their titled "Death, Inc." "We thought it would be nice when we die we bought a grave plot at the Forest Lawn we set up a grave marker. We did all the hard work, and here's how any pack of cards, and a camera, to Hollywood." When you think of a grave, you invariably Where else would one find a grave, after all? Well, you'd be surprised. You never know where you might stumble upon Here in chapter 4 we hop the fence out of the beaten path. This looks like your average, ordinary desert Wrong. This is a car graveyard. Actually, it's an art installation known If you wander amongst these cars that are you'll find an actual tombstone. Jessie S. Linebarger, 1916- 1989. It's unlikely this is an actual grave. There's a grave to a Jesse Linebarger with miles up the road, but he spells his name So this likely is a discarded tombstone with That's one expensive typo. In 2019 we took a trip to Interlaken New York Zone Special. While there we stayed in a charming old bed When we mentioned we were visiting the cemetery, basement of his bed and breakfast and asked Of course, we said yes, among the first of to follow him into his dark basement to find Sure enough there in the basement of this of one Hester Ann Avery, died at age 25 in The owner had no idea where the actual grave in the basement. Every grave we've ever visited has been But not every human's remains remain on Dr. Eugene Shoemaker was one of the founders of comet Shoemaker-Levy. After he died in a car accident in 1997, a aboard NASA's Lunar Prospector spacecraft. So now every time you look up at the full grave, the man on the moon. Other notable figures have had portions of including Gene Roddenberry, the creator of on Star Trek, and soon Gene's wife Majel have portions of her ashes, along with more Some of these orbited the earth for a time brought back to earth upon return. From the final frontier, to the deep blue A voyage across the sea has long been a metaphor sea transcends death. As long as men have travelled the sea, there But The Neptune Memorial Reef off the coast level... that level being about 40 feet below This is the world's largest man-made reef, - a columbarium to be precise, which can wish to spend eternity swimming with the fishes. Cremated remains are mixed with cement and columbarium, like starfish or sea shells, a plaque. This is the only cemetery in the world you Among those who chose the Neptune Reef as Julia Child. From under the sea, to the happiest place Now what could we possibly be doing at Disneyland places? Those familiar with Disneyland urban legends for Pirates of the Caribbean. When the ride was originally created in the donated from UCLA. Over the years though these real skeletons artificial bones... except one. At least according to the remnants of this skull on the ride: this one, which sits on quarters. If true, some random lucky dude from a bygone ride his eternal home. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't jealous. If I had my way, after I die my skull would or in the Haunted Mansion. But of course, such is impossible. I'm not the only one, though, who has mused on earth. From time-to-time Disney has had to contend wished to spend forever in the parks, scattering Mansion, or in flower beds, or pretty much For our next stop we hop a plane to the Savannah Then from here we head... well, nowhere actually. This is right where we want to be. Notice anything unusual on the runway? No? Let's zoom in a little closer. How about now? See those two blocks on the runway that looks Those are graves. The airport and runways were built on farm One of the runways in particular went right Most of the 100 graves were moved, but the and Catherine Dotson moved, believing they cultivated. So, the graves were left in place, and the So next time you fly into Savannah, keep an on the graves of Richard and Catherine Dotson. Chapter 5. This one's dedicated to the just plain bizarre at night bizarre. One of the most visited graves in the world Village Memorial Park. Perhaps you know the story of the man entombed Richard Poncher happened to meet Joe DiMaggio Joe was looking to offload crypts he had purchased Richard and his wife bought two of them. After Marilyn died years later, Richard realized Not wanting to have his back turned to the an unusual final request. "If I croak," he said to his wife, "if I'll haunt you the rest of my life." And so it was. After Richard's funeral, his wife and the casket before entombment so he could face What do you plan on being buried in after A coffin? A Casket? Perhaps you're going green and will be buried Well Sandra West had another idea. This is Alamo Masonic Cemetery in San Antonio to Sandra, who died in 1977 at age 38. At her request, before burial she was placed her favorite car, a blue 1964 Ferrari, and It was so large it required her grave to occupy There are countless stars whose final resting they were cremated, their ashes either scattered One such individual is Al Lewis, best known "Come on everybody, hop in! I'll take us all for a ride through the He loved a good cigar, and after his death, in his favorite cigar box. In a curious moment of foreshadowing, Al hinted Munsters, some 40 years before &quot;Oh, it's a box of cigars!&quot; &quot;And the box, you see, is a great place to keep your ashes.&quot; Have you ever seen the 2014 film, Burying If so, you'll certainly recognize where Cemetery. The movie starred Anton Yelchin. Tragically, Anton would die 2 years later Anton was laid to rest here in Hollywood Forever, amazing statue. But back to Burying the Ex. What makes this shot here so haunting, so in movie history in which an actor is filmed Off in the distance here in this shot you just 2 years later. "It's a nice night for a zombie movie "I wouldn't have it any other way." Here's another tale from Hollywood Forever. This one concerns Cyril and Addie Thorn. The two were married, but Addie died in 1946 Afterwards, Cyril's fascination with death He became eager to experience death and the After a number of failed suicide attempts, placed flowers on the grave of his first wife cypress tree. He then strapped on a breathing mask connected Within minutes he was dead, right here on He had left a note with instructions for his existence after death. He requested that some light, tall object of everyone. He went on to say, "I will try to knock If I don't succeed it will prove nothing to If I do, it will prove much.&quot; The experiment was carried out at his funeral. The funeral attendees watched in anticipation, cylinder off his own coffin. It never moved. Hereward Carrington, a noted investigator told the crowd, &quot;After the transition there to the new surroundings, which perhaps adversely As he sat next to Thorn's coffin, Carrington ask you to try to influence the objects, as Try, Cy.&quot; Again, the objects didn't move. Cyril was later laid to rest here next to This next bizarre tale takes us to the other There are a number of sites that claim to This one is found in Uzbekistan. The first thing you'll notice about this to be precise, nearly 60 feet. Was the prophet Daniel 60 feet tall? No, but according to one legend, the reason Daniel's body, buried next to a natural to grow year after year, even after his death. We're back in California, to re-visit a fans. Bobby Driscoll was Disney's first child He was the voice and model of Peter Pan in early live action films, like Song of the His performances in So Dear to My Heart and in 1949. As he grew through adolescence in the 50s His life and career became plagued by drug from other kids about his film career. The downfall of Bobby Driscoll is a tragic After spending time in a narcotics rehabilitation his career on the Broadway stage, but was Penniless, Driscoll disappeared into Manhattan's In march of 68, in a scene eerily similar two boys, playing in a deserted East Village He had died from heart failure due to drug There was no identification on his body. Photos were circulated to try to identify And so Bobby Driscoll, once the biggest child grave, in Hart Island's Potter's Field. The following year, his mother sought help This would lead to fingerprint identification tenement, and buried in the Potter's Field. So even though his name is here on his father's Hart Island. Our next two bizarre tales come to us courtesy and man whose beard rivals that of my own, This is Summit View Cemetery in Oklahoma, He was a notorious outlaw of the late 19th But his post-mortem exploits would far surpass In 1911 Elmer was killed in a shootout with His body was embalmed, but went unclaimed, the funeral home dressed up McCurdy's body nickel to see "The Bandit Who Wouldn't A short time later, two men claiming to be But they were not his brothers, but rather wanted to exhibit Elmer's corpse as "The Elmer would later join the Traveling Museum notorious criminals. By the 30s, Elmer McCurdy's body had become He eventually wound up in storage in Los Angeles, film She Freak, as a prop. In the 1970s Elmer's corpse was hung in By this time, no one was aware that Elmer's it was a mannequin. In 1976 the production team of the television a carnival scene. A prop man moved what he thought was a mannequin In doing so, the arm broke off, and it quickly The police were called, and through extensive that this was the body of Elmer McCurdy, who appearing in movies and spooking people in Do you believe in aliens? The people of Aurora Texas do. This is Aurora Cemetery. Let's read what this historical marker says. "This site is also well-known because of in 1897, and the pilot, killed in the crash, That's right folks, there is a grave here of an extra-terrestrial - an alien grave. As the story goes, a UFO crashed on a farm The pilot, who died in the crash, was described The wreckage was dumped into a nearby well, in the cemetery, marked only by a rock and UFO enthusiasts have petitioned to exhume so requires permission from next of kin. So, unless anyone can phone home and reach remain undisturbed. Do you believe an alien rests hereunder, or Someone call Fox Mulder. For more stories like these, be sure to check The final stops on our journey through the It's not uncommon to see nude, non-sexual But this next one, quite the opposite, is As such, we'll slap a PG-13 advisory on This is the legendary tomb of Victor Noir. At face value, just the effigy of a man lying the statue a bit more polished than the rest. The act of rubbing parts of a statue for good In the case of Victor here, it's hard to trousers which have one button undone. Victor Noir's monument has become one of women to visit because, as the legend goes, the statue on the lips and rubbing his manhood sex life. More specifically - if you want to find a and if you want to get pregnant, you should to have twins, you should touch his left foot. Believe it or not, as Ripley would say. This has led to Victor's tomb being known And finally, how much money would it take tomb with a dead Russian Countess? Would a million dollars be enough? That's a yes from me... where do I sign This grand monument is the final resting place Baroness who died in 1818 at just 39. According to legend, after her death a provision million dollars to anyone who would spend her. The provision goes on to state that Elizabeth and the walls of the tomb would be covered they would be unable to escape the gaze of The visitor would be brought food, and only the cemetery was closed, so as not to commune It's reported that a number of men tried, mad. This has led to Elizabeth being known as the Whether true or some fanciful fabrication, enough? As you ponder that point, and we close the let me leave you with another question.... Did the large glass door of the Freedom Mausoleum Yes, yes it did. Perhaps Clara Bow coming out to say hello. Thanks for watching.