Romanian philosopher Emil Cioran observed that we the dark sides of existence. For example, walls of hospitals, and we avoid discussing something we tend to erase all traces of in do not shy away from the uncomfortable realities things like misery, pain, and suffering became his immersion in life's despair became as he called his prolific writing activity. into Cioran's work, starting with his earliest work was challenging. I've read the book several I enjoyed more. Maybe I struggled to read the of his works goes way beyond my understanding the book talks about many different themes, and I guess, in a way, my attempt to create a video before you click away, my failure might be the the fact that it expands on some of Cioran's futile and why despair is profound, the Romanian If you want to help keep this channel going, become a Patreon supporter. You'll get Even though his book On the Heights Cioran was also an avid critic of philosophy, as he believed that the actual value of the rational but in the confrontation with "Haven't people learned yet that the time that agony is infinitely more important more revealing than the most subtle thought, and End quote. anti-philosopher, although he probably wouldn't existence shouldn't be categorized; it should as he calls it at the beginning of the book. he wrote On the Heights of Despair, his first his life. For him, writing was the ultimate way to one would imagine a depressed, sad figure. which puzzled some of his readers. How pessimistic words be so happy? Well, perhaps the aspects was the very reason for his apparent cathartic experience for him, as if he processed running from it or acting as if it didn't exist, salvation from the claws of death," he stated. away from. And experiencing suffering certainly is a part of life, perhaps even the very nature profundity of despair, which goes so deep that any fleeting elements. He addresses this profundity about cohesion in his writings or conforming to It didn't matter to him. What mattered the heights of his suffering, the elevated him "lyrical," as he called it. For him, as they reflect the depths of his experience, as intellectualism and rationality. Cioran argued our inner world by usual means, for example, "The fact that almost everybody writes resources of conceptual thinking are too inner lyricism finds adequate objectification It seems that most people want to be happy. we seek to experience the buzz we get from visit restaurants and cafes, go on vacations, efforts carry this underlying objective of that such enjoyment is always fleeting, meaning the next. For Cioran, this pursuit of happiness nature of happiness but also because we're Yet, humanity has built large and complex a means to cope with the copious amounts of to grave. Cioran clarifies in his book that he moral and ethical systems, and, yes, even intricate part of life or, in some cases, it more bearable, for example, by saying that happens for a reason." Another method is using so we don't experience the extremes of life or it. Take Stoicism, for example. Although Cioran he does vocalize his disdain for rationality sides. Stoics attempt to reduce and eliminate the eudaimonic state. But these passions, such as These intense emotional experiences, the moments And by trying to curb or eliminate them, we settle According to Cioran, happiness is mainly when we contemplate our meaningless existence and happiness is superficial; it's almost like a we refuse to look at. But as these veils we quickly have to find other ways to cover running from the inescapable reality of suffering. not a realistic goal. And our pursuit of it Now, this misery, this despair, the darker is something Cioran expands upon in great starting with one of the primary Cioran believed that life has no meaning. It finding meaning is futile (13). He wrote: life is a question mark. An irreversible question any answers." But for Cioran, this realization it's a reason to live, moreover, "the only one." Albert Camus' Absurdism. They both observed humans have this seemingly inborn tendency to Instead of just living life without thinking where living beings originate from, and if questions. The pain-relieving structures we with the meaning of life. They provide answers. life is to follow God. Stoicism presents the one aims to escape the cycle of suffering structures serve as a solution for existential answers. There's one problem, though, according Schopenhauer): these claims of an intrinsic might be a human fabrication to answer questions This silence Cioran considered the only truth; our questions regarding the meaning of life. Life lives amount to nothing. Thus, it doesn't all these existential questions regarding "No matter which way we go, it is no better than something or not, have faith or not, just as it End quote. Cioran undoubtedly a nihilist. But a nihilist who Usually, nihilism and despair go hand in hand. lives are meaningless can be depressing. We loneliness, and sometimes even a repeatedly delved into these feelings, When reading his work, his focus on the as if he purposefully wallows in misery. He specific systems to escape despair. He embraces to the fullest. It's not that he enjoys pain in a great value to experiencing agony. Suffering condition and about things we all go through. we more likely see life for what it truly is. If about ourselves, which, in turn, teaches us about whole lives hiding, because we may deny suffering, and deep inside, we know it. I particularly What would happen if a man's face if his entire inner agony would be objectified in Wouldn't we then cover our faces with our impossible if the infinitude of feelings we harbor lines of our face. Nobody would dare look at tragic image would mix in the contours of wounds which cannot be healed, End quote. his apparent fascination for despair and how he (and at least trying to comprehend his handsomely about specific periods of deep suffering and alone on the couch, time flying by, sometimes in other instances, just imagining people living just hanging on in quiet desperation, feeling and I had a few, indeed felt like tumbling into between you and the rest of the world. Without there was also clarity. Away from the noisy and understanding. Moments like these forced these periods, I can see their beauty me who I am now. In some cases, falling into Maybe my inability to comprehend many of his words occasions, I seemed to feel the pain he wanted to I think I've lived them. Maybe not exactly what indeed is a place I'm familiar with, and I'd guess the heights of despair and often wondered if I was in which I would have preferred to end my capacity it's not the pleasure of these moments but the experience of deep despair, that left such would my life have been happier? Maybe. one's relationship with suffering and happiness, Thank you for watching.