When we think of fictional fathers from movies trope, a goofy and dimwitted father who loves of them. However, disney has a wide range of fathers, For fathers day this year we decided that dads in disney animated movie history. To find out who's the best and who's the I'm Kyle with Wicked Binge and this is Disney Before we get started it's important to on their parenting skills... Not their overall morality. So we might be seeing some great people being Now let's get started! This time we'll be starting with the worst Evil, before getting to the better dads on Starting with the very worst... Surprising virtually no-one with our pick Frollo. Frollo is the cruel and manipulative Parisian an infant. Not out of the goodness of his heart, of course, the child's mother and then attempting to In order to keep the world from seeing him, bell tower for his whole life and even gives "Half-formed". He lies to Quasimodo about his past and convinces him mercy and kindness was himself. Despite this claim, Frollo doesn't miss him to call himself "Ugly" and "A Monster". His upbringing causes Quasimodo to fear others It's only after he is shown kindness by the negative view of humanity his adoptive Unlike the other fathers on our list, Frollo he raised, attempting to murder him a second In the end he never redeems himself, falling for all eternity. Not only is Frollo a terrible, awful father, as a person in general. He deserves to burn. Earning himself the silver medal of evil is While not the main focus of the film, it is to his son PJ. He constantly tries to give Goofy parenting wants nothing to do with him. Pete acts more like a drill sergeant toward him and forcing the boy to call him 'Sir'. This leaves PJ to feel intimidated by his He isn't any better in the sequel, even He is down right giddy to kick PJ out and But I guess that's not too surprising from While not a straight up villain, our bronze After Chicken Little, his only son, is shunned very quickly turned his back on the little While it is understandable why one might doubt completely bail on his son and leave Chicken father's love. It's only when Chicken Little hits a homerun to show pride and acceptance for him. But, when Chicken Little warns the town of AGAIN. While he does redeem and show he does love him for never standing up for his son while town for the entirety of the whole film. It's no wonder Buck Cluck is one of the Next up we have the Ape father of Tarzan, Now he isn't in the bad category because he was shown to be very playful and loving with his adoptive, human son. From the very beginning Kerchak refuses to son and is very cold towards him. After accidentally causing an elephant stampede, would never be one of them. Facing rejection from the closest figure he an outcast in the only place he knows as his This leads him to work every single day to Kerchak would have no choice but to respect In Kerchak's defense, he was only trying these actions still caused a lot of hurt and acceptance 18 years later, on the gorilla's Better late than never, I guess? Moving along, we have The Great Prince of While his worst crime in the original film view of him as a father in the sequel. However, this is not a good thing for his loses his mother, and his father discourages mere hours after her death. The Great Prince often scolds Bambi for not He even goes as far as spending the whole and tries to give his son away to another This leaves poor Bambi to feel rejected by to work for his father's love and support. His father does end up changing his mind and actions are far too much to put a young child mother. Next up is the father of Queens Anna and Elsa, Okay, now you may be thinking that this is As small children, Elsa accidentally strikes seek help from the forest trolls. After cleansing Anna's memories of Elsa's being possibly dangerous in the future. As a response, Agnarr decides that they must learn to control her powers. Yes, King Agnarr loved and adored both his for almost everything that goes wrong in the Firstly, it causes Elsa to isolate herself, sister as well. She grows up fearing her powers and herself. Her anxiety causes her to even miss out on She wouldn't have accidentally frozen the if her magic wasn't treated as something And the isolation doesn't only hurt Elsa, is locked away, Anna grows up alone, wondering her. The loneliness got to Anna too, making her she very quickly fell for Hanz, and we all While none of this was what Agnarr wanted decision ends up hurting both his children can never apologize to his daughters. With that, we move away from the bad fathers Starting the grey area off is Motunui's Despite him loving his daughter and his island, reef puts both in danger. Moana has a deep love and attraction to the by her father. No matter how hard she works to be the perfect the sea, nor should she have to. His desperation for her to stay on land causes on the island for suggesting that they might She thankfully ignores his scolding and decides island. By the end, Chief Tui is able to realize his of the island and his daughter. Next up is Fa Zhou, the father of Mulan. Zhou is a very traditional man, putting him struggles to meet her family's expectations. While he truly loves his daughter and compares is also strict. He gets angry at her for questioning the fairness being forced to join the war a second time He shames her for bringing dishonor on their to save his life. Despite this, he refuses to turn in Mulan his place, saving her life in doing so. Once Mulan returns home with gifts from the hug the most important gift, his beloved daughter. Our next entry is The Sultan of Agrabah and Outside of being a classic example of a bumbling to his teenage daughter. He was very pushy about Jasmine getting married she finds someone she loves. He also forced her to stay in the palace walls, in her kingdom. What saves him from being a bad father is by Jafar into making many of his choices. He was at least excited by Jasmine falling law so she could marry the one she loved. However that leaves the question, if he could he? Oh well, at least he finally gave in at the Kind of a dummy, but he means well at least The true neutral of fathers goes to King Stefan Because of a curse placed on his daughter raise his beloved daughter. Instead, he placed her in the care of three While this was only for her protection, it who never even knew he existed until the end King Stefan: Not good, not bad, just there. Next is the father of Prince Charming, The While we never see him directly interact with a little too much. The King is overly eager to have his son get and spoil. In order to rush the entire process, he throws bachelorette in the kingdom so his son has While this is a bit overkill, he at least truly loves and is more than ok with it being Pushy? Definitely. But we can cut him some slack for considering Finally we arrive at the good! The pure! Thankfully, Disney has it's share of good Starting out with Belle's dad, Maurice. With Belle ostracized by the community, one ways is her eccentric, inventor father. Belle looks up to and loves her dad, while think she is odd like the rest of the town she ended up in The Beast's tower, it was of the movie trying desperately to find help Besides, as we all know, her meeting the Beast Still, although he's a sweet guy and loves a bit... useless. And unable to solve many problems, not to for his daughter. Such as getting himself imprisoned in the as leverage when Gaston wants to throw him Next, we have Goofy from A Goofy Movie. Despite him not being the smartest dog around, Max. It's clear that Goofy adores Max and does great life, however he does have a bad habit He tends to be too influenced by outside sources, and a tyrannical principal, who both convince A family vacation to go fishing initially to a teenage boy. Thankfully, Goofy realizes his mistake halfway on our list- and shows that he is just misguided, Besides, any father that can manage to get getting tased by a bodyguard is doing something Another good father we have to mention is We can't deny the love he has for his daughter, when he gives Pocahontas a necklace. He really only wants what is best for his she wants. By the end of the film, he proves himself finally listens to his daughter's pleas. Now we have the king of the sea; King Triton. King Triton is a very strict and stern father Ariel. He clashes with her because of her interest of humans because of the death of his wife, While this grudge is understandable, it does pride and joy; her collection of human things. This definitely crossed the line, however, runs away to be a human. Triton searches night and day for his lost He even gives up his freedom and his kingdom Maybe not the best political move, but a great he does one of the hardest things a father Really, we cut Triton slack on his overbearing taruma with the loss of his wife. Surely it makes sense that he'd be worried And everything he does, both good and bad, Willing to sacrifice everything for her at Now onto Pinocchio's Geppetto. After a wish on a star, the kind and gentle While many people would probably be freaked new role and becomes a father to Pinocchio. He quickly becomes a very devoted father to getting him ready for school, and planning However, when Pinocchio runs away instead movie looking for the puppet, even somehow and even when he has lost all hope in escaping child, hoping he was ok out there. Once Pinocchio finally becomes a real boy, but even before this, he still loves and accepts Our next father is king of the gods and father In this case, we can be glad that the movie the Zeus from Greek Mythology had a lot of But the Disney Zeus is actually a good father. He has a lot of love and pride in Hercules, Unfortunately, due to events out of his control, cannot live on Mount Olympus until he reaches Even then, Zeus still does whatever he can him a pegasus steed to help on his journey. It's clear that Zeus wants nothing more decision not to live on Mount Olympus, and loves.~~ Up next is Professor Archimedes Q. Porter. While on the surface he seems like a typical a close bond with his daughter, Jane. They both share a deep love for gorillas and He is also shown to value Jane's opinion about her fascination with Tarzan, while still But he shows his greatest act of fatherhood Jane to follow her heart and stay in the jungle Not many fathers would give up the only world but that's what puts Porter so high up on Moving along, we have the father of 99 dalmatian This determined pooch was a doting and involved were stolen to make fur coats by the devious He and his wife go on a long and difficult another 84 puppies at risk of becoming a spotted Without hesitation, Pongo decides to adopt immediately accepts all of them as his own. It takes a lot of love and kindness to adopt 15 of your own. Making Pongo not only a very good boy, but Now then, the Bronze Medal of Best Disney Groove. There is no arguing that Pacha is a great to see the good in everyone. Not only that, but he is shown to be a real We only see him directly interact with his he is shown to be playful, fatherly, and loving It's clear that he has a very close family His entire journey in the film is because even if he has to face the emperor to do it. Speaking of Kuzko, Pacha even develops a close enough that they spend the summers together We can't say we would have been that forgiving noble man and father Pacha is. The Silver medal for fatherhood goes to Tiana's He may not have gotten much screen time but life is felt throughout the film. James had a dream his whole life, to own and He shared his love of cooking with his young for cooking. He also encouraged Tiana. Saying that she needed to work for her dreams, James makes it to the top spot because he family, working up to 3 shifts in a day, but He always kept a smile on his face for his James unfortunately died in the war before family says; "He never got what he wanted, He had love." Finally, the Gold Medal for best dad is King From the very first scene, we see the affection As Simba grows up, Mufasa is shown to take and teach his son how to be a great king. Even after Simba nearly gets himself killed head and explain why Simba shouldn't have Keeping calm under pressure, especially when with. But it is incredibly important when raising looking after his son, and will always be Really, Mufasa is such a great father character raising his son to be strong and honorable. Not only in life, but after his death as well. And we get to see Simba use the wisdom he Scar, but grow into adulthood as well. Mufasa's death is probably the saddest moment And it's made so much more impactful by He loved his son and taught him with the perfect Simba for his life... And to pounce on any problem that comes his Happy Father's Day, everybody. Make sure to tell your dad you love him. And that's our list! Who do you think is the most pure or the most Don't forget to hit that notification bell we break down the morality of the characters But most importantly, stay wicked.