- [Derek] The modern era of electronics began with the light bulb but not in the way you might think. Early light bulbs consisted sealed inside a glass bulb with a vacuum inside. When a potential difference was current flowed through it, heating it up to over 2000 Kelvin, so hot that it glowed. If there had been much oxygen in the bulb, the filament would've burned immediately. That was the reason for the vacuum. But from the perspective of electronics, the real breakthrough came made by Thomas Edison. He saw that over a bulb's lifetime, the glass became discolored, turning yellow, and then brown, but only on one side. So what was going on? Well, the heated filament but also electrons. You can think of them being of the carbon. This phenomenon, known had twice been discovered independently by other scientists up But after Edison, it became widely known. In fact, for a time, the emission of electrons was called the Edison effect. Now, these electrons floating because they're in a vacuum. But since there was a potential difference across the wires that led to the filament, the electrons were attracted So they accelerated towards it and most would whizz straight past it and crash into the glass, over time discoloring it I should note that Edison If he had been using AC, then both sides would've been discolored. But it was this observation for an electronics revolution, and eventually the In 1904, John Ambrose that was very similar but with one important addition: a second electrode in the bulb. By charging this plate positively with respect to the filament, electrons could be completing the circuit. But if the plate were slightly negative relative to the filament, then it would repel electrons and no current would flow. Fleming called his device a Since only one of the electrons could only flow and not the other way around. The device was called a thermionic diode and it was used initially but it could also convert alternating current to direct current. Scientists quickly realized had the filament in the center and the other electrode as a cylinder surrounding it. This geometry captured coming off the filament and allowed for larger currents to flow. - Oh, there she goes. - [Derek] With just one of these diodes, you could convert AC But combining a few diodes and a capacitor led to a fairly steady direct current, and this was a big deal. It was the first practical and the model for all vacuum tubes that would dominate the industry for the next half century. In the early 1900s, the big problem in Radio had just been invented but its range was limited by the lack of reliable equipment that could boost weak signals. Similarly, telephone calls were limited to at most 1300 kilometers because by that point, the signal was two faint to hear. Rudimentary form of for telegraph operation called the relay. In a relay, there is an electromagnet. And when current flows it attracts a switch, turning on a second circuit. But when the current through the switch is released and the second circuit is open again. This device works well for amplifying the dots and dashes of Morse but its binary output means it's incapable of amplifying the complex of phone calls and radio waves. And that's why it was such when Lee de Forest took the diode and added another electrode into the bulb. This electrode wasn't but rather a sparse wire mesh and it was positioned in and the anode. With three electrodes, Now, a large potential across the anode and cathode but the number of electrons that actually flowed between them was controlled by the voltage on the grid, as this new electrode was known. If the grid were slightly it repelled electrons from the filament so that none could flow But if the grid were slightly positive, then electrons were attracted and most of them would pass and then accelerate to the anode. So in this way, a small can control a huge voltage at the anode and the response is rapid. So you can get high I like to think of it as standing at the top of a high cliff, opening and closing a I mean, it doesn't take much but that small input is converted into a huge output of water - [Derek] You're powering - [David] Warming up, you - [Derek] So the yellow is the input? - [David] Yellow is the input. Purple is the output. We have essentially a two-volt change on the input giving us, what is this? Five volts, so five, 10, - [Derek] For this demonstration, we were only using 24 volts on the anode. If we had used a higher voltage, we could have got a lot more amplification and people did. This was the device that allowed us to call long distance for the first time. Using vacuum tubes, the first transcontinental call from New York to San Francisco took place on the 25th of January, 1915. - [Derek] Whoa. - [David] Yeah, there we go, should be 10 volts. - [Derek] It's hard to see the grid here because just like with the best configuration for a triode is to have a cylindrical configuration. The anode is on the outside, the grid is cylindrically inside that, and the cathode or The invention of the triode Radios, TVs, whatever were powered by vacuum tubes. You would've had so many in your house even up until the 1960s and '70s. But vacuum tubes weren't done In his 1937 thesis, Claude Shannon found a connection and a branch of mathematics Working in the mid-1800s, George Boole was trying to find a mathematical foundation for logic. Under his system, a true statement was represented as a 1 and a false statement as a 0. And Boole also developed If both statements A and B were true, then the output would also be true. What Shannon realized is could be represented that there was an equivalence between mathematical statements and electric circuits. All you needed to realize these were a couple switches. That same year, 1937, George Stibitz built the It could add two 1-bit binary numbers. That is it could add two numbers so long as they were either 0 or 1. The calculator worked using a relay, that electromechanical There were two inputs. If they were left open, the input was 0. If closed, it was a 1. The output was shown with two light bulbs. If no lights were on, the answer was 0. If the output light was on, the answer was 1. And if the carry light was on, the answer was a 2. The circuit diagram works like this. If neither switch A or B is closed, so adding 0 + 0, then no current flows through the circuit and no light bulb would light up. But if input A was closed, the current would flow creating a magnetic field that pulls the switch inside it closed, and this connects the and disconnects the carry light bulb. So the output light bulb lights up, meaning that the answer is 1. And the same thing would happen when input B was closed and A was open. But if you closed both then there is no current but there would be a current flowing from the battery connected to A, which is connected to So it lights up indicating 1 + 1 equals 2. This is the beginning of the digital age, and no it was not glamorous. Stibitz built his device light bulbs, and relays And for the inputs, he He built it in one night which is why it became The circuit that Stibitz built is now called a half adder. But if you look at the circuit through the eyes of Claude Shannon, you realize it's actually The output light bulb should turn on when either A or B, but so this is known as an exclusive OR gate. Whereas the carry light when both A and B are closed, so this is an AND gate. This circuit uses electrical versions of Boolean operators, XOR and AND. And it's possible to build as electronic gates for things like OR, NOR, and NAND. And you might say, what's the big deal? I mean, the big deal is a bunch of electrons Sure, it's very simple math, but you could connect a bunch and build more and more that could do more complex math, which is exactly what Stibitz and his colleagues at Bell Labs did. Two years later, they built the model I, which had more than 400 relays and could add two eight in a 10th of a second. It could also multiply eight digit numbers and do multiplication of complex numbers, though these more complicated about a minute per calculation. - So you put a voltage through a coil and it'll turn that switch on or off. So you've got your two operands here. And if you wanna add two numbers together, so 2 is this, 3 is this, right? So 1, 0 is 2. - [Derek] Yeah. - [David] And 1, 1 is 3. And so then when you want to calculate it, you just hit the go button down here. We get 101. - [Derek] I love the sound of that. That is amazing. - It's magical, so if 8 plus, that would be 4 so 8 + 8, I think, right? - [Derek] Okay. - [David] Yeah, 8 + 8, that would be, 16, no, - [Derek] Okay. - [David] There you go. Eight plus eight is 16 in binary, which would be 1 0 0 0 0. (machine clacking) This is essentially a There's no logic functions. It only ever does add. Now, let's say we wanna do 5 - 2, the answer's gonna be 3. So we flip this little switch here that lets me know that I'm and we do subtraction So essentially what we're doing is we're inverting one of the operands and we're adding one. So now when I run it, (machine clacking) we can see 5 - 2 is equal to 3, so 2 and 1 is 3. Now, because of the way that we do this, the final carry flag ends up getting illuminated But if we know that we're we know that this final carry flag is never going to be on otherwise. - [Derek] Over the next 10 years, they built six more which were used by the US military and the National Advisory Committee for Astronautics or NACA, which later would become NASA. But even by the early 1940s, it was clear that the the physical closing and was too slow to be the future of computers and they were also prone to breaking. - Anytime you have it's gonna wear down. Every time that relay switches, there's a little bit of friction on the rotation point inside of there and there's contacts that are making and breaking and those are gonna wear out. - [Derek] And all the meant that the computers (machine clacking) - So it doesn't really work in a business environment all that well. You can't really stuff it into your office that you're gonna drive people insane. - [Derek] So what computer was an electronic switch and that is where the Whoa! I mean, sure it can work as an amplifier if you put slightly positive or negative voltages on the grid, but it can also work as a switch. If the grid voltage is very negative, then no current flows. And if the grid voltage is very positive, then maximum current flows. So a triode can be controlled using no moving parts. Just a voltage will set it to be either a 0 or a 1. And best of all, switching between the two can be done rapidly with no noise since you're just controlling electrons zipping around in a vacuum. This is the invention that took The world's first electronic was called ENIAC and it came online for the first time on December 10th, 1945. It took up a whole room, weighed 30 tons, and used 175 kilowatts of power. So much that it led to a rumor that every time it turned on, the lights in Philadelphia, where ENIAC was located, would dim. Now, that was just a rumor, but mainly because ENIAC had its own dedicated electrical generator to keep up with the enormous power draw. Unlike previous computers, ENIAC wasn't limited to just solving one type It could be programmed and it was fast, completing 500 operations per second. At the time, the word computers still referred to people doing calculations with pen and paper. So 500 operations per ENIAC's flexibility and power was immediately useful for the development of the hydrogen bomb. The computations needed were so complex that the director of said that, &quot;It would've been impossible to arrive at any solution without the aid of ENIAC.&quot; - This is a hilarious part that is 1 meter tall is that you can point at - [Derek] This is what a 1-bit vacuum tube computer looks like. - [David] Can you feel - [Derek] I certainly can. - [David] I can feel the heat coming off. - [Derek] It's getting warm. - Well, I mean, 190 vacuum tubes is a lot. I think we figured it out. This is pulling like 350 or something like that, which is absurd. At night, it's awesome. It looks like a city. - [Derek] But there were also major flaws with vacuum tubes. The filaments always needed to be heated, so they used a lot of and they were big. It was hard to make a glass vacuum tube with complex electrodes They were also unreliable. On average, a vacuum tube in ENIAC broke down every few days. And then, it needed to The longest that ENIAC was just 116 hours. The first digital computers That is why they were so big, The miracle and what has made is that someone figured out how to perform the same inside a solid piece of But that's a story for another day. If you wanna learn about store and access information, I highly recommend you check out this video's sponsor brilliant.org. They have courses on everything from computer science fundamentals to neural networks to quantum computing. Their latest interactive course is called How Technology Works. It includes a lesson on computer memory where you can get hands-on with the kinds of computational logic gates It also has a lesson that video compression makes so you can watch videos like this one. Ever wondered how your There's a lesson on that too. There's even a lesson on password theft where you can walk in to discover why some passwords You can try all these out for free by going to brilliant.org/veritasium. You know, whether it's of modern day technology computer science or data science, Brilliant is the best way to learn. They have thousands of that not only help master key concepts but connect what you learn And because each lesson is hands-on, you'll build real intuition so you can put what you've learned to use. Now, as we've seen, the is an ongoing process the way we interact with Today, it's more important than ever to keep up with these changes. Who knows what revolutionary But whatever it is, you can rest assured that you'll be able to And you can try everything for a full 30 days. Just go to brilliant.org/veritasium. I will put that link and the first 200 of you to sign up will get 20% off Brilliant's So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.