- For over 50 years, Iran's what they see as the biggest Western cultural influence. Front and center are two which they've branded the little Satan and the us, the great Satan. But why is American for Iran's leaders and why they To understand that you need to to its essence. When the dust settles and the music fades, two Taylor Swift. Simply put, Taylor Swift that threatens the very [*Taylor Swift Music] So could it be that Taylor Swift is the [Music] &quot;Now we got bad blood. Hey!&quot; If you've got bad blood then you've got bad And the leaders of Iran have seriously bad blood with Western culture. It's been that way since a western backed Iranian dictator of Western culture. But rather than get democracy, who was never ever getting Ayatollah Khomeini called Revolution and renamed Republic of Iran. And with that, Khomeini started with a special focus on what and the Little Satan. But what does the US, a melting of people have in common That's right, Taylor Swift, or more specifically everything So we're gonna look at five heart of Taylor Swift's life and work. We'll see how each value is and why there's such a So 1, 2, 3, let's go bit. Number one, individualism From a young age, swift of being an individual. - This is a song I wrote yesterday. It's about a girl who's just different. - Swift's focus on individuality deeply personal lyrics, Going to the eras tour but a canvas for As fans dress up, wear costumes, create individualized friendship bracelets and share them with others. Call it what you want, but her the West. Quite the opposite. Celebrating individuality is a huge part of western culture and media. [Taylor Singing] &quot;You are the only - Western individuality that frustratingly Israeli trait: chutzpah. That bold individuality foundation of Israeli beyond the conformity of But for the Islamic Republic of Iran, individualism is not only not celebrated. It's a symptom of egocentrism that pulls people away from community and God. The Islamic Republic's communal moral standards Individuality is a threat to community and collective values. In an Islamic dictatorship, of the game. And nowhere is that more clear than any So number two, Female Empowerment. [*music] - I wanna love glitter and also stand up for the double standards that exist in our society. - Swift's commitment to female empowerment After a popular radio DJ groped her, she got him fired when he tried by suing her for defamation, to show she was fighting back on principle and not to make a buck. The She took on Spotify and She took on a major talent And didn't win. So she started re-recording with the re-releases hitting the top of the Billboard charts. When Kanye West started up with her, she fought back taking on one She called 'em out in her lyrics. She called 'em out in When a cancel movement went after her, she shook it off to become the biggest name in music. Swift's focus on female culture in a region known for severe limitations on women's rights. Israel has always been an kibbutz movement of the early and while women throughout the in the last few decades, Iran is correct that it's the result of the infiltration of Western culture and ideals. After the Islamic that all women must cover as other restrictions on women. Recently, women in Iran and as we know all too police have cracked down The protests were considered led by women. And that counter-revolution to the regime in recent history, which is to say the regime isn't wrong women's empowerment is a threat/ And when the regime feels Which brings us to number and Political Expression. [*Music] Swift's relationship with fascinating because for so many years she stayed - It's my right to vote, but it's not my right to - And from a business As her agent put it, we of people that come to you next to her. - By censoring herself, to social expectations. - I was so obsessed with I was like, I'm just not gonna do anything that anyone could say anything about. - It's a sentiment well understood in Iran where censorship is ubiquitous. The internet is controlled, and in times of unrest, And saying anything against prison or worse. - Iranian dissident journalist, Rahul Zam was executed on Saturday. - In stark contrast, the last few years have seen of their freedom of speech from protests to political commentary to Israelis experience the freedom as any Westerner, and it's a value Swift has pushed herself to actualize in recent years. - Taylor Swift broke her silence - It's not that I want to I can't not at this point. - The following year, she the only thing I really read There are actual inflections of how I feel politically on this record. [Music] - For those who missed to one of the most important L-G-B-T-Q movement, which Romantic Autonomy &amp; L-G-B-T-Q Rights. - But you would rather be in the must have taken all You Need to Calm Down, Swift made it abundantly clear where she stood on L-G-B-T-Q rights. And while we could argue whether or not the L-G-B-T-Q movement I think we can agree that to Western society from [Music] and that value is alive So much so that Israel recognized before the US. Israel sent to the Eurovision already back of the largest pride parades And while Israeli L-G-B-T-Q activists say, there is still a ways to go, there's no doubt the West's deeply rooted in Israel. But for Iran, the L-G-B-T-Q movement is a western scheme to upend humanity. - They are trying to end the and at the same time, they of human beings. - For Iran, romantic freedom and L-G-B-T-Q rights are a threat, and they respond to it - Gay men are executed in Iran year round, but now two women known to have been lesbian have - And the threat of Swiftism Bringing us to number - One and a half billion dollars. - You're making me feel - Swift's ERAS tour brings together hates and packages it Consumerism. As Khomeini and their coward agents think and making you a dependent and consumerist nation. consumerism is not only a sin, but a Western plot to colonize Iran. Not through military might, but by controlling Iranians minds. And it makes sense. - You understand now why they lost their minds. - It's such a huge pain and conquer a country when Taylor Swift's music, and transform them into feminist, L-G-B-T-Q Individualists hooked As Iran's former president said, consumerism has become a social value. Encouraging consumption for as an endless cycle of devastation. I think one of the how the great Satan is conquering by comparing attendance at to attendance at the Hajj, the most significant In contrast to visiting these people are coming to see their idol. The goddess of Westernism and her power continues to And if Taylor Swift is of Western values, Israel of Taylor Swift in the Middle East, which is why Israel was dubbed by Khomeini as the Little Satan. It's why Iran hates Israel so deeply, not because of the Palestinians because Iran has a strict Islamist anti-Western vision of the world. And that vision is increasingly threatened by growing global pop cultural and the growing influence as it grows closer to the The war between Iran and Israel is just one front of Muslims and non-Muslims a war Iran is fighting as with the cultural forces - I, I would very much like to be excluded from this narrative. Shut up!