In 2022 nearly half of Americans expected one in five now believes political violence but around the world. People increasingly There are many different reasons social media. Social media divides us, it riles us up or sucks us into doom scrolling, making us stressed and depressed. It feels like we New research shows that we might have case. It turns out that the social media our brains work but not in the way you think. The Myth of the Filter Bubble You've probably heard about online filter bubbles: they think you want. You only see information while dissenting opinions or information are your world view, more extreme and toxic opinions radicalising filter bubble and your view of But is that true? Extreme filter bubbles seem to be rather rare Studies that investigated what people actually found little evidence that you are ideologically are constantly confronted with opinions It turns out the place where you are the most in the real world, with real people. Your family, colleagues and neighbors are bubble. The filter bubble exists Ok wait. Online filter bubbles have been all started hating each other more over the shouldn't the internet open our minds and Unfortunately your brain is stupid. Your Brain is Stupid Human brains didn't evolve to understand the true social structures. Our ancestors desperately had to make sure we cooperated. That's why social it was actually life threatening. A tribe that The way communities worked for you may have disliked a neighbour, but because for the same sports club or saw them at the the other village were idiots. Being physically that bridged the gap of different world views so was probably not that different in the first place When our brains evolved, this was enough. Whoever similar to us - this kept us aligned enough As humanity moved on from small tribes to towns our brains and our communities had to adapt to on the town square or in universities other - but in the grand scheme of things we were still pretty similar and Conflict and disagreement are not how we should live can create new norms and taboos are always evolving will not be normal in the future. But we also because our brains don't care about the meta Until about 20 years ago that hit our brains like a freight train: the Don't You Dare Disagree With Me - Social Sorting In a nutshell: Our brains are not able encounter on the social internet. The very ancestors to work together in the first place Whether you want it to or not, your brain into teams. This is not simply tribalism, it goes further. Researchers have On the digital town square you encounter people that clash with your worldview. But unlike your club. You are missing the local social glue your the disagreement between yourself and them And this makes it less likely that position or opinion in the future. your brain is much more likely On the flipside, there are people who even more similar to you than many people like them a lot and kind of hyper align with good people because you are a good person and So your brain is more likely to believe their your brain is much more likely The engagement driven social internet makes it long as possible. And the most engaging emotion the more likely you are to share and engage, most extreme and controversial opinions. It but the worst disagreement possible. And because whatever the worst opinions are, it assigns the What is striking and new about online polarisation us individuals, our lifestyle choices, the sense of fashion and so on are condensed, opposing and mutually exclusive identities. about how we should run society so much that team are actively, willfully making the beyond convincing with rationality, facts or civil team, it may be hard to process that you may On a societal level this is dissolving the democracies. If we think our neighbours This is especially bad in the US, where the of people in terms of teams - negative opinion Ok. Is there something we can learn Something more positive - Opinion Part In the end, It is important to be your brain. It's easier to change so you can self examine why you believe the or believe information based on who the The internet comes with a lot of had to adapt from living in small tribes the information age where we have access to so we need to find models that work with One model that seemed to work well was the pre Bulletin boards, forums, blogs. The For one there were no algorithms fighting to you were done with the internet for the But more importantly: The old internet of different communities, like small villages These villages were separated from each These communities worked because they mirrored Each village had its own culture and set of rules. moderation, another had strict rules and banned you would be banned - or you could just go and So instead of all of us gathering in one square that in the end just leads to us social sorting may be extremely simple: Because what our stupid brains don't realize Humanity, on a wet rock speeding through space We are all in this together - but until our we might be better off being a tiny bit separated. One of the worst things about the media we to cater to one team, making you Ground News, the sponsor of this video, is by giving you tools that help you think consume - a mission we wholeheartedly articles from around the world in one outlets and sides cover them. They provide if they have a political bias, how reliable This makes the news less stressful and makes you check them out go to ground got news slash you'll get 30% off their unlimited access and Ground News, so they can continue Our favorite tool has a personal background: this video, was going through chemotherapy reading all the big German newspapers, every single day. Aside from the obvious biases, each side did not talk about. Both sides ignored The Ground News Blind spot feed highlights this heavily covered by one side of the political them out at ground.news/nutshell