The stag has been The neighbors are used to it. They know autumn is the rutting season. His mating call echoes from the valley The forests of this mountain massif are Home to a wealth of they are living monuments. Upland Forest is one of Europe's In Upland Forest, life is governed by the daylight cycle. In autumn, the shortening days trigger He marks his territory frenziedly. His signals attract the does, prompting them to ovulate and secrete aphrodisiac scents, which the stag sniffs from afar. Does are only receptive for a few synchronize their metabolisms so High on testosterone, the The forest is the scene of one the race for light. To survive, each plant has to climb out of their shadow and grab as much sunlight as it can. The big beech tree runs on solar power. In the autumn, it goes into energy-saving mode. From now until spring, the sun will not provide enough and enable them to grow. So the tree lets its leaves go brown and fall off. Every year, a mature beech sheds The leaf litter is initially broken down Then the fragments are turned into The smallest of them turn the and turning them into fertilizer. Their role in the forest is to recycle. Earthworms eat earth, swallowing their way through the soil. They enable the tree to Nature has got it all worked out. We think of muscles and almost invisible hairs that enable The humble earthworm is one of Without earthworms, there and ultimately no life. Wild boar are highly partial to an They devour as many as they can, and the earthworms are very good for them. They contain proteins that are vital Wild boar have the The forest is a vast living has a specific job and The energy absorbed by the plants is and so, via a long chain, to every organism in the forest, including the strange beings we call fungi. Fungi are neither plants closely associated with plants Most trees depend on invisible This piercing call announces the the black woodpecker. The black woodpecker is totally levering itself with the In the beech and firwood tree, the The mound is home to almost The wood ants have been busy all summer. They have gathered a vast Already sleepy with cold, they are ready for the winter. When autumn comes, it is not A vast spread of seeds is like a sumptuous picnic Chaffinches, robins swoop down from It's a seed rush. Other treetop dwellers Squirrels need a high-energy This one is burying a store Squirrels can be they are all expert at They can tell a good hazelnut If it's a good one, they eat Oops! That must be the exception Meanwhile, the dog fox is Winter is the mating soon be sporting a He hasn't quite got his The buck has scented the fox. His ears pivot like wide-spaced eyes can But foxes are not such fearsome This one is satisfied Hunting will soon start to As it gets colder, prey will be harder to find. Each animal prepares In the high beech wood, a miniature dragon explores the leaf litter. Salamanders are amphibians, like frogs and toads. Their body temperature changes with They would die in the snow. So this one is looking for a It will soon be time to There is not much warmth in the sun now. The days are short, and the winter light is faint. Late October brings On the mountain crests, at an meters, minus twenty below Celsius Few trees can withstand the Broad-leaved trees and conifers have evolved different strategies Conifers have needle-shaped like someone hugging reducing their exposure and insulating themselves against The beech has shed its leaves Its buds and seeds need this Winter is an integral part In these parts, it lasts for over five months. The lynx surveys his territory. As top-level predators, lynxes have nothing they are rarely seen. They haunt the mountains of Western Europe. All powerful, yet elusive. It's impossible to know how Perhaps ten or twenty, or even fewer. People still hunt them, even though they are a protected species. In the few weeks since we last saw him, the fox has grown a He is more bothered Winter has made it difficult to hunt. His prey are hidden under the snow. He has to make do with berries and carrion. The giant anthill looks as if But the unseen colony is still alive. It has merely retreated to the The sun is returning, lengthening the days it's time to wake up. Released from the grip of the cold, the plants are coming back to life. Birds respond to the returning The first spring flowers are showing, Spring snowflakes' drooping petals protect The deer have lost their crowns. They have shed their majestic antlers. But deer do not all lose Time of year when the is the young bucks' Some are already sporting set of antlers can weigh In a few months, all the deer This drilling sound is one of the natural sounds of spring. It's the black woodpecker's mating call. Something else has aggressive, all-too-familiar On the mountain crests, the have been bent by the wind. The yellow of the daffodils The temperature is still cool, and the snow is not melted. But the daffodils have Or rather, underground. Their bulbs act as a food store, enabling them to send up shoots and light up the On the forest floor, the race for light has begun again. Wood sorrel and anemones before the tree's foliage The big beech tree is waking up, from its roots to the Deep inside it, the sap is the leaf buds with its Within days, the forest is If you're a forest, a green complexion is healthy. Squirrels are the nurserymen of the forest. This one is looking for But he often forgets where he put them. The seeds and nuts left behind by squirrels germinate and grow into saplings, far away from the parent tree. No sooner have they sprouted than the saplings have to compete for a place in the sun. Not all of them will succeed. This beech sapling is growing One day, it may even overtake When everyone else is badgers and Tangmao's owl are waking up. They're the night shift. Badgers live in family enormous and involve There are several theories as Badgers are weak-sighted, so their distinctive facial easier for them to see Or perhaps the black stripes Badgers mate all year round, but their cubs are all born in the same time of year. The relative length prompts the embryos in to start developing so that they are born at the right moment. As with the other animals, the badger's private life is governed by the movements of the sun. This newborn fawn gets to its feet almost immediately. It needs to be ready to flee The doe washes her fawn and swallows its droppings to Does can display great courage attacking foxes or even wild Animals' reproductive cycles are aligned with the plentiful to give them as much growing time as Births are occurring all The tree is like a block of flats Halfway up the trunk are black woodpeckers, great spotted woodpeckers and nuthatches. Woodpeckers eat a lot of insects. Birds keep trees healthy These new kids on the block out to play on their own at Playing develops the fox Woodpeckers are architects. They make nest holes in tree squatters move in. The nuthatch keeps unwanted visitors out by remodeling an old nest hole so that the opening is just And bigger birds cannot get in. It does this by plastering The birds are spring cleaning. When you're short of space, you have to clear out Tangmao's owls have made They practically always nest Without the woodpeckers, there would be no owls. The turtle dove's courtship By rooting up the ground with their making it easier for seeds to germinate. The sows live with their young. Fully grown boars only the mating season. That's the theory, anyway. These boars seem to be flouting the rules. They're overexcited for this time of year. Their foaming saliva contains pheromones, the equivalent of B.A. do in hog society. The foxgloves that grow in forest clearings attract pollen-gathering insects. In trying to reach the coveted the insects get pollen all over themselves. Then it's the usual story. They move The pollen-gatherers act as This mountain massif still Peat bogs are climax habitats that Many of the plants from the last ice age Sphagnum mosses are them, with the possible Peat bogs contain very few nutrients, so the sundews that grow there have to supplement their food intake. They lure insects with their bright colors, then they trap them and digest them at their leisure. This ant had a lucky escape. It will live to return to the anthill. It's the height of summer now, and the anthill is at its busiest. Wood ants amass millions of dead keep the forest clean and sow seeds. The mound is an air-conditioned citadel. Its shape is dictated by the In the shade of the conifers, it needs to be tall to catch the But there is more to the kingdom Their realm extends far underground, crisscrossed by a maze of galleries and chambers. It's a minuscule megacity. Solidarity is de rigueur Some of the workers Their sisters feed them, mouth to mouth. During this feeding, the two parties exchange their scent. This helps ensure that all the It's a kind of chemical passport. The queen's apparent power Her majesty's sole purpose is To ensure the continuation of her line, her daughters clean and feed her. She has not seen daylight since she founded the colony, and never will again. If there's the slightest the workers' sole priority is to The cocoons represent the are the already developed nymphs who will When a nymph emerges very pale, but she quickly Although it looks as if the about, some workers are and shoulder none of the species, almost half the The ant megacity contains streets, food stores, a clinic, a nursery, and even a cemetery. All dead ants and ant larvae are deposited in In midsummer, the big beech tree rises up or a rocket about to conquer the firmament. The foliage of its topmost branches represent several hundred Each leaf is a solar cell that uses photosynthesis to turn light into organic matter. Plants have the ability to into living cells. Photosynthesis was to develop on Earth. Now that it's summer, the The sunbeams have layers of leaves before Only two to ten percent of the Only a few fungi, mosses, Very few organisms can It's pretty dark in the Except when one of the patriarchs fall and allows sunbeams to When the giant falls, spotlights A bright future beckons Who knows what heights they may reach? The fox doesn't live on He gets it from the field mouse, which got its energy from plants. Death for some means life for others. The field mouse provides food for the fox. Fungi and insects feed on the dead tree. Beetles carve out a niche for Their larvae use their powerful Bacteria in their intestines help Like the earthworms with the leaf litter, the larvae break up matter and turn it into fertilizer. In the forest, the life cycle is attuned to the seasons. The human presence in this Sometimes human beings behave respectfully, but all too often our impact on the Nature's workings have been shaped by thousands of years of evolution. They still function, but they can easily If we want the great beech to the lynx to prowl its territory, and the stag to shake the we have to safeguard our upland forests.