- In 1982, there was one SAT question that every single student got wrong. Here it is. In the figure above, the radius of circle A is Starting from the position circle A rolls around circle B. At the end of how many will the center of the circle first Is it A, 3/2, B, three, C, six, D, 9/2, or E, nine? SAT Questions are designed to be quick. This exam gave students 30 so about a minute each. So feel free to pause the What is your answer? I'll tell you right now that option B, or three, is not correct. When I first saw this problem, because the circumference of and since the radius of the radius of circle A, the circumference of circle the circumference of circle A. So logically, it should of circle A to roll around circle B. So my answer was three. This is wrong, but so are The reason no one got question 17 correct is that the test writers They also thought the answer was three. So the actual correct as an option on the test. Mistakes like this aren't For decades, it was the one to go to college in the US. It had a reputation for determining people's entire futures. As a newspaper from the time stated, &quot;If you mess up on your SAT Your life as a productive citizen is over. Hang it up, son.&quot; Of 300,000 test takers, just three students wrote about the error to the College Board, the Shivan Kartha, Bruce - I did a lot of math for the competitions. I probably did thousands of and I was amazed how badly it's worded. I just put three down. I - The three of the listed answers were correct, and their letters showed it. As a director at the they didn't say they had come up with possible alternative answers or that maybe we were wrong. They said flat out, &quot;You're - I discussed it with some I think there was a mistake, &quot;No one cares.&quot; I wrote a letter to the It was a little while later they called us and said I was correct. - Here is their argument. The simplest version of this problem is with two identical coins. These have the exact same circumference. So by our initial logic, this coin should rotate exactly once as it rolls around the other. So let's try it. Okay. But wait, we can see it's at the halfway point. So if we finish rolling it'll have rotated not once, but twice. Even though the coins There are no tricks here, you can try it for yourself, and I'll do it again slowly. That's one, two. This is known as the This paradox also applies to question 17. I've made a to scale model of the problem. One useful tip for standardized tests, even though they say their they almost always are. So when we roll circle A around circle B, we can see that it rotates once, twice, three times, and four times in total. So the correct answer to this Once again, the circle than we expected. To understand this, let's wrap this larger And I'll make it the same and then I will stick it down to the table as a straight line. I'm adding some paper here so there's something for this to roll on. And now it rolls one, two, three times. What's happening when we into a circular one is that the length of the circumference and it's going around a circle. The shape of the circular path itself makes circle A do an additional rotation to return to its starting point. So this is the general Find the ratio between the and circle A and then add one rotation to account for the circular path traveled. But there is a way to correctly get three. Let's count the rotations of circle A from the perspective of We can see circle A rotates one, two, three times. And it doesn't matter which to circle A, it also rotates three times to come back to its starting Similarly, from the we can see that the outer as it rolls around the inner coin. Using the perspective of a circle is just like turning the into a straight line. It's only as external observers that we actually see a circular path back giving us the one extra rotation. But there's even another answer. If you look closely at question 17, it asks how many as it rolls around circle B Now, in astronomy, the definition of a revolution is precise. It's a complete orbit around another body. The earth revolves around the sun, which is different from it So by the astronomical circle A only revolves It goes around one time. Now, other definitions of a of an object rotating about its own axis. So one isn't a definitive answer, but the wording of this if you can justify at least After reviewing the the College Board publicly a few weeks later and for all test takers. - They said they were and they were calling us because they were gonna tell the news and they thought that we should be warned that the news might contact us. I did a bunch of phone they came to my school. They said I was right and So that was great. - But there's - It's easy to get an intuitive reason, but it's really hard to formally prove that the answer is four. I could give you some proofs if you want. - Well, that would be wonderful. I think that would be, we'd - I have a whiteboard so I just happen to Hold on. Can you see that? - It turns out that the amount is always the same as the All right, so why is this true? Suppose you had a camera and the camera was always So in your movie, it looks In the real world, the center is going around the circle. Let's say it's going at some speed V. What's the velocity of this point? It's zero, and that's because If it had any component in that direction, that's what slipping would be. I mean, this is something I think they should have spelled out in the problem, but when you change the relative velocities don't change. In the movee, the center So this point would have to So that means the speed is the same as the speed So if they always have the same speed, they have to go the same total distance. The total distance this as the total distance the center moves. In this problem, the center of the small of radius four. So the total distance that What's the total amount that It rotates four times, and It's the same number. If it rolls without slipping, the total distance the as the total amount it turns. - And this is always true. Take a circle rolling without from a polygon to a blob, on the distance traveled by is equal to the amount So, just find this distance and divide it by the circle circumference to get how many rotations it's made. This is an even more general to the coin paradox where we which we'll call N, and added one, and it reveals where If a circle is rolling the circle center goes around the outside, increasing its distance traveled by exactly one circumference of the circle so the distance traveled is just the perimeter of the shape plus the circle's circumference. When we ultimately divide this to get the total number of If a circle is rolling the distance travel by the by one circumference of the circle, making the total number If the circle is rolling the distance travel by the circle center is equal to the length of the line which, divided by the circle This general principle extends far beyond a mathematical fun fact. In fact, it's essential in astronomy for accurate timekeeping. When we count 365 days going by in a year, 365.24, to be precise, we say we're just counting the earth makes in one But it's not that simple. All this counting is of you on earth. To an external observer, they'll see the earth to account for its circular So while we count 365.24 days in a year, they count 366.24 days in a year. This is called a Sidereal year, Sidereal meaning with respect to the stars where an external observer would be. But what happens to that one extra day? A normal solar day is to be directly above you again on earth. But the earth isn't just rotating, it's orbiting the sun at the same time. So in a 24-hour solar day, earth actually has to in order to bring the sun But Earth's orbit is To see a star directly overhead again, Earth just needs to rotate So while it takes the sun exactly 24 hours to be directly above you again, a star at night takes and four seconds to be above you again. That's a Sidereal day. This explains where the extra If we start a solar day and a Sidereal day at the same time, we'd see them slowly After six months, the Sidereal day would be 12 meaning that noon would be midnight, and it would keep moving up until it's finally one full at which point a new 365.24 days that are each 24 hours long are equal to 366.24 days 56 minutes, and four seconds long. So it makes no sense to because six months down the line, day and night would be completely swapped. But equally, it's while tracking objects in space, because the region you're 10:00 PM one night and So instead, astronomers use Sidereal time for their telescopes to at the same region of space each night. And all geostationary satellites, like those used for they use Sidereal time to keep their orbits locked So the coin paradox actually between how we track time on earth and how we track time in the universe. The rescoring of the 1982 With question 17 scrapped, students' scores were scaled without it, moving their final result up or down by 10 points out of 800. Now, while that doesn't seem like much, some universities and scholarships use strict minimum test score cutoffs. And as one admissions expert even if we do not consider them justified, in which 10 points can have an impact on a person's educational opportunities. It might not keep someone but it might affect which This mistake didn't only According to the testing service, &quot;Rescoring would cost them over $100,000, money that came outta the The question 17 circle problem on the SAT. But errors are likely the least of their concerns these days. I mean, the SAT is slowly After COVID-19, nearly 80% in the US no longer require And that 1982 exam, well, it didn't turn out too badly for some. How did you do on your - I got an 800. Even before that, it was clear I did math competitions. - Do you end up writing any - A while back I wrote problems - And were you careful with how - I hope so. I tried - Today's deep dive on there's no substitute for and appreciate the everyday But you don't have to or make cardboard cutouts science, and cutting edge tech. In fact, you can do it with this video sponsor, Brilliant, and you can get started for free. Just go to brilliant.org/veritasium. Brilliant will make you a better thinker and problem solver in data programming, technology, you name it. Just set your goal and to get you there. If you liked today's video, I highly recommend you check on Brilliant, which is Scientific Thinking takes of our physical world. You'll engage with key and theories from simple to Einstein's special Whether you're comparing circuits to understand voltage and current, playing snooker to learn or even planning your itinerary for an intergalactic music you will learn by doing and foster a deep understanding in heavy mathematical formulas. They even have a version And by the end, this course will change the world around you. Beyond science, Brilliant of content in math, data science, programming, and technology, all with that same hands-on approach that makes concepts And the best part is you can It's like having interactive in your pocket. To try everything Brilliant for 30 days, just visit I will put that link And the first 200 of you will get 20% off Brilliant's So I wanna thank brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.