You're sort of like a martian to me. I think of you as like another species. My kids think the same thing. Really? Why do they think it? Because they're teenagers. Well if we're in agreement, What does it feel like when you win? I mean, it feels good, but it means I'm just Do you ever feel satisfied? Yeah I feel satisfied I love to learn, right? And I know I'm still competing. You know, when I first started I was the youngest guy And people were like, &quot;Oh Now I'm the oldest guy walking in the room like, &quot;Well what's this guy Why are you trying to compete They're gonna kick your a**.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Let's go.&quot; You know? That's motivating to me. He's sort of the type of person that I understand least in the world. His whole life it's about competition and beating the competition. And he said that he wakes up And I think that's actually insane and I can't imagine existing that way. We're gonna figure out if or something wrong with him. I think it might be me. America has its fair share Mark Cuban is not quite that, in a lot of ways, the is how aggressively normal he seems. But for weirdness, it's hard to top hearing one of the richest say that paying taxes is something that they look forward to. One of the most patriotic when you're wealthy is pay Whether it's hard balling investors on &quot;Shark Tank.&quot; You can't be that stupid, Robert, to even think there's any legitimacy. Lashing out at basketball or dunking on anti-diversity, equity and inclusion Mark Cuban lives for combat. Bam. You know, when I'm missing a shot or whatever. Like genuinely happy. The latest target of is the American healthcare system, which he's aiming to disrupt Cost Plus Drugs. So I got a cold email who wanted to build a to make generic drugs And it was right around the time that Martin Shkreli was and so I had been reading about that. And it was apparent to me that if he was able to raise this was not an efficient market. So the question was why? And so working with Alex the key element that was is transparency. It was and is dominated by three big pharmacy benefit managers and they set pricing, despite And so we felt like if that was completely transparent and show our costs, et cetera, that it would start to bring back the one thing that was missing which was trust. So we started CostPlusDrugs.com. And if you go to the website, you put in the name of the medication, we'll show you our actual costs- Yeah. And if you want it it's $5 to the pharmacist, And the prices are just So do you feel like it's that you have to be doing this? No, no. It's definitely not Well I take that back. It's not a failure of government from a legislative perspective. Okay. It's a failure of government in that by choosing to allow companies that, the PBMs that they work or Medicare Advantage, then they're reinforcing the fact that there's no transparency because of the contracts have no transparency. Right. And then it's a bigger failure on the part of all the particularly the big companies. If you're a CEO of a big company, medium-sized company, your company, right? Your core competency is not Right. You work with an employee consultant or whatever it may be, and you just think But the reality is, healthcare costs have become right after payroll. So when you ask, &quot;Why Yeah. we should have legislated against them. It's because the government should say, &quot;Okay, if you're gonna be part of Medicare you have to be transparent you have to be transparent you have to be transparent in your prices and we're gonna publish all those things. And if you try to game it by using offshore companies then we're not gonna work with you&quot;. Right. straight net pricing. If the government did that with Medicare and Medicare Advantage it'd be a whole different game. Are the pharmaceutical Are you talking about the All of it. Because now they're vertically integrated and becoming more so, and so we hear a lot of talk but it's scale capture, where they basically- A scale capture is where and they say, &quot;We're so big, if you don't do work with us, you're not gonna be able and prices and everything.&quot; &quot;And we're not gonna share with you what we're doing with everybody else, but we're the biggest, so you No one ever got in trouble Right. And it's just been a disaster. And you know, we hear story after story about people who can't can't afford their medications, and it doesn't have to be that way. And I really truly believe that there is a straight to completely fixing if we can get, in particular big companies to become transparent and to publish what they do. It's not that hard. So what needs to change? If for the Medicare Advantage they don't approve anybody that works with the big three PBMs. Right? The big companies, they stop working with the big three PBMs and publish their contracts. That happens, we're looking at the United States of America as the shining light While Cuban often points to the market failures of he still has a strong faith that markets and entrepreneurs will point the way towards solutions to many of society's problems. So obviously at some point we were going to talk about Ayn Rand. You used to be a bit I still am, but there's I'm not a hardcore Ayn Rand anymore. Yeah. Because just reality sets in. Yeah. Do you really like her writing? Oh, I loved them. Loved them. or &quot;The Fountainhead&quot;? &quot;The Fountainhead&quot; especially. Yeah. More than Atlas, oh my God. Howard Roark was like that- I read it, it was like Time Magazine had like a hundred books you And I was obsessed with every So I tried, I had no idea who Ayn Rand was and I'd never heard of her. And I read &quot;Atlas Shrugged&quot; and I thought it was You know? I had no idea what it was. But see, I always had an entrepreneurial spirit. And so as a kid wanting Howard Roark standing up and speaking to power and not caring. I try to, you know- Part of that is still right? Our conversations, you Right now the who is John Galt and the government's No, that's not me, right? Right. political mantra. Yeah. Right. But I would read &quot;Fountainhead&quot; over and over and over again. And I had to stop reading it 'cause I would get too jazzed up. And it wasn't about Ellsworth Toohey and a who's bad and who's good, right? It was just Howard Roark, just Right. He didn't care what anybody You could agree with him, you could disagree with, he didn't care, right? Now I'm not trying to make Right? But I don't care. Right? You could agree with there's nothing about what any of them say that impacts my life so far, you know, one way or the other. But I'm gonna be motivated To me, that was a huge positive. What's your relationship Right? You did &quot;Shark 15. Do you like being a kind of, you were getting mobbed do you like being a kind of... I know what I'm getting right? And so it's not a bad thing, Yeah. 'Cause it allows me to I can walk into any room and somebody, 90% of the Right? Maybe not by sight, but know of me and I can have a conversation So it opens the door for people who I might not otherwise get to meet, right? Or get to talk to, which is a great thing. But overall, yeah, it's been a positive except for just social media. Right? Just because all the hate that's inevitable on social Couldn't you like hire someone to like filter through that for you or something? Why would I do that? I mean, if I were you, I would not spend like two seconds on social media. Right? I wanna learn- on social media, in your mentions? It's just like, if I'm Yeah. And I'm hearing from different patients. Or there were times when there were like, &quot;Can you get this drug?&quot; And we look and we can get this drug. So then I'm responding back saying, &quot;Okay yeah, we'll get it&quot;. And we help this person. Or there's times like where there'll be somebody who says, &quot;Okay, here's why I disagree,&quot; and I'm like, &quot;Okay. That's a good point.&quot; Right. you know, there's signal And if you get rid of the noise and you're willing to realize that Twitter's not real life. Or Threads for that matter, right? Any opportunity I have to learn something- Right. Right? Anything that I versus where I was before, that's amazing, right? I credit most of my success to being good at reverse engineering. How can- is crawling with starry-eyed optimists trying to reverse engineer wealth by mimicking the mindset of billionaires. You wanna make a million bucks But even though I'm the in every way imaginable, I am still fascinated by what Your brother said something about you once in like the early 2000s, that he doesn't even think he thinks it's just about He's right, yeah. something to the effect of, you wake up every day thinking I'm just competitive. Why? You know? I've played I still go out there and play pickup and if I miss a shot, I get mad. Why? I won't play golf. You know, because I'm so competitive I don't have the time to put into it. I've golfed once in my entire life, other than putt putt Literally once in my life and it was with a customer in 1989 and I was with my club, bam! You know, when I'm missing And I'm like, I can't do it 'cause I You know? He didn't care, he was He was kicking my a** Yeah. I just love to compete, So are you most excited when it's the uphill part of it, or? Well yeah, because I mean, think about the goal. If you're trying to change healthcare in the United States of America, that's a never-ending project, right? There's always gonna be something new, something changes. Right? And we're just starting You know? You inventory some pills and you sell the pills, right? We buy drugs and we sell drugs and, you know, but our real product is trust. And so how can you extend That's a forever project. With something like the Mavs, when you bought the team they No, they were awful. So what was that journey like? It was fun. I'm a basketball junkie. Yeah. Did you wanna be a basketball player when you were a kid? I wanted to be an athlete and I- When did you realize that When I was six. No, I was the kid that always always was the best player. Till I got about 12 and then everybody passed me by, right? I always blame my dad for those genetics. But with the Mavs, I had this big tall German and so all I had to do was not screw it up and then just give them some confidence. And it was fun because I love basketball, I could get out on the play one-on-one with them. Yeah. And even now to this day, I'll go and before a game, get out there and get shots up and it's fun and it's a diversion too. So during those 48 minutes, when the game's being played- Right. you know, outta mind. And I can yell at the refs take out all my aggressions and just be chill the rest of the day. You retired once, right? And it didn't take? that was just to go party. I bought a lifetime pass and I just wanted to get drunk with as many people as I could, right? Fake retired. You know what I mean? It was just like, I just wanna have fun, I just want- You know, my dad, it's just like time's the Yeah. you just have to enjoy your life. And so I just do what I like. I like to learn, I mean To me, everything I consume creates new opportunities Yeah. even though I didn't take tech in college or computers in college, once I got into them, I was Right. Combine that with business and okay maybe I can do things that are impactful. And so, you know, taking it's that same mission of competitiveness, why would anybody go into an industry like a pharmacy business, where it's dominated and everybody says you're So do you spend your time trying to understand them? Is it a lot of research? Like how does it work- 'Cause everything Cost Plus Drugs is doing is outside of the big three PBMs. Right. but knowing that this and isn't in the best what an amazing opportunity, not just as an entrepreneur, but to change healthcare in this country. You know, if I said, Olivia, you know, I heard you had an idea you could be retired, and it's such a unique opportunity. Right. Right. It's just the way I look at it. I mean, you know, some people wanna put The idea that, you know, and look, maybe there's but that's, you know, so you're saying there's a But that 3%, oh my God. You know? It's 2024 in the United States of America and people, you know, that's putting them into bankruptcy. Can't afford their medications and have to make choices and shelter and daycare. That's f***** up. Right? And so retired or not, the ability to have a who wouldn't? Among journalists and there's this sort of disbelief that you could be so obsessed with this and there's not a political That you're not preparing to run yourself. No, I'm not preparing to run. Yeah. that if I fix something that it makes sense, because that's completely different than a traditional political candidate. Yeah, of course. And that's why I get the questions. But when I'm 95 and looking back, I'd rather just say, &quot;Okay, I was there, you know, for Jake's games, I was there for Alyssa's regattas, I was there to help Lex in college.&quot; I don't wanna lose that. That's everything. Yeah. And I don't think I was as good when they were younger. And now I wanna be great at it. So no running for office for you? Not while, you know, you never say never, right? But not while they're teenagers, right? But then I'll age out at that point, that would be the antithesis. aging out is like 90, 95. But yeah. So by the time that it makes sense for me, potentially, I'll be too old. As you might imagine, Cuban is a busy man. So naturally we had to fit Backstage at South by Southwest and during a pause for Where do you want me? What should we talk about? Whatever you want. I'm just wondering when you said that, that if he were being given last rights, you would still vote for him. I just sort of thought, well that does not inspire confidence- In Biden, yeah. in there's a lot of reason in our government, right? Because I'm a big fan of Because the way we select our candidates is through a power structure. And the way we vote for our candidates is through a primary a greater percentage of the primary voters lean towards extremes, And so you have to have candidates in order to not get primary who lean towards those extremes. And that's also the people who That's not the way to pick And the fact that the way just, you know, the idea that, you know, parties vote They all vote the same despite representing districts or states that are all across the country. That's just insane. There's no way you can and every time from New York and, you know, California, it's the same. Or Alabama and Arizona are the same. That's insane, right? But that's how our politics are right now. And so if I could wave the magic wand, I'd get rid of the two parties, right? I mean, I tried to find, I went and talked to a and I hadn't talked about this before. Like is there any way we could file any type of antitrust Because, and you can't do but if anybody out there, if you've tried to buy something from either of the major parties, like a mail list, and they said no because you weren't part Then we can sue them for antitrust and just try to take them down. Because they're, you know, they don't help the situation, they hurt. So are you optimistic about the future of American government? Am I optimistic about Yes, absolutely, positively. I see what's going on Right? I think they're entrepreneurial, I think they're inquisitive, I think they're different and their grandparents. In terms of American government, it just depends what happens Right? The jury's still out. Generally, no. But I think, you know, we need to get to a point where we have technologically or at least strong technological literacy in the top of government. Because, you know, we need in order to make government so that it's not just about, &quot;Okay, you gotta spend but you can get more and spend less. And I think there's opportunities but there's nobody there or that they would push it. The thing about presidency, is you don't know what comes next. It's not like you're Or you're building buildings. You just don't know And there's no way any one person can have all the wisdom or to deal with the And who do I trust more I think that's a greater skill because the hardest part isn't doing what you already know, it's dealing with the You were talking about your and you come from a Do you ever have guilt And your mother worked odd did car upholstery. I mean, I appreciate what And I try to give back to them. Once I made money, it was just like, whatever you wanna do, you just go do. Your mother died, right? In 2022. Yeah. Like any parents, there were good things And as you know, their kid, I'm sure they'd say the But that's just life. You know? I don't, there's no good or why do you feel this hate? You know, what's the I'm trying to find some and I can't find it and There's plenty of darkness You seem to be just kind Yeah. I mean, I was you know, I was enjoying my life. I liked it less than I do now, right? But, you know, I just deal with the same I just don't have to worry about anything related to finances. You know, I still stress about my kids, I still want them to... I mean, that's what freaks because that's being a parent. You know, every parent goes through that. I'm not afraid of losing or I just, I'm afraid of losing That's it all. You guys good? Yeah. Okay. He's like, thank God. There's something about people like that who need to be going constantly that I find really fascinating, where it doesn't seem like there's a lot of built in And he wants to always be learning and, you know, he's so competitive. But he didn't really have an answer about why he's like that. But maybe that's a job not for me to figure out.