This is my cat Ralph defying gravity. an army of clone Bellas. show you 13 incredible cat illusions, Let's start with those gravity illusions. I tried to feed Ralph earlier. But I think the cats might I set up some cameras to try and sure enough, I captured this. And if Ralph was ignoring gravity, She then head-butted the lampshade, So how exactly does this work? an upside down set. it's the small details like the frames and not to mention the working I then tried the effect with Maisie, and of course with a LEGO train. The other one was done in a similar way, meaning there's now cat food all over the floor, Talking of Bella, painting commissioned of her, The composition is stunning almost like she could just climb So how did she do that? with a real hole cut into the background. picture to trick you into believing the illusion. so it got me thinking, This might look like an ordinary bowl of cat food, but it's actually something an image distorted and printed it looks like it's really there. Yes, well probably not. the illusion doesn't work, sniffing an interesting new object. This is an object called a 'mirrascope', well it's not really there. see how the illusion appears and disappears? it appears as though it's floating on top. He was initially intrigued, rolling around and demonstrating just before toddling off. but if I speed up the footage, I ended up helping her out, She still couldn't reach it because of her donut, That was still inconclusive, so let's try one more You know how cats like sitting on 'things'? If it cut out four three-quarter they form a square in negative space, [drumroll] Cats don't do what you want them to do, The other day, coming from inside this vent. but there's definitely something glowing in there. but before I had a chance to look, And it only got weirder. Wait, how did that get in here?! Oh no, What have I told you about your evil plans? it's a set, repurposed now for the third time. and behind it another set, sure this even constitutes an illusion, and filming it, Now this next one is actually so I'll only cover it quickly, If I alternate columns of different from the right it's all black, I can then use this same technique to and it is seriously cool. it's complete nonsense, and from the right, You can also do the same thing without LEGO, folding along the lines. and again you could argue this isn't an illusion, Ok this next one's really This might look like it says Bella and Ralph, oooooohhhh! These next few are gonna take Bella isn't currently visible, the objects in this room. [ticking] she's behind the rug. a forced perspective trick that makes the rug look flat and ordinary. [ticking] Well Ralph wasn't actually it's a dolls house. well and truly destroyed it. [wheezy laughter] I guess she got a lot of practice in The final hide and seek is a bit different. but she's not very good at it. meowing coming from the box. Bella?! No way! I definitely wasn't imagining things, How did you even get in there Bella?! You guess it, The box IS really deep, give the illusion that the box is normal-sized. it's open at the bottom. after a whole decade of research and testing, which definitely isn't two compost Let's try it with a hundred dollar bill. Whoa! It worked! You see I have a lot of people to thank for and what better way than So I want to say an absolutely Asahi, Ilia Krivonosov, Andrew, Ian and Kira Wang, Ian Wynia, Isaac Shielson, Ben &amp; Dean Lambert, Jenn Maya and her cats: Milo and Milly, Alex, Elizabeth H, Everett Kijinski, Chris the Cyclist, Trent the Deacon Trojanowski, Fa'ter Otter Robbie and Harry B, Max Pousty, Rose and Dylan, and King Archibald the 7th, The Stanley-Webb's, AJ, Sammy and Delilah, Henry Nuttall, Max Stragnell, Violet, Isobel, Lily and Nellie Blundell, Stanton, Leila Bermetz, Toby F, Jasper, and Jojo, Kegan and Muffin, Warwick Debbage (The cat loving Lego Caitlin, Tiny Cat, and Stella, Yvonne, Mira Z, Zinnia &amp; Augie, Lilibet and Arto, The Wolpoff Family, That's a lot of generous people, but how did it work? as well as four or five images then digitally cut them out and It's probably cheating, but I can't argue with the Bella army,