Hi, I'm Lydia from the VICE office Despite being very illegal in China to travel outside of the country Our colleagues over at by traveling to the Philippines and study the growing This is Shooting Camp We're in Nasugbu, Philippines. Today, we've followed for a special tourist experience. We've arrived at our destination, it's a local military base We're heading to the shooting range. We came here today To learn how to use a gun. Don't put it like this after firing. Empty the weapon I think that many Chinese people rarely encountered guns We never received training on or how to react when facing a gun. Try to press it. Not you. Before we begin First, as he just said, consider that every weapon The first of four principles assume every weapon is loaded. Second, don't put your finger on the Third, don't point at anything Fourth, identify the target The four rules are standard in Grab the gun, get ready, fire. The three positions. The gun holster and then fire. Wait. Stop. Everybody, look carefully. As we rehearsed, we can't put our finger on the trigger Take note while using it, Please pay attention to this. We need to keep Okay, once again. I'm from Beijing, born and raised. I went abroad and by chance met another Chinese person Then I had an idea. I decided to prepare for one year. I studied another language I took gun training courses in China and then joined a corps in France. Weak hand strength. You've loaded it, right? Take this. Watch this. Hold the gun and push it. When I first started handling guns, My father took me I remember there were several but I couldn't tell the names. I thought it was a lot of fun. I played with the After I went to the corps I got bored with firing guns. Because I needed to wipe the gun And I needed to wipe it carefully. I needed to treat the weapon seriously. I got a strong sense of awe from it. Now I'm retired and I'm working on So I can make a living from it. Just now, we held unloaded guns and learned some fundamental We learned how to and how to recover spent bullets. I feel rather nervous. I have never experienced this before It's going to be hard to remember. After a lot of practice we're going to And it's quite dangerous. I'm particularly worried I going to stay away from them. Attention! Load real bullets. Pull the barrel. Ready? Fire! It's a shooting experience It's about the experience. And more importantly It's more about what you do So for me, it's more like I hope that everyone takes a When you're very excited, of using a gun. Don't move. Don't move. Let go. In the first period of the class, I'll teach them I'll show them if they fire the gun I'll show them some mistakes. If you put your hand like this, you can easily fire at your hand. These intuitive practices and show them how serious this is. Definitely. Look. Adjust the hand Don't take it the other way around. I've always been a military fan, so I'm crazy But after handling guns for a while, the most important thing is safety. Not only do you need to but also the safety When you have the gun in your hand, it's a responsibility not a right. Zheng, you actually trust me. I don't even trust myself. Wait. The balloon's moving. Dangerous situations And I've witnessed some of them. For example, which teaches you how to resist And under such pressure, we still needed to complete This impressed me a lot. Go down, go all the way down. Touch my hand. Quickly! Lift the tire, come on! Turn to the side. Watch out. Don't fall down. Get up. Grab the gun. I've got the clips. Follow me. Look for the clip. Go. Go. Go. Hurry up. Find the clip. Go! Hurry up! Load the clip. Hurry up! The yellow one on the left. Forward! Forward! Shoot your fucking target Blue. Out. Gun! Great! You can focus It's really great. Alright. Give your teammates a high five. Yeah! It's true, when I used to I simply couldn't imagine the kinds of situations soldiers Once an officer made us Later I found out that on the opposite side were clear. My sweat poured down my face. It went into my eyes You hid from it. My human instinct took over It's a matter of life or death. So it was actually very ruthless. What was it like when It may be a small wound but the wound behind it Comrade. The environment varies I once wanted to film but it was a sensitive topic and they said it's not allowed. For them, it might be a symbol of the supreme power. A gun like sunrays as sharp as knives. Actually, it's related to our origin. It's also an accomplishment This is beyond doubt. So what's our expression like when we have a gun? This is rather interesting. So we've been collecting I liked using this type of gun Everybody, come here. Listen to my commands. Okay, confront your enemy. Take off the safety. Are you okay? It just sprung up. Jixiao. Handle this. Go find Jixiao. War is very terrible. And gunshot wounds Those who have heard or who have been shot by a gun For example, some Hollywood films but don't conform American culture has an impact so they influence gun use They have definitely influenced There was a small accident. This wasn't an accident. It was a bloody lesson. There is... a shell fragment here. But in a war, that could have killed somebody. We have to be careful. I'm in favor of strict prohibition Because in a large country like China China is very different China's customs and culture Move on. Stop. You guys are so bad. As for the definition of guns, there should be a strict one. It's not that as long as it can be used for firing. Nowadays, there's a rather controversial simulation gun are measured with We've contacted someone who collects He promised to bring us some of The standard for identifying is a test where they take and shoot it If the bullet the instrument At first, the standard in Hong Kong was 1.75 J. Then the standard kept changing. Nowadays, the standard seems to But the standard can be 4 J This standard depends As far as I'm concerned, I hope that one day gun use is free If that happens, I'll certainly be But currently, there are and this isn't necessarily It makes us feel safe. In fact, learning how to use a gun They teach you the sound a gun And how to take evasive actions immediately after you If people learn when they're confronted by a gun it might help save people's lives.