Hello Internet! Welcome to Film Theory, Awww just look at this guy. He's adorable. a pat and... Wait, what's that little guy? come on now, guys. How can you say do you guys like protein? A nice steak that would Well do I have a surprise for you friends. right. It's our very first four way crossover what is something that truly unites the worlds of in the face like a wet, sloppy slab of beef. Meat! over on Game Theory, you can see us cover the Ursula's filling her pies with some unconventional makes it out alive. Meanwhile, over on Food behind mammoth meat balls. Yep, you heard that one Woolly mammoths, and the first thing that we humans mouths. Sounds pretty darn accurate. Speaking of Theory we're covering whether or not you could eat are what you eat, then why not eat what you wear? darn weird, but not nearly as weird as what we're today we're talking about the strange, Yes, we here at Team Theorist are indeed a recommending that we check this series out over So if you ever have yourself a suggestion for those are two great places to go make those you guys put this one on our radar. This is right now for free on YouTube.com, created But unlike pretty much all other analog horror liminal strangeness like The Backrooms or weird even nostalgic mascot horror like... pretty much is coming from horrifying creature design. creatures that have started appearing in nature. one of the most original analog horror series are made of flesh and eat bones, but they also series we learn most of our information through But there's also archived home videos and And where there's creepy, hidden details, you know I devoured my time with Vita Carnis. And get into this documentary, the more pieces Where is this mystery meat coming from? Why And is there anything that we can do to to the meat grinder? Season your food today we've got ourselves a lot to chew on. on? As I mentioned at the top of the theory, a documentary put together by the National and by extension us, about the animals made out of muscle organs and bones. And not only do they look like raw meat, Obviously not a concern for all us fleshy these creatures basically appeared out of nowhere skyrocketed over the subsequent decades. Seemingly ruling out that they're aliens or In fact, their taxonomy is really well laid out split into several species: some cute, fuel that will get you second guessing the more we hear about each of these types this world starts coming into focus. but more or less benign. The most abundant of sort of vines that resemble intestines growing apparently makes for a good meat substitute. used in several popular in-universe meals. is a tutorial on how to create a Watch out, boys. Looks like we have Babish Culinary Universe. The second type things grow from The Crawl, fall off, and They're basically sad little flesh Next up is my personal favorite Yeah, what can I say? I just love myself some are basically dead body garbage disposals, Animal or otherwise. And in what might be that I've seen from an analog horror series in they consume and then use them as their own. up to five meters or 16 feet, which is already find a hidden newspaper clipping that confirms World War II, a quote, "extremely engorged Meat Was discovered in a tunnel underneath Germany, that it grew to eight times the average length. It was darker and harder than a normal Meat Snake. how much of this is just trolling. Anyway, the cutting through the Meat Snake. And with that it's right turn away from weirdly cute with funny Next up, we got ourselves the Mimic, which are with creepy smiles, bulging eyes, extended These puppies are fast, too. The more and the darker their skin becomes. That but now that's the second time feels like an important detail to keep in the use clothing to disguise themselves furniture in an attempt to capture their prey. is going to be hiding in the family bean bag despite the massive threat that this thing that there's all that much being done about have offered advice to their citizens, but The horror only continues with the next creature of flesh that plant themselves in the earth But unlike typical Crawl, these roots have any large animal that walks on them. The full of venom that disable the nervous system which means that they're going to kill them consumed. And if all of that wasn't bad enough, We later see and hear what a death by harvester And let me tell you, it is not pleasant. I'd insert a little clip here to help illustrate even for me. Just take my word for it, it is go and touch grass. And then we have what might of Influence. Creatures with semi humanoid torsos Spines extend from their backs, releasing clouds From there, the spores go directly into the brain compelling them to sacrifice yes, I too, have seen The Last of Us. Thank Looks like we're going to need his help again. I Wonder if I could figure out a way to If I did go down to the comments and say like, everyone that you were here, that you have in the most recent video on the channel: says that the authorities are refusing to handle nothing they can do? No, I don't think so. releasing clouds of orange powder? Well, later upload that I made a joke about earlier. The we watch as they use a special seasoning a suspiciously orange powder. logo is a black circle with a red triangle flashes across the screen during a similar part See it right there for that single these two things are connected. the flavor enhancer is apparently something inhaling for themselves. For a moment during leans down and we get the briefest glimpse of that lets you know that something's just happens to the soothing guitar background The guitar gets crazy. It's player has been altered in some way. The enhancer doesn't work if it's above 60 degrees enough, that's the exact temperature at which most Us video. Go figure. And as if you needed any more that Nutrire Co is facing charges from people So things are already looking pretty darn bad humanoid mimics in our furniture, meat snakes in reasons to fear going out on hikes. But it's change in tone, veering from analog horror spoops These things appeared in 1972. Standing in a something else that's been redacted. we can figure out that the location is on that we see a map in another video named Message to be moving to this location, this seems So what exactly are these monoliths? Well, size of a 37 story skyscraper. Their legs are ropey tentacles that move about. Creepiest of around. They don't really react to anything. attempted to bomb the monoliths, but they just Even the bombs that managed to hit didn't repaired themselves. However, did you notice electromagnetic pulse to defend themselves. That we see a lot of instances where the Vita of or just outright destroying technology. we briefly see a newspaper clipping reporting Crawl. Other newspaper clippings report dishes and still other videos point out their It would appear as though the Carnis since we're told that these creatures are they're latching onto these unnatural human or ultimately use them against us. Now, at first like the end of the main series releases. in the mix, the cooking tutorial, a commercial outside of a re-uploaded compilation of all the documentary segments that formed the foundation huge final reveal hiding in plain sight. rote re-upload of all the shorter documentary all new monster, a creature that seems to be the is known simply as The Singularity, and it's so far. It's a one meter in diameter dark That's it, it's a big ol' ball. We're told energy signatures are coming out of information about it is kept classified and the according to a newspaper clipping that we see on at National Living Meat Research were arrested quote, sensitive materials and defamation. killing people en masse. Hosts are spewing out selling those spores as a spice to add to what is the government hiding? Well, as the man And I suspect that the singularity is at the and newspaper clippings aren't the only thing disguised in the glitches of these videos, we can storybook telling the story of a long lost prince. either glitches covering up the text video being cut off. But we can largely get the as I tell you, a dark, twisted tale. Once distant kingdom wished to discover new lands. was struck by a giant storm. The prince fell island. He stumbles into a nearby cave using what He slumbered for a long time what seemed like change and evolve into something unrecognizable. began living on the island, struggling in food to go around. Eventually, the critters magic. Some of them wondered if they'd be and heal sickness. But the majority agreed that Despite this, some critters ignored the decision, hastening his recovery. Thanks to them, the prince befriended the critters. They formed to their home inside the forest. They asked since the forest was unable to provide The prince agreed, using his magic colors and figures. The critters were mesmerized Prince a raft so he could return to his home with his power and the aid of the kingdom, he While on the surface, this just seems to be like hidden in an analog horror video to add to the this is literally a metaphor for the entire The Prince. That's the singularity or whatever controlling the rest of these I suspect it's from some super powerful alien others of its kind, just like the prince on a either a supernova or some sort of big our pathetic little human meat brains this alien creature is separated from all the millions of years ago in what eventually becomes Bay that this alien entity forms an island that our own world. Injured by the impact whatever this itself hundreds of millions, maybe even billions Tectonic activity and life on earth reshaped the Prince's cave changed while he was asleep. us lowly humans. We're the critters from that struggling to survive, at least in the eyes eventually find the entity in the 1930s, and leave the creature, others didn't. to save themselves and the species from wrings it dry. And why wouldn't they? It's anything we understand. And the organic material A cult forms in the highest rankings of and militaries. All of them focused on somehow symbol on the flag that was put on the princess that we see on the flavor enhancer. It's the other videos. It's the symbol that represents And how do they plan on bringing it back? they start feeding the entity, they start That's why nothing is being done about the mind control spores are being distributed as to eat the Crawl and pretend that everything and the giant meat snake that they found in others. They've eaten more humans. They've quite as dark as the prince or the singularity, documentary and the Meat Snake archival video And I've got to say, at this point, it given the explosive growth of the Vita Carnis Is the world doomed to fall to this Lovecraftian awakens from its slumber? Thankfully, not yet. The the people behind the Vita Carnis documentary starting a resistance. Known as the Containment C.A.R.C.A.S. for short. It's an acronym. We love own recruitment drive and are attempting to blow actually. That's about as far as the story's for one, cannot wait to see where this one goes this has been one of the most original analog hope that us covering it here gets more eyeballs But while this may be all that we have right for Mystery Meat Weekend my friends. Remember sister locations since we've been talking might I recommend checking out what You ever wonder what a mammoth meatball It is literally like we're living in Jurassic instead of creating an amusement park, let's just humans. That video is on screen right now, so Meat Week. As always my friends, if you're hungry button across all our channels. And remember, it's