BUSHIDO. THE SOUL OF JAPAN BY INAZO NITOBE. OTA WHO TAUGHT ME TO REVERE THE PAST AND TO ADMIRE THE DEEDS OF THE SAMURAI I DEDICATE THIS LITTLE BOOK PREFACE. About ten years ago, while spending distinguished Belgian jurist, the lamented one of our rambles, to the subject of religion. professor, "that you have no religious instruction On my replying in the negative he suddenly I shall not easily forget, he repeated "No The question stunned me at the time. I could I learned in my childhood days, were not given the different elements that formed my notions Bushido that breathed them into my nostrils. due to the frequent queries put by my wife and customs prevail in Japan. to M. de Laveleye and to my wife, I found the moral ideas of present Japan are a sealed on account of long illness, I put down in of the answers given in our household conversation. told in my youthful days, when Feudalism was Mrs. Hugh Fraser on one side and Sir Ernest it is indeed discouraging to write anything The only advantage I have over them is that while these distinguished writers are at best I their gift of language, I would present " But one who speaks in a borrowed tongue intelligible. All through the discourse I have made with parallel examples from European will aid in bringing the subject nearer to Should any of my allusions to religious subjects I trust my attitude towards Christianity itself methods and with the forms which obscure the themselves, that I have little sympathy. I handed down to us in the New Testament, as I believe that God hath made a testament which nation,--Gentile or Jew, Christian or Heathen. impose upon the patience of the public. my thanks to my friend Anna C. Hartshorne characteristically Japanese design made by PREFACE TO THE TENTH AND REVISED EDITION. more than six years ago, this little book reprint has passed through eight editions, in the English language. Simultaneously with edition, through the publishing-house of Messrs. In the meantime, Bushido has been translated German by Fraulein Kaufmann of Hamburg, into by the Society of Science and Life in Lemberg,--although Russian Government. It is now being rendered translation is under contemplation. A Russian in Russian ready for the press. A part of public and a detailed review, almost amounting Full scholarly notes for the help of younger H. Sakurai, to whom I also owe much for his to feel that my humble work has found sympathetic that the subject matter is of some interest is the news that has reached me from official it undeserved honor by reading it and distributing In making emendations and additions for the to concrete examples. never ceased to do, my inability to add a one of the two wheels of the chariot of Japanese is due rather to my ignorance of the Western than to ignorance of our own attitude towards to my own mind. I hope one day to enlarge All the subjects that are touched upon in and discussion; but I do not now see my way This Preface would be incomplete and unjust, for her reading of the proof-sheets, for helpful encouragement. Chivalry is a flower no less indigenous to blossom; nor is it a dried-up specimen of of our history. It is still a living object no tangible shape or form, it not the less aware that we are still under its potent spell. forth and nourished it have long disappeared; and are not, still continue to shed their was a child of feudalism, still illuminates It is a pleasure to me to reflect upon this the well-known touching eulogy over the neglected a sad defect of information concerning the George Miller did not hesitate to affirm that has never existed either among the nations Such ignorance, however, is amply excusable, work appeared the same year that Commodore More than a decade later, about the time that Carl Marx, writing his "Capital," called advantage of studying the social and political in living form only in Japan. and ethical student to the study of chivalry a historical disquisition on the comparison chivalry, it is not the purpose of this paper rather to relate, firstly, the origin and and teaching; thirdly, its influence among and permanence of its influence. only brief and cursory, or else I should have of our national history; the second will be likely to interest students of International of thought and action; and the rest will be which I have roughly rendered Chivalry, is, Bu-shi-do means literally Military-Knight-Ways--the in their daily life as well as in their vocation; the noblesse oblige of the warrior class. I may be allowed henceforth to use the word The use of the original term is also advisable and unique, engendering a cast of mind and the badge of its singularity on its face; expressive of race characteristics that the justice, not to say positive injustice and what the German "Gemuth" signifies, or two words verbally so closely allied as the Bushido, then, is the code of moral principles to observe. It is not a written code; at best mouth to mouth or coming from the pen of some it is a code unuttered and unwritten, possessing deed, and of a law written on the fleshly the creation of one brain, however able, or renowned. It was an organic growth of decades It, perhaps, fills the same position in the does in political history; yet it has had the Habeas Corpus Act. True, early in the promulgated; but their thirteen short articles leagues, etc. , and didactic regulations were point out any definite time and place and as it attains consciousness in the feudal identified with feudalism. and Bushido shares its intricate nature. As may be said to date from the Norman Conquest, with the ascendency of Yoritomo, late in the we find the social elements of feudalism far Conqueror, so, too, the germs of feudalism period I have mentioned. Again, in Japan as the professional class of warriors naturally These were known as samurai, meaning literally, in character the soldurii whom Caesar mentioned who, according to Tacitus, followed Germanic parallel, the milites medii that one reads A Sinico-Japanese word Bu-ke or Bu-shi was class, and must originally have been a rough This class was naturally recruited, in a long and the most adventurous, and all the while and the feeble being sorted out, and only strength," to borrow Emerson's phrase, the samurai. Coming to profess great honor great responsibilities, they soon felt the as they were always on a belligerent footing Just as physicians limit competition among as lawyers sit in courts of honor in cases possess some resort for final judgment on fertile germs of morality lie in this primitive the root of all military and civic virtues? Britisher, Tom Brown, "to leave behind him boy or turned his back on a big one. " And the corner-stone on which moral structures May I not go even so far as to say that the endorses this aspiration? This desire of Tom's is largely built, and it will not take us on a lesser pedestal. If fighting in itself, rightly testify, brutal and wrong, we can failings our virtue springs. " "Sneaks" opprobrium to healthy, simple natures. and knighthood also; but, as life grows larger seeks sanction from higher authority and more satisfaction and development. If military moral support, how far short of chivalry would Christianity, interpreted with concessions with spiritual data. "Religion, war and knight," says Lamartine. of which I may begin with Buddhism. It furnished to the inevitable, that stoic composure in of life and friendliness with death. A foremost pupil master the utmost of his art, told him, to Zen teaching. " "Zen" is the Japanese human effort to reach through meditation zones Its method is contemplation, and its purport, of a principle that underlies all phenomena, thus to put oneself in harmony with this Absolute. dogma of a sect, and whoever attains to the above mundane things and awakes, "to a new failed to give, Shintoism offered in abundance. for ancestral memory, and such filial piety inculcated by the Shinto doctrines, imparting of the samurai. Shinto theology has no place contrary, it believes in the innate goodness it as the adytum from which divine oracles the Shinto shrines are conspicuously devoid that a plain mirror hung in the sanctuary The presence of this article is easy to explain: placid and clear, reflects the very image front of the shrine to worship, you see your and the act of worship is tantamount to the self-knowledge does not imply, either in the physical part of man, not his anatomy or his kind, the introspection of our moral nature. says that when the former worshiped he raised while the latter veiled his head, for his conception of religion, our reflection brought national consciousness of the individual. our inmost souls, while its ancestor-worship, Imperial family the fountain-head of the whole To us the country is more than land and soil is the sacred abode of the gods, the spirits than the Arch Constable of a Rechtsstaat, the bodily representative of Heaven on earth, If what M. Boutmy says is true of English of authority, but the author and symbol of doubly and trebly may this be affirmed of cover the two predominating features of the Loyalty. literature it is often difficult to tell whether of heaven or of Jerusalem; of the Messiah may be noticed in the nomenclature of our it will be so deemed by a logical intellect being a framework of national instinct and a systematic philosophy or a rational theology. to say, the race emotions which this religion --thoroughly imbued Bushido with loyalty acted more as impulses than as doctrines; Church, prescribed to its votaries scarcely time with agenda of a straightforward and the teachings of Confucius were the most prolific five moral relations between master and servant and younger brother, and between friend and race instinct had recognized before his writings The calm, benignant, and worldly-wise character well suited to the samurai, who formed the tone was well adapted to the requirements Mencius exercised an immense authority over theories were exceedingly taking to sympathetic to, and subversive of, the existing social under censure. Still, the words of this master of the samurai. the principal text-books for youths and the old. A mere acquaintance with the classics high esteem. A common proverb ridicules one Confucius, as a man ever studious but ignorant savant a book-smelling sot. Another compares must be boiled and boiled before it is fit a little pedantic, and a man who has read The writer meant thereby that knowledge becomes the mind of the learner and shows in his character. a machine. Intellect itself was considered universe were conceived to be alike spiritual judgment of Huxley, that the cosmic process as such. It was not pursued as an end in itself, Hence, he who stopped short of this end was which could turn out poems and maxims at bidding. with its practical application in life; and exponent in the Chinese philosopher, Wan Yang know and to act are one and the same." I I am on this subject, inasmuch as some of by the teachings of this sage. Western readers parallels to the New Testament. either teaching, the passage, "Seek ye first and all these things shall be added unto you," any page of Wan Yang Ming. A Japanese disciple of all living beings, dwelling in the heart a living thing, and is ever luminous:" and being is pure, and is not affected by the Spontaneously springing up in our mind, it called conscience; it is even the light that very much do these words sound like some passages mystics! I am inclined to think that the Japanese the Shinto religion, was particularly open He carried his doctrine of the infallibility attributing to it the faculty to perceive, wrong, but also the nature of psychical facts He went as far as, if not farther than, Berkeley of things outside of human ken. If his system it had all the efficacy of strong conviction of character and equanimity of temper cannot essential principles which Bushido imbibed few and simple. Few and simple as these were, of life even through the unsafest days of history. warrior ancestors derived ample food for their teachings, gleaned as it were on the highways by the demands of the age, formed from these An acute French savant, M. de la Mazeliere, century:--"Toward the middle of the sixteenth government, in society, in the church. to barbarism, the necessity for each to execute to those Italians of the sixteenth century, the habit of sudden resolutions and desperate to suffer. ' In Japan as in Italy 'the a superb animal, wholly militant and wholly century displays in the highest degree the great diversity which one finds there between While in India and even in China men seem in Japan they differ by originality of character superior races and of civilizations already dear to Nietzsche, we might say that in Asia, in Japan as in Europe, one represents it above characteristics of the men of whom M. de la I shall begin with RECTITUDE OR JUSTICE, the Nothing is more loathsome to him than underhand of Rectitude may be erroneous--it may be power of resolution;--"Rectitude is the conduct in accordance with reason, without to strike when to strike is right. " Another is the bone that gives firmness and stature. top of the spine, nor hands move nor feet nor learning can make of a human frame a samurai. nothing. " Mencius calls Benevolence man's "How lamentable," he exclaims, "is it lose the mind and not know to seek it again! know to seek for them again, but they lose " Have we not here "as in a glass darkly" in another clime and by a greater Teacher, through whom the lost could be found? But Righteousness, according to Mencius, is a to take to regain the lost paradise. Even long continuance of peace brought leisure it dissipations of all kinds and gentle accomplishments, to any name that signified mastery of learning so much is made in our popular education--are Gishi. to pass for military tact and downright falsehood and honest, was a jewel that shone the brightest a twin brother to Valor, another martial virtue. me linger a little while on what I may term deviating slightly from its original, became was perverted in the popular acceptance. I but which came in time to mean a vague sense to fulfil. duty, pure and simple,--hence, we speak of to inferiors, to society at large, and so what else is duty than what Right Reason demands be our categorical imperative? Giri primarily etymology was derived from the fact that in should be the only motive, lacking that, there piety; and they formulated this authority Very rightly did they formulate this authority--Giri--since recourse must be had to man's intellect him of the necessity of acting aright. The The instant Duty becomes onerous, Right Reason thus understood is a severe taskmaster, with perform their part. It is a secondary power to the Christian doctrine of love, which should I deem it a product of the conditions of an accident of birth and unmerited favour instituted the social unit, in which seniority of age in which natural affections had often to succumb Because of this very artificiality, Giri in called up to explain this and sanction that,--as, sacrifice all her other children in order must sell her chastity to get funds to pay Starting as Right Reason, Giri has, in my even degenerated into cowardly fear of censure. that "as it is the fairest, so it is often Carried beyond or below Right Reason, Giri It harbored under its wings every sort of been turned into a nest of cowardice, if Bushido THE SPIRIT OF DARING AND BEARING, to the consideration scarcely deemed worthy to be counted among of Righteousness. In his "Analects" Confucius his wont, what its negative is. "Perceiving not, argues lack of courage. and it runs, "Courage is doing what is right. one's self, to rush into the jaws of death--these the profession of arms such rashness of conduct--what unjustly applauded; but not so in the Precepts of dying for, was called a "dog's death." be slain in it," says a Prince of Mito, equal to the task; but," he continues, "it live, and to die only when it is right to of the name of Plato, who defines courage fear and that he should not fear. " A distinction physical courage has long been recognized of "Great Valor" and the "Valor of a Valor, Fortitude, Bravery, Fearlessness, Courage, easily to juvenile minds, and which can be to speak, the most popular virtues, early exploits were repeated almost before boys booby cry for any ache? The mother scolds for a trifling pain! What will you do when are called upon to commit harakiri?" little boy-prince of Sendai, who in the drama thou those tiny sparrows in the nest, how see! there comes their mother with worms to ones eat! but for a samurai, when his stomach " Anecdotes of fortitude and bravery abound are not by any means the only method of early Parents, with sternness sometimes verging called forth all the pluck that was in them. they said. Samurai's sons were let down to Sisyphus-like tasks. Occasional deprivation a highly efficacious test for inuring them Children of tender age were sent among utter made to rise before the sun, and before breakfast to their teacher with bare feet in the cold a month, as on the festival of a god of learning,--came without sleep, in reading aloud by turns. execution grounds, to graveyards, to houses of the young. not only were small boys sent to witness the alone the place in the darkness of night and trunkless head. Does this ultra-Spartan system pedagogist with horror and doubt--doubt whether in the bud the tender emotions of the heart? of Valor. The spiritual aspect of valor is mind. Tranquillity is courage in repose. It deeds are a dynamical. taken by surprise; nothing ruffles the equanimity cool; in the midst of catastrophes he keeps he laughs at storms. We admire him as truly or death, retains his self-possession; who, peril or hum a strain in the face of death. writing or in the voice, is taken as an infallible a capacious mind , which, for from being pressed more. history, that as Ota Dokan, the great builder with a spear, his assassin, knowing the poetical thrust with this couplet-- "Ah! how in light of life;" whereupon the expiring hero, his side, added the lines-- "Had not in on life. " There is even a sportive element to ordinary people, may be but play to the Hence in old warfare it was not at all rare repartee or to begin a rhetorical contest. it was, as well, an intellectual engagement. the bank of the Koromo River, late in the its leader, Sadato, took to flight. When the aloud--"It is a disgrace for a warrior his horse; upon this the conquering chief shreds is the warp of the cloth". the defeated warrior, undismayed, completed by use. " Yoshiie, whose bow had all the turned away, leaving his prospective victim of his strange behavior, he replied that he kept his presence of mind while hotly pursued and Octavius at the death of Brutus, has been Kenshin, who fought for fourteen years with wept aloud at the loss of "the best of enemies. noble example for all time, in his treatment region quite away from the sea, and who had of the Tokaido for salt. The Hojo prince at war with him, had cut off from Shingen Kenshin, hearing of his enemy's dilemma of his own dominions, wrote Shingen that in a very mean act, and that although he was to furnish him with plenty of salt--adding, sword," affording more than a parallel to fight with gold, but with iron. " Nietzsche "You are to be proud of your enemy; then, also." we should own as enemies in war only such When valor attains this height, it becomes love, magnanimity, affection for others, sympathy supreme virtues, the highest of all the attributes a princely virtue in a twofold sense;--princely princely as particularly befitting a princely We needed no Shakespeare to feel--though, him to express it--that mercy became a monarch sceptered sway. How often both Confucius and a ruler of men to consist in benevolence. virtue, people will flock to him; with people for him wealth; wealth will give him the benefit an outcome. of a sovereign loving benevolence, and the follows close at his heels and says, "Instances supreme power in a single state, without benevolence, into the hands of one who lacked this virtue. should become ruler of the people to whom hearts. " Both defined this indispensable is Man." easily be perverted into militarism, it was from despotism of the worst kind. An utter of the governed would have left nothing for for its natural consequence the growth of despotism,"--as though there were no despots me to uphold despotism of any sort; but it When Frederick the Great wrote that "Kings thought rightly that a new era was reached in time, in the backwoods of North-western same declaration, showing that feudalism was although unmindful of owing reciprocal obligations to his ancestors and to Heaven. He was a father his care. Bushido accepted and corroborated paternal less interested avuncular government . The government lies in this, that in the one the they do so with "that proud submission, of heart which kept alive, even in servitude The old saying is not entirely false which devils, because of his subjects' often insurrections and which made the French monarch the "king and impositions," but which gave the title of Spain "because of his subjects' willing absolute power may strike the Anglo-Saxon Pobyedonostseff has clearly set before us and other European communities; namely that interest, while that was distinguished by What this Russian statesman says of the personal and in the end of ends of the State, among among Slavonic peoples, is doubly true of of monarchical power not felt as heavily by by parental consideration for the feelings "Absolutism," says Bismarck, "primarily devotion to duty, energy and inward humility. on this subject, I will cite from the speech he spoke of "Kingship, by the grace of God, to the Creator alone, from which no man, no " We knew Benevolence was a tender virtue stern Justice were peculiarly masculine, Mercy of a feminine nature. charity, without seasoning it with justice in his oft-quoted aphorism--"Rectitude Benevolence indulged beyond measure sinks so rare as it was beautiful, for it is universally the loving are the daring." a warrior--had a sound which appealed at the mercy of a samurai was generically different it implied mercy where mercy was not a blind to justice, and where mercy did not remain it was backed with power to save or kill. or ineffectual, similarly we may call the the power of acting for the good or detriment Priding themselves as they did in their brute the samurai gave full consent to what Mencius he says, "brings under its sway whatever they only doubt the power of water to quench a whole burning wagon-load of fagots." He is the root of benevolence, therefore a benevolent and in distress." Thus did Mencius long philosophy on Sympathy. of knightly honor of one country coincides much abused oriental ideas of morals find European literature. If the well-known lines, Parcere subjectis, et debellare superbos, readily accuse the Mantuan bard of plagiarizing to the weak, the downtrodden or the vanquished, a samurai. the representation of a priest riding backwards in his day made his name a by-word of terror. was one of the most decisive in our history, had him in the clutch of his gigantic arms. such occasions no blood should be spilt, unless or ability equal to that of the stronger. the man under him; but he refusing to make when the sight of a juvenile face, fair and his hold. Helping the youth to his feet, in young prince, to thy mother's side! The by a drop of thy blood. Haste and flee o'er " The young warrior refused to go and begged him on the spot. the cold blade, which many a time before has heart quails; there flashes athwart his mental day marched to the sound of bugle to try his quivers; again he begs his victim to flee and hearing the approaching steps of his comrades, mayest fall at a more ignoble hand than mine. an instant the sword flashes in the air, and When the war is ended, we find our soldier now for honor or fame; he renounces his warlike devotes the rest of his days to holy pilgrimage, lies the Paradise whence salvation comes and Critics may point out flaws in this story, be: all the same it shows that Tenderness, most sanguinary exploits of the samurai. It not the fowler to slay the bird which takes This in a large measure explains why the Red so readily found a firm footing among us. Convention, Bakin, our greatest novelist, of a fallen foe. In the principality of Satsuma, the custom prevailed for young men to practice of drums,--"those clamorous harbingers the actions of a tiger, but sad and tender drawing our thoughts away from scent of blood Polybius tells us of the Constitution of Arcadia, practice music, in order that this gentle region. It is to its influence that he attributes Arcadian mountains. Nor was Satsuma the only among the warrior class. A Prince of Shirakawa is the following: "Though they come stealing night, drive not away, but rather cherish of distant bells, the insect humming of a And again, "Though they may wound your feelings, breeze that scatters your flowers, the cloud to pick quarrels with you. " It was ostensibly gentler emotions that the writing of verses strong undercurrent of pathos and tenderness. illustrates a case in point. "The Warbler's Notes" was given him fiery spirit rebelled and he flung at the which ran "The brave warrior keeps apart song. " His master, undaunted by the crude until one day the music of his soul was awakened and he wrote "Stands the warrior, mailed sweet the trees among." Korner's short life, when, as he lay wounded "Farewell to Life. " Incidents of a similar Our pithy, epigrammatic poems were particularly sentiment. Everybody of any education was a marching soldier might be seen to halt, compose an ode,--and such papers were found when these were removed from their lifeless What Christianity has done in Europe toward horrors, love of music and letters has done breeds considerate regard for the sufferings by respect for others' feelings, are at urbanity of manners which has been noticed trait. Politeness is a poor virtue, if it taste, whereas it should be the outward manifestation others. of things, therefore due respect to social distinctions, but were originally distinctions almost approaches love. We may reverently kind; envieth not, vaunteth not itself, is seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, wonder that Professor Dean, in speaking of an exalted position, inasmuch as it is the While thus extolling Politeness, far be it If we analyze it, we shall find it correlated what virtue stands alone? While--or rather profession of arms, and as such esteemed in into existence its counterfeits. Confucius appurtenances are as little a part of propriety When propriety was elevated to the sine qua be expected that an elaborate system of etiquette social behavior. How one must bow in accosting and learned with utmost care. Table manners were raised to a ceremony. A man of education these. Very fitly does Mr. Veblen, in his and an exponent of the leisure-class life. Europeans upon our elaborate discipline of It has been criticized as absorbing too much strict obedience to it. I admit that there etiquette, but whether it partakes as much fashions of the West, is a question not very solely as freaks of vanity; on the contrary, the human mind for the beautiful. Much less trivial; for it denotes the result of long of achieving a certain result. If there is anything to do, there is certainly the most economical and the most graceful. manner of motion. The tea ceremony presents a spoon, a napkin, etc. To a novice it looks prescribed is, after all, the most saving economical use of force,--hence, according The spiritual significance of social decorum,--or, of the "Philosophy of Clothes," the spiritual are mere outward garments,--is out of all us in believing. I might follow the example institutions their origins and the moral motives I shall endeavor to do in this book. It is of propriety, that I wish to emphasize. I have said that etiquette was elaborated different schools advocating different systems, the ultimate essential, and this was put by of etiquette, the Ogasawara, in the following cultivate your mind that even when you are dare make onset on your person." exercise in correct manners, one brings all order and into such harmony with itself and of spirit over the flesh. What a new and deep thus to contain! If the premise is true that it follows as a logical sequence that a constant with it a reserve and storage of force. Fine When the barbarian Gauls, during the sack dared pull the beards of the venerable Fathers, inasmuch as they lacked dignity and strength really possible through etiquette? Why not? how the simplest thing can be made into an take Cha-no-yu, the tea ceremony. Tea-sipping children drawing pictures on the sand, or of a Raphael or a Michael Angelo. How much more is the drinking of a beverage, of a Hindoo anchorite, entitled to develop That calmness of mind, that serenity of temper, which are the first essentials of Cha-no-yu right thinking and right feeling. The scrupulous sight and sound of the madding crowd, is in from the world. The bare interior does not engross one's bric-a-brac of a Western parlor; the presence of design than to beauty of color. The utmost whereas anything like display is banished it was invented by a contemplative recluse, were incessant, is well calculated to show Before entering the quiet precincts of the of the ceremony laid aside, together with or the cares of government, there to find a ceremony--it is a fine art; it is poetry, a modus operandi of soul discipline. Its greatest the other phases preponderated in the mind its essence was not of a spiritual nature. it does no more than impart grace to manners; For propriety, springing as it does from motives tender feelings toward the sensibilities of Its requirement is that we should weep with rejoice. Such didactic requirement, when reduced itself in little acts scarcely noticeable, of twenty years' residence once said to You are out in the hot glaring sun with no by; you accost him, and instantly his hat but the "awfully funny" performance is, is down and he stands in the glaring sun also. the motive were less than this: "You are willingly take you under my parasol if it acquainted; as I cannot shade you, I will this kind, equally or more amusing, are not They are the "bodying forth" of thoughtful "awfully funny" custom is dictated by writers on Japan have dismissed it by simply of the nation. Every foreigner who has observed making proper reply upon the occasion. In praises to the recipient; in Japan we depreciate is, "This is a nice gift: if it were not it will be an insult to give you anything In contrast to this, our logic runs: "You for you. You will not accept anything I can will; so accept this, not for its intrinsic to your worth to call the best gift good enough and we see that the ultimate idea is one and American speaks of the material which makes which prompts the gift. It is perverse reasoning to conclude, because the smallest ramifications of our deportment, it as the type, and pass judgment upon the to eat or to observe rules of propriety about take a case where the eating is all-important, of little importance, and compare them together, importance? " "Metal is heavier than feathers," clasp of metal and a wagon-load of feathers? Take a piece of wood a foot thick and raise call it taller than the temple. To the question, truth or to be polite? " the Japanese are to what the American will say,--but I forbear OR TRUTHFULNESS, without which Politeness beyond right bounds," says Masamune, "becomes An ancient poet has outdone Polonius in the if in thy heart thou strayest not from truth, thee whole. " The apotheosis of Sincerity of the Mean, attributes to it transcendental "Sincerity is the end and the beginning be nothing. " He then dwells with eloquence its power to produce changes without movement purpose without effort. From the Chinese ideogram for Sincerity, which one is tempted to draw a parallel between such height does the sage soar in his unwonted deemed equally cowardly. The bushi held that standard of veracity than that of the tradesman of a samurai or in exact German equivalent the truthfulness of an assertion. His word carried such weight with it that without a written pledge, which would have thrilling anecdotes were told of those who The regard for veracity was so high that, violate the plain commands of the Teacher an oath as derogatory to their honor. I am deities or upon their swords; but never has irreverent interjection. To emphasize our words a practice of literally to. For the explanation of such a practice, Faust. A recent American writer is responsible Japanese which is better, to tell a falsehood "to tell a falsehood! " Dr. Peery is partly Japanese, even a samurai, may answer in the too much weight to the term he translates denote anything which is not a truth or fact Lowell tells us that Wordsworth could not ordinary Japanese is in this respect as good American of any refinement, to tell you whether stomach, and he will not hesitate long to much," or, "I am quite well, thank you. of politeness was regarded as an "empty and was never justified. I own I am speaking now of the Bushido idea a few words to our commercial integrity, of books and journals. A loose business morality reputation; but before abusing it or hastily study it and we shall be rewarded with consolation of life, none was farther removed from the was placed lowest in the category of vocations,--the the merchant. The samurai derived his income from land and amateur farming; but the counter and abacus social arrangement. Montesquieu has made it mercantile pursuits was an admirable social in the hands of the powerful. The separation of the latter more nearly equable. Professor Dill, the author of "Roman Society has brought afresh to our mind that one cause the permission given to the nobility to engage and power by a minority of the senatorial did not reach that degree of development which The obloquy attached to the calling naturally for social repute. "Call one a thief and he will steal:" adjust their morals to it, for it is natural Black says, "rises to the demands made on expected from it. " It is unnecessary to can be transacted without a code of morals. among themselves, without which they could mercantile institutions as the guild, the of exchange, etc.; but in their relations lived too true to the reputation of their This being the case, when the country was and unscrupulous rushed to the ports, while some time the repeated requests of the authorities to stay the current of commercial dishonor? Those who are well acquainted with our history our treaty ports were opened to foreign trade, the samurai's fiefs were taken and bonds given liberty to invest them in mercantile they not bring their much boasted veracity the old abuses?" those who had hearts to feel could not sympathize honest samurai who signally and irrevocably trade and industry, through sheer lack of rival. When we know that eighty per cent. a country as America, is it any wonder that into trade could succeed in his new vocation? It will be long before it will be recognized to apply Bushido ethics to business methods; mind that the ways of wealth were not the they different? Of the three incentives to the political, and the philosophical, the to the second, it could develop little in It is in its philosophical, and as Lecky says, elevated rank in our catalogue of virtues. With all my sincere regard for the high commercial ask for the ultimate ground, I am told that pays to be honest. Is not this virtue, then, it brings in more cash than falsehood, I am If Bushido rejects a doctrine of quid pro accept it. Lecky has very truly remarked that and manufacture; as Nietzsche puts it, "Honesty it is the foster-child of industry, of modern Without this mother, Veracity was like a blue-blood could adopt and nourish. Such minds were general democratic and utilitarian foster-mother, advancing, Veracity will prove an easy, nay, as late as November 1880, Bismarck sent a German Empire, warning them of "a lamentable shipments inter alia, apparent both as to comparatively little of German carelessness In twenty years her merchants learned that are finding that out. For the rest I recommend judgment on this point. It is interesting and honor were the surest guaranties which form of promissory notes. It was quite a usual default of the repayment of the sum lent to in public;" or, "In case I fail to pay like. Often have I wondered whether the Veracity In the absence of any positive commandment condemned as sin, but simply denounced as As a matter of fact, the idea of honesty is German etymology so identified with HONOR, moments for the consideration of this feature The sense of honor, implying a vivid consciousness to characterize the samurai, born and bred profession. Though the word ordinarily given not used freely, yet the idea was conveyed us respectively of the biblical use of "name," from the Greek mask, and of "fame." part of one's self, what remains being bestial--assumed its integrity was felt as shame, and the sense in juvenile education. "You will be laughed you not ashamed? " were the last appeal delinquent. Such a recourse to his honor touched as though it had been nursed on honor while is honor a prenatal influence, being closely "In losing the solidarity of families," force which Montesquieu named Honor. " Indeed, indication of the moral consciousness of our befell humanity in consequence of tasting to my mind, not the sorrow of childbirth, of the sense of shame. Few incidents in history plying with heaving breast and tremulous fingers, her dejected husband plucked for her. This first fruit of disobedience clings to All the sartorial ingenuity of mankind has will efficaciously hide our sense of shame. his character by a slight humiliation in his is like a scar on a tree, which time, instead had taught centuries before, in almost the expressed,--namely, that "Shame is the morals." our literature lacks such eloquence as Shakespeare hung like Damocles' sword over the head character. In the name of Honor, deeds were in the code of Bushido. At the slightest, braggart took offense, resorted to the use was raised and many an innocent life lost. The story of a well-meaning citizen who called on his back, and who was forthwith cut in that inasmuch as fleas are parasites which to identify a noble warrior with a beast--I to believe. Yet, the circulation of such stories to overawe common people; that abuses were of honor; and that a very strong sense of It is plainly unfair to take an abnormal case than to judge of the true teaching of Christ extravagance--inquisitions and hypocrisy. touchingly noble, as compared with the delirium sensitiveness of the samurai about their honor virtue? The morbid excess into which the delicate counterbalanced by preaching magnanimity and was ridiculed as "short-tempered." think you cannot bear is really to bear. " The among which are the following:--"The life a heavy load upon the shoulders. Haste not. of thine own short-comings. * * * Forbearance in his life what he preached. into the mouths of three well-known personages "I will kill her, if the nightingale sings her to sing for me;" and to Iyeyasu, "I and long suffering were also highly commended effect: "Though you denude yourself and defile my soul by your outrage. " Elsewhere unworthy a superior man, but indignation for To what height of unmartial and unresisting votaries, may be seen in their utterances. "When others speak all manner of evil things rather reflect that thou wast not more faithful of Kumazawa:--"When others blame thee, return not anger. Joy cometh only as Passion Still another instance I may cite from Saigo, to sit;"--"The Way is the way of Heaven therefore make it the object of thy life to with equal love; therefore with the love wherewith Man thy partner but Heaven, and making Heaven but see to it that thou comest not short of remind us of Christian expostulations and religion can approach the revealed. Not only did these sayings remain as utterances, must be admitted that very few attained this forgiveness. It was a great pity that nothing constitutes Honor, only a few enlightened rises," but that it lies in each acting for youths to forget in the heat of action calmer moments. Said this sage, "It is in doth he dream that what is truly honorable The honor which men confer is not good honor. make mean again. " For the most part, an death, as we shall see later, while Honor--too approbation--was prized as the summum bonum or knowledge, was the goal toward which youths as he crossed the threshold of his paternal had made a name in the world: and many an unless they could "return home," as the To shun shame or win a name, samurai boys severest ordeals of bodily or mental suffering. age. In the memorable siege of Osaka, a young to be put in the vanguard, was placed at the was so chagrined and wept so bitterly that all the resources at his command. "Take the long future before you. In the many years occasions to distinguish yourself." man and said--"How foolishly you talk! " Life itself was thought cheap if honor whenever a cause presented itself which was and celerity was life laid down. Of the causes to sacrifice, was THE DUTY OF LOYALTY, which symmetrical arch. Other virtues feudal morality shares in common of people, but this virtue--homage and fealty I am aware that personal fidelity is a moral of men,--a gang of pickpockets owe allegiance chivalrous honor that Loyalty assumes paramount that the fidelity of feudal vassals, being a Commonwealth, is a bond established on totally made it his boast that personal loyalty was Bismarck had good reason to do so, not because his Fatherland or of any single nation or lingers latest among the people where feudalism is as good as anybody else," and, as the ideas of loyalty as we feel for our sovereign bounds," but preposterous as encouraged Montesquieu complained long ago that right other, and the recent Dreyfus trial proved were not the sole boundary beyond which French as we conceive it may find few admirers elsewhere, it is, I am afraid, forgotten, and also because other country. Griffis was quite right in made obedience to parents the primary human At the risk of shocking some of my good readers, follow a fall'n lord" and who thus, as the story. " The story is of one of the who, falling a victim to jealousy and calumny, this, his unrelenting enemies are now bent search for his son--not yet grown--reveals school kept by one Genzo, a former vassal When orders are dispatched to the schoolmaster on a certain day, his first idea is to find his school-list, scrutinizes with careful class-room, but none among the children born his protege. His despair, however, is but announced--a comely boy of the same age as noble mien. No less conscious of the resemblance the mother and the boy himself. In the privacy of home both had laid themselves her heart, yet without sign to the outer world. it is the teacher from whom comes the suggestion. of the narrative may be briefly told. --On to identify and receive the head of the youth. poor Genzo's hand is on the hilt of the man or at himself, should the examination The officer takes up the gruesome object before a deliberate, business-like tone, pronounces awaits the mother we saw in the school. Does for his return that she watches with eagerness has been for a long time a recipient of Michizane's have forced her husband to follow the service He himself could not be untrue to his own cause of the grandsire's lord. As one acquainted with the exile's family, task of identifying the boy's head. Now is done, he returns home and as he crosses "Rejoice, my wife, our darling son has proved story! " I hear my readers exclaim,--"Parents child to save the life of another man's. victim: it is a story of vicarious death--as the story of Abraham's intended sacrifice In both cases it was obedience to the call a higher voice, whether given by a visible or an inward ear;--but I abstain from preaching. separate interests for father and son, husband the duties owed by one to the other; but Bushido the members thereof is intact,--one and inseparable. instinctive, irresistible; hence, if we die that? "For if ye love them that love you, what the same? " In his great history, Sanyo of Shigemori concerning his father's rebellious be undone; if I obey my father, my duty to We see him afterward praying with all his that he may be released from this world where dwell. Many a Shigemori has his heart torn Indeed neither Shakespeare nor the Old Testament our conception of filial piety, and yet in choice of Loyalty. Women, too, encouraged Ever as resolute as Widow Windham and her ready to give up her boys for the cause of some modern sociologists, conceived the state being born into the former as part and parcel the incumbent of its legitimate authority. Readers of Crito will remember the argument the city as pleading with him on the subject say:--"Since you were begotten and nurtured you are not our offspring and servant, you words which do not impress us as any thing been on the lips of Bushido, with this modification, with us by a personal being. Loyalty is an I am not entirely ignorant of Mr. Spencer's view according to which political a transitional function. It may be so. Sufficient complacently repeat it, especially as we believe which, so our national anthem says, "tiny moss." among so democratic a people as the English, man and his posterity which their Germanic Monsieur Boutmy recently said, "only passed the race and blood of their princes, as evidenced " Political subordination, Mr. Spencer predicts, of conscience. Suppose his induction is realized--will disappear forever? We transfer our allegiance from one master from being subjects of a ruler that wields the monarch who sits enthroned in the penetralia controversy, started by the misguided disciples of Japan. In their zeal to uphold the claim Christians with treasonable propensities in Master. They arrayed forth sophistical arguments tortuosities minus the niceties of the Schoolmen. Little did they know that we can, in a sense, one or despising the other," "rendering and unto God the things that are God's. refused to concede one iota of loyalty to the command of his earthly master, the State? he served, dying. Alack the day when a state the dictates of their conscience! Bushido the slave of any lord or king. Thomas Mowbray was a veritable spokesman for sovereign, at thy foot. My life thou shalt owes; but my fair name, Despite of death, use, thou shalt not have. " A man who sacrificed or freak or fancy of a sovereign was accorded Such a one was despised as nei-shin, a cringeling, as cho-shin, a favorite who steals his master's these two species of subjects corresponding one, a duteous and knee-crooking knave, doting his time much like his master's ass; the keeping yet his heart attending on himself. loyal path for him to pursue was to use every as Kent did to King Lear. Failing in this, let the master deal with was quite a usual course for the samurai to conscience of his lord by demonstrating the his own blood. Life being regarded as the ideal being set upon honor, the whole EDUCATION accordingly. The first point to observe in leaving in the shade the subtler faculties We have seen the important part aesthetic as they were to a man of culture, they were training. Intellectual superiority was, of was employed to denote intellectuality, meant only in a very subordinate place. The tripod said to be Chi, Jin, Yu, respectively Wisdom, a man of action. Science was without the pale so far as it concerned his profession of arms. Religion and theology were relegated to the so far as they helped to nourish courage. "It is not the creed that saves the man; " Philosophy and literature formed the chief in the pursuit of these, it was not objective pursued mainly as a pastime, and philosophy if not for the exposition of some military From what has been said, it will not be surprising to the pedagogics of Bushido, consisted mainly or yawara, horsemanship, the use of the spear, history. Of these, jiujutsu and caligraphy stress was laid on good writing, probably of the nature of pictures, possess artistic as indicative of one's personal character. Jiujutsu may be briefly defined as an application offense or defense. It differs from wrestling, It differs from other forms of attack in that or striking such part of the enemy's body Its object is not to kill, but to incapacitate of study which one would expect to find in by its absence in the Bushido course of instruction, This, however, can be readily explained in carried on with scientific precision. Not was unfavorable to fostering numerical notions. It says with Ventidius that "ambition, the loss, than gain which darkens him. " Don and skin-and-bone horse than in gold and lands, exaggerated confrere of La Mancha. He disdains it. It is to him veritably filthy lucre. The hackneyed expression to describe the decadence and the soldiers feared death. " Niggardliness as their lavish use is panegyrized. "Less "men must grudge money: it is by riches were brought up with utter disregard of economy. and ignorance of the value of different coins numbers was indispensable in the mustering of benefices and fiefs; but the counting of In many feudatories, public finance was administered Every thinking bushi knew well enough that not think of raising the appreciation of money by Bushido, but not for economical reasons Luxury was thought the greatest menace to of the warrior class, sumptuary laws being We read that in ancient Rome the farmers of raised to the rank of knights, the State thereby and of the importance of money itself. How and avarice of the Romans may be imagined. persisted in systematically regarding finance and intellectual vocations. Money and the Bushido itself could long remain free from the root. This is sufficient reason for the fact that but, alas, how fast plutocracy is making its discipline which would now-a-days be chiefly by literary exegesis and deontological discussions. of the young, the chief aim of their education People whose minds were simply stored with Of the three services of studies that Bacon had decided preference for the last, where of business. " Whether it was for the disposition self-control, it was with a practical end without thought," said Confucius, "is " When character and not intelligence, when teacher for the material to work upon and character. "It is the parent who has borne me: it is idea, therefore, the esteem in which one's evoke such confidence and respect from the personality without lacking erudition. He to the erring. "Thy father and thy mother"--so thy teacher and thy lord are like the sun for every sort of service was not in vogue in a service which can be rendered only without Spiritual service, be it of priest or teacher, because it was valueless but because it was of Bushido taught a truer lesson than modern can be paid only for services whose results the best service done in education,--namely, or measurable. Being immeasurable, money, use. Usage sanctioned that pupils brought to their of the year; but these were not payments but recipients as they were usually men of stern dignified to work with their hands and too of high spirits undaunted by adversity. They as an end of all learning, and were thus a SELF-CONTROL, which was universally required The discipline of fortitude on the one hand, the teaching of politeness on the other, requiring another by manifestations of our own sorrow of mind, and eventually to confirm it into apparent stoicism, because I do not believe of a whole nation, and also because some of to a foreign observer hard-hearted. Yet we as any race under the sky. I am inclined to think that in one sense we more--since the very attempt to restrain boys--and girls too--brought up not to resort of a groan for the relief of their feelings,--and effort steels their nerves or makes them more samurai to betray his emotions on his face. a phrase used in describing a strong character. control. A father could embrace his son only at the kiss his wife,--no, not in the presence of There may be some truth in the remark of a kiss their wives in public and beat them in public and kiss them in private. " Calmness be disturbed by passion of any kind. I remember left a certain town, a large concourse of to the general and his army. On this occasion an American resident resorted as the nation itself was highly excited and of the soldiers in the crowd. The American blew and the train began to move, the hats off and their heads bowed in reverential farewell; but deep silence in which only an attentive In domestic life, too, I know of a father of a sick child, standing behind the door of parental weakness! I know of a mother who, for her son, that he might not be disturbed are replete with examples of heroic matrons the most touching pages of Plutarch. Among to find many a Marget Howe. It is the same for the absence of more frequent revivals When a man or woman feels his or her soul suppress any indication of it. In rare instances spirit, when we have eloquence of sincerity breach of the third commandment to encourage It is truly jarring to Japanese ears to hear experiences, thrown out in promiscuous audiences. with tender thoughts? It is time for seeds let it work alone in quietness and secrecy,"--writes To give in so many articulate words one's religious--is taken among us as an unmistakable very sincere. "Only a pomegranate is he"--so his mouth, displays the contents of his heart. minds that the instant our emotions are moved them. Speech is very often with us, as the thought. " Call upon a Japanese friend in receive you laughing, with red eyes or moist At first you may think him hysterical. Press broken commonplaces--"Human life has sorrow;" is born must die;" "It is foolish to count heart will indulge in follies;" and the zu leiden ohne Klagen"--had found many were uttered. Indeed, the Japanese have recourse nature are put to severest test. I think we possess a better reason than Democritus with us oftenest veils an effort to regain circumstance. It is a counterpoise of sorrow thus steadily insisted upon, they find their of the tenth century writes, "In Japan and tells its bitter grief in verse." by fancying her departed child absent on his far to-day in chase, I wonder, Has gone my quoting other examples, for I know I could our literature, were I to render into a foreign by drop from bleeding hearts and threaded I hope I have in a measure shown that inner an appearance of callousness or of an hysterical sanity is sometimes called in question. It of pain and indifference to death are due as far as it goes. The next question is,--Why be our climate is not so stimulating as the government does not excite us as much as the we do not read Sartor Resartus as zealously Personally, I believe it was our very excitability to recognize and enforce constant self-repression; taking into account long years of discipline in self-control can easily go too far. It soul. It can force pliant natures into distortions hypocrisy or hebetate affections. Be a virtue counterfeit. We must recognize in each virtue its own positive and the ideal of self-restraint is to keep to borrow a Greek term, attain the state of good. The acme of self-control is reached institutions which we shall now bring to view; of which many foreign writers have treated To begin with suicide, let me state that I kappuku, popularly known as hara-kiri--which the abdomen? How absurd! "--so cry those may sound at first to foreign ears, it can who puts these words in Brutus' mouth--"Thy our proper entrails. " Listen to a modern of a sword piercing the bowels of a queen:--none Or, to take still another example, look at the Palazzo Rossa in Genoa. Whoever has read will not jeer at the sword half-buried in is associated with instances of noblest deeds repugnant, much less ludicrous, mars our conception of virtue, of greatness, of tenderness, that and becomes a symbol of new life, or else--the the world! seppuku lose in our mind any taint of absurdity; the body to operate upon, was based on an soul and of the affections. When Moses wrote brother," or David prayed the Lord not to and other inspired men of old spoke of the they all and each endorsed the belief prevalent enshrined the soul. The Semites habitually fat as the seat of emotion and of life. the Greek phren or thumos and the Japanese man to dwell somewhere in that region. Such of antiquity. The French, in spite of the philosophers, Descartes, that the soul is in using the term ventre in a sense, which, physiologically significant. Similarly entrailles compassion. Nor is such belief mere superstition, being the heart the centre of the feelings. Without Romeo "in what vile part of this anatomy speak of the abdominal and pelvic brains, in those parts which are strongly affected physiology once admitted, the syllogism of the seat of my soul and show you how it fares or clean." religious or even moral justification of suicide, ample excuse with many for taking one's expressed by Garth, "When honor's lost, retreat from infamy," and have smilingly when honor was involved, was accepted in Bushido so that to an ambitious samurai a natural and a consummation not devoutly to be wished I dare say that many good Christians, if only of, if not positive admiration for, the sublime and a host of other ancient worthies, terminated to hint that the death of the first of the When we are told so minutely by his pupils mandate of the state--which he knew was morally escape, and how he took up the cup of hemlock its deadly contents, do we not discern in of self-immolation? No physical compulsion the verdict of the judges was compulsory: thy own hand. " If suicide meant no more a clear case of suicide. But nobody would charge him with the crime; his master a suicide. Now my readers will process. It was an institution, legal and it was a process by which warriors could expiate from disgrace, redeem their friends, or prove punishment, it was practiced with due ceremony. none could perform it without the utmost coolness these reasons it was particularly befitting Antiquarian curiosity, if nothing else, would obsolete ceremonial; but seeing that such whose book is not much read now-a-days, I Mitford, in his "Tales of Old Japan," seppuku from a rare Japanese manuscript, goes of which he was an eye-witness:-- "We were the hondo or main hall of the temple, where imposing scene. A large hall with a high roof From the ceiling hung a profusion of those Buddhist temples. In front of the high altar, mats, is raised some three or four inches felt. Tall candles placed at regular intervals to let all the proceedings be seen. The seven the raised floor, the seven foreigners on "After the interval of a few minutes of man thirty-two years of age, with a noble of ceremony, with the peculiar hempen-cloth was accompanied by a kaishaku and three officers, gold tissue facings. The word kaishaku it executioner is no equivalent term. The office performed by a kinsman or friend of the condemned, of principal and second than that of victim In this instance the kaishaku was a pupil of the latter from among their own number kaishaku on his left hand, Taki Zenzaburo and the two bowed before them, then drawing the same way, perhaps even with more deference; returned. Slowly and with great dignity the prostrated himself before the high altar twice, his back to the high altar, the kaishaku crouching One of the three attendant officers then came in the temple for offerings, on which, wrapped or dirk of the Japanese, nine inches and a sharp as a razor's. This he handed, prostrating it reverently, raising it to his head with "After another profound obeisance, Taki so much emotion and hesitation as might be confession, but with no sign of either in and I alone, unwarrantably gave the order as they tried to escape. For this crime I to do me the honor of witnessing the act. his upper garments to slip down to his girdle, Carefully, according to custom, he tucked from falling backward; for a noble Japanese with a steady hand he took the dirk that lay affectionately; for a moment he seemed to then stabbing himself deeply below the waist across to his right side, and turning it in this sickeningly painful operation he never When he drew out the dirk, he leaned forward of pain for the first time crossed his face, kaishaku, who, still crouching by his side, sprang to his feet, poised his sword for a ugly thud, a crashing fall; with one blow dead silence followed, broken only by the the inert head before us, which but a moment It was horrible. "The kaishaku made a low bow, wiped his for the purpose, and retired from the raised away, a bloody proof of the execution. "The their places, and crossing over to where the that the sentence of death upon Taki Zenzaburo being at an end, we left the temple. " I of seppuku from literature or from the relation suffice. Two brothers, Sakon and Naiki, respectively an effort to kill Iyeyasu in order to avenge enter the camp they were made prisoners. The who dared an attempt on his life and ordered death. Their little brother Hachimaro, a mere a similar fate, as the sentence was pronounced the three were taken to a monastery where A physician who was present on the occasion scene is translated. "When they were all turned to the youngest and said--'Go thou it aright. ' Upon the little one's replying he would like to see his brothers do it and smiled between their tears:--'Well said, being our father's child. ' When they the dagger into the left side of his own abdomen now? Only, don't push the dagger too far, lest keep thy knees well composed. ' Naiki did eyes open or else thou mayst look like a dying and thy strength fails, take courage and double from one to the other, and when both had expired, the example set him on either hand. " The enough, no small temptation to its unwarranted For causes entirely incompatible with reason, hot headed youths rushed into it as insects more samurai to this deed than nuns into convent by the popular standard of honor. The saddest the agio, so to speak, was not always solid circle in the Inferno will boast of greater to which Dante consigns all victims of self-destruction! or to court it, was alike cowardice. A typical fighter, when he lost battle after and from bush to cavern, found himself hungry sword blunt with use, his bow broken and arrows fall upon his own sword in Phillippi under to die, but with a fortitude approaching a an impromptu verse: "Come! evermore come, burden'd back; That I not one test may lack This, then, was the Bushido teaching--Bear patience and a pure conscience; for as Mencius a great office on anyone, it first exercises bones with toil; it exposes his body to hunger confounds his undertakings. In all these ways and supplies his incompetencies. " True and no death incurred in so doing is ignominious, store is cowardly indeed! In that quaint book of Sir Thomas Browne's, equivalent for what is repeatedly taught in brave act of valor to contemn death, but where the truest valor to dare to live. " A renowned observed--"Talk as he may, a samurai who to flee or hide. " Again--"Him who once of Sanada nor all the arrows of Tametomo can of the temple whose Builder taught "he that These are but a few of the numerous examples the human species, notwithstanding an attempt between Christian and Pagan as great as possible. of suicide was neither so irrational nor barbarous will now see whether its sister institution its mitigating features. I hope I can dispose of this question in a call it custom, if that suits you better, and has not yet become entirely obsolete, and lynching. Why, has not an American captain of Dreyfus be avenged? Among a savage tribe and only the jealousy of a lover protects no criminal court, murder is not a crime, people preserves social order. said Osiris to Horus. The reply was, "To a Japanese would have added "and a master's. one's sense of justice. The avenger reasons:--"My killed him did great evil. My father, if he this: Heaven itself hates wrong-doing. It Heaven that the evil-doer cease from his work. my father's blood, I, who am his flesh and Heaven shall not shelter him and me." it shows an innate sense of exact balance tooth for a tooth. " Our sense of revenge until both terms of the equation are satisfied left undone. In Judaism, which believed in provided a Nemesis, vengeance may be left Bushido with the institution of redress as could take cases not to be judged in accordance The master of the forty-seven Ronins was condemned to appeal to; his faithful retainers addressed Court existing; they in their turn were condemned passed a different judgment and hence their as are their graves at Sengakuji to this day. with kindness, the voice of Confucius was must be recompensed with justice;--and yet in behalf of our superiors and benefactors. to wife and children, were to be borne and sympathize with Hannibal's oath to avenge Hamilton for wearing in his girdle a handful incentive to avenge her wrongs on the Regent and redress lost their raison d'etre at more do we hear of romantic adventures of murderer of her parent. No more can we witness The knight errantry of Miyamoto Musashi is spies out the criminal for the injured party and society will see that wrong is righted. need of kataki-uchi. If this had meant that hope of glutting that hunger with the life-blood has described it, a few paragraphs in the an end of it. de jure, we still hear of it from time to as long as the past is remembered. Many painless will come in vogue, as its votaries are increasing but Professor Morselli will have to concede them. He maintains that "when suicide is cost of prolonged agony, in ninety-nine cases act of a mind disordered by fanaticism, by But a normal seppuku does not savor of fanaticism, being necessary to its successful accomplishment. suicide, the Rational or Quasi, and the Irrational former type. From these bloody institutions, it is easy to infer that the sword played life. The saying passed as an axiom which and made it the emblem of power and prowess. is the key of Heaven and of Hell," he only samurai boy learned to wield it. It was a of five he was apparelled in the paraphernalia and initiated into the rights of the military a real sword, instead of the toy dirk with ceremony of adoptio per arma, he was no more this badge of his status, even if it was usually wooden dirk. the genuine steel, though blunt, and then keener than his newly acquired blades, he stone. When he reaches man's estate at the action, he can now pride himself upon the The very possession of the dangerous instrument and responsibility. "He beareth not his belt is a symbol of what he carries in his The two swords, the longer and the shorter--called wakizashi--never leave his side. When at in study or parlor; by night they guard his companions, they are beloved, and proper names they are well-nigh worshiped. The Father of information that the Scythians sacrificed a family in Japan hoards a sword as an object due respect paid to it. Any insult to it is Woe to him who carelessly steps over a weapon cannot long escape the notice and the skill in times of peace, when it is worn with no by a king. Shark-skin and finest silk for varied hues for scabbard, robbed the deadliest are playthings compared with the blade itself. an inspired artist and his workshop a sanctuary. purification, or, as the phrase was, "he and tempering of the steel. " Every swing friction on the grindstone, was a religious of the master or of his tutelary god that as a work of art, setting at defiance its than art could impart. the moment it is drawn the vapors of the atmosphere; bluish hue; its matchless edge, upon which of its back, uniting exquisite grace with mixed feelings of power and beauty, of awe it only remained a thing of beauty and joy! no small temptation for abuse. Too often did The abuse sometimes went so far as to try neck. The question that concerns us most is, however,--Did weapon? The answer is unequivocally, no! As did it denounce and abhor its misuse. A dastard on undeserved occasions. A self-possessed times come but rarely. Let us listen to the the most turbulent times of our history, when practices were the order of the day. powers, repeatedly marked out as an object sword with blood. In relating some of his plebeian way peculiar to him:--"I have I haven't killed one single man. I have chopped off. A friend said to me one day, pepper and egg-plants? ' Well, some people slain himself. My escape may be due to my I had the hilt of my sword so tightly fastened blade. I made up my mind that though they are truly like fleas and mosquitoes and they It itches a little, that's all; it won't one whose Bushido training was tried in the The popular apothegm--"To be beaten is in not opposing a riotous foe; and "The shedding of blood," and others of similar ideal of knighthood was Peace. It was a great to priests and moralists to preach, while martial traits. In this they went so far as character. Here we may profitably devote a AND POSITION OF WOMAN. been called the paragon of paradoxes, because the comprehension of men's "arithmetical "the mysterious," "the unknowable," and the other "woman," because the physical are above the coarse mental calibre of our however, there is little mystery and only Amazonian, but that is only half the truth. by a woman holding a broom--certainly not against her conjugal ally, neither for witchcraft, besom was first invented--the idea involved derivation of the English wife and daughter activity to Kuche, Kirche, Kinder, as the ideal of womanhood was preeminently domestic. and Amazonian traits--are not inconsistent see. for the masculine sex, the virtues it prized feminine. Winckelmann remarks that "the than female," and Lecky adds that it was as in their art. Bushido similarly praised from the frailty of their sex and displayed and the bravest of men." their feelings, to indurate their nerves, sword called nagi-nata, so as to be able to the primary motive for exercises of this martial was twofold--personal and domestic. Woman own bodyguard. With her weapon she guarded her husband did his master's. The domestic education of her sons, as we shall see later. practical use, were a wholesome counterbalance But these exercises were not followed only into use in times of need. Girls, when they , which might be directed to the bosom of own. The latter was very often the case: and Christian conscience with its horror of self-immolation, and Domnina, two suicides, were canonized When a Japanese Virginia saw her chastity dagger. Her own weapon lay always in her bosom. way in which she had to perpetrate self-destruction. she must know the exact spot to cut in her limbs together with a belt so that, whatever be found in utmost modesty with the limbs worthy of the Christian Perpetua or the Vestal I would not put such an abrupt interrogation, our bathing customs and other trifles, that chastity was a pre-eminent virtue of the samurai taken prisoner, seeing herself in danger of says she will obey their pleasure, provided sisters, whom war has dispersed in every direction. to the nearest well and saves her honor by The letter she leaves behind ends with these her light, Should she but graze this nether Doth hastily betake to flight. " It would masculinity alone was our highest ideal for gentler graces of life were required of them. Some of the finest verses in our literature fact, women played an important role in the was taught only to smooth the angularity of Music was to regale the weary hours of their the technique, the art as such, that music of heart, since it was said that no harmony heart being in harmony with herself. Here we notice in the training of youths--that to moral worth. Just enough of music and dancing to foster vanity and extravagance. I sympathize with the Persian prince, who, asked to take part in the merriment, bluntly a particular set of girls to do that kind of our women were not acquired for show or and if they shone in social parties, it was words, as a part of the household contrivance education. It may be said that the accomplishments of pacific in character, were mainly intended roam, they never lost sight of the hearth and integrity that they slaved, drudged and at once firm and tender, brave and plaintive, woman sacrificed herself for her father, as son. Thus from earliest youth she was taught but of dependent service. Man's helpmeet, if her presence is helpful his work, she retires behind the curtain. becomes enamored of a maiden who returns his his interest in her makes him forgetful of attractions may cease. Adzuma, the ideal wife loved by a man who, in order to win her affection, of joining in the guilty plot, she manages and the sword of the lover assassin descends The following epistle written by the wife needs no comment:--"Oft have I heard that of events here below, and that all moves in a common bough or a drink of the same river, Since we were joined in ties of eternal wedlock, thee, even as its shadow followeth an object, being loved. Learning but recently, however, thy labor and life, take the farewell greeting I have heard that Ko-u, the mighty warrior with his favorite Gu. Yoshinaka, too, brave too weak to bid prompt farewell to his wife. hope or joy--why should I detain thee or rather, await thee on the road which all mortal never forget the many benefits which our good gratitude we owe him is as deep as the sea Woman's surrender of herself to the good and honorable as the man's self-surrender without which no life-enigma can be solved, as of the Domesticity of woman. She was no of his liege-lord, and the part she played " In the ascending scale of service stood he might annihilate himself for the master, I know the weakness of this teaching and that more manifest than here, in that it requires to its Creator. Nevertheless, as far as the higher than one's own self, even at the the doctrine of service, which is the greatest of his mission--as far as that is concerned, will not accuse me of undue prejudice in favor I accept in a large measure the view advanced profundity of thought by Hegel, that history The point I wish to make is that the whole with the spirit of self-sacrifice, that it Hence, until the influence of its Precepts not realize the view rashly expressed by an exclaimed, "May all the daughters of Japan such a revolt succeed? Will it improve the Will the rights they gain by such a summary disposition, that gentleness of manner, which of domesticity on the part of Roman matrons mention? Can the American reformer assure course for their historical development to and will come without revolts! In the meantime sex under the Bushido regimen was really so We hear much of the outward respect European incongruity of the two terms making Gibbon morality of Chivalry was coarse, that gallantry on the weaker vessel was food for reflection that Feudalism and Chivalry wrought wholesome in a militant society the position of woman becomes more industrial. Now is M. Guizot's In reply I might aver that both are right. The military class in Japan was restricted souls. Above them were the military nobles, higher, sybaritical nobles being fighters common people--mechanics, tradesmen, and of peace. Thus what Herbert Spencer gives of society may be said to have been exclusively of the industrial type were applicable to This is well illustrated by the position of less freedom than among the samurai. Strange instance, among small artisans--the more Among the higher nobility, too, the difference chiefly because there were few occasions to the leisurely nobleman having become literally exemplified in Old Japan. As to Guizot's, those who read his presentation had the higher nobility especially under consideration, daimio and the kuge. I shall be guilty of words give one a very low opinion of the status to state that she was not treated as man's between difference and inequalities, there subject. equal among themselves, e. g., before law ourselves with a discussion on the equality Independence said that all men were created or physical gifts: it simply repeated what law all men are equal. Legal rights were in the law the only scale by which to measure be as easy to tell where she stands as to But the question is: Is there a correct standard of the sexes? Is it right, is it enough, to compare woman's compared with that of gold, and give the ratio excludes from consideration the most important namely, the intrinsic. In view of the manifold fulfil its earthly mission, the standard to must be of a composite character; or, to borrow standard. Bushido had a standard of its own value of woman on the battle-field and by There she counted for very little; here for to this double measurement;--as a social-political received highest respect and deepest affection. were their matrons so highly venerated? Was Not as fighters or law-givers, but as their While fathers and husbands were absent in was left entirely in the hands of mothers their defence, was entrusted to them. The warlike exercises of women, of which I intelligently to direct and follow the education superficial notion prevailing among half-informed expression for one's wife is "my rustic held in little esteem. When it is told that swinish son," "my awkward self," etc. enough? To me it seems that our idea of marital Christian. "Man and woman shall be one flesh." let go of the idea that husband and wife are separate rights are recognized, and when they sorts of silly pet-names and--nonsensical to our ears, when a husband or wife speaks or worse--as being lovely, bright, kind, one's self as "my bright self," "my We think praising one's own wife or one's own self, and self-praise is regarded, to I hope, among Christian nations too! I have debasement of one's consort was a usage races beginning their tribal life with a superstitious their social life under the painful consciousness respect man pays to woman has in Western civilization But in the martial ethics of Bushido, the bad was sought elsewhere. It was located along divine soul and then to other souls, in the part of this paper. Of these we have brought between one man as vassal and another as lord. as occasion presented itself; because they on natural affections, they could but be common they may have been accentuated by conditions In this connection, there comes before me between man and man, which often added to doubtless intensified by the separation of to affection the natural channel open to it of Anglo-Saxon lands. I might fill pages with Pythias or Achilles and Patroclos, or tell as those which bound David and Jonathan. It is not surprising, however, that the virtues did not remain circumscribed to the military of THE INFLUENCE OF BUSHIDO on the nation few of the more prominent peaks which rise so much more elevated than the general level As the sun in its rising first tips the highest casts its rays on the valley below, so the military order drew in course of time followers up a natural prince for its leader, and aristocracy Virtues are no less contagious than vices. and all are wise, so rapid is the contagion," resist the diffusive power of moral influence. Anglo-Saxon liberty, rarely has it received Was it not rather the work of the squires "These three syllables, as used across the society. " Democracy may make self-confident the question--"When Adam delved and Eve the more pity that a gentleman was not present and paid a high price for his absence. Had been more tastefully dressed, but they would disobedience to Jehovah was disloyalty and What Japan was she owed to the samurai. They its root as well. All the gracious gifts of themselves socially aloof from the populace, them by their example. I admit Bushido had were eudemonistic, looking after the welfare were aretaic, emphasizing the practice of In the most chivalrous days of Europe, Knights the population, but, as Emerson says--"In the novels, from Sir Philip Sidney to Sir in place of Sidney and Scott, Chikamatsu and features of the literary history of Japan. and instruction--the theatres, the story-teller's recitations, the novels--have taken for their The peasants round the open fire in their of Yoshitsune and his faithful retainer Benkei, urchins listen with gaping mouths until the its embers, still leaving their hearts aglow the shop-boys, after their day's work is gather together to relate the story of Nobunaga overtakes their weary eyes and transports exploits of the field. The very babe just beginning to toddle is the daring conqueror of ogre-land. Even girls and virtues that, like Desdemona, they would the romance of the samurai. The samurai grew among flowers the cherry is queen, so among Debarred from commercial pursuits, the military was no channel of human activity, no avenue measure an impetus from Bushido. Intellectual and moral Japan was directly Mallock, in his exceedingly suggestive book, told us that "social evolution, in so far as the unintended result of the intentions progress is produced by a struggle "not a struggle amongst a small section of the majority in the best way." his argument, these statements are amply verified progress, as far as it went, of our Empire. classes is also shown in the development of the natural leaders of democracy. Staunch with the strength of massive manhood. At once rights, they had each a following of hundreds same fashion that samurai did to daimio, the chattels and earthly honor." working-men, those born "bosses" formed two-sworded order. In manifold ways has Bushido it originated, and acted as leaven among the whole people. The Precepts of Knighthood, became in time an aspiration and inspiration could not attain the moral height of those of Japan, ultimately came to express the Volksgeist If religion is no more than "Morality touched few ethical systems are better entitled to has put the mute utterance of the nation into Japan! Should your Yamato spirit Strangers air, Blows the cherry wild and fair! " Yes, of our people and the emblem of our character. which the poet uses, the words the wild cherry The Yamato spirit is not a tame, tender plant, it is indigenous to the soil; its accidental other lands, but in its essence it remains clime. But its nativity is not its sole claim of its beauty appeal to our aesthetic sense admiration of the Europeans for their roses, Then, too, the thorns that are hidden beneath which she clings to life, as though loth or to rot on her stem; her showy colors and heavy flower, which carries no dagger or poison life at the call of nature, whose colors are never palls. Beauty of color and of form is of existence, whereas fragrance is volatile, religious ceremonies frankincense and myrrh There is something spirituelle in redolence. the morning air, as the sun in its course East, few sensations are more serenely exhilarating of beauteous day. When the Creator himself heart upon smelling a sweet savor , is it of the cherry blossom should call forth the Blame them not, if for a time their limbs their pangs and sorrows. Their brief pleasure ended, they return to resolutions. Thus in ways more than one is this flower, so sweet and evanescent, blown a puff of perfume, ready to vanish forever, Is the Soul of Japan so frailly mortal? IS in its march through the land, already wiped It were a sad thing if a nation's soul could succumb so easily to extraneous influences. The aggregate of psychological elements which as the "irreducible elements of species, of the tooth of the carnivorous animal. " In and brilliant generalizations, M. LeBon says, are the common patrimony of humanity; qualities patrimony of each people: they are the firm for centuries, before they can wear away even These are strong words and would be highly qualities and defects of character which constitute theories of this sort had been advanced long they were exploded long ago by Theodor Waitz instilled by Bushido, we have drawn upon European and we have seen that no one quality of character aggregate of moral qualities presents a quite It is this aggregate which Emerson names a force enters as an ingredient. " But, instead patrimony of a race or people, the Concord the most forcible persons of every country; other; and is somewhat so precise that it Masonic sign. " The character which Bushido particular, cannot be said to form "an irreducible to the vitality which it retains there is Were Bushido a mere physical force, the momentum could not stop so abruptly. Were it transmitted widespread. Just think, as M. Cheysson, a there be three generations in a century, "each at least twenty millions of the people living that grubs the soil, "bowed by the weight of ages, and is thus a brother to us as much power, Bushido has been moving the nation It was an honest confession of the race when pioneers of Modern Japan, wrote on the eve "Full well I knew this course must end in dare whate'er betide. " Unformulated, the motor force of our country. Mr. Ransome in existence side by side to-day,--the old, yet born except in spirit; and the transition, While this is very true in most respects, institutions, the statement, as applied to modification; for Bushido, the maker and product of the transition and will prove the formative who steered the ship of our state through of national rejuvenation, were men who knew of Knighthood. Some writers have lately tried an appreciable quota to the making of New I would fain render honor to whom honor is to the good missionaries. More fitting it scriptural injunction of preferring one another they have no proofs to back them. For myself, doing great things for Japan--in the domain the mysterious though not the less certain secrecy. Whatever they do is still of indirect effected but little visible in moulding the No, it was Bushido, pure and simple, that of the makers of Modern Japan--of Sakuma, the reminiscences of living men such as Ito, that it was under the impetus of samuraihood Henry Norman declared, after his study and respect in which Japan differed from other among her people of the strictest, loftiest, man has ever devised," he touched the main and which will make her what she is destined patent to the whole world. In a work of such but if one were to name the principal, one When we opened the whole country to foreign in every department of life, when we began guiding motive was not the development of wealth; much less was it a blind imitation institutions and peoples has written:--"We Japan, and forget that the change in those Europeans did not teach Japan, but that Japan of organization, civil and military, which She imported European mechanical science, artillery. That is not exactly influence," England is influenced by purchasing tea of our author, "or philosopher or statesman Townsend has well perceived that the spring in Japan lay entirely within our own selves; his keen powers of observation would easily other than Bushido. The sense of honor which cannot bear being was the strongest of motives. Pecuniary or in the process of transformation. The influence runs may read. A glimpse into Japanese life eloquent and truthful interpreter of the Japanese to be an example of the working of Bushido. is the legacy of knightly ways, is too well The physical endurance, fortitude and bravery sufficiently proved in the China-Japanese patriotic? " is a question asked by many; we must thank the Precepts of Knighthood. that for the very faults and defects of our Our lack of abstruse philosophy--while some reputation in scientific researches, not one traceable to the neglect of metaphysical training Our sense of honor is responsible for our and if there is the conceit in us with which pathological outcome of honor. Have you seen unkempt hair, dressed in shabbiest garb, carrying about the streets with an air of utter indifference the earth is too small and the Heavens are the universe and of life. He dwells in castles In his eyes beams the fire of ambition; his a stimulus to drive him onward; worldly goods He is the repository of Loyalty and Patriotism. honor. With all his virtues and his faults, and powerful as is still the effect of Bushido, mute influence. The heart of the people responds, without to what it has inherited, and hence the same term and in an old Bushido term, has a vastly Christian, whom no pastoral persuasion could from his course by an appeal made to his loyalty, The word "Loyalty" revived all the noble A band of unruly youths engaged in a long on account of their dissatisfaction with a put by the Director,--"Is your professor respect him and keep him in the school. Is falling man. " The scientific incapacity of the trouble, dwindled into insignificance at. By arousing the sentiments nurtured by can be accomplished. One cause of the failure of mission work is ignorant of our history--"What do we care estrange their religion from the habits of to for centuries past. Mocking a nation's of the lowest African savages possessing no of mankind, written by the hand of God Himself. deciphered by a seeing eye. To a philosophic and pious mind, the races clearly traced in black and white as on their race forms a precious page inscribed in hieroglyphics missionaries claim that Christianity is a "old, old story," which, if presented expressed in the vocabulary familiar in the easy lodgment in their hearts, irrespective Christianity in its American or English form--with grace and purity of its founder--is a poor propagator of the new faith uproot the entire of the Gospel on the ravaged soil? Such a where, it is alleged, the church militant wealth itself, and in annihilating the aboriginal in Japan--nay, it is a process which Jesus his kingdom on earth. It behooves us to take more to heart the following profound scholar:--"Men have divided the considering how much good may have been hidden mingled with the other. They have compared of their neighbors, the ideal of Christianity They have not aimed at impartiality, but have be said in praise of their own, and in dispraise But, whatever may be the error committed by fundamental principle of the religion they account in reckoning THE FUTURE OF BUSHIDO, signs are in the air, that betoken its future. at work to threaten it. Few historical comparisons the Chivalry of Europe and the Bushido of certainly will do with the fate of the latter The particular and local causes for the decay of course, little application to Japanese causes that helped to undermine Knighthood are as surely working for the decline of Bushido. of Europe and of Japan is, that, whereas in and was adopted by the Church, it obtained was large enough to nourish it; hence, when Bushido, left an orphan, had to shift for The present elaborate military organization know that modern warfare can afford little which fostered it in its infancy, is itself China are being supplanted by the intellectual theories of a comfortable kind, flattering and therefore thought well-adapted to the but as yet we hear only their shrill voices Principalities and powers are arrayed against Already, as Veblen says, "the decay of the the vulgarization of life--among the industrial enormities of latter-day civilization in the " The irresistible tide of triumphant democracy, Bushido was a trust organized by those who culture, fixing the grades and value of moral the remnant of Bushido. The present societary forces are antagonistic Freeman severely criticizes, a class spirit. cannot admit "purely personal obligations " Add to this the progress of popular instruction, city-life,--then we can easily see that neither the sharpest shafts shot from Bushido's upon the rock of Honor and fortified by the after the manner of Carlyle, the Heroarchy? lawyers and gibbering politicians armed with a great thinker used in speaking of Theresa samurai, that "the medium in which their for knightly virtues! alas for samurai pride! of bugles and drums, is destined to fade away history can teach us anything, the state built or an Empire like Rome--can never make on Universal and natural as is the fighting instinct noble sentiments and manly virtues, it does instinct to fight there lurks a diviner instinct and Wan Yang Ming, have all clearly taught of ethics, engrossed, doubtless, with questions duly to emphasize this fact. Life has grown and broader than a warrior's claim our attention With an enlarged view of life, with the growth peoples and nations, the Confucian idea of idea of Pity? --will expand into the Christian subjects, having grown to the estate of citizens: Though war clouds hang heavy upon our horizon, of peace can disperse them. The history of meek shall inherit the earth." and backslides from the front rank of Industrialism bargain indeed! When the conditions of society adverse but hostile to Bushido, it is time It is just as difficult to point out when of its inception. Dr. Miller says that Chivalry Henry II. of France was slain in a tournament. in 1870 was the signal to toll the knell of The edict, issued two years later, prohibiting unbought grace of life, the cheap defence heroic enterprise," it rang in the new age " It has been said that Japan won her late Krupp cannon; it has been said the victory these are less than half-truths. Does ever of Ehrbar or Steinway, burst forth into the without a master's hand? Or, if guns win battles, why did not Louis or the Spaniards with their Mausers the Filipinos, Remingtons? Needless to repeat what has grown quickeneth, without which the best of implements and cannon do not shoot of their own accord; make a coward a hero. No! What won the battles ghosts of our fathers, guiding our hands and those ghosts, the spirits of our warlike ancestors. visible. Scratch a Japanese of the most advanced inheritance of honor, of valor and of all fitly expresses it, "but ours on trust, generation to come," and the summons of to bate one jot of the ancient spirit; the its scope as to apply it in all walks and It has been predicted--and predictions have half century--that the moral system of Feudal will crumble into dust, and new ethics rise of progress. Desirable and probable as the not forget that a phoenix rises only from passage, neither does it fly on pinions borrowed within you. " It does not come rolling down come sailing across the seas, however broad. every people a prophet in its own tongue. and apprehended by the Japanese mind, blossomed to say, before its full fruition--and we of sweetness and light, of strength and comfort, to take its place. The profit and loss philosophy among logic-choppers with half a soul. The only other ethical system which is powerful is Christianity, in comparison with which dimly burning wick" which the Messiah was flame. Like His Hebrew precursors, the prophets--notably laid particular stress on the moral conduct the Ethics of Christ, which deal almost solely will find more and more practical application factor, grows in potency. The domineering, self-assertive, so-called in some respects to Bushido, is, if I am not reaction against what he terms, by morbid of the Nazarene. Christianity and Materialism more archaic forms of Hebraism and Hellenism? systems of morals will ally themselves on side will Bushido enlist? Having no set dogma or formula to defend, the cherry blossom, it is willing to die at a total extinction will never be its lot. as a system; but it is alive as a virtue: many channels of life--in the philosophy all the civilized world. Nay, wherever man wherever his spirit masters his flesh by his of Zeno at work.