On June 24, 2013, Italian Prime was sentenced by a Milan in prison for prostituting underage girls. We all knew that the Cavaliere But now he'd crossed the line by bunga bunga parties, as he called them. As President of the Council as he was, Italian democracy put a stop and his political career. The man who introduced him was his old friend Colonel Gaddafi. The Libyan dictator, on the other hand, He used his famous female bodyguards as sex slaves for decades without ever being bothered. Sure, like all tyrants, of his omnipotence Tyranny and sexuality, two worlds when they meet. What is the relationship between Does the sexuality of tyrant people And first of all, is there such a thing To answer these questions, we are lives of the four greatest dictators Benito Mussolini, Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin and Mao Zedong. Benito Mussolini. Leader of Fascist Italy from 1922 to 1945. 23 years of dictatorship, during which he fought Responsible for the death or deportation he nonetheless retained an undeniable and a very special relationship So his relationship with women Didier Musiedlak, professor author of the book "Mussolini." And he overconsumed, he I use the word "consume" purposely, he consumed countesses, He didn't stop at physical beauty. As a result, he had a relationship an instinctive, primitive He needed to vent his And when he couldn't do that, So that was a fundamental dimension And then there was the way in which he It cannot be said that he was a Rather, he was more like someone This is what he had always done, and in 10 minutes, at most in half an hour. And in fact, from the moment he were set up for a sort to ensure that women would come to him as soon as possible, and And so he consumed, overconsumed, to the point where the number of his conquests is unknown today. Did Mussolini count his mistresses or thousands? In fact, it doesn't matter, it is how the dictator works With the dictator, everything is a They have extraordinary careers because It must not be forgotten. They are often highly intelligent people. They are people who have a Pascal de Sutter, doctor in political "Those madmen who rule us." So, they always experience things compared to the average person. So everything is going to be excessive, will also be in excess for some of them. Benito Mussolini was a person that was also sexual energy in his case. And really, the two went hand in hand. In other words, the more he made the more reassured he felt in the more powerful he felt, and the more he could go on the assault and even have, at some point, a delirium the Roman Empire. Sexually, the same thing, with Perhaps taking himself for a superman but not going all the way either, between women's conquests which were both about being so gourmet, not really knowing Mussolini sometimes even to spend time with his lovers. And several of his wives the Italian dictator's personality. I'd say there were several women in his itinerary. Certainly not his official wife, Rachele Guidi was a woman who was the mamma in the Italian tradition. And in fact, she played no direct role in the management of political affairs, She was born in Predappio, I would say about that, it is quite clear. Some of his mistresses, would play a very important and three of them in particular. Angelika Balabanov, first of all. A politician of Russian origin, she taught and transformed him into the man of Then Margarita Sarfatti, from financed his political rise, and completed his intellectual training Finally, Clara Petacci, a member was to accompany him his management of state To the point that people began Who was governing Italy at that moment? Mussolini or Petacci? That was the problem. In fact, it was said that I think that... No, we can't go that far. So he always... He always said that. He says it, moreover, La Petacci. But women have never played especially not politically. They've always stayed at a certain level that was theirs, he said, but it does play a role. Her role was one in which, the diary, the Petacci newspaper, because we can on major issues, such as Hitler, and all sorts of things. And so, there's an unquestionable We're not simply in a relationship comes to honor his mistress and leaves. There, there's indeed a connection And the Duce was not content in the company of his leading mistress. He's also outspoken with others. So a character, you see, who was a predator. But a predator who makes his conquests We must also imagine that Mussolini You can't imagine a head in his Alfa Romeo sports car, but he regularly went to the seaside, and you could say he was a flirt. He was flirting, he was actually making a lot of noise and so on. He did everything to be noticed so much themselves without a doubt, it's Mussolini And so, he drew the crowds That's how he met Petacci. So he's a character He also enjoyed showing He loved to show off his skiing. And he even preferred to And I think that's really important. It refers us precisely to this question which is an essential one. Mussolini's body was always It must always be shown that resources, an energy that somehow merged with Italy's political body. There's something fundamental here, was based on the idea that the political was a source of energy for Italy. And that from there, Italy must Mussolini served as a model, in fact, for was at the root of the fascist regime, There's a relationship to virility, In other words, a dictator can only if he shows the people extremely virile, almost cartoonish behavior. Typical Mussolini, blatantly obvious. Among the others, perhaps a little less so And it can also have a This man who releases powerful which assert themselves in males, The strongest male gorilla, the one who biggest bamboos, is going to be In general, the dictator charms women. In that sense, you could say they're great crowd-pleasers. They charm men. Mussolini for example, represented have liked to be. So we also have a fascination for a who we'd like to be and In other words, we thought, ah, if I had that nice uniform, if I it would be quite extraordinary. We want to be like him, so we to become a member of the fascist to really want to resemble our idealized But this relationship with the Italians, would eventually turn against him as he lost the war on Germany's side. He would end up shot, lynched and Clara Petacci, in a kind When the autopsy was carried Mussolini's head was found to be mush. We'd struck so hard, we'd tried to destroy every part, every In short, we're trying to Why did we want to demean them? Precisely because we loved we adored him so much, we absolutely Destroy all the magic that had been hidden in this body for over 20 years, and which was now a body that had to disappear for good. The dictator's body as the embodiment another tyrant was also going to put this It's Adolf Hitler. Adolf Hitler, the worst dictator of the of 50 million people during including 6 million Jews exterminated In power for 12 years, the greatest criminal in history at just 36, with his 17-year-old She never recovered and committed However, their relationship In the case of Hitler, sexuality We know, in fact, about two "adventures" namely Geli Raubal, his niece. With Geli Raubal, they went for short We really are in a very special world. And then, of course, there made her mark in this respect by becoming Hitler's girlfriend. Eva Braun was Hitler's She was also 17 when he met her, and she too committed suicide with Hitler when the war was lost. The Germans never found out, and by the dictator. If we look at her long-term we can see that she to settle in with Hitler. For a very long time, Hitler Anything political is off-limits to him. She was regarded as a kind of little bird by all the Nazis who attended She has no role, no opportunity to express herself. And in terms of activities that to a kind of sexual breakthrough, Very, very few things. They went for a walk, I think he was a cripple in that respect. Affective cripple. And sexually speaking, he had no identity. From a very early age, it's fair to say that he was not inclined That is undeniable. Dimitri Casali, history teacher, author At a young age, he was Instead, he did this... a kind of fear, I think, that comes from Being in a human environment, being involved in the German army at a who only associated with men, soldiers. He's a military man, Hitler. Extremely courageous, decorated several But he had this ignorance of women with a certain shyness as well. The greatest dictator of the 20th century so much so that numerous rumours, circulated well in the chancelleries There are also a lot of intoxication the forerunner of the CIA in the United liked to be urinated on, some pretty which were unfounded. Much has been said about What we seem to know today is that was not a repressed homosexual, he liked women a lot. He surrounded himself He really liked to charm women. He liked to value German women He really liked the female presence. He liked women to compliment him. He liked to charm. So he was definitely someone On the other hand, obviously, had to take action. So now, typically, we have a dictator who didn't vent his energy But Adolf Hitler managed to turn using his disability to He absolutely had to keep this because a political leader who powerless, is unable to govern his people. It is a monarchical and imperial tradition which dates back to the Roman emperors, since the emperor or the head of to show that he is capable He really was a master of propaganda, And indeed, also remaining he presented to German women, this desire to stay, precisely the leader who is above women, since he was receiving thousands of letters from It was absolutely amazing, for women. On his part, there was a seduction but it was not a sexual seduction. There is no... The sexualized Hitler doesn't exist. He was a non-person. He was someone who succeeded And there, he had a certain Erotization involved the person, of the politician who relayed his person, Think of the Nuremberg Congress of 1934. In the case of Nazism, there who didn't exist as such, but who embodied and spoke for the community of the people, the Volksgemeinschaft. Hitler said in this regard that, if I remember correctly, "Who am I, Adolf Hitler?" "I am nothing, I am just So it was above all with words crowds, and with them, power. Yet the Nazi regime glorified the corpse. It was even one of the foundations to create a new race, the Aryan race. But Hitler himself was 1,000 leagues away Aryan, he played on another scale. Those who approached him said that And it doesn't have much to That magnetism, that charisma... Even today, some political personalities and certain TV hosts who have especially people who have people who exude a kind And it's hard for us Westerners to because the excerpts we see are always this phase where he starts That's what American and to say: "There, he's a madman." If you take the time to listen to he speaks for a very long time, For much of the speech, He spoke calmly, saying that Germany It was a situation that We have been quite patient Now, we're not going to let that happen. He rode himself, he boosted himself, and in the end, indeed, he It's not a classic exchange, but a mediation that the community will In relation to emotion. We've abandoned the terrain of reason. So it's obvious that you passes through these channels of And when we look at the question of eroticism and sexuality this time, embraced, either for men or women. It is a sexuality that is His will to seduce, undeniable, the greatest comedian, that's Hitler. We can see the way he rehearsed was absolutely mind-blowing. All the testimonies are there to the most charismatic that ever existed. Don't be afraid to say Hitler therefore focused on his talents but also put his sexuality, even non- On the other hand, this was not the of the great dictators of the Joseph Stalin, USSR ruler Absolute power for 24 years, at the end and millions of deaths to his purges to eliminate his and dramatic famines, the consequences Stalin's sex life, private I discovered and I'll use a clinical term, in a way that was a little unconscious and with time, conscious. Lilly Marcou, a historian Author of the book "Stalin, Private Life." He had wives, he had a mistress, But he wasn't a womanizer, This guy only lived in politics. If from time to time there was or a child he adored, yes, he But because he wasn't like us, both positive and negative, But he was an unusual So it's all political. He was not a man for whom the thing, Because the power, if we consider his libido, into power. Like some writers who haven't they put it in their books. For him, what mattered a lot It was that he had to trust. He felt the need. He who was suspicious. He was even wary of members A woman he was in bed with, he trusted. And it meant a lot to be Paranoid always on the alert, constantly Stalin therefore had only two wives, and two well-known mistresses. We know nothing about his We don't know if he had any particular, We don't know that. Paul Fuks, psychoanalyst, author of the One can imagine that he was more of a precocious macho-Georgian type, So Stalin had few relationships Because banging lots of women to dominate the country And for him, what got him one way or another. And if possible, on a large scale. But we still have a concept of enjoyment. His enjoyment was to dominate. He left his wives, he went away, he came back when it suited him, Not to go to the pub, to do his dictatorial bidding at That was his main motivation, that was what gave him pleasure. Stalin abandoned his wives so much Nadezhda Allilueva, married in 1919, committed It was hidden from the people. There was talk of appendicitis. And Stalin never understood Both of Stalin's wives, the second commits suicide. And obviously... So he was a widower twice over. He was widowed twice and is very Very affected. She was a very competent woman She enrolled in college and writing for magazines. He loved this woman enormously. Until the end of his days, And he never understood why. And since he was a paranoid old man, of a conspiracy. But there was no conspiracy. She committed suicide, that's all. Nadezhda was rebelling. She believed in this history of Those were not empty words for her. So she couldn't help but be the famine in Ukraine. She was upset to see all of one after the other. We know that she attended Trotskyite who had committed suicide. At her home, after her death, there was who was an opponent of Stalin. It could only plunge her into distress, to witness this horror that was unfolding before her, while everyone else was either in adulation or terror. When Nadia died, when Nadia "Now I no longer believe in humanity", "I have lost all humanity." It was annihilated. Annihilated. It was a horror for him. Didn't he become crueler as a result? I don't know if that's what helped, He was cruel only when That's not political. What's interesting is that most on others and extremely I don't know which author said, We sometimes think that This is not correct. Psychopaths have no empathy. It is not the same thing. That is to say, the suffering of So the suffering his wife may have may have been due to his own behavior, So the suffering of the other But on the other hand, when they and everyone should feel sorry for but that doesn't stop them from of what they're going through Besides, he said, but how To me. To me. So she committed suicide, Was she unhappy? Did I do something to her to this behavior? He never asked himself any questions, it doesn't matter in any way. But how can anyone do this to me? To me, how can anyone make me suffer? How can someone put me But Stalin really was, he was of an absolute psychopath. And, as a good psychopath, Stalin also Any absolute dictator uses He managed to seduce the wives party officials, in order to better obtained certain information that he but that was enough to get them or else had them executed. It's sex as a political weapon, and control. It's a weapon for controlling those the party, and he has used it with And was sexuality present in the regime's propaganda? I don't think so because gender the emancipation of women was valued, even if it was not in reality. But when it came to speech, And no, he was not some The propaganda surrounding Stalin the grandfather of peoples, a reassuring A belief in Stalin's goodness proportion of the people. And then look at him, his face, his peaceful expressions. Stalin holding a little girl in his arms, a delegation of children. But how can such a man be bad? He can only be good. But in the end, he almost acquired Almost, absolutely. Just look at the movie made in the 1950s, we see Stalin in a beautiful white uniform And it's like the God who came down He was deified, absolutely. Even with an actor in the role of Stalin, the effect was striking. Historian Lilly Marcou was a teenager during the last years of When we see Stalin get down... I was in the audience, It was so moving, so powerful. But Stalin, first of all, he Because he always thought, is the best means of propaganda. Were you, as a little girl, Yes. Yes. I am really sorry that I I would pay a lot. I was 16 when I wrote a letter to Stalin. It was after the fall of Berlin. A long letter. When my dad found it, he It was a love letter. I was 16. He wasn't my father anymore. He was my father. When he died, my father, afterwards, as when Stalin died. Even now. It was an unbearable pain. The same? The same pain when your real father You're putting them on the same level. Same level. Perhaps more so for Stalin. Like Lilly Marcou, tens of truly orphaned by Stalin's death. And tens of thousands of them grandiose funeral. China's Mao Tse-tung ruled over a quarter of a century. He was responsible for the deaths from famine to the deportation Mao was a big fan of women. He had four wives, several concubines for many years, and hundreds And he treated them no better than In general, Mao treated just as he treated everyone Andrew Nathan, professor prefaces the book For him, the end justified the means and he didn't respect and independence. He just took advantage of people when or, in the case of sexuality, simply out of sexual appetite. So he used women and this That means he'd get interested in a woman, use her and then get rid of her. Sometimes he used a woman He seemed continually interested and sometimes he would Sometimes he used women as he did at one point in his So I would say that the key "using people." This applies first and foremost with whom he nevertheless At first, he abandoned. The second one as well. She was captured during the Long March and executed by his He repudiated the third, which and the fourth, Jiang Qing, had a Jiang Qin had a lot of power. When the Cultural Revolution began, a revolution about culture. Jiang Qin was in a position of His power and the power of the and has become much more than cultural. He became more and more political, and suspicious or enemies and persecute many people. In particular, they did this in the and other cultural sectors. She had the power to do all that, even though she no longer really had Mao really rarely saw her, but he because she was useful to him. That's why it wasn't worth it He didn't need her and she for which he did not want She did a lot of bad things. There is no doubt about that. But as she said at her court trial, and if Mao told me to bite, I bit." And there are many good reasons for as he used everyone else. She used it to attack her enemies, and thus maintain an atmosphere Sometimes, the wives of psychopathic who look alike, and so it's sometimes the massacres, but on the or encourage them. What was the case with Jiang Qing? His wife, even if he never There it was, she was a female dragon who influenced her husband in a rather and not in a sense of appeasement. There were a few cases in history appeasing her partner, but there were around, where she pushes him to crime, massacres and executions. While Jiang Qing was As for Mao, he multiplied his concubines. And we talked about thousands I don't think that is a good way to look at things. Rather, he had a series of girls, from which he would pick and For example, the chefs participated And the People's Liberation Army just as other armies have musical They had groups of young female who could sing and dance. And they invited these actresses to come and dance at the Mao was dancing with these girls and he said to his personal bodyguard, "This one is really attractive", and Wang Dongxing was doing whatever introduced to him, sometimes But it wasn't really a harem, it was rather a vast back and forth. Another place where he could was on his private train. His private train had hostesses, on airlines. And if he was attracted to someone, in such and such a girl and that Usually for a short time, but sometimes The older Mao got and more the girls he was interested For Mao, it was really this desire the fresh flesh of his young concubines, whom he took younger and younger, we're talking about 15-year-old virgins, in other words very, very young girls, and there was this certain desire. It should also be said that in the Chinese for as long as possible with a young girl, and lubrication, enables a man It was even thought that a man and make love regularly with young women who could give a lot of their feminine essence, would make So, since it was part of traditional a way of believing in a form of trying to live as long as possible. Indeed, Mao lived old. He died at 83, and the longer the more sophisticated his recruitment This is the tradition of the imperial There was this kind of Chinese administrative organization the entire Empire to find The prettiest women were supposed And it's interesting for the communist reformed these traditions, on the where he was particularly at ease because he was nicknamed There you go, Mao Zedong Anyway, no one in China knew except the leaders of the first circle, Most top leaders had a very free sex life. They were marrying, divorcing, They had mistresses. At the level of top leaders, it was Because remember, for example, "The origin of the family, private Engels wrote that socialism had to get rid of this bourgeois institution that binds a woman and a man in the had to fall in love because He called this love sexual love, And socialists have interpreted this like the idea that this free love So the leaders thought because it was revolutionary. But they did not spread ideas because the population and did not think that way. Then the leaders wanted the population not wearing sexy clothes. Everyone wore the same clothes, asexual haircuts, no makeup, all those things that So the sexual ideology of the was torn between these There was double talk. There was what he applied for himself and what he imposed on his people But China has not always been China had a very sophisticated And under Mao, on the contrary, with highly regulated sexual relations, and with quite strong repression. During the Great Leap Forward period, when Mao wanted to develop things became a little tighter In the Little Red Book, it is written to kill a mosquito than to make love. Is that an illustration of that? It is an illustration of what happened of the Great Leap Forward. Mao had this policy that can People had to put all their And he didn't want people Nor did he want people to to talk to anyone else about anything. He didn't want them to Even a relationship between a husband between parents and children It was supposed to be Dictatorships always want to penetrate and make sure nothing And this is not good for sexual life, So this quote about killing mosquitos that people should spend their and that sexuality was a waste of time. It has to be said that China, unlike the Russia, had no need to It was already, by far, the biggest According to Mao, and unlike him, the From Stalin to Mao, the sexuality of the 20th was not uniform but always marked A dictatorial practice of power therefore sexuality but it undeniably and push the limits. Consumption, exploitation, manipulation, intimidation, embezzlement dictators behave with their into ruthless tyrants.