I want to speak to you this morning on the topic: prayer, I want this year to be a year of prayer and we go back into small groups. Small and I won't highlight that this morning. is the importance of coming back to prayer. as Christians, know there is power in prayer. Jesus Christ. He prayed on Earth; he prayed in when he was facing a very large decision, which is his cousin got beheaded, and he went to process Jesus was, he went to prayer. Jesus prayed in the on the cross; he prayed in heaven when he went to And guess what Jesus does as a full-time job in also able to save to the uttermost those who come always, come on, those of you in second sanct, Which tells me that Jesus deems prayer as a noble for us on Earth thinks prayer is so important that tells me Jesus wouldn't be involved in something What is prayer? Prayer is three things. and it's a confrontation. A cry means you're have a relationship with God, and you take authority. In prayer, you speak to the and you begin to see a shift in your life. 'Ask, and it shall be given to you; seek, and you,' which tells us three types of things and we can knock. When you ask, it's you bless me with disappointment I'm about to have.' heal this person; deliver this person.' into the presence of God, and you're soaking in in your life; you're devoting yourself to him. And standing in the gap, and you're interceding. and you're saying, 'I'm going to take back my them to be saved. I'm believing for them am knocking on heaven's doors so that God Which tells me that these three types of prayers likely to just cry, petition. We have a list of 'Lord, bless ABCD,' we're done. Some of us, we just say, 'Come, we turn on worship, and ask anything; we're like, 'Lord, you know my so I'm just going to love on you, Jesus. I I'm not even sure you want to help me with And there's some of us; we're just intercessors. prayer, we're like, 'Father God, in the name person to be saved.' And we have a list of people; and it's good. But I want us to understand that There will be seasons when you spend more time spend more time asking, there will be seasons not neglect neither of them at the expense The first thing I want to highlight is this: Matthew chap 6, verse 6, says, &quot;But you, when shut your door, pray to your Father who is in secret will...&quot; Now, I find it interesting what What should it say? Since you're praying, prayer openly.&quot; But it doesn't say that. The the ultimate goal of prayer is not always to get the results you're praying for, but God still will In Genesis 15:1, after these things, the word &quot;Do not be afraid, Abraham. I am your shield, your results as it is about a reward. God's presence like Brother Jose mentioned when we pray, God a moment. But I want you to not think of prayer for. God says to us in Matthew 6:6, &quot;If you pray, the Lord says, &quot;Abraham, I know you want a son. son, I want to give you myself. Do not limit your where God wants to give himself to you. He When it comes to prayer, I want to highlight God will say no. If your timing is wrong, God will say grow. And if everything is right, God the time. What we pray for does not get granted us. The reason why is because the ultimate it's getting a reward. And that reward is Charles Spurgeon said, 'We shall not grow weary how graciously he once waited for us.' Secondly, a reward in the sense that we experience a revival. It revives our spiritual life. baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also was open, and the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form saying, 'You are my beloved Son; in you, I am well Say this with me: while he prayed. While he opened. While he prayed, we see that something he prayed, a voice came from heaven. Another of his face was altered, his robe became white we see, for the first time, while he prayed, God praying, his face begins to change. So, prayer is also when God is transforming me and changing me he changes my circumstances. Prayer is not only revival for you, where your spiritual man where your mood is altered, where your thoughts While he prayed, the heavens were open. While prayed, God spoke. Something happens when There was a guy named Dave--Dave Robertson. Some Power and Walking in the Holy Spirit.&quot; His in and out of jails, and would beat him. while the grandfather taught him work ethic, never amount to anything. You're worthless, At 16 years of age, Dave got saved in the not have a follow-up, two weeks later, joined the Navy for a term and, after Holiness Church where he found his wife. he got baptized in the Holy Spirit, and after lumber mill, working with wood and all of that morning, and he has a vision. In the vision his eyes were open, but instead of seeing his wheelchairs on the platform. He was seated he knew this was the meeting that was supposed to announce the speaker and looked right at which teaches about speaking in tongues. Dave started to stand up, but suddenly, an and there came a blonde woman who moved mightily People got out of wheelchairs, and then the this woman who looked at him and said, &quot;I don't because you failed.&quot; He wakes up from the vision from God, and it messes with him so bad that for with himself. He quits his job. Instead of working he would find a closet in his church, go and whistle at the local place where he worked for a so he would end the prayer 4 hours into it, go go back to work, and he would go back to prayer. Now, of course, the first few days, he ran out of ran out in 15 minutes. And then he started praying he would pray in the Holy Ghost for 4 hours and he says, &quot;If I worked at this Mill Station, I man.&quot; One day, somebody invites him to a meeting. so he can get out of prayer as well. As he goes the service was dead. I mean, things were just and he sat there just bored out of his been praying instead of sitting at this dead he sees an x-ray of her knees, and this clear image of what is wrong with her knees. So, scoots over to her, and says, &quot;Hey, do you &quot;I've never had this happen before to me, but &quot;In fact, yes, I do,&quot; and she pointed to some can I just pray for you?&quot; So, he prays for creates a commotion in the service, prays for and it literally launches his ministry that different nations of the world--Healing Ministry, large church. But one thing he attributes this him because he chose to build himself up in the to his prayer and eventually had seen a Healing What this tells me is that prayer is a experience Him. Prayer is also a Revival. it cannot happen without you praying. And I'm &quot;Father God, please help me because I didn't I'm not just talking about when you are driving, officer on your tail, pulling you over. He's income to the poor. Just please don't let this not talking about a prayer when you came to you found somebody that you like, your heart just look at me once? And that would be a sign, forsake me.&quot; Not that kind of prayer. I'm talking like Jesus did. He went into the water and prayed and his face was changed. God wants to If you dedicate yourself to continuous prayer There are people who want Revival, and time to move away from just wanting Revival, to live in a spiritual Revival. And that secret Number three: Prayer brings a release. but prayer also brings a release. In fact, let me prayer brings Revival, prayerlessness will bring Jesus said, &quot;Then he came to his disciples and could you not watch with me for one hour? Pray, The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is cease from sin, or sin will entice a man to cease apostle on prayer--if you want to read anything 'No man can do a great and enduring work for be a man of prayer who does not give much time to the secondary place is to make God secondary in but it's a sin to neglect such an opportunity. is dangerous to remain in such a condition.' Number three: Prayer brings a release. When he came to a place, he said to them, 'Pray withdrawn from them about a stone's throw, and he it says, 'Then the angel appeared to Now I want to address that for some people. is falling on deaf ears right now because or a stronghold is this: 'I did that that you're but my mom still died. I prayed, where was this situation only got worse.' This week, we had and as I was meeting with them, I was just asking one of the young men mentioned, he said, last year, and he said literally knocked my mom died. And I hoped for a breakthrough. I What's the point of praying? Why press in? Where it could be when you experience tragedy. When I of his skull gushed out in front of my eyes. It's born with something that damaged my optical nerve teenager. You know how many prayers I prayed for you're looking at it still. And it was a struggle for this, and it's not happening? And I mentioned today. I don't think any believer could ever walk having an experience of disappointment where some we want them to be answered. The strong Christians it's those who walked through them and found my Savior, your savior had an unanswered prayer his prayer: 'Father, may this cup pass over from never granted because if Jesus's prayer in have been doomed to the lake of fire. I am not in absolutely not. What I'm saying is I have a high And Jesus did not give up on prayer just because still prayed to his father on the cross. And father to send the Holy Spirit. And guess what? with this experience where some prayers were not proof that it was God's will? You can take it in I'm at fault,' and you start beating yourself. This week, the Lord gave me a scripture that and I want to share that with you. It comes and 11. It says this: 'And they cried with a loud until you judge and avenge our blood on those who to each of them, and it was said to them that the number of their fellow servants and their completed.' What an irony. These people cry out God doesn't grant them their request. He still do it right now.' God says, 'Put a robe on them &quot;Rest a little while because more killings are and then I will step in as the righteous and judge even death itself.&quot; When it comes to going to share today, I want you to, for the of your ears wide. You cannot approach the topic The Gospel tells us: Good God, bad people. us from the grip of sin. God gives us the and God gave us mercy. We live in a broken dominate. Things don't work out like God and because of Satan. One day, God will make curses will be thrown into the Lake of Fire. And we are in between that season not get answered here on Earth, we have on Earth. Don't box God into this thing. if my physical body doesn't get healed, if God, I quit on you. Because if you have that rebel to God. The world is under demonic and there is more to life than 70 miserable And we also forget that God is not bullied and the time is coming where God promises and and to execute his righteous judgment on this do I deal with the fact that some of my I would say, concerning my physical appearance? How do I deal with them? I just turn them over I will have a perfect face. Until that day, I'm trusting, and I'm not going to stop walking getting everything I want from God; sometimes the struggles I experience. I go to God with God with my disappointments, like my Savior did. this cup to run past me by?' God didn't grant the When God doesn't remove the struggle, He God does not always fix every single thing, He 'Son, I am with you. I will walk with you I will walk with you through the fire. I I will be with you in the flood, in I want to encourage you with that today. When the with the robe of His comfort. There was this guy prison camp. One day, he was praying with his him and said with ridicule, 'Prayer won't help you Ivan answered, 'I do not pray to get out Don't turn prayer into a vending machine everything I want will come out. God and God is not a law of attraction. God and my father. And He asks us to ask Him, and we things we don't get sometimes on this side. And this should strengthen our faith to bring If you stopped praying because you've had a very maybe God didn't answer the prayers, and you that mystery of why it did not happen and to step answer in your life. If I would stop praying, 'Well, look, God didn't answer this prayer,' when children, saying, 'Look, where is your So what? Our God is a good God, and He answers I'm going to still love Him, seek Him, press my sins have been forgiven. I've been And if God doesn't answer one prayer for the why? Because of what He did on the cross and He converted this rebel into His son and deal. This life on Earth, whatever I get, to an end. And whether you're rich, poor, all of our bones and skeletons will be the to one dash. But what happens in that And I want, on that side, to be with this God we need to remember: the gospel, eternity, His when we experience prayers that don't seem to just a little bit later. But in that moment, look what happened to you. This person died.' Stop whining and actually trust in God so I remember when Sidra, you know, when he got sisters got saved, his mom got saved. And there life to the Jewish Messiah, Jesus, and that was would come to his father and say, 'Dad, you need You need to believe in Yeshua as a Messiah.' And like, 'No, I'm not going to do it.' And then everybody's going to heaven. We're all going Dad. For crying out loud, get saved so we can that just broke his heart that he's going to be be without him, him in heaven. And right there, he shouted that he wanted to get saved. 'You need to shout louder that you want to be with an exclamation mark, that we will be with heaven without my whole family being in heaven.' That's what the most important is: our eternal now, with that said, the fourth thing is prayer 450 answers to prayer. Jesus prayed 25 different 21 times in his writings. Jens Franklin of prayerlessness is the unemployment of the earthly license for heavenly interference.' they are the best predictors of your spiritual pray. Ultimately, the transcript of your Abraham prayed for a son, and God answered it. Solomon asked for wisdom, and God granted it to her. Jabez prayed for protection and blessing, and and he prayed for repentance. God granted Hezekiah prayed, God added 15 years postponed destruction. Zachariah prayed, and God prayer will not change God, but it will change God promised it, settles it. I don't need to came to rescue Israel from Egypt, he didn't say, to rescue.&quot; The Bible says God says, &quot;I heard but he loves to answer your prayer. Just because save your kids, don't sit and fold your hand and chill about it.&quot; No, you need to pray through our prayers. We see that God the Father promised asked the Father to send the Holy Spirit. Why? it's you partnering with God so God begins to There was this Baptist preacher. He was on the way was Don Piper. He died; his car smashed to pieces. shattered, and he died on the scene. He remained impaled me in the chest, and then the car's roof you could survive this accident. He said that declared him dead. He was without a pulse for 90 was Dick Wreer, and he decided to go and climb The guy was dead for 90 minutes and pray for him. prays for him, and God specifically instructed for him that he will not have internal injuries, After 90 minutes of being dead, medically 15 minutes, you're gone--90 minutes, a guy that's has visits in heaven, seeing his family, giving up and praying, and Don comes back to his body, God used somebody to intercede and back to his body, every part of his body was no brain damage. Supernaturally, God protected this Baptist preacher is holding the hand runs to the paramedics, and says, &quot;Guys, I think like, &quot;He's gone. There's no way he can have a to leave. This Baptist preacher lies on the &quot;You're going to have to run me over. You're not paramedics wouldn't run him over, so they came they find out he actually has a pulse. Now, of and God brought him back, and not only that, he the power of prayer. If prayer can bring somebody happen if in the next 21 days, you start to not only you'll experience God's reward of release in your life, but there will be results A Buddhist monk, a Buddhist man, he was born he started to attend Buddhist temples, and at He started having an identity crisis in middle sadness. He coped with it by taking drugs. In in a dealer's house, and they were transporting, summer, he got high, so he calls the Buddhist he smoked what is called death bow, which is a for 10 straight days, started to experience trips, tell him if he takes his life, he will have 50,000 heavy drugs for 10 days; he's not sleeping, and then finally, this grandpa was just a demon, knife, and says, &quot;You need to go do it right now.&quot; and so Steve goes for the kitchen knife and his mom comes in and starts to get the knife &quot;Do it faster and do it right now because she's Steve leaves his body, and the grandpa disappears, being a Buddhist, calls a Christian lady who this is happening at. They all come to the house; hours for Steve, and God brings him back to life. consciousness, and then these pastors and leaders says, &quot;Yes, yes.&quot; He prays the sinner's prayer 10 mother prayed him out, though he was a Buddhist, a leader and tells other people about Jesus your children. There is power in prayer. There are Let me tell you about a Liberian warlock named There are documentaries about him, stories about him already, but I can't post the video because line to be a priest for this deity in Africa. But didn't choose his father. Instead, he was chosen a demonic deity in Liberia. Four years before he he starts the process of preparation for blindfolded, and from morning till evening, killing an animal with bare hands, ripping the the heart of an animal. Four-year training, people to do. Finally, he qualified to be the and the first thing he has to do as a high priest hearts, a human sacrifice. For the next 14 years, priests under him as an 11-year-old, 12 years old the president of Liberia was under his control. a warlock, where he now organized an army 20,000 people were killed directly under him. true until I tried to fly him to Romania and they flagged him at the airport because of he received forgiveness. Now, he's helping. He's anywhere because of his background. Christian started to intercede for him, and they named salvation but for his immediate Death By God's even dare to pray for his salvation. The reason in case somebody finds out, they'll never be will not have repercussions for their prayers. of intercessors and says, 'Don't pray for his kills children. He's a warlock. 30,000 people hell. He's on the level of Hitler. But God had salvation. And if that was not enough, they were and evangelize to him. This is the funny part, detect Christians. They would pass through his had an encounter with them. Every day, he would them. But because they kept praying for him and didn't kill the Christians. Until one day he said he had an open vision at the altar. And God Interesting part, he goes to Nigeria to share his testimony, God starts delivering him. The very there was a particular demonic object here to country, during Deliverance, the same objects set him free. And today, he rescues child for them. And we have people in our church who something I read off of the internet, and they and crazily changed. The power of prayer! in some sinful things and you say there is no because our God does miracles. Because nothing is the supernatural miracles in your family. May this in your finances. May this be the year where in Jesus' mighty name. Can somebody say amen? I don't want to just inspire you. I want to give prayer is to the Father, through the Son, 'I pray. Our prayer is to the Father, through the we don't pray to saints, and we don't pray in the name of Jesus, by the Holy Spirit. can pray privately, you can pray publicly. Men people prayed in the temple. Jesus prayed in the garden, or any solitary place. We are told to gather together as a church and pray. of prayer. The heart is more important than any people prayed standing, people prayed they prayed with hands lifted up, they prayed the head between your knees (probably not a best that if you really want to go biblical). And want to do that when if you come to a morning home and this really helps you, you can pound your but they were sinners and they pounded their The biggest question that people have is, 'What very simple: pray TACOS prayer. Tuesday Thursday TACOS, and Friday TACOS. What does T - Thanksgiving (thank God for what he did and who he is, his righteousness, his holiness, his your sins, confess your wrongdoings, confess who life). O - Others (pray for others, intercede co-workers, for your immediate family members, pray for your needs, your goals, and desires). I don't know what to pray for,' try TACOS. and yourself. Pray in the Holy Ghost, pray in will begin to meet you at the point of your need. embark on a 21 days of prayer. Now, it's also be physical. The purpose of fasting is spiritual replace your eating with prayer. Maybe you've do that. If you are able, and you don't live Let's make this a house of prayer. We're starting to be a part of that. I want you to pull out your to go to this Telegram chat. If you want to be if you don't want to, but if you want to, I want Jen prayer chat where the night before, we will praying for the day after. So, like tonight, we're who got saved today. We're going to also pray for that we're going to be praying, and then when you you can say started when you started when not to show off. We don't care about that. church to build a church culture of prayer. but I like what a new friend I met this week, I come three times a week to church to pray, and I can cultivate prayer at home, so I can build and I can build prayer in my house. And maybe three times, or one time to church prayer and then come here to pray. Our goal is to have everybody those things God has given to you to target in God's going to do so many amazing, incredible than any other year, but may you approach this If you're pregnant, nursing or you're a child, encouraged not to fast food because it's not make a decision to go fasting, if you're not sure, just say, 'Okay, I'm just going to go fast.' But you feel the Lord's leading to go into a fast, you three days will be hard, but please understand fat stored for days like that. God wired you like some of us have extra, extra, extra stuff. On to have enough fuel. So, what happens tomorrow eating. It starts eating toxins, it starts eating bad breath, that's why you get a little bit of place in your body. Your body starts a buffet; it in here. So, I want you to know that. Don't fall no, no, no. That's here for most of us; it's right last many, many, many, many, many, many days. done where actually fasting is beneficial for your we're not doing it to get healed physically. this doesn't mean every person needs to do needs to talk to the Lord and ask what the Will Jesus love you less if you fast? If you don't determined by prayer fasting; it's determined but we can draw nearer or further from him us nearer to him. And when you're praying, If you have an urgent need, a trouble visits that Telegram group is also that group where But it's not necessarily a prayer needs wall. warriors together. And every once in a while, there so that everybody can press in and pray so