Welcome to Good Mythical More. We are going to try recommended by Sporked.com See what we think of them get your soup on. But first, we're going which at this point, you It's a story that goes until Benjamin. Embarked. - On. Journey. - Because. Was. So. Fed up. With. His. Mom. She. Was. So. Mean. And. Misunderstanding. Which. Led. To. His. Departure. From. Home. Benjamin! Then. Turned. Right. Because. Left. Would've. Killed. His mom. Oh, two words. Yeah, I've done that Okay. And. That's. Fun. Because. His. Foot. Is. Big. In conclusion. ((Laughing)) Benjamin. Needs. Shoes. He killed his mom? I don't know what he did. I lost track. He did not kill his mom. I lost track. Alright. But you know what? We've gone from being really bad at that. Yeah. Benjamin embarked on a so fed up with his mom. She was so mean and to his departure from home. Benjamin then turned have killed his mom. And that's fun because In conclusion-min, In conclusion, Benjamin Chase, get in here. Yeah. I like it. Listen, I'm just gonna, I'm gonna give you Oh no, don't do it. This More was supposed Yep. But she's on tour with No, she just didn't She's just sick. I was trying to make She didn't feel good today. You can raise up. Oh, thank you. No, no, don't. Raise up. But then don't. No, yeah, raise So we've got, we've invited of this episode, Chase. Hello! To join us and, sample Sporked are asserting. Are good. Are worthy That's what they told me. Chase, what is this first one? This is the Campbell's with Italian sausage. - [Rhett] Minestrone? - [Link] Italian Sausage? - [Rhett] Oh, wow. Sorry, I always Is that a big Sausage. And is that a big And? We got pasta, taters. Potato and pasta? A lot of chunk. I'm not a big, I don't like You said a second ago that No, I don't like. Well, so if it wasn't They'd be lying. That's quite nice. It's pretty good. Man. 17 grams of protein in this? What don't you like about stews? I feel like a soup should just easy, and then like with a a, it's soupy, but then chew a lot of big things. You chew a stew, Oh, you wanna just, you Yeah. Well, just, just wait. Just wait. Just you wait. Eventually we all do. - [Chase] But, you know, I think This is almost on the cusp. What are you doing I got a little bit of don't have a napkin to. No, that's what Chase does. He collects a little drop And then at the very Yeah, and then he has in one big bite. Soup bowl. Yeah. I saw you You hungry? Chase, when I saw you earlier at an angle, and I looked not tell that you basically, you're sitting here that you the middle, and you have a Nothing in there. ((Laughing)) Well, what if you had fell right out, but you were looked like this was in the a shirt that had two zippers. And a strip. And then a strip. And I was like, what happens Does the strip fall down? And I was about to And then you turned And it was just a pocket. That was something that would never have talked about. Unless you came out Well, I'm very happy I did. But Patagonia, if you're should do the strips thing. - Yeah, because. When you unzip it, then it a flopping. Like a tie. It would be like A tie from the crotch. And it goes all the way. A crotch tie? All the way down. Stevie? - [Stevie] All the way down. Yeah, it goes And then it stops Let's try the next one. Let's try the next one. That was pretty good. Big fan of that. I didn't know I Next we have, what, Chase? This is the, Creamy Split Pea Soup. Creamy Split Pea Soup. Yeah. I'm a fan of, split Because you like pudding. But I, yeah. I like, I like peas. I like green peas, I like it with ham I would, I wouldn't thrown in there. There is neither in this. You can, you can, dress Now, Chase, this This is clearly soup. This is soup. This is drinkable. Ooh, that's good. I like a pea soup as well. There are places you can you will see billboards of It's like in central Yeah. There's like a big pea soup place. It might be Andersen's. There's all kinds. Because central California there's so many things like Like. Try our lavender, try - [Link] Almonds. They're, you know, and little roadside stands. There's that one city in the just smells like garlic, too. It's like a very Which one is that? That you drive through. Yeah. - Gilroy. Gilroy smells like garlic? I must have had I think this is my first - [Rhett] It just tastes like a - [Chase] It really is just mushy peas. - [Link] It's like hot baby food. - [Chase] Yeah, which. - [Link] You like it? That, I'm just realizing like a soupy soup, but I was Like. Even as a baby? Even as a baby. I wanted a crunch, I guess. Yeah, I don't remember My memories didn't Well, he banged his head Yeah, kind of locked Yeah, right. I'm a fan of this. It's no minestrone. This is good. It's a, it's a little too, we're putting the Italian Oh, we're ranking these? Yeah, we're ranking these. Leave it on the board. I would put the Italian I want the Italian sausage to Okay, well, we'll You know, all of these can the realm of expectation douse it with something. Yeah, yeah. I want to spice it myself Okay, Rhett. What is this one? Well, let's see. It is Panera Broccoli You can get this from Panera, and this is the version I feel like this has the than the restaurant one. We've had the restaurant I remember not liking it. And thinking, how do This is basically some melted Doesn't sound that bad. Right? Does not. You ever been to, is city up there, Visalia? Is that, is that one? Yeah. That's a big one. Oh, sorry, I cheesed. Oh, I cheesed quite a lot. That's why you That's cheesy. What's wrong with it? I don't know, I was enjoying Yeah, I'm enjoying it too. I don't think there's I'm going in for &quot;sex&quot;. ((Laughing)) Don't cheese too fast. It's short for a seconds. Secs. I'm going in for secs. S-E-C-S. I was just trying to efficient with my language. I'm going in for sex. I mean, if you're really Yeah, it makes sense. It's like, it's Like thirds. Going in for thirds. Secs. ((Laughing)) You know what I'm saying? Yeah, I'm going to say that when I'm dining with Why are you going I'm going in for secs. I'm going in there for secs. Don't follow me. I'll give it another try since Yeah, well, tell us what Cause it just tastes and cheese soup to me. Very cheesy. Broccoli's not, I think the broccoli Really? No, no, I think it's kind of, It's not cheddar broccoli cheddar soup. And the thing that's easily cheese soup that's in a thing happens with the cheese and Yeah, really makes Right, yep, I'm on board. It's an aphrodisiac. I think it's better than I love the pea soup. But Link doesn't like it, No, I've been voted out. Do you like it I do like it better Yeah, the peas are If Gwynedd were here, it'd Yeah, yeah, she would've Oh. Yeah, she would've said something. I need to tell My cousin lived there. Oh, really? He said you get used So, they grow a lot Is that what's happening? I think so, yeah. I think it's just like a When you saw him, No, I think he Like he would But you know how Well, if you're eating. It's kind of If you're eating it, but think if you walk through a I don't think he was one to What do we have here? - [Link] This is Panera Bread's $6.50 A lot of people get really I'm not one of them. There are some chunks, I be a chunk of. Some people Autumn squash? And I'm like, there's - [Stevie] Well, if you make it, it's one of those things, My wife really gets - [Stevie] Like what kind of squash Just, I don't know, if there's And then she also, she loves She'll do that and I'm like, that ain't, - That ain't, that ain't. - [Stevie] Yeah, that's a problem. No, that's not good. This is, this is You think this is bad? I like this. It's not bad, but I'm It's very sweet and I want to You want to throw in No. Chase wanted to throw stuff Yeah. Well, I think this soup I think this and the pea soup a little something on top. Like a little crema. - [Link] Yep. A little crema and But it does taste good. I like, again, I like it The pea soup. I don't, no, I'm not It's falling for me. I'm not gonna let this happen. I like the squash soup, mind the, like, this is And I like the, the texture. It's so pea-y. It's so pea. - That's what it is, man. It delivers. Okay, well then we're We're making squash last. Yes, I'm putting my foot down. Alright. Chase? Yes? Tell them what we got here. This is Rao's Homemade This is Rao's Homemade Style Slow Simmered Soup. Rao consistently marinara. This comes from I think everything I think that's their thing. Jars. I am, absolutely one of keep all of the jars that I - Why? I just think they're, like, gonna You put little rocks in them? Make little habitats? What do you keep in jars? When I, the last time lot of stuff in jars. There was like a jar full jar full of, I had like when you get a shirt. You got a jar of cables? Yeah. And then we got there's too many jars. So I recycled a lot - [Stevie] This is a constant About whether to - [Stevie] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Cassie wants to - [Stevie] Exactly. But they are recyclable - [Stevie] They are and you have to recycle them, you have to Oh, you have to hide it? - [Stevie] Yeah, yeah, and then it's reviewed on a daily basis and goes, Stevie, this is you put this in there? So, it really, I wind up the time, the jar game. Does she, is she using just stacked somewhere? - [Stevie] Both. Okay. You know, a nice storage can come in handy. Perfect for cables. - [Stevie] But, you know, like, how things are you storing? I would not say that a That's like the last thing You can Yeah. Oh, that's a cable jar. But then you gotta take all Oh, yeah. I just know it's I got the USB-C cable jar. I got the Wow. I got, I tried to It didn't really work out, but. That's a pretty good idea. It really, the, I take old plastic protein things, and That's the way I Cause it's just like, of protein with a mouth pour your grease into it. You know? And then when it gets of it properly. You can't put, cause put it in the trash. I don't. You can put it in the compost. Cook meat that forgot, like. You know how about, like, when I make my a party of like 40 people. That's so much grease. You have a vat. That's this much grease. You can't put that in compost. Good God. What is this? It looks like Chase. Yeah, that is, this got a Let, let me break - [Chase] Make it look a - [Link] It, I thought it was porridge - [Rhett] We didn't evaluate Chicken noodle is really good. And I think that, to I'm willing to put It was pretty good. The, I thought there for a minute, but it kind A little light on the chicken. What is this? Some sort of a? It does look like a very porridge-y clam chowder. There's nothing else in it. How could, so, Sporked Let's see. Well, I mean, clam supposed to have in it? It's a potato There's no actual no, no vegetable. Tiny little bit It's very clammy. I mean, you don't want chowder hoping that you're I don't know why Right. I do think. The first You need, like, the For a clam chowder. It would be nice to balance it a little salty crackly. Now, just a note about Comes out of the can, Which is straight water. That always grossed Maybe with milk, you could would have been better. This is, this is. That's my least favorite. It's hard, it's hard to eat. It's not great, but I, if You better be You can give it a try. I'm not going in I'm not going in for secs. I want to remind you that, our latest release written the entire Mythical team and is being poured into this. Our favorite recipes from the Lots of, lots of fun It's very funny. Go to Mythical.com/cookbook and preorder this puppy. Josh, turns out, Be one of the first Hot off the presses. There's a picture There's a picture Lots of great pictures. So we, we've locked in This minestrone, I think, is I mean, that's a Go back to the list, if we're going to look at. Andersen's Creamy Split Pea Yeah, I mean, I think I love it. I love it. And Rao's Chicken Noodle Soup. Okay. Thanks for joining us, Chase. You can take all We miss you, Gwynedd Hope you feel better tomorrow. If you need soup, I gotcha. I'll bring you secs. ((Laughing)) ((Music)) - [Link] Find your new favorite soup soup rankings over at