So we're in the middle of a fierce debate about how artificial intelligence But have you thought your relationship to the non-human world? So these are bioacoustic recorders. And I've spent years studying combined with AI, to listen to the hidden sounds of nature and decode non-human communication. Hidden sounds, because much acoustic occurs in the high ultrasound, or in the deep infrasound, So I'm going to play a sound. I want you to listen and try (Chirping sound) So that was a bat. That was bat ultrasound, but slowed down so you could hear. So that was an advertisement call Scientists can decode these calls, so a sample bat to English translation &quot;Pay attention. I'm a Pipistrellus nathusii bat, My name is X. I am landing here and we share a common social identity For a pickup line by a bat, not bad. (Laughter) So scientists have recorded millions and they've decoded many of them using AI. And they've revealed that they pass down and that baby bats by listening to the adults around them and babbling back So bats have far more complex and they're only one of many examples. Listen to this. (Melodic chirping sounds) So those are orcas who live right Scientists can decode individual and they've revealed that orcas from one generation to the next. So it turns out that orcas and bats are not the only Moths, mice, beetles, rats. Even some of our smaller primate At the other end, in the deep infrasound, elephants and whales, tigers and some birds make sound. So when we first learned about these we're often surprised that what we cannot perceive And so we miss a lot. One of my favorite examples So to you, this looks And it is. But this peacock is also making which you cannot hear, And it is an important factor So this peacock is giving a rock concert. (Laughter) Now, we have lived but we only just figured this out. Scientists also used to think and mother turtles abandoned their nests But we've just discovered communicate through their shells to coordinate the moment of their birth and then follow their mother's calls Even creatures without ears So this is a coral larva. When coral larvae are born, a few days after the full moon, So scientists used to think these tiny dots that you see here, were helpless, randomly pushed around But it turns out that coral larvae They can hear the sounds of healthy reefs. They can hear the sound and they swim back home So these are tiny creatures But we think they do that with these hairs that you see on the outside They're a lot like the hairs that are enabling you so you can think of a coral larva except that its sense of hearing because they hear Even our planet makes sound. Volcanoes, earthquakes sound so low they travel very far, passing through soil and stone Listen to this hydrothermal vent (Deep, rhythmic hum) So in nature, sound is everywhere So scientists are also listening of interspecies communication. So this bat is using ultrasound Its echolocation beam but the moth is also emitting ultrasound. It's jamming the bat sonar This plant is also emitting ultrasound, Scientists have trained an algorithm Simply by listening it can detect with about 70 whether the plant is healthy, So this is peer-reviewed So we cannot hear these sounds, Does this mean that humans to one day communicate Well, some scientists think so and they're using machine learning to try So there are teams of computer scientists working on decoding They're also building entire dictionaries. So there's an elephant dictionary Elephants, for example, So I'd love to share just one It was recorded at a moment the birth of a new baby. (Elephant roaring) (Applause) So the further we listen the more complex interspecies Listen to this honeybee. (Honeybee buzzing) Now listen to this honeybee queen. (Queen bee tooting) So you thought you knew Honeybee communication It's acoustic, positional, The queen has her own signals. So scientists are encoding This robot is attempting, to communicate with the hive. The bees mostly ignore or attack it. But one day, we hope, the inventors hope, that this robot to allow scientists to monitor Now, would that be a good thing? Some believe that interspecies and empathy for nature, others believe that it is profoundly to eavesdrop and engage in this way. And there could be a really big downside. Listen to this robin. (Bird chirping) So that was not actually a robin. That was a deepfake created by an artist, Clever, beautiful. But think of the potential for misuse Interspecies communication And anyway, maybe it's a bit other species would even want (Laughter) So what if we were to use bioacoustics for something of immediate like doing something Let's go back to the coral reefs. Listen to this healthy reef sound. (Chirping, croaking and sizzling sounds) Pretty lively, right? But coral reefs are disappearing. If you were to go you'd hear something like this. (Staticky sound) It's like a ghost town of the sea. When we lose species, we lose voices. When we lose landscapes, There is a ray of hope. The healthy reef sounds can be used to regenerate coral reefs. Scientists are doing this. It's a bit like music therapy for nature. So this is not going to solve notably climate change. But if we can address the massive that is harming we could use bioacoustics Bioacoustics could also help So this baby whale was killed by a ship. Tragically, this is a common cause one of the most endangered So to address this, scientists are now launching off the east coast of North America to triangulate the locations of whales and convey the information The ships then have to slow down, Not a single right whale has died since this program was launched. (Applause) So this may be the thing So think about it. A few decades ago, we were harpooning Today, we've invented a technology that allows a community simply by singing, to guide the movements in a watershed that's home One day, these whale lanes For the orcas who live here this would be just in time A final thought. About 400 years ago, the inventors of the microscope the microbial world. They had no idea their invention and the ability to manipulate Around the same time, the inventors of the telescope not knowing their invention would allow to the origins of the universe. Optics decenters humanity within the cosmos. Bioacoustics decenters humanity Our commonality is greater than we knew. Now today we're using bioacoustics and decode their communication, but tomorrow, I believe, combined with machine intelligence to explore the frontiers Many biological intelligences but they're no less worthy of exploration. And maybe one day in a speculative future, instead of a human here on stage, maybe bioacoustics would enable (Laughter) Why not? Sharing orca stories about dodging ships and seismic blasts and human hunters, stories about desperately seeking stories about trying to survive in this crazy moment in our era of untethered human creativity and unprecedented environmental emergency. Now those would be ideas worth spreading. (Chirping sounds) (Applause)