If you're from the west like me, you probably European affair influenced by the cities ancient republics has literally been built into but people all around the world, at various collective forms of government. In researching I came across a really fascinating an Indigenous American republic, Tlaxcallan. Tlaxcala. Today, I want to take a look at the its political officials, it's extremely severe formed the ideological bedrock of this 16th it should be well interesting, I love The first mention of Tlaxcallan in the European 'Letters from Mexico'. These are the first hand Cortes for the Spanish king, Charles V. Cortes was Moctezuma, he was advised by the king of Cempoal, territory of Tlaxcallan rather than head straight thinks and him and his men set off. Naturally the *sounds of battle* No of course they didn't. According to Cortes, the Tlaxcaltecans immediately started 45 men and killing and wounding all but 10 of &quot;At dawn I came upon another large town more than 20,000 houses. As I took them and the women and children ran naked in the Cortes set up camp for the night and It's fair to say at this point the morale of his desperate position the Tlaxcaltecans had failed treat this new enemy on their frontier, especially had access to which they had of course never seen make peace and it's here we get our first &quot;On the following day at ten o'clock Sintigal, the captain general of this province, came to Xicotencatl explains why they &quot;They had tried with all their forces both by day for this province never had been, nor This is the first glimpse we get of their they've never had a king and they certainly king either. During this meeting Cortes is invited &quot;Larger than Granada and very much until now these people have been governed is Genoa or Pisa. For they have no overload. There city. For their wars they join together, Clearly their republican system is immediately he's not unaware of the politics of the region. and it's immediately apparent to him that medieval Italian republics. In many ways modern it seems that Tlaxcallan was truly a unique place. Monte Alban, Xochicalco, Chichen-Itza, Palenque. Throughout Mesoamerica, capital A central plaza surrounded by monumental sweat baths, and ball courts. These buildings and beyond the core zone houses are densely packed little overall order. There are some exceptions that's a pretty fair description Tlaxcallan on the other hand, it Dr. Lane Fargher: &quot;Let me start by saying that the pyramids, the elaborate tombs, that civilization and typical of many And the lack of these buildings really speaks to Specifically that these sorts of buildings mark resources that are jointly produced for their we have markers in the material record of, uh control their governing officials. So autocracy. So what does this look like, see this in the archaeological record? How The primary feature that really defines it is in building large and accessible plazas was key the daily activities of Tlaxcala occurred. At the and these define the centers of the three major larger than the other. They are about between square meters, but one is not significantly more don't have a central plaza, that sort of central sort of equally ranked, that shows that, you know, districts, and that one isn't controlling others, additional plazas that are smaller. So there's of about 24 plazas at least, and then during our sort of, what characterizes this city are these Stefan: Instead of being surrounded by palaces they're surrounded by residential terraces could not have supported a house bigger To put that into perspective, a typical thousand and twenty thousand meters squared. So as was 10 to 20 times smaller than Dr. Fargher: &quot;...and then when we go to the they're all identical. There's no distinction the material culture, the portable cooked in jars that were painted everybody made their tortillas on griddles that and absolutely everybody had these highly we call them because of the multiple colours for house we dug. And if you go to other parts contemporaneous, only the wealthiest individuals, plates to eat off of. So the humblest Tlaxcaltecan Stefan: Outside of the city was the monumental and again this totally defies the norms of the is tightly controlled and available only to palace turned inside out. Tizatlan contains for hundreds, maybe even thousands of people in the political process. Cortes' extracts and into this republic but they don't give us the is what we all definitely want. Who were these Well authors writing soon after the Spanish Tlaxcaltecan politics seems to have revolved Teuctli, these chaps had both military and was definitely not an egalitarian society. There and other middle classes. So Tlaxcala was but the office off Teuctli was not an Munoz Camargo, a Tlaxcaltecan mestizo writing noted that Teuctli status could successful in war, given good advice to the Now no doubt being noble or having a noble as a society, nepotism exists everywhere, but the office of Teuctli was based on your Let's say you're an upcoming Tlaxcaltecan, and the senate approves your First your septum would be pierced and and a jaguar's bone. Symbolizing consistent with the virtues exhorted by After this the common people were invited from your body to try your patience. The Teuctli and penance. The more noble your birth, Following this public dressing down, service in a temple for one to which involved sleep deprivation, fasting, and they were educated and trained in the moral and the responsibilities they had to the state After this time at the temple, they were awarded a bow and sceptre. Symbolizing Finally, after all of this, after the beatings lavish feast. Motalina states that between 1200 this great ceremony for the new Teuctli. this was a huge party, and and no doubt explains Thousands of people must have been in attendance. What I wouldn't give to go back and be a fly roasted turkeys, the pulque is flowing. To pay for the Teuctli's new role as he was awarded a teccalli. A teccalli but also people that went along with the office 24 districts of Tlaxcallan was was probably a were required to give a percentage of their provide soldiers for its military units. The were never really the personal property of the the land that the lord ate from and the teccalli. to compare it to Europe, fantastic thing to have The Teuctli also sat in this senate passing Tlaxcallan, but how it operated on a daily basis We don't know how many people were in it. The the conquest had 220 electors. That could the sources just don't quite agree. Some say 50, came to decisions is also not known. Teuctli who renowned could achieve the rank of Tlatoque, there but but we have no evidence that they had any It seemingly might have been just a title of of Teuctli though doesn't mean that you were of the brother of one of the most important for the crime of adultery. In another important Cortes was tried by the senate for treason because against the Spanish. He was found guilty and he was either executed by the Tlaxcaltecans or Poor Xicotencatl, he was absolutely right best interests of the Tlaxcaltecans at heart. No but the ideology of this Tlaxcaltecan republic, love of his country, has been lost to history more nuggets, but they do give us a fascinating insight republics place in the world. The religious complicated. There are so many different gods, different people, and different cultures. It's considering their practices like human sacrifice, a great video I'll link to it in the description. seems to have had a special place in the hearts is so potentially significant about this is that, he plays a sort of trickster role, antagonizing this other god/monarch, Quetzalcoatl, Incest was a massive taboo in considered deeply immoral. In another tale, to sacrifice his own sons. Literally ending his than that. Nothing worse can really happen to destroying this bloodline. It could be that this sort of tarnishing of various monarchs were intriguing possibility, sadly we just can't say lost to the mists of time, at the minute. But emphasized aspects of Nahua religion that gave republican system. It's an intriguing idea, it's I think i'm going to end the video there, Tlaxcallan, but for sure that is not all that can i first learned about them because it's so easy to history, like all of history was just absolute and that's thinking that I've been learn about something that that challenges your it's just so interesting. It's what makes i'm always learning something new and the republic that are clearly designed to promote humility people have experimented with all throughout time and throughout the humility in our current leaders as as they who excavated Tlaxcallan and shared photos with that was a massive help. Huge thanks to Rafael throughout this video he's been fantastic as well, script, really knowledgeable guy and fantastic Any mistakes are entirely mine, absolutely nothing allow me to invest in so much artwork you guys that's it loads more videos on bye pop