OPRAH WINFREY: She's at the intersection of mental Dr. Anita Phillips is life coach, minister, and host podcast. Dr. Anita believes the more the more spiritually ANITA PHILLIPS: How is going to determine A simple truth, but OPRAH WINFREY: In &quot;The New York Times&quot; Dr. Anita shares how you may be seeking in the soil of your own heart. ANITA PHILLIPS: We believe create our feelings. But they do not. Our thoughts come from OPRAH WINFREY: Today Dr. Anita helps us discover [INSPIRATIONAL MUSIC] Hi, everybody. I am so happy to be with podcast and YouTube channel. You know, I think are feeling some Are you? A discord certainly of course, but also within and for some, even And some of you may You may be in search You may be in search of home. Or maybe you're just weary, and spiritually from the murders of George and all that has gone on being overwhelmed by everything It is a lot. It's just a lot going So one morning, I was opening up my mail. And inside was a package. I pulled out a beautiful &quot;The Garden Within-- Where the War with your Powerful Life Begins.&quot; Now, y'all know I love a garden. And who knew that we all I happen to, as you watched you over the years-- I love a book that can fortify that's an offering And that's why I'm sitting here Within,&quot; Dr. Anita Phillips. Welcome. ANITA PHILLIPS: OPRAH WINFREY: Welcome. ANITA PHILLIPS: It's amazing to be here. OPRAH WINFREY: Since this is tell our audience-- And how did you ANITA PHILLIPS: Well, but I'm also a So I grew up in a And I had an older the symptoms of a when we were very young. She was about 11 I was about six years old. She woke up in the middle just screaming with staring at our bedroom door. And she said there was Well, like I said, I'm a Black church, so I and we'll deal with it, and everything's going to be OK. But a few nights later, again. And a few weeks later, again. And so it came clear that there But it's the early no idea about mental illness. OPRAH WINFREY: There ANITA PHILLIPS: No language. It wasn't my parents in God and not mental illness. On the list of options, We had no idea. OPRAH WINFREY: So what did What did you all think? Did you think she was possessed? Did you think-- ANITA PHILLIPS: That it So somehow, the devil And then as she to act out and run away from And so then she'd for acting out, but was schizophrenic and bipolar. And so she would but we didn't know what it was. And then she got addicted was a form of self-medication. And we lost her to the streets addiction on the streets. And finally, thank clean at the end of her life. The last seven she was able to get off for her mental reunite with us as a family. And unfortunately, at Her body was so broken from She had an heart attack And so even though she I consider untreated mental of death because it and our family's life. OPRAH WINFREY: I and what did it steal from you? Because when the child or whether it is a child or of the family, takes all the the focus, it shapes or the person who's just you know, views their own life see and are seen by others. ANITA PHILLIPS: Completely First of all, the terror was traumatizing for me. I didn't sleep with the door because if I woke up and saw immediately, my body So there was that Then yes, I was the good kid. I was the kid who got the things, who got the awards. And so it was like I'm proof There's a good kid here, but that there wasn't enough OPRAH WINFREY: Because your dealing with that all the time. So as long as I wasn't in everything's fine. I felt a little lost. I felt alone. And so that was its OPRAH WINFREY: How did as a trauma therapist? ANITA PHILLIPS: Because I wanted wrong, what had happened, first, I realized it was still in my I hadn't known the word But something's happening here. And I was just starting my professional at that time. But also, there was I remember my mom once wrong with Valerie that but I still want to know We had such a deep things spiritually as well. So I wanted to do both. So I became a trauma therapist, and worked really hard. And God was good to have OPRAH WINFREY: Can Phillips, what do you mean by ANITA PHILLIPS: Absolutely. So early as a grad took my first I saw a picture of a And I was blown away by how Like, I'm googling seedling, and they look so much alike. And then I started that I'd known forever. You'll be like a tree, And God will plant And you'll be like Isaiah 58:11. And I thought, oh, my goodness. There's billions of that we call neurons planted God must have done OPRAH WINFREY: We are ANITA PHILLIPS: Exactly. OPRAH WINFREY: Nature's garden ANITA PHILLIPS: Yeah. He planted a garden within us. OPRAH WINFREY: Yes. And here's what you that I wanted to read. You don't need to overthrow a revolution in your life. You just need to overthrow believed about your emotions. The creator designed your heart A truly powerful life isn't one. It's cultivated. I just love that so much. A truly powerful life isn't one. It's cultivated. It's continually ANITA PHILLIPS: OPRAH WINFREY: ANITA PHILLIPS: Caring for the at that neuron that's a god, where is it Because that's what matters for So neurons are the But God showed me in is in the soil of the heart. And so I had to begin to look our emotions and our thoughts. And it's not the relationship We believed the lie that our but they do not. It is our feelings that Our thoughts come from And so that's a very different But neurobiology The scripture has been OPRAH WINFREY: Yes. Emotional pain signals to you. It signals to you. And what happens is most themselves over to think they are the anchor. They think they are ANITA PHILLIPS: Right. And they think that that's bad. But really, emotions, they're like hunger pangs. When we feel hungry, When we feel sadness, a need for connection. When we're angry, it's usually has been treated as less than. And we need that value restored. And when we're afraid, And so emotional pain is like for value, for safety. And humans need those But we have been taught that They're slowing me We're putting it aside. And so it's like we're running without feeding our needs. And that's why so many but are emotionally haven't eaten. And so they get there, and they they would feel think they needed connection, They just need to achieve. But it's so much more than that OPRAH WINFREY: Tell us the more. ANITA PHILLIPS: The The more is purpose. The more is leaving legacy. Those are the components. That's what we want to And a lot of times, That's why I say we We'll go out and say, oh, I And you go out and and then hang the That doesn't make I want to grow this internally It might take longer for but I'll get there well. OPRAH WINFREY: The creator to be a garden, not a war zone. A truly powerful life isn't won. It is cultivated. And so that cultivation ANITA PHILLIPS: Continual. OPRAH WINFREY: What lies have ANITA PHILLIPS: We've are signs of weakness. We've been told that they separated from the a sterile field from our spirit, It's always don't go Don't go with your emotions. But nothing happens when Our emotions are a part of Our emotions are a part of We are not always aware of There was a huge shift in the around 2010 when that our body, our preceding our thinking. And it's not a bad thing. That's why we don't want I'd rather you be When we think about how heart in everything makes us different from every of our emotional capacity. OPRAH WINFREY: You talk about and what those scattered seeds Can you speak to that? ANITA PHILLIPS: Sure. In Matthew chapter 13, It's called the And he explains that of soil that are challenged. One is called wayside. It's hard and dry. The seed can't even get in. Another is called stony ground. It's rocky. It's got a little good soil. The seed gets in, It dies. And then there's this thorny is doing good, fruits growing. Thorns choke it. When Jesus distinguishes he uses emotion terms. He says that in there was joy when But then the sun comes out, They were offended, So anger shows that it's And then he says there are weeds That's fear. So Jesus is using emotion among these soil types. And it's as if we've been and never noticed, And so he's showing of the words that are impacted by our And so we have to pay OPRAH WINFREY: I I also love this. I was just thinking about this that I had with a Carolyn Mason, who said that feels drawn to hope.&quot; I never forgot that. &quot;Spirit is a part of you feel And even though as I was saying at the the world feels weary right now. We are all still, I believe, And I love this You say, &quot;faith Hope says it's possible for me.&quot; What do you want to tell ANITA PHILLIPS: Hope No soil is fertile Everything we do Now, sometimes if we sometimes it's a Sometimes we don't But that's a hope And then when we have positive that's the way we But it's water in the garden. Nothing can grow without it. And it begins as a feeling. We often talk about But if people really sat down they would feel When you reflect on a time or something worked out that you get, I call that hope. That's something else You feel it first, and then is drawn into the plant. That's the mind. OPRAH WINFREY: Can you tell us ANITA PHILLIPS: Oh, my goodness. Yes. OPRAH WINFREY: I light up with that question. When I had my first to have him without unnecessary But there were some and I needed to be But the second time that I had I prayed and said, really want to have my daughter What I meant was when I don't want anything I ended up giving birth on the So when I said no I didn't mean that. But God totally surprised me. And it was the most And it wouldn't have occurred But he knew what beauty would And that surprised me so whenever I pray, I say, but your ideas And I'm full of hope for OPRAH WINFREY: because I've lived a life and beyond my dreams came true. I always say God can dream dream for yourself, you know? So tell me, what was that you were able to overcome? And what allowed ANITA PHILLIPS: My would be a terrible mother. And I ended up being OPRAH WINFREY: Why did you ANITA PHILLIPS: You know, was a script that I absorbed figure out what had And so there was this sense of her. And so I heard that lament, And so when I had what if I don't know What if I just don't have the-- That was a script that-- ANITA PHILLIPS: --got into that I could just not have this. I may just be insufficient. And she was struggling Like I said, we didn't have the yet. And so even with that the insufficiency script OPRAH WINFREY: How often do you in life, in families, a script gets into your heart on as your own narrative? ANITA PHILLIPS: It happens That is what Generational trauma is the the toxic, dysfunctional, and that we absorb and pass on. That's one of the greatest is the story has been to have these life experiences. And so that was trauma for me. OPRAH WINFREY: Yeah, you took ANITA PHILLIPS: I It wasn't even hers. She just didn't have This child has a mental illness. But I took it in. And so when I found out I oh, this is awesome. This poor kid. OPRAH WINFREY: How am I ANITA PHILLIPS: How am I OPRAH WINFREY: My ANITA PHILLIPS: It's What's going to happen? Can you really do anything? And I had to work through that I actually do to shape how my children are And man, they're But I had to work or it would have choked them. They're amazing individuals. ANITA PHILLIPS: He I'm actually really OPRAH WINFREY: You write about-- in &quot;The Garden Within,&quot; you trauma caused by what didn't-- what did not happen for a child. So how do you frame that trauma? ANITA PHILLIPS: You know, about a prodigal son. And in that story, goes out, takes the inheritance, And then there's the He was the good kid, like And he comes to the father throw a party for the bad kid, the black sheep. And he says, you never And he says, oh, a party anytime you wanted. And they cast that But who wants to ask for a I feel like we've misunderstood That was a developmental trauma. It wasn't what happened to him. It's what didn't happen for him, on the child who had gone was seen as ungrateful when And that is trauma, to be not to be attuned to. You can have all your but your heart OPRAH WINFREY: It's so this conversation because I that it's, you know, you were or somebody But I actually so applaud because to be unseen, It's the deepest trauma. ANITA PHILLIPS: That's is no one sees my pain. And no one tells me I'm OPRAH WINFREY: That's right. And then when you grow up and people try to tell or that it-- or that it didn't matter. ANITA PHILLIPS: That OPRAH WINFREY: And one of the in all the years of interviewing is that that is the one thing is for the validation. ANITA PHILLIPS: The validation. And you have that child inside. And you begin to believe And so you silence him or her. And that is so scary. And that perpetuates because what I've seen in with for 20 years is the child inside of you the child in front of you. And if you minimize the pain you got this, you won't You won't see the abuse ignore the child inside of you. So we have to heal internally to OPRAH WINFREY: And that's continues. Say it. ANITA PHILLIPS: It OPRAH WINFREY: healed the trauma the hurt inside yourself. And so you think have we not seen this in the community, it's just like-- ANITA PHILLIPS: OPRAH WINFREY: You know, you What I did, and I walked and I didn't have, And so you need to just-- ANITA PHILLIPS: They hit I only slapped you All this is not enough. OPRAH WINFREY: And it's the child inside now not able to see the child. ANITA PHILLIPS: You can't see OPRAH WINFREY: Whoa. That's so big. So how do we get people to heal especially-- you know this, Black women, we have we just carried the burden We're the ones-- we are the We're the ones to carry on, and our wounded, many, many, wounded. ANITA PHILLIPS: looked to Jesus at different I want to point emotionally that Jesus let his pain out. We feel like we're Jesus is standing in front weeping in public. We don't even want to cry in OPRAH WINFREY: We don't ANITA PHILLIPS: Right, ever. But Jesus weeps in public. Even though he knew he was about he still expressed the We don't feel like we have the pain in the moment. We see Jesus in He's, like, flipping tables. He's whipping folks And then he invites people into And then we see him in again, expressing it publicly. And then he goes down out I am he that you're looking for. And he knocks all these soldiers What I want so many Black for strength to avoid is that Jesus expressed And every single time something spiritually There's something in in that brokenness, that seems to allow a wave behind it. When we step out of our that's the shift that we need. That's the shift. OPRAH WINFREY: You write a term coined by Explain to us what this is and dangerous, spiritual bypassing. ANITA PHILLIPS: observed this in his so this isn't limited And what he saw was that to experience emotional pain, their spiritual practices rather than to grow from. And so in my Christian hey, don't worry about that You know the Bible says which are in the past. It's all new now. And it's like, yes, I'm still in pain. The joy of the Lord Why are you crying? The joy of the Lord I'm crying because I'm in pain. And so when we rush to grab or our spiritual tools to I call that spiritual want to get around this thing. But you cannot get around You can't do it. In order to allow you have to allow the And so we need to stop letting in our own selves and cause us to try to put spiritual happening there. Proverbs 15:13 says this. By sorrow of the heart, It's telling us right there can break you spiritually. So in order for you to not allow we must engage the to use the spirit to will break you spiritually. It will break your It will break your safety because you have come from that kind of pain. You can't spiritually You have to go through it. OPRAH WINFREY: You can't ANITA PHILLIPS: You can't You can act like it. You can try. But it won't work. OPRAH WINFREY: I respond to your and modern psychology. And you spoke about the during the Woman with the awesome ANITA PHILLIPS: Awesome. OPRAH WINFREY: And you also write about it So what's the vagus nerve? And how does that ANITA PHILLIPS: is the main nerve in a the parasympathetic And that nervous system's regulate, so that when we have afraid, it activates to bring and calm, and rest. What's incredible forms a tree in our bodies. And so in Genesis chapter of the creation of humanity. And it says that a garden I always like to tell people, That's the East Place your hand on your heart. There's the garden And it says a river And when it left, it Our aorta comes out of into four rivers. This is literally the Garden So if a seed was planted there, into our belly, the trunk and there would be There's literally a tree within, a tree of life. And that is what we And when it's It brings us calm. It brings us connection. It takes us to our It also slows our heart down, balances our blood sugar. So our emotional are linked to this tree of And that's that vagus nerve. OPRAH WINFREY: I love And I love the too, where you And you say it's that unattended emotional I think we all And I'm just curious as to how ends up showing up physically. ANITA PHILLIPS: Yeah. Well, we know how we begin in our bodies. So if anyone takes a moment now that made them a little sad-- I don't want people And just close your eyes, you feel it. Very often, people say they There's a heaviness here, kind Yeah, a tightness. But then also, as that arms tend to feel heavy. Legs tend to feel heavy. Our limbs kind of deactivate. And so we're slower. We get that fatigue. Sometimes our So sadness shows up in our OPRAH WINFREY: In ANITA PHILLIPS: Lethargy. OPRAH WINFREY: Lethargic. ANITA PHILLIPS: Very much so. And in intense situations, from that kind of change the shape of our heart. It's called takotsubo syndrome, And it has killed people. After the Ulvade shooting, the that was killed, he went to and had a heart attack and died. Broken heart syndrome. It actually changes so the way that it A broken heart can And so sadness does It's very dangerous if we don't attend to it. OPRAH WINFREY: And you and loneliness are the two I had a conversation with Dr. Vivek Murthy. You know him, the And he told me that loneliness 15 cigarettes a day. And you talk about the of something called non-sexual and you actually just ANITA PHILLIPS: Loneliness is a reflection That connection is but it's also physical. When babies are left they don't thrive. They don't grow. So we need touch in order And there is not in our culture. We don't hug our And so I want people to We need it so much. OPRAH WINFREY: Yeah, and the impact of a 20-minute hug. ANITA PHILLIPS: A 20-minute Yes. ANITA PHILLIPS: When we for a solid 20 seconds, And it bonds us to the person calms our nervous that when stress revisits us, So the hug helps but it also strengthens us to I mean, a good 20-second And if you're not near a you can just place And you can hug yourself. And it has a very I've had clients burst into because they hadn't been Just sometimes hold OPRAH WINFREY: And throughout the day, back or touching their hand? One of the things you describe is, like, when you you really sit ANITA PHILLIPS: I sit with OPRAH WINFREY: Like, hold their hand or be ANITA PHILLIPS: Absolutely. And I look them in the eye too. That's such a huge form Looking them in the eye, it wakes it up when we look into And so really looking at OPRAH WINFREY: In about freeing the angry heart. And I think this is vital like the world is so angry now? ANITA PHILLIPS: There's a lot of One, we're living in a time as we can on our values. And people are that are hard to reconcile. And a lot of them are out front, But anger is also that rises up to protect us And so there are a lot who are actually just OPRAH WINFREY: I was going ANITA PHILLIPS: Very sad. And so when we feel OPRAH WINFREY: If you tell angrily that really, this or really, this is they can't see it or hear it. How do we get people to see it? ANITA PHILLIPS: Try and Try to be a safe place. OPRAH WINFREY: Then of why you're so angry. ANITA PHILLIPS: Why Because we want to be protected. And sadness feels And anger feels like power. Fear feels vulnerable and scary. Anger feels like power. But sometimes it helps if we Man, you seem really I'm just really scared. I'm just really sad. And invite them into a by being honest We don't need to try and they need to change it. Invite them into Talk about how you're feeling. That makes it safer for them OPRAH WINFREY: What do you I mean, I started out talking And as a trauma realize that-- in a time where 10 years ago, People couldn't hear it in the Now everybody feels that they I think. But where do you ANITA PHILLIPS: If we don't our emotions and how we treat we're headed because after the pandemic, Our bodies are not in We get tired more quickly. Our patience is shorter. Our immune systems are And we get sick more easily. If we don't slow down and in a healthy way and heal our bodies, we're headed We're going to see death rates We're going to see family We are going to see showing the signs of intense If we don't get a hold of we're going somewhere OPRAH WINFREY: So how do you ANITA PHILLIPS: As soon as I I always say, God that I'm still alive-- OPRAH WINFREY: I do that too. First thing is thank you. ANITA PHILLIPS: And then I scan And I imagine, like, a to see how my body me know where I am emotionally. We can press our But in the morning, they're So is my stomach tight? Do I have tension in my neck? What might be going? Do I have butterflies? And if there is some then I ask myself, What do I need? Do I need to be connected? Do I need some safety? And how can I get And make that my priority How do I get the need met hungry for? Does the soil need water? Does it need fertilizer? What's happening? And once that's cared for, I can But when we skip over But underneath the surface, OPRAH WINFREY: And this is ANITA PHILLIPS: Conscious sometimes more than once a day. If I feel some tension rising, But waking up first thing in the OPRAH WINFREY: I'm going to ANITA PHILLIPS: OK. Let's go. OPRAH WINFREY: What was your wisdom did you gain from it? ANITA PHILLIPS: Seeing and not being able to fix it. The wisdom I gained from it was in love and presence sometimes and that my children belong to and that co-parenting OPRAH WINFREY: God ANITA PHILLIPS: OPRAH WINFREY: I love that. OK. How do you define faith? And when was your First, how do you define it? And when was it most tested? ANITA PHILLIPS: Faith is a It's just about Most recent, one I had a tumor on my parathyroid, I had never been sick, And I was really scared. And it pushed me on to what I believe about Suddenly, it didn't And I wanted to be able to go And I had to really test do I really believe that if I I'm going to wake up somewhere well, that there is an and that I'll leave legacy here? I wanted to go in there I know God's not going to I wanted to go And that was a real test. OPRAH WINFREY: Let's most important things that Its relationships, ANITA PHILLIPS: Purpose. ANITA PHILLIPS: Purpose. Purpose has been so It's become this idea out what is my purpose in life? What's special about me? And people become It's like, I don't know my And I think we need to take In many Indigenous communities, is about the role you That's what purpose is. I define it as to meet a need in a And when I do that, And I can live on purpose If I see a need, what gift in communities that I'm with? That's it. ANITA PHILLIPS: That's it. I can do it 100 times a day. I can do it 100 times a day. ANITA PHILLIPS: That's it. And suddenly, I'm free. I don't need to find anything. OPRAH WINFREY: And my is, as Maya said, It's every life you touch. ANITA PHILLIPS: OPRAH WINFREY: It's It's every life you've touched. ANITA PHILLIPS: It's the most because legacy will won't be here to witness. It takes unconditional you won't ever benefit from. And so when we have legacy-- OPRAH WINFREY: I feel of the trees around here. I'm planting trees under which their shade in years to come. But they will be ANITA PHILLIPS: And that's what we need And when we're in and we're trying happening right in not thinking about legacy. But love calms us OPRAH WINFREY: Describe you experienced true grace. ANITA PHILLIPS: Ooh, true grace. I know I've talked a but they have been The first time that I apologized OPRAH WINFREY: How old was she? ANITA PHILLIPS: Maybe 14. OK. ANITA PHILLIPS: I the ball with my temper. And I didn't respond lovingly. And I needed to And that was really feels like a power shift. You know, I'm going to do this. But I thought, I was wrong. I have to do it. And she said, I forgive you. That was grace from her. And it changed our relationship. It was a pivot. It allowed me to see so It allowed her to see so And I think it really for the relationship we have that my daughter allowing me to be her mother, OPRAH WINFREY: I think a they were like your in the Black community. They're not going to apologize. OPRAH WINFREY: I fed you. What else do you want? I brought you in this world. I'll take you out. OPRAH WINFREY: All of that. So the idea of admitting or that you were in error, or-- ANITA PHILLIPS: Yeah. It was inconceivable has revolved around power. And we think that that lays down Our children need to It changes things. It teaches them about and gives them the OPRAH WINFREY: What do life is asking of us, What are we being asked? ANITA PHILLIPS: Vulnerability, ourselves to be vulnerable. We are always protecting, When Jesus was crucified, he he had scars. He had some in his I would say the hands one The feet is when I can't escape. But he had this one in his side. When the spear was it broke the sac that And water flows out And I always think that the last scar that to be pierced near his heart. The protection around I want us to not Like, that's the is to not protect but to recognize that worth the risk of might experience in our pursuit OPRAH WINFREY: Besides ANITA PHILLIPS: I know. I mention them a lot. OK. What do you believe is your ANITA PHILLIPS: My true OPRAH WINFREY: Yeah. ANITA PHILLIPS: Safety and love. I want every person I encounter and to know what it experience unconditional love. I don't even have to know you. I see you as a human being. I want people to feel that. OPRAH WINFREY: When is the ANITA PHILLIPS: A tropical storm to watch from the beach itself. The wind, the crashing of the it made me feel small, but It was awe. OPRAH WINFREY: It was awe? ANITA PHILLIPS: Yeah, a little OPRAH WINFREY: Well, thank I'm so glad you sent it to me. I'm so glad that you to be able to begin to cultivate It's about cultivating for life. And I think that this is insight to people in how they see their lives. And the spirituality combined is just so spot on. Thank you so much. ANITA PHILLIPS: OPRAH WINFREY: Thanks &quot;The Garden Within&quot; is available Thank you. ANITA PHILLIPS: Thank you.