sit Just sit down. Today is your birthday Just be down-to-earth Why are you still thinking about those messy things? But I still have to But what? Yagyu Miko and Nomura We put them in jail. Stationmaster Jin finally gave us two days off. Just relax. Okay, okay, I'll listen to you. Right, that's what I said. Why hasn't the cake I ordered been delivered yet? Brother Leng, why don't you go and urge them? You you this person I didn't intend to come Cold Brother Brother Leng, today is the captain's birthday. Weird Sister Ruyan, no rush, let's chat That's it. It's a rare day for our women's team to have such a leisurely day We are here today. Celebrate Xue Min's birthday Secondly, for Yagyu Miko and Nomura We were completely defeated Celebrate well Right, right? Right, right, right Why didn't Brother Liu Cheng come? Today is such an important day How can we miss him? Yes, you reminded me. Then Liu Cheng can't come. I have to give my sister a big gift anyway. That's right Liu Ruyan Could you please take a look at this file? Okay, come in. good , , Open the door and stay alert. , , Chief Liu Today is such an important day How come I didn't see it? Those friends in the women's team , Don't rush Today I am just sending you to Chongqing for trial. Wait until the execution They'll send you on your way. Walk Walk quick Liu Cheng Webmaster, you Just these two little loaches Please escort me personally. Small loaches can create big waves Chongqing boss Dai attaches great importance to I dare not escort him personally gun The stationmaster personally takes action Please, go , , , , Who ordered the cake? , I, we Your coffee, sir. Please use slowly While Xue Min was celebrating her birthday Terajima's elaborate web of conspiracy Already rushed to the women's team And the convoy escorting Yagyu Miko I'm lucky today. The silly guy who sent the cake didn't even ask for money Ran away in a hurry Liu Ruyan, you are becoming more and more outrageous now Return the money to them immediately. Make less fuss Afraid that others can't hear it, not ashamed Money is tight now, so I'll save as much as I can. Cold Moon Cold Moon I want to talk to you after this is over. Do you have time? Captain, the man who delivered the cake just now is suspicious I want to check it out. Leng, you don't eat cake. She has been acting weird for several days. Just go, it's like someone is begging her Come on, come on, sister We don't care about her, we eat it ourselves Today is your birthday, let's be happy Come it's beautiful It's time to eat cake stop Leng Yue went out just now not because she was angry There's something wrong with this cake. Problem, what problem? Didn't you just not collect the money? Lingling, move aside and give me the knife There's really a problem here. Have a problem Sent It's going to explode Flash, bomb Oops Load these women into the car. yes To deal with the national army The Japanese army specially trained a shadow force What they do This also caused Xue Min and others to fall into Being attacked from all sides , , Liu Cheng, what's going on? Webmaster, be careful This is this Stationmaster, wait for me in the car, I'll go down and take a look Don't go down. It's too dangerous to go down now. Don't go, don't go, I can't care so much Lying down Liu Cheng Xue Min Xue Min Liu ChengLiu Cheng This, this, this What's going on? What's going on? quick Station Master Jin, what happened here? I saw a ghost in broad daylight What are you doing standing here? Get in the car and chase him. Yes, get on the bus Come on, get in the car, let's go Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up Come on, get in the car, hurry up quick Terajima yes How could it be you Aren't you in Japan? parking get off Quick, yes, get off Get off, get off, get off This is the car Go, Go, Go , ,91 , , , Someone over there General Watanabe requested me to come here. He asked me to take your place. Major General Watanabe no longer trusts me Don't worry about this. I have already assured Major General Watanabe As long as you listen to my arrangements There will be a chance to atone for your sins. Catch up Xue Min, wake up Xue Min Stand up, stand up slowly Liu Cheng Lingling, Tong Lingling Ouyang Lan, Ouyang Lan, wake up, wake up Liu Ruyan, Leng Yue Chief Liu What happened? What's wrong with you Tell me what you just did Happy birthday to my sister! wrong Someone put a time bomb in the cake Then the bomb exploded Then we fainted. You didn't hijack the prison van. What prison van? Nomura and Yagyu Miko were kidnapped by you Don't you know What Liu Cheng, don't waste your time talking to them. Take all back Yes Walk Why arrest us? I am a meritorious official of the Party and the country. You are the hero of the devil Take them all back and interrogate them strictly Yes Come on, go, go Go, go! Do you hear me? Go, go! Walk Xue Min No, they were wearing combat uniforms. Terajima The rescue operation was very successful. Congratulations Thank you, General Come, cheers to your success yes There will be more women's teams in the future Great value of use In the next action It also needs its full cooperation good General I don't know what to do next. According to the information we received It is said that the National Army secretly formed An iron-blooded artillery regiment The camp has twenty-four gates Cannons purchased from Germany And more than a thousand elite artillerymen This iron-blooded artillery regiment It will bring us great threat So the military asked us to destroy it secretly. This unit must not be allowed to appear on the battlefield I see From now on, Yagyu-kun You have to cooperate with Terajima-kun Complete this covert operation Do you understand? yes good I will definitely cooperate with you. OK, come on, let's drink cheers General, please Meizi, you've drunk too much. You say, you say Am I a loser? Miko, you will definitely be able to defeat Terajima Regaining General Watanabe's trust Terashima Chief Liu Brother Liu Cheng Liu Cheng, what happened? We still haven't figured it out. Why are we locked up in this place? We captured Yagyu Miko and Nomura. Which hero? The surname Jin is too unrighteous A smiling face when doing meritorious deeds Now something is wrong Why put all the responsibility on us? We want to file a collective complaint Right You all confuse me. Can't blame the webmaster Jin I was there The one who kidnapped Yagyu Miko and Nomura It's the five of you. us right How is this possible? Look, you made this cut. What? I drew it. This is impossible This is absolutely impossible, Liu Cheng How could I possibly cut you with a knife? But I can't help but believe it I don't want to believe it either If I wasn't there If I hadn't seen it with my own eyes I won't believe it. The prison van hijackers wanted to kill me. My teammates. What are you talking about, Liu Cheng? The more I listen, the more confused I become. What do you mean by &quot;we&quot;? We didn't hijack the prison van. Do you know what's going on? Chief Liu, Chief Liu Chief Liu, Station Master Jin has something urgent to discuss with you. I see Xue Min I didn't have time to prepare a gift for you on your birthday. Now I'll add it Give Do you like it? Trust me, I'll make sure this is clear. Take care of yourself Webmaster, find me What's the hurry? Liu Cheng, please get ready. Come with me to the city gate to pick someone up Yue Qingshan's wife Yue Qingshan, who is he? In order to concentrate superior forces to fight against Japan, the military command A elite soldier plan They are in our southern state Secretly organized an iron-blooded artillery regiment What about this artillery regiment? It's part of the elite army plan. Yue Qingshan is the top peak The commander specially assigned to this regiment Let's talk while walking He is a favorite in the eyes of his superiors. Mrs. Yue is not feeling well. So a few days late Rushed from my hometown to Nanzhou City Ouyang Lan Do you have any explosive weapons? Yes, my stomach is about to explode Then blow the door open with your belly I'm too lazy to answer you. I'm in a bad mood today. I'm not in a good mood today. Do you like it or not? What? Can we have a fight? What are you guys arguing about? Shut up! Shut up, you hear me? Jailed on birthday Let Xue Min, who is always calm Made a wrong decision Their impulsive jailbreak But I didn't intend to cooperate The Japanese Army's Conspiracy against the Iron Blood Artillery Regiment What the hell is this Nanzhou City? It's so hot it's killing me , It's just hot How could Lao Yue be transferred to a place like this? Webmaster You said Yue Qingshan Why don't you pick up his wife yourself? He insisted that our military control take over for him. You don't understand this, Liu Cheng Now the top leaders attach great importance to This iron-blooded artillery regiment Now Yue Qingshan is a popular person in the eyes of the superiors. There's nothing wrong with us getting along well with him. Besides It's not hard for a man to pick up his wife. Why not do what is best for you? Take a look Here it comes. Here it comes. Look, Mrs. Yue's car is coming. Webmaster Madam, hurry up and protect Madam Yue Yes, yes, quick, quick, quick Webmaster, hurry up Mrs. Yue Mrs. Yue Mrs. Yue Mrs. Yue, are you okay? Madam, I'm sorry. There are snipers, be careful hidden Don't mind me Hurry, bring Mrs. Yue back yes Chief Liu, how did they get out? Take his gun off yes It's them again Did they escape from prison? How do you do things? Sir, Sir Webmaster Is it really them who did it? Chief Liu, do you have anything else to say? The subordinates are incompetent and let the stationmaster decide their fate. Webmaster Webmaster Webmaster, Webmaster, Webmaster I won't kill you today. I'll come back to take your life after this is over. On my own turf Let our own people kidnap our own people This is the second time Stationmaster Jin, your blood pressure has risen again You have to take care of your body. You, what body do I pay attention to? I'm on my own turf I almost lost my life. What's the point of me paying attention to my body? how Are you still waiting for me to treat you to dinner? Go find it for me now. Where is the women's team? yes Chief Liu The women's team defected to the enemy You didn't notice it before. Webmaster The women's team has an irreconcilable feud with the devils I don't believe they will surrender to the Japanese. I don't believe this reason The devils occupied our land and killed our people All our people follow the devils There is an irreconcilable hatred Give me a better reason. I need time OK, I'll give you 24 hours. No, forty-eight hours is enough. If you haven't yet A satisfactory answer Don't blame me for being rude. knew Webmaster Jin Did you report the rolling shout? Report explain This is the letter we just received. , Please take a look yes Go go go, go find that one that one Mrs. Yue, Mrs. Yue's photo, hurry up, hurry up Webmaster Let me go Be honest Let me go People brought you When the false is true, the true is also false Nothingness is everywhere The Military Control Commission has lost the female bomb squad Terashima is making a The lingering shadow There are words behind this photo of Station Master Jin Webmaster, should we spread this news? Tell Captain Yue Tell what, how do I tell How to tell Such a big thing happened, I can't hide it even if I want to. Rather than letting people knock on your door Go make the call. Good Zhang Guoliang, owner of Huaijin Bookstore Suspected communist shot dead Brother, don't drink. I don't drink Do you know where I can buy alcohol? What brand of wine do you want? I want a five-year-old cellar I only have 18 years of Luzhou here Comrade Liu Cheng I am No. 5172 You are number 5172 Call me Lao Sha Comrade Lao Zhang died We are all very sad All-Women Bomb Squad It was a conspiracy designed by Watanabe and Terajima Don't be fooled Can you be more specific about what conspiracy it is? It is not clear yet Organizational hope You fight for Yue Qingshan, the head of the Iron Blood Artillery Regiment Fight for Yue Qingshan Quick, go report, our leader is here Head of Group Yes, Commander Yue of the Iron Blood Artillery Regiment yes Head of Yue I'm so sorry. And let you come here in person My wife is missing, is it okay if I don't come? This is all I can say. These people in the gendarmerie are so incompetent. certainly Our military intelligence work was not done well. I am also responsible. But don't worry I will find your wife back to you as soon as possible. How to find it back You don't even know where my wife is now. I don't know whether I'm alive or dead. this Head of Yue I can see that you are a loving couple. Don't worry, go to my office first I'll make you a pot of good tea Come on, let's go have tea Come, come, come, captain, please , , Liu Cheng Come on, stationmaster Come on, come on, introduce yourself. This is the Iron Blood Artillery Regiment. Yue Qingshan Yue Group Leader This is our Chief Liu Cheng Yue Tuan has long admired your name , , Drink tea first, drink tea first please Hello Hello, I'm Xue Min Xue Min Xue Min, please tell me Where are you We are now in a hotel in the city Now the team members are with me. I want to ask you Do you still believe in us? Of course I believe you That's good But I doubted But I understand now These are Watanabe and Terashima A conspiracy, right? Now we have found out The truth of the matter Our team must clear its name. We need a chance now. This is what I hope to tell you Please remember this number explain Xue Min, stay safe You too, take care You are slow to use Boss, how much is this tea? Commander Yue, I just received Photos sent by the kidnappers Take a look Is it your wife? This is my wife. Okay, okay, Captain Yue Head of Yue Station Master Jin, you must think of a solution Please save my wife. Good good good Hello, speak If you want to kill Mrs. Yue Don't hang up the phone. Who are you Listen carefully, what I am going to say next Won't repeat a second time Let Liu Cheng take 400,000 francs Hostage exchange at the entrance of the Central Merlin Hotel Under the second flower bed in front of the hotel Find a note Please agree to their request immediately. I beg you. But but this Hello, I'm Liu Cheng I don't want to see you scum. How much is four hundred thousand? The lion is not afraid of choking you to death if he opens his mouth wide I clearly told you that I have no money What are you doing, Chief Liu? How are you? Liu Cheng, why don't you agree to their request? My wife's life is in their hands. Don't get excited, Captain Yue Based on my usual experience The kidnappers usually do not get Before satisfactory reply I'll call again. Okay, Liu Cheng, I'll tell you If anything happens to my wife I want your life Headmaster Yue, Headmaster Yue Come come come, not to the point, not to the point Don't get excited. Don't get excited. Be careful Captain Yue, come and have some tea. Yue Qingshan is known as the Iron-blooded Leader Iron-blooded and brave, experienced in many battles, calm in the face of danger But today he behaved too badly. , And the expression is fake, it's totally fake Could it be Miss, your things are here. Help! There was an explosion across the street. Yes, yes, yes. Report Station Master Jin, there was a huge explosion at Tongfu Cinema The police station has sent someone over. Several people were killed on the spot Liu Cheng, this is the consequence of your refusal to cooperate Headmaster Yue Headmaster Yue Calm down, calm down Liu Cheng is very good at negotiation. Golden Stationmaster Phone OK OK OK I get it Calm down. Calm down. I see I agree to your request I'll ask Liu Cheng to do the transaction right away, okay I understand. I only let Liu Cheng go alone. Hello Twenty minutes left Liu Cheng can only go alone Otherwise there will be a bigger explosion. Chief Liu, I'm sorry to trouble you. Secretary Hu, take this to the finance office. Get 400,000 French francs immediately Go yes Stationmaster, then, Okay, this is the command. Go Let's go Walk Calm down, calm down Solve it immediately. Solve it immediately. Come in Let me go, let me go Please let me go how's it going Slow down, slow down Someone is impersonating us. Selling newspapers, selling newspapers Selling newspapers, selling newspapers quick Extorting 400,000 French francs I also made an appointment with Section Chief Liu at 1:30 To the entrance of Merlin Hotel Find a note under the second flower bed How do you know someone is impersonating me? Call Station Master Jin I heard her making a phone call in the phone booth. I was scared to death Sister, what should we do now? Is there any need to ask? We have to go. We just have to catch them in the act. To reveal their true colors Is this another trap? So should we go or not? Of course I will go This is our chance to redeem ourselves. But everyone has to act according to circumstances No one is allowed to act on their own yes Here, right here No Look again Really not Look around, everyone. We planted a bomb around you. New trading location Right above the bomb's detonator. Give you a hint The bomb is detonated by pressure. The heavier the bomb, the The more likely it is to explode This design bomb style Very similar to me before We need to find the bomb and defuse it immediately. Over here, over here No, no, go Don't kill me Liu Cheng , stop Chase Team Leader Li Chase, They are all gone I have to catch those people pretending to be us. Okay, forget about this for now. Follow my orders and find the bomb first yes yes The heavier the weight, the more likely it is to explode. The trash can must be the trash can There is more and more garbage inside The pressure will increase The bomb must be in the trash can. Yes, that makes sense Let's go and look for it. Trash can Digging through the trash cans is also my job Don't kill me, don't kill me, please don't kill me Shut up , , Where is the bomb placed? What will become heavier the more you put it? Postbox How about it This mailbox is too deep to be sure I have to open it to find out. Boss, we have to hurry. Team Leader Li is coming soon. What about Section Chief Liu? Not seen They should have gone their separate ways. Ouyang Lan has no time left Hurry up and use the one we prepared in advance The bomb blew up this mailbox. What if there is a bomb inside? Will it explode? The kidnappers said that the bomb was to be compressed by weight. To detonate So we just need to control The direction of the explosion of the small bomb There shouldn't be any problem. Okay, leave it to me. OK, everyone, go and evacuate the passers-by. My husband's family, please get out of the way. Everyone, please get out of the way. There's a bomb here, evacuate quickly There is a bomb here, everyone evacuate Everybody get out of here, there's a bomb here Walk, walk, walk, the farther the better , , , Protect the citizens, they are over there Walk We are responsible for the cover Ouyang Lan, you are responsible for finding the detonator Get new trading locations Yes, let's go Don't move , Team Leader Li, we were wronged. Wronged, Captain Xue This time I saw it with my own eyes You are in broad daylight Openly creating explosions, endangering public order You know what? Catch them all for me. Take it back to the military. Chase Don't run, don't run Borrow the light, borrow the light Get out of the way If you leave again, my gun won't allow you to leave This way Where are the people? Look over there Captain Li, why are you here? I was just about to ask Chief Liu The women's team has always been here. What have you been doing for so long? I'm chasing Ruyan Liu Where are you going to chase Ruyan Liu? North City wrong She was scolding me at the entrance of the Merlin Hotel just now. Merlin Hotel You mean Liu Ruyan is on Central Road? Yes, the women's team is here. Five people, not one less. This is impossible I told you I was chasing Ruyan Liu I followed you all the way from the north of the city to here How is it possible? Liu Ruyan has been on Central Road. Unless Liu Ruyan has the ability to clone herself , Chief Liu Stop shielding your men. I just saw it with my own eyes The women's team created another explosion , Right in front of the hotel They are too rampant. Team Leader Li Sometimes what you see may not be true. What does Chief Liu mean by this? Okay, you continue investigating your women's team. I don't care You will definitely see unexpected results I have to get back to the station right away. Go check this out. See you later. How about it? Did you get rid of them? Get rid of them Ouyang Lan Must be on the way to a new trading location. These bastards, why don't you come earlier or later? It's necessary to come at this critical moment What to do now? We don't even know where the new location is. There are words on the mailbox Fountain Square This is Ouyang Lan's handwriting She must be going On the way to a new trading location not good We only have ten minutes now. Drive from here to Fountain Square At least fifteen minutes If you take a shortcut, you will run faster. Okay, Leng Yue The two of us took a shortcut. Liu Ruyan Tong Lingling You two drive to Fountain Square Meet us Go, understand Walk Walk Where are the people? They are not Are you kidding us again? Forget it, now they have the initiative All we can do is wait. Kid, are you okay? Are you okay? Baby, you fell You fell, are you okay? Are you okay? Okay, stop crying, stop crying Get the kids out of here, it's dangerous. Quick, go, go Go, go quick Get up, get up quick Hold on for a while There It's a ticking time bomb And it's going to explode in one minute. Defused the bomb immediately and evacuated the crowd good Everyone, get out of here right now. There's a bomb here. Get out of here, get out of here Get out of here now. She's dying What Mrs. Yue Mrs. Yue, please wake up. Mrs. Yue This detonator is set up very strangely I don't know which one to cut. Cut the red one It's not that simple. Stop talking nonsense and cut it quickly wrong , Why is the pointer on this timer , Still turning And there are still thirty seconds before the explosion. It turns out they set up two detonators. Wonderful. It's really wonderful. Terajima is not an explanation Let's stop the Shadow Squad from acting on their own? He just wants the real Mrs. Yue to die But I want them all to die. careful No, our goal is too big. Got to get out of here as soon as possible Tong Lingling and her friends' car is here Get in the car quickly I have a way to protect you all. But it has to be fast Boss, get in the car! Come on, boss. The fakes are upstairs. We can't let them go. We are in the open, it's too dangerous Get out of here quickly, Get in the car, Mrs. It's a smoke bomb quick Mrs. Yue, hurry up Get on board Liu Ruyan, quickly send Mrs. Yue to the hospital yes We just need to catch one It will prove our innocence. Do you understand that death is also okay? , You can go Should we help Shadow Squad? Do you want to be with us? The tiger fighting for territory wins Then how are we going to explain to Terajima when we get back? We don't know whether Terajima is alive or dead. Mrs. Yue is here. Let's see how the fake Yue will continue to be the leader. Iron Blood Artillery Regiment It should have been our dish long ago. Mrs. Yue Mrs. Yue, please hold back. How do you drive? Hang in there Go to hell She is not dead and is here to chase Mrs. Yue Fate is real, I can't control them anymore Go to the hospital first to save Mrs. Yue good Mrs. Yue, we'll be at the hospital soon. Boss How is Mrs. Yue? The situation is not very good, the person is still in a coma The doctor is removing the bullet from her. What happened to those fakes? Did you kill one? Leng Yue hurt them But Leng Yue didn't catch them. , through this confrontation They really are like us. Even the method of planting the bomb are very similar Those fake ones , Sooner or later, I will destroy them. Boss, although we didn't catch them But we rescued Mrs. Yue.