Hi everyone. It's kunihiro. thank you for coming how to make dashi which is japanese soup stock dashi is a key ingredient for many japanese dishes ingredients and harmonizes them well many of you but it didn't taste quite right in most a very good example is miso soup if you make really tasty. so in today's video, first and then I will make miso soup okay so these are ingredients for making dashi dashikombu in japanese it's sold in different same job and this is 20 grams of dried bonito and one little water. first, please kelps usually get some dust when they were after wiping it off, you still see white spots like this will bring more flavor to your dashi. and And leave it for an hour in this state. while you're waiting okay, an hour has passed. after being soaked in water, the kelp will expand this much. Also, you will notice the color of the water has changed which means some of the umami came please make it low heat by heating it up very slowly, you can once you start seeing small bubbles on the bottom now please turn up the heat and bring it to a once it starts boiling turn off the heat then add 20 grams of bonito And leave it for 5 minutes in this state. at this point, please don't touch bonito flakes so just let them sink by themselves and next put the strainer on a bowl and gently pour the dashi into it. and lift the strainer a little bit and At this point, please don't squeeze okay that's it now your beautiful homemade dashi is ready next i want to show you how to make one dish out cut the kelp into three pieces and put them all and cut used bonito flakes into smaller pieces get the frying pan and put everything in it and turn on the heat please keep it low heat Now, add one and half one tablespoon of sweet sake and one teaspoon of sugar and give it a stir keep cooking with low heat all now most of the liquid is gone so this is ready transfer it to a serving dish and sprinkle roasted sesame seeds at the end that's it we call this dish tsukudani in Japanese it goes great with steamed rice and you can have to heat it up every time you eat it and finally, I'm showing you I'm adding 500 milliliters of dashi into a pot in a container and keep it in the fridge up to 4 completely before you put it in a container. okay .so these are the ingredients for today's miso soup this is two tablespoons of white miso i believe restaurants in the us because of its mild like your favorite japanese restaurant and when you go by miso you will notice some but pretty often it contains and here i got soft tofu i'm using only one and this is one tablespoon of cut wakame which please don't get confused cut wakame with dried and 500 ml of dashi. first, soak the cut wakame after 5 minutes seaweed will look like this so next i'm cutting tofu I'm using only one third of this today. and i'm saving the rest for later use please soak tofu in water when you keep it in and i'm cutting tofu into bite-size pieces. and chop green onion once all the ingredients are ready to you can make high heat this time. and once the dashi starts boiling, turn off the and dissolve miso completely in a ladle this way you never leave big chunk of miso in release get more dashi dissolve and dissolve release get more dashi and dissolve please repeat now, give it a stir and taste a little bit. after tasting if you want tablespoon of miso at a time. then add tofu and turn the heat to medium. After you put start losing its flavor and soup gets saltier so okay that's it please pour the and put some green onions at the end okay now let me get a bowl of steamed rice and put some Tsukadani on top of it okay perfect so here is your tofu miso soup okay, that's it for today. I will share more recipes using dashi in it please always come back to this video and and subscribe thanks so much for watching