Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman sits in his cell at lock-up. He hasn't seen any natural light in cell on, something he says causes extreme mental for an hour a day, he's just transported to barely speak to him. As prison officials have worse than death. But they also know that El and perhaps he's thinking about doing it again. locked down as locked down gets, and if again from the clutches of the law. prison before, and I can do it again." breakout happening later, but let's known as the "drug lord of the underworld." deny that he was an industrious little fella. He a little place called La Tuna in Sinaloa, Mexico. made their money from farming. That's what his and his mother, Maria Consuelo Loera Perez. younger sisters and four younger brothers. It was older brothers, but they all died from natural farmers, cattle ranchers by trade, do to make ends the stuff that can end up as heroin flowing El Chapo was special, and he showed that he was in the third grade and barely being business himself. To help the family out he never enough to make his violent father happy. She'd watch him as he cut up little pieces of and pretended he was rich. She later said then tie them up in little piles...Ever But when Chapo did bring home some extra cash, whip him, his screams not doing anything to affect he'd have to hand over all his cash. All his pity the child and despise the man she'd married. 15 and everything changed. This kid, with ticket to success lay in an illegal commodity, cheaply and sent to the USA where it could fetch It was at this point that he started working under Perez, nicknamed the "Mountain Lion" was what being one of the original entrepreneurs Mexican weed. This stuff was smoked the so-called counter-culture in the But the problem with weed is it stinks a fair it costs because prices differ everywhere and it from, but let's say the average cost per kilo is the cost of a kilo of cocaine, which could cost in So, in the 1970s when disco music was becoming made way for a self-loving group of people who the whole trafficking game changed. Cocaine but let's save our conclusions about the In 1978, El Chapo's uncle was probably a result of him being set up by the original Mexican drug lord came onto the This man became the Godfather. He was untouchable, having officials and politicians in his pockets the coke was coming from. He made deals with other in what became a Federation of traffickers. changed everything. A massive marijuana Cartel was raided and burned to the ground man that had orchestrated this was a US DEA To say that Gallardo was furious would be an was worth a staggering $8 billion a year for the officials, Gallardo had Camarena kidnapped. The heavy objects and drills and Camarena's body The DEA was less than pleased, and so launched that investigation was somewhat successful Rafael Caro Quintero, were behind bars. arrests are made and some big people go down, are usually torrid affairs that involve a lot After the Federation was abandoned, One of them was the Sinaloa cartel. At this making millions from trafficking cocaine. it was solely headed by who the DEA said was Hector Luis Palma Salazar was arrested. using a network of tunnels to get the They used aircraft now and again and perhaps their pepper cans under the brand "La Comadre" and Word on the street is they got around $500 using this method alone, with the packers in during the stuffing process. It was these who gave El Chapo the new name of 'El Rapido." people in Sinaloa started calling Chapo Santa that he'd been investing quite a lot of money in doing more good than any corrupt politician those who stood in his way generally got murdered. out between the Felix brothers of the To cut much of this story short, Chapo sent and that ended with Ramon Felix killing the their men to murder members of the guy's These brothers were insanely dangerous, starting someone's innocent family members off a very and you can be sure that El Chapo wasn't going to his men went on their own killing sprees, And it was at this point that the stance. They couldn't just let blood flow even though a good number of politicians, rich from the proceeds of drug trafficking. with AK-47s as he was driving through the streets some of his men while posing as cops walked into Six people were killed, but the Felix brothers managed to escape. The bullets kept flying in this you could say the culmination of all this was what Guadalajara International Airport on May 24, 1993. was hiding in a white Mercury Grand Marquis car. although they should've checked who was inside in that car, but the cardinal and archbishop of They'd just taken out a man of the cloth, Carlos Salinas de Gortari into action. El Chapo, but on hearing the calamity had made a was very good at, and possibly the best So, the President was outraged. The good cartel were like, damn, we guess we can forget and other suspects ended up in newspapers One of those heads was El Chapo's. million to one of his most trusted men and said my family. He gave the same amount to some of his could keep going if he were to be arrested. name Jorge Ramos Perez with the intention although at this point the authorities were hot on a cool $1.2 million to ensure safe passage, On June 9, 1993, Guatemalan troops swooped in Guatemala-Mexico border. In no time at all he was about how his first stint behind bars would go at perhaps one of the best prisons suitcases full of cash at their disposal. the first of El Chapo's great escapes. how much money this short-in-stature drug lord had foremost because traffickers have said the have. That cash made from drugs pays for vast On top of that, they hardly file their taxes That's why when they are caught the authorities or billions, and even if they did, if they But look at it this way. There have been cocaine that would be about $1.3 billion. Sure, as no one person gets anything close to that, always cocaine in the US and in Europe, many millions. Some of them billions. That's the suppliers, the transporters, and Right now, someone is selling cocaine; someone Houses of Parliament bathrooms, just as the Prime to fight drugs." That actually happened. lines in some of New York's banking offices, and wherever you are in the world. That's a It was said at his height El Chapo was making two he never had that at his disposal. Still, he Just to give you an idea of how much power the was shot, the Catholic Church in Mexico didn't they said, would confuse a cardinal for a drug this murdered cardinal had been talking for a with the Narcos. They thought it was a purposeful So, do you really think El Chapo, with his was going to stay behind bars for long? TV cameras, "I am but a simple farmer." If he that even the guards were at his beck and call. was allowed to run his empire from his luxurious Arturo could come and go as he pleased. The he contacted judges and politicians from there and It should also be mentioned here that it working with the DEA, just as drug agencies all if they agree to set up other traffickers. One into fighting its enemies." Later the hitman and US court saying that Mr. Chapo was bribing corrupt As the years passed, people talked about which basically means the owner. When he prostitutes smuggled in, or lovers, and that He did at least have to go through some of and that was seeing a prison psychologist. his assessment, saying he was "egocentric, meticulous, discriminating, and secretive." lifetime El Chapo had 18 kids with seven police officer Zulema Hernandez, who wrote to he wasn't too literate, so when he wrote One of the letters he wrote gives us some the fact that he was planning to leave. He wrote: would make me happier than being close to you, uncertain. Even though I haven't lost sight specific day because then it doesn't work out." killed sometime later and a Z carved was the work of El Chapo's enemies, the run his drug business from prison, but as After eight years living in his relative laundering and trafficking obscene amounts of he might be extradited after the Supreme The last thing he wanted was to end up in a US So, he planned his escape. On January 19, 2001, as "El Chito" Camberos Rivera. The officer opened after which, with the help of a maintenance The maintenance guy helped Chapo into his whereupon he went inside to buy something. Chapo vanishing act of his. Camberos did some prison had apparently also been paid, as had the cops had enough time to leave the state. This all But did it really all go down that way? Anabel Hernandez. She discovered documents and the laundry basket thing, and instead had left the She said that high-ranking cops had all been paid, They'd helped him every step of the way and had a police escort, and as a matter of convenience, they had to go on TV and react to the escape. just about the money. The government was and it hoped that Chapo would again bring "Pax Mafiosa." Just like that old Federation. that for a while the only people that got if the authorities were actually working with the were upset about this, believing Chapo was playing the case with law enforcement and organized crime. help from people who generally don't call Those were the banks. Chapo needed to launder that he went through the normal banking system. the American bank, Wachovia bank - now a part of HSBC. They both got found out and admitted some The fines, although large, didn't really make a and the banks you could say both took Everyone was a winner, besides El Chapo and actual drugs. The war on drugs raged on, Chapo and the other cartels ratcheted up Mexico soon started breaking records, with drug of thousands of people going missing over the more brutal, as you may have seen in those At this point, there was still a huge bounty he traveled he rarely didn't use a bullet-proof having the status of a legend. It's reported with a bunch of armed guards, and before walking People would talk about this now cult he's everywhere, but the authorities had no of Mexico to the other, raiding houses, making Then in 2004, after a tip-off, the Mexican he was having a party at a Sinaloa ranch. descended to the ground, only to discover that some journalists later said that they'd never they said the authorities needed to look like Almost the same happened again later in 2004, ten minutes late. They did at least come some photographs, showing that he'd been They burned down the ranch which you can be sure appeared on TV there were some Mexican journalists saying were always a few minutes late, and how come El In 2005, he was seen again, this time eating in AK-47s. One of Chapo's men apparently "Gentlemen, please. Give me a moment of your time. you to remain in your seats; the doors will be also not be allowed to use your cellulars. Do not nothing will happen. Continue eating and don't El Chapo then arrived and ordered some steak, As promised, everyone got a free meal that day. people said stuff like that just to create some In 2006, the new Mexican President Felipe Calderon violence, declaring a more serious war on drugs military. 53,000 people related to the cartels Sinaloa cartel was pretty much untouched with only Investigations later revealed that Chapo and ratted on tons of other cartels after This help he gave to the US authorities As these arrests were compelling some US victory" and making El Chapo not very popular flowed in the streets as it always had done, Meanwhile, more rumors surfaced that El Chapo had or again, showing some largesse in Mexican Juarez, home of the Juarez Cartel, and after they In 2009, the Mexican government said anyone who Chapo would receive MXN$30 million ($2.1 government put a $5 million bounty on his head. with experts saying the drug war costs the millions were spent on just catching El Chapo. guys and according to documents that were later they had to defend the drug shipments fire on US or Mexican authorities. said they knew El Chapo was in a town called famous for its gold mines and tasty enchiladas. said that, to which the President warned him not long after that, some undercover military officers a sign on them saying, "You'll never get Chapo." saying he was now traveling under a false name as Europe. The DEA thought that but said most of the Mexico where the terrain was rough and any sign of Still, there is evidence that he did travel Honduras, and Guatemala, and plenty of on the receiving end of a free meal when Then on February 21, 2012, after being tipped off Chapo when they raided a mansion in Los Cabos, to meet a sex worker there, but after she he rescheduled. Cops arrested her, as well beginning to look like El Chapo had a crystal He flew around in private jets and changed and it looked as though they'd never get him. Navy SEALs, which consisted of sending men in from El Chapo's men, their orders were to the Mexican Armed Forces didn't like the plan. in Guatemala, but this was more nonsense. saying he was indeed in northern Guatemala he had been in various hospitals to deal with partly down to him putting on stacks of weight. Dutch cops arrested Jose Rodrigo Arechiga Gamboa, cartel's assassins squad, Los Antrax. They also the DEA had a fair bit to go off in terms of how They believed that Chapo was getting tired more time eating at nice restaurants in Sinaloa's his runners to pick up the meal. That was Hidalgo He led them to Chapo's ex-wife's house, The Mexican authorities soon tracked a signal and in time they were breaking down a reinforced to their man. Inside this safe house were What they didn't know at that time was as Chapo had used one of his tunnels to escape. found a bathtub that could be raised using raised there was an opening to a staircase moving much faster than the portly gangster. tunnel. In the streets above, was the Mexican a US drone was circling around. Not even the but all the Navy ended up finding Little did they know that Chapo had used a sewage he and his right-hand man, a former Mexican fled in a vehicle. It was Ramirez's phone that told them he was now in the city of Mazatlan. Navy, the DEA, the U.S. Marshal Service, and were in Mazatlan either hoping to capture El A phone signal led them to the Miramar The first room that was busted open belonged to room #401, there they found Ramirez armed In another room, they found a babysitter and was in another room with his wife. No shots were went for a nearby rifle. Chapo suddenly they marched him past a bowl full of fruit in Finally, they had him, and what an exhaustive and wouldn't let him escape again. The US authorities were now happy, hailing in the annals of crime history. Attorney General adding, "The criminal activity Guzman and destruction of millions of lives across and corruption." The US Secretary of Homeland saying on TV, "We congratulate our It was now time to get him back to but first, he had to be transported to Readaptation Center No. 1. His ride was a Black This time El Chapo was certainly not going to out with one of his hired sex workers. There about in the yard. His room was barren. He had only allowed to visit him with a judge's There was one bed, one shower, and one Watching his every move was a security camera. he was allowed out, he wasn't allowed to see never to talk to him unless giving him an order. Forbes rich list as a billionaire was given buy products for personal hygiene. There was His days were spent alone in that cell. but the fear was that Chapo had escaped his massive wealth, he might do it again. relating to drug trafficking and organized crime Then in April 2014, the Attorney General of Mexico wanted Chapo to face charges on his home turf. He leniency for giving other criminal figures up. how solitary Chapo's confinement was. In July, over the poor conditions in the prison. Something but since El Chapo was not supposed to be how did he manage this? "The world's most fearsome drug lord was but that he had the freedom of movement and That's a question you need to think about as In September, a US court indicted Chapo for of trained assassins to commit "hundreds of kidnappings, assassinations, and acts of torture." Chapo's lawyers managed to get an injunction under the Mexican constitution his rights would Chapo should first serve his sentence in Mexico, as his sentence was going to be 300 to 400 years. just over a year since Chapo had been imprisoned. an old man behind bars. Then on the evening his Houdini trick would shock the world. No one He'd last been seen by the That's when he went to take a shower. The in his cell that the security cameras couldn't and disappeared, and when officers went Below the shower, the authorities found a small ladder. This led down to a tunnel, and not a small foot of it and connected to those was a motorcycle That bike wasn't so much for a fast getaway doing all that digging down there. It been removed could have filled up something taken a year using that small bike as transport. the end, which was inside a half-built house. which didn't really make any of the nearby they saw someone building and moving what but so what, that kind of thing was normal. prison know this was going on? must have been in on it, and that's likely why Maybe, they said, his confinement wasn't One of those pundits said: has proved he can build a hole in the ground. soil around where they have that guy locked Talk about the Mexican authorities having feeling like some more millions of dollars had not been suspected when the authorities knew like a mole on steroids. Digging was his thing. tunnels leading from various houses in the city super tunnels his cartel had used to get cocaine what Ted Bundy was to killing, and you'd have a pretty, young woman and a hammer lying nearby. it two feet wide and more than five feet high, than crawl and get dirty. It had ventilation missing perhaps was a bar at the end where the It was a total embarrassment for all involved, emergency in nearby areas and closing down and it was one massive manhunt. all over Mexico State, inside the prison around A US professor who wrote about crime trends around Mexico's worst nightmare, and I suspect many in This was exactly why they'd wanted him extradited. to hold that man down. And to think, when that that El Chapo was not going to be extradited when someone talked about the escape risk, he You won't be surprised to hear that he Around this time, seven officials, including two staff, were arrested. Six others were also put were fired. It's still not clear who helped him only have been the work of his family and cartel. after Chapo escaped, a Twitter account bearing Writing in Spanish, he basically told Donald Trump "Life takes many turns, one day you're in He addressed one tweet to the Mexican delinquent because I give people work unlike you, "Never say never, this world keeps turning. In That certainly enshrouded El Chapo with how did he manage to get on Twitter these tweets very likely came from Chapo's hand. were on the lookout for him. Helicopters scoured nearby cities and towns. These were desperate Chapo didn't turn up. They were so desperate help of Colombian officials who'd helped hunt What no one knew right then was how he'd It turned out that once he'd gotten to that of an ATV to a warehouse. He was then taken to and took him to a hideout in the mountainous That's where he decided it and rub shoulders with a Hollywood superstar. El Chapo had first gotten acquainted when he was contacted by one of Mexico's She shocked the world in 2012 when she "Today, I believe more in El Chapo Guzman than She then wrote a letter to Mr. Chapo - yes, she "Don't you think it would be great if you Her answer to his problems and problems at large Now, you'd think El Chapo would have almost choked but no, it seems he took a liking to her. In and while he was on the run a year later, they This is where the actor Sean Penn comes in. Through Castillo, Penn and Chapo got in touch the mountains. Penn knew there'd be a certain and he understood he was meeting with a very video and graphic photography of those beheaded, activists, courageous journalists When Penn arrived, Chapo told him that he was born in life, even saying he wasn't really a violent methamphetamine, cocaine, and marijuana than submarines, airplanes, trucks, and boats." because the Mexican authorities tracked some He escaped again and got on a helicopter as said they didn't shoot because Chapo was with two But now the US authorities were more peeved than for God's sake, and yet the country had been many millions of taxpayers' dollars to do so. operation would be launched; this time elite counterterrorism unit, Delta Force, but helped by giving tactical advice. coastal town in Sinaloa called Los Mochis armed They put the house under surveillance, hearing about to arrive. That night a large order for please El Chapo and a bunch of bodyguards. not really knowing who'd be there but Cops, the army, and 17 highly-trained kicked down a door and opened fire. and then, and another six were injured, Laying next to the bloodied men was 2 M16s with grenade launchers, 2 and outside there were two armored cars. soon as he heard the gunshots, he lifted up a one of his very useful tunnels. Alongside One tunnel led to another tunnel and eventually from the scene in a stolen vehicle which they'd alerted to the license plate number of the vehicle He offered those cops a huge amount of cash, but this time the bribe was rebuffed. "You are all going to die." These four cops and were told something like 40 assassins were In no uncertain terms, they were told to go special forces to arrive. They did, and at last, He was taken to Mexico City and flown by and there he was greeted by some men that Mexican and US officials praised the great work success in the never-ending war on drugs. They getting Chapo out of the way had drugs into the US and around the world. extradition but this time it didn't work. extradition went out jogging one morning and On January 19, 2017, Chapo arrived On July 17, 2019, Chapo was told he'd be serving a He was also ordered to pay back some of the money None of that was found and it's still missing. could El Chapo actually escape again? He sits in a cell for 23 hours a day in a prison you could dig a tunnel, you'd be spotted at some Florence has the most modern surveillance in any floors if someone somehow went for a walk around. get out of his cell he is taken to another also doesn't have natural light. As a former now a fate worse than death. Chapo himself situation I have lived in my entire life. It has You won't be surprised to hear that there became absent, leading to record-breaking murder The rate went down somewhat in Mexico but drug abuse went up in many countries as And now the US has a new drug the Jalisco New Generation Cartel's "El Mencho." He's one of the most wanted men in the world, for his capture as well as Mexico also he's just one man in a giant network of risks of selling drugs when the Taking El Chapo out of the mix did nothing at and elsewhere, leading one Harvard academic away to stop something we are never going to locking up El Chapo is meaningless." with many experts and media saying the war on unprecedented level in terms of the misery and The prisons are overflowing, the shootings from pharmaceutical drugs in the mix. John and can go outside and easily buy a gram bag of this world, which is testament to the failures Also, as experts following this war have success and puts a leak in the drug pipeline even more extreme violence as products On top of that, Human Rights Watch said a while 80 percent of them, are for possession, not do what they do because they need help, not Since the war on drugs started it has cost but this industry of misery costs tons of to just dismantle the various industries it and many more, would mean disrupting the economy, useful tactic for politicians to amass more votes. which is just a microcosm of the war on there will always be more El Chapo's. We'd like war has killed since it started decades ago with now this writer's mind is somewhat boggled. been lost, and you can take that or leave it. best thing we can do, but if you want to see radical and decriminalized drugs, look no further and decided public health was more important Drugs are still there, but things have for the world copied it," asked one British journalist? before that happens because as things stand, Einstein once described the definition of over again and expecting a different result." Soldiers to Win Wars." Or, have a look at "Human