One of my most frequently asked questions while traveling is: How did you fit everything in just one backpack? The truth is it's not magic but it does require some tricks that I will gladly share them with you in this video. Whether you're or even if you're planning on traveling the world with just with just one backpack, plus gear, plus snacks. I will be heading to another solo backpack trip for exactly 3 weeks. If you've been following my and getting to know other cultures. I like to do it as often as my life allows it So one of the things that minimalism has taught me over the years and it's also something is that last is more. By reducing the amount of baggage, you're also So while traveling I like to prioritize these three First of all: comfort. When turning on the adventure mode I like it requires walking and moving a lot. I find that trolleys look more fashionable and sure are more practical on flat surfaces but the truth is It can also be a big pain while raining and walking down or even when facing stairs. So I choose a backpack and this literally means that So it is important to only carry and by this I mean travel as light as possible. Being able to run around to catch and to put my bag over the cabin or under the Time. If you only carry one backpack, you don't need or even stress if it's going to show up or not. Also, the last you pack, the last time you spend packing and unpacking and this is also true during the trip if you're moving around from place to place. Saving money I really believe that if you focus on the right things you don't need to spend a lot of money while traveling. I'm going to be very honest. The main reason why I like traveling with just one backpack it's because I'm always looking out for cheap flights that usually don't include the extra baggage at least for free. and you can already save a lot of money if you cut out this extra expense. I like to be intentional about I either save it or I spend it or food because food is life. I personally like to use I have a pre-made travel list that I So whenever I'm packing a new bag, I just uncheck everything from the previous trip so I can have a clean start. When it comes to the actual list of things that I'm bringing I divide Essentials, Tech, Comfort, hygiene and health, clothing and in this case Beach. When it comes to my essentials I am bring in my ID, my credit card, my wallet and actual money for health insurance card, a locker for safety, my backpack, my water bottle, for years I thought that water bottles were not allowed on airplanes and this is completely not true the only thing that you're not allowed to bring our liquids with you before and during the security check so what I usually do I just bring an empty bottle and whenever I pass the security check I go to the bathroom fill it with water and I have water for my trip. This way I am saving money and also saving the environment because I don't need to buy extra plastic bottles everywhere I go. As the last item of the essential list, I am bringing a carabiner which is what I use to hold my water bottle on my backpack. When it comes to Tech, I am bringing my GoPro, an extra battery, a tripod, I am also bringing my camera, my 50mm lens and my charger, my phone, headphones, I also use them my digital watch and its charger, a power bank USBC fast charger, and this is not a business trip otherwise I will include my computer which is not coming with me for Comfort I am bringing my eye blinder, a book, pen and paper to draw and to put down my clothing soap for doing my laundering in between days five clothed pecks, two pieces of fruit, one sandwich, one boiled egg for the trip. When it comes to hygiene and health plucker, hairbrush. I'm bringing perfume in smaller containers. I figure out that one is usually good for one week and because I'm going 3 weeks I'm just going to fill up three small containers. I am also packing bar deodorant, when it comes to makeup I am bringing concealer, mascara, blush, eyebrow pencil, red lipstick, aloe vera and a bag to bring with me every time that As a bath towel I will be bringing two tenugui. One for the hair and one for the body and tenugui is basically a Japanese cloth that is very lightweight and versatile and I'm probably also going to use use it as a beach towel and because it's so lightweight, I and more or less 30 minutes after it's good to go. Besides that I am bringing an EpiPen because I have some allergies and I need to bring that stuff with me wherever I go and I'm also going to bring some basic medicine. When it comes to clothing it's going to be from South to the North, during the so the weather is going to be a little bit unpredictable but what I'm going to One pair of sneakers, six panties, one braw, six socks, one pair of leggings and a big t-shirt which I'm going to use as a pijama, one pair of flip-flops, two trousers, six tops, two long sleeves, two sweaters, one jacket and two dresses one long sleeve and one not. When it comes to accessories, I basically going to bring everything everything that I'll be already wearing so one ring, my usual two hair ties, my digital watch that I already mentioned, one hat, one belt, one necklace, one pair of sunglasses and a smaller back. And from all these clothing items I'm going to remove this because this is what I will be wearing during the trip. And last but not least because I'm planning to go to the beach I will be bringing my bikini and sunscreen. Okay so now you have your list of things but how do you actually fit everything in such a small space? I will give you nine lightning tips on how to pack your bag. First of all, roll up your clothing. This way takes less space in your bag, plus you can see everything in one glance. Two: pack for 6 days If your trip is more than 6 days it doesn't matter how long it's actually going to be. Just pack for 6 days and do laundry in between. If it's just a just in case item that costs under 20EUR, just leave it at home. You might think that this way you're actually going to spend more money but chances are it's you're not. I've been doing this for years to buy a just in case item? Zero. Check the weather report and the activities you want to do before going. For example and also related to on this trip it might rain but I won't be bringing any rain jacket or umbrella and knowing myself I will probably just find a nice museum or indoor activity for that day. Otherwise if it's like pouring rain and if I really need it I'll just get a cheap small umbrella. Number five: wear the items that take more space. During the trip wear the items that take more space in your on the way there but also on the way back. If you're wearing bigger shoes or bigger sweaters plus it can also get a bit chilly during your flight. Take multi-purpose items for example my USB charger can charge three different types of devices So I'm only bringing one. Or a certain item of clothing with some imagination can be worn differently. Choose a versatile wardrobe. Minimalism doesn't have to look all black and white for everyone but having a color palette that you can mix and match. is a total Game Changer. Don't put your water bottle inside your bag. Especially if it's full and you're traveling by plane. It usually takes a lot of space and you can get into trouble if the air company asks you to wait your bag. So use a carabiner instead or just take it in your hands. Extra points if you use a reusable water bottle. And last but not least, storing position matters. Of course the most important part is One tip is to keep the heavier things at the bottom and at the centre of the bag This way, the weight is more evenly distributed and it's easy to carry. Okay, that's it! Simple. You are ready to go on an adventure with just your backpack and to focus on what truly matters. Let me know if there's something that you always bring during your trips that I haven't mentioned. As always, looking forward to speaking with you in the comment section remember to stay kind to yourself and to others and I hope to see you on the next video. Tschuss!