Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of This time we're in a city that puts the sparkle It's Paris. Thanks for joining us. Few cities have cultural, and few cities are so confident in their expertise Paris is understandably determined to embrace life and as travelers, that uniquely Parisian Returning for we'll discover a side of Paris ride a unicorn take a midnight immerse ourselves in bask in heavenly light through go on a tombstone pilgrimage, and savor the Parisian Grand as the city is, it's still a collection of each with a charming and uniquely French way Every neighborhood has &quot;Petanque,&quot; offers the perfect This competitive where friends toss metal balls their fathers did, to the pressures Ah, the riviera -- Each summer, closes an expressway a colorful urban beach They truck in potted palm trees, hammocks, and 2,000 tons of sand It's a perfect chance to see and play with Paris. Away from the river, parks provide another great for enjoying the moment And on Sundays, glide through town Young, old, it's another way a playground And Paris is now Bike lanes are commonplace, and bikers are welcome The city's innovative with hundreds of these lets Parisians make quick rather than bother The cost? Almost free. Having all this fun, that six centuries ago, as Europe was awakening from Just a couple blocks the Cluny Museum, takes us back to Paris in In the 1400s, and the Renaissance was moving The Cluny Museum is Its rich collection offers a rare peek The sumptuous ivory pieces... Vibrant enamel work... And gorgeous sculptures reflect and far from dark, society. Its centerpiece series of tapestries called In medieval lore, that could only In secular society, was drawn to his lady love. In religion, the unicorn These exquisite tapestries both secular They give us a peek at life, from a time when just stepping out of It's a celebration of Taste. A woman takes candy to feed it to her parakeet while a little dog licks Hearing. An elegant woman calming an audience In this fanciful world, humans live in harmony Sight. The unicorn cuddles up in the lady's mirror, The lion turns away As the Renaissance dawns, vanity is Touch. That's the most basic Here, the lady strokes And the lion looks out at us to be sure we get Medieval Europeans the wonders of love The words on &quot;to my sole desire.&quot; What is her only desire? Is it jewelry? Or is she putting and renouncing Is it God? Love? The unicorn and lion Is she stepping out, to meet the object Human sensuality is awakening, and the Renaissance Another reminder of the Middle Ages To see the best in its glorious visit the nearby church Embedded in a historic complex the church's muscular support the stone roof. The walls are for the church's stained glass. Stepping inside, the most dazzling In the Bible, it's clear -- Let there be light. In a Gothic church, light pours through like God's grace Gothic architects used to turn dark stone buildings In the 13th century, obtained the supposed He needed an appropriate place so they scrambled and built Because it was one architect almost unheard of the architecture The altar was raised up high to better display Filling the walls the 15 story-telling panels from creation in Genesis Remarkably, most of the stained What you're looking at have marvelled at For a stark contrast in glass, a forest of skyscrapers nicknamed So often, in the historic old quarters To see the contemporary a celebration hop on the metro With its striking architecture, 150,000 people a day and even more to it's the engine of Stroll the esplanade. The glassy buildings, with hundreds of stores, and towering corporate playfully compete With the social ethic getting a building permit a requirement That's why the La Defense an open-air sporting pieces just a little more fun. La Grande Arche, on the 200th anniversary of is the centerpiece of The arch is big. Notre-Dame Cathedral Thousands of people And, as everywhere here, the architecture Back in the old center, Paris is a leader famous for its My Parisian friend, is showing me how even window many fine boutiques can These windows -- they put so Yes, they have to, shopping is and we call it So &quot;leche-vitrine&quot; Window-licking. different details that It's very bright, Very appetizing, Yes. It has to be Rick: There are Yes, this is a typical period, to get sales in Paris, is that when you go inside, by buying the new collection, the new collection You always buy something from the new collection Rick: So the sale and then you buy Yes. Rick: Department stores These venerable institutions, beautiful monuments offer a chance to check out The Galeries Lafayette Its Belle Epoque dome and shoppers are welcome to or perhaps have it taken away, where a grand city view awaits. You can enjoy another in its parks. There's always a garden offering a fine place a quiet moment in One of the biggest city parks the king's backyard -- The king's yard included called the Orangerie. While the Orangerie today it's filled with and early-20th-century select works by Renoir... Cezanne... Gaugin... And others. And its main attraction is floating dreamily in the artist himself designed to showcase his masterpiece. This series of expansive, is the epitome It immerses you in his home and studio Like an aging Beethoven, his most dramatic works the nearly blind Claude Monet painting these on a similarly We're looking into his pond, and dappled by clouds, and trees Monet mingles the pond's and then The true subject of these works It's the play of the light Monet would work on several each one catching the light of Get close and see how Starting from a blank canvas, he'd lay down thick, of a single color, to create a dense Over this, for the dramatic highlights until he got a dense Up close, it's messy, and the colors resolve just pure reflected color. Working, he'd move with the sun Panning slowly around this hall, turn from pre-dawn darkness to lavender late afternoon Sublime and tranquil, Monet intended this Back when Monet Paris was busy with artists. Capturing the light -- and wandering these and inviting parks, gaining inspiration nicknamed A short walk takes us studio, and garden of another great Impressionist -- Rodin was a modern sculpting human figures revealing through the body Now a museum, presents the full range of His early works match of the late 19th century -- noble busts of and pretty portraits But Rodin had and because of his the art establishment That's no wonder. Look at the intensity as she screams, &quot;libertie, With his ground-breaking Rodin came into his own and was recognized From this point on, and blazed his own Here, his &quot;Hand of God&quot; from the mud of the Earth Unlike Michelangelo, and then carved Rodin created models which and sold as In &quot;The Kiss,&quot; a passionate a solid man for their first, We can almost that led up to &quot;The Kiss&quot; was the first Rodin enjoyed his garden, who find it a place a century after the artist last He sculpted the famous Leaning slightly forward, tense and compact, producing that man contemplates his fate. Said Rodin, Speaking of contemplation, I punctuate my museum-going This makes particularly home of so much beautiful art With over 12,000 cafes, Cafes are where and we're meeting up co-author of my France guidebook You know, cafe -- that's Just cafe in Paris. Steve: It is, It's a place to order on your own terms You could be indoors watching the person or out here watching of Parisians go by. And you're living In fact, You know, are a little bit bigger So half are probably living Almost all of them who come here and they're on a first-name So a lot of Americans find tipping In France, the waiter's 15% of your bill You've already paid it. What do you do, then? If your waiter or your waitress, That's very polite. If your bill was 18 euros, Okay. Now, a lot of by what they call Yeah, I hear that In France, slow service It's good service. Remember, it's not about It's about how well Rick: While the Metro is great and probably the quickest way there's a lot to be said for joy above ground. Paris' buses are plentiful, once you get the hang of them, as if made for tourists, past the city's top sights. The end of the line -- It offers a stroll permanent Parisians. The final resting place most notable citizens, encourage meandering Poignant statues remember and Nazi Resistance heroes. Pebbles on the Jewish Many visitors pick up a map and turn the visit into spending a few moments at or grand personalities Oscar Wilde, is also remembered homosexual lifestyle. He's mourned by &quot;outcast men,&quot; and, it seems, The famous Parisian singer Raised in her as a waif-like teenager, she sang in the streets Nicknamed &quot;the little sparrow,&quot; she became the toast lifted French spirits and then captured While she certainly Edith Piaf embraced life and sang about Farther down the way The rock star Jim Morrison, has perhaps the most-visited A Greek inscription reads, &quot;To the spirit, Under that, Paris was Jim Morrison's chance and get serious as a writer, at age 27, Another big star for Fresh-cut flowers the emotional staying power which still connects souls across the centuries. For a more lively way to enjoy Steve and I have hired for a blitz of the city's best And this isn't just This company employs a fleet of and they're driven Driver: The different like a snail going around Rick: The French raise And with a city it's no wonder. Les Invalides, marking Napoleon's tomb, The naughty blades keep turning as red lights Just to be out the energy of Notre-Dame is particularly Sightseeing boats and its sparkling bridges. The pyramid at the Louvre And the Eiffel Tower for this victory lap Traveling here, I realize for the rest of my life of what to me is I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &quot;Au revoir.&quot; Charlemagne. Charles the big one. Oh, yeah. The greatest ruler The true subject of the true subject of these works Monet would work on several Each one -- in a lot of ways, Making these symphonies Monumental scale.