The man known to history as Tutankhamun was during the Eighteenth Dynasty of ancient Egypt. Although we cannot be sure of his exact date that it occurred sometime in the late 1340s Tutankhamun's parentage is disputed, though ruled Egypt as Amenhotep IV before he established on the worship of the sun disc Aten, beginning Around the same time he changed his name to Akhenaten had at least six daughters with It is possible that she was also Tutankhamun's Alternatively, his mother may have been a Younger Lady'. At the time of his birth, Tutankhamun was Image of Aten' in honour of the sun god. Despite being one of the best-known pharaohs discovery of his tomb and famous death mask short life and reign are still being pieced using artefacts from his tomb and other evidence. He is likely to have been born in Amarna, capital city founded by his father on the miles to the south of Egypt's modern-day The young Egyptian prince was born with a use a walking stick throughout his life. He was brought up by his wet nurse, a woman Among the artefacts found in Tutankhamun's a child, including an ivory monkey with moving At around the age of four, he learned how script used on a daily basis before moving on ancient Egyptian monuments. Tutankhaten learned to write by copying out wisdom for kings and princes preparing for He would also have studied administration, as well as the theory and practice of warfare, Tutankhaten grew up during a revolutionary religious changes. The traditional Egyptian polytheistic belief gods, amongst whom the creator god Amun and However, Akhenaten had introduced the cult disc with rays of light radiating downwards While Akhenaten allowed his subjects to continue that Aten was the supreme god, by the ninth birth, Aten was increasingly portrayed as Under the new religion, the Aten was regarded within it, and each morning at sunrise the temples he built in his capital. Akhenaten identified as the son of Aten and it is possible that Tutankhaten received his During his travels with his tutors across names of the old gods being removed from monuments, them. The boy may also have noticed the different new civic buildings rising up from the desert Around the fourteenth year of Akhenaten's old, the latter's sister or half-sister While her cause of death remains unknown, eastern Mediterranean world. In any case, an infectious disease is a likely Neferneferure and Setepenre also died around Older female members of the family followed, Tiye and Akhenaten's secondary wife Queen Following these deaths in the royal family, the continuation of his religious reforms a relative of his, as his co-regent. This Smenkhare was responsible for the construction and was expected to be Akhenaten's successor, Akhenaten died around the same time in what and around 1336 BC. Following Akhenaten's death, the throne before his death and then appears to have may have ruled as co-regent alongside Tutankhaten. The new king is believed to have been a royal Meritaten or more likely his great wife, Nefertiti. King Neferneferuaten continued to develop the cult of Amun and the other gods in order faith. She abandoned her plans to build a tomb at build a tomb and mortuary temple in the Valley the traditional capital and royal burial ground BC. The Egyptian archaeologist Zahi Hawass theorised to Thebes, but Shaw suggests that she remained her late husband. However, she would only live another two years, By the time he ascended to the throne, the child receiving his education and could not He was therefore advised by courtiers and his father Akhenaten. His most influential advisor was Ay, a relative Queen Tiye, while a man named Maya controlled As for military matters, the young king relied of the Egyptian army. Although these men had dutifully promoted of recent years, including the plague and succession, were interpreted as a sign of of the old gods. With Akhenaten and Nefertiti gone, Tutankhaten's the new pharaoh in the old religion and persuade divine favour to the realm. Although the king's advisors wielded considerable been required to perform ceremonial tasks even as a child ruler. As with all Egyptian pharaohs, he had important religion. As part of the coronation ceremony that marked king was transformed from a human being into The rituals were conducted according to the his wife the mother goddess Mut, and their Priests and priestesses represented gods and king's head, including the red crown of and the blue crown worn by Eighteenth Dynasty ceremonies. The king was then given his crook and flail, According to Egyptian royal tradition, the to reflect his personal qualities and regal Of these four royal names, only one is known, of Manifestations is Ra.' While Tutankhaten still used his birth name the Aten in the king's name was replaced Thus, Tutankhaten became Tutankhamun, the King Tutankhamun would have been crowned alongside of the daughters of Akhenaten and Nefertiti. The marriage of siblings in this way was commonplace She was a year older than Tutankhamun and latter became king. Ankhesenamun appears to have been his only The Eighteenth Dynasty was known for its powerful about the deeds of her illustrious ancestor a century and a half earlier and built a grand the Valley of the Kings. She had also just seen her mother Nefertiti Accordingly, Ankhesenamun was present alongside ceremonies and audiences and corresponded Her most important duties included serving during religious ceremonies. Of course, as in almost all other monarchies, dynastic lineage by bearing the king's children. Ankhesenamun was pregnant twice but on both Early in his reign, Tutankhamun's advisors Akhetaten, with power being returned to the Nile Delta and Thebes in the south. Memphis had been the capital of the Old Kingdom Great Pyramids and Sphinx were built on the Thereafter Thebes had become the capital. Following the establishment of the Eighteenth regained its importance as a political centre, the city. From Memphis and Thebes Tutankhamun and his of Akhenaten's religious reforms. The king issued a royal decree which stated had been neglected and withdrawn their divine As a result, Egypt was in chaos and its armies The text adds that after Tutankhamun came the old gods were venerated once again and The proclamation was inscribed into stone such as the Temple of Karnak in Thebes. Although the text of these restoration stelae the process of restoration was just beginning. Tutankhamun had been brought up at his father's Aten on palace walls and witnessed his father the sun disk every morning. To issue a proclamation discrediting the belief experience for the young king. The king's closest advisors, Ay, Maya, and during the reign of Akhenaten and had tombs but they formed the vanguard of the move back Ay is believed to have been the power behind By the end of Tutankhamun's reign, he may Treasury chief Maya was also responsible for who began the work of restoring the temples While Akhenaten had ordered the destruction Tutankhamun ordered his chief sculptor Userhat-Hatiay scratch. Meanwhile, Horemheb personally appointed men vacant during Akhenaten's reign. Interestingly, though the temples of Aten in Memphis remained open. Around two or three years into Tutankhamun's very much underway, the former capital of taking the bodies of their relatives with King Tutankhamun followed suit and decided to the east of Amarna and transfer their contents as the royal necropolis for the pharaohs and I at the beginning of the 15th century BC Tutankhamun ordered a new tomb to be created the body of his father Akhenaten in a coffin The body of Tutankhamun's grandmother Queen King Amenhotep III. As part of his duties as high priest, Tutankhamun festivals. As he lacked familiarity with the complex his chief advisor Ay. Every year, Tutankhamun would celebrate the The ceremony began at the Temple of Karnak carrying statues of Amun, Mut, and Khonsu, Triad. After making offerings, the king led a procession the boats on their shoulders. The king, queen, and effigies of the three temple, while soldiers and courtiers marched hymns sung by priests and accompanied by royal Once inside the main temple of Thebes, Tutankhamun sanctum to reenact the coronation ceremony While construction of the Luxor Temple had Amenhotep III, Tutankhamun carried on building decorated with images of him and Ankhesenamun In addition to restoring the images and monuments initiated building projects of his own. Aside from the Colonnade Hall in the Temple sphinx avenue at Karnak. Near the pyramids of Giza, Tutankhamun built a hunting lodge. In his day-to-day activities, the king was by the high steward of Memphis, Ipy, who had After Ipy's death, his office was assumed scribe for Maya at the treasury. As in modern royal households, a team of servants king's vast wardrobe, which included outfits Tutankhamun's kingdom extended beyond the To the south, Egypt ruled Nubia in what is To the northeast, the Egyptian pharaohs vassalized region including Israel, Lebanon, Palestine, Many of these conquests were carried out by ruled a century before Tutankhamun and was ancient Egyptian history. Accordingly, Tutankhamun held audiences with which he would receive expensive gifts. Many of these gifts would be given to the would keep some for himself which were later General Horemheb played a vital role in these king and his foreign visitors via an interpreter. As commander-in-chief of Tutankhamun's armies, down a Nubian uprising in the 1320s BC. While Horemheb campaigned both in Nubia and was present at the battles. Although there are depictions of Tutankhamun most likely idealised images, as the king's ability to play an active part in battles. The Nubian territories were administered by of Kush. Tutankhamun appointed as his viceroy a man chief of the royal harem. Huy supervised the collection of tribute for quantities of gold, ebony, ivory tusks, and A few years into Tutankhamun's reign, Huy accompanied by a procession of Nubian princes Horemheb's campaign. After a decade of hardship, the attendees to prosperity. The old gods had been returned to their rightful gradually fading away, and the abandoned city and the remaining traces of it were being The teenage Tutankhamun seemed secure on his in his own right within a few years. Perhaps a new golden age was imminent after During Akhenaten's reign, the Egyptians on the border of Syria and Lebanon, a major The Hittites of eastern Turkey were expanding Qadesh, replacing the Egyptian vassal Shutatarra while publicly maintaining his allegiance Though Akhenaten had sent a military expedition the Hittites. Late in Tutankhamun's reign, the king sent and reverse the humiliation suffered during Horemheb's campaign was commemorated in there is no further detail on how the campaign The city of Qadesh stood in the middle of all around, terrain that was unfamiliar to Although the depictions of the campaign show as his prisoner of war along with Egyptian the Egyptians failed to recapture Qadesh, Egyptian king Seti I briefly reconquered the Even without achieving the primary aim of the campaign, which could be pure propaganda, prisoners in front of Tutankhamun. The king duly provided Horemheb with rich to deposit a share of the spoils of war for Some of the prisoners captured by Horemheb gods. While Horemheb was away on campaign, Tutankhamun year festival. On the first day of the new year, Tutankhamun workshops and foreign dignitaries were laid These gifts would be meticulously recorded a selection of them to his courtiers. In the evening, Tutankhamun and Ankhesenamun The guests ate bread along with duck, ox meat, had been purified at the temple fit for a The new year celebration was accompanied by royal vineyards. The king and his courtiers may have ended the board games that was found in his tomb A popular game was senet, played on a board While the rules of the game have been lost game is likely a variation of the Royal Game dating to around 3000 BC, where players threw to the end of the board. Two of the game-sets found in Tutankhamun's small drawers to hold the counters, and the during their travels across the country. Around the time of the new year festivities, The bull was worshipped as an incarnation was centred in Memphis. After the death of each bull, the city's with the same characteristics, a black bull and an eagle pattern on its back. Before the priests could begin their search, for the bull at the Serapeum, the burial site necropolis of Saqqara which may have been III. The king would have hoped that these rituals As he shouldered more of the burdens of government opportunity to relax by going hunting. While the most common hunting weapon was the from a boat using a curved throw stick, much For close combat, he had his choice of clubs, The young king enjoyed hunting while riding a charioteer steered the horses. Among the items found in Tutankhamun's tomb scenes, depicting the king in his chariot fleeing animals about to fall prey to his Yet his taste for hunting would prove fatal. During the ninth year of his reign, Tutankhamun As the king fell to the ground, he broke his His servants carried him back to his palace With Ankhesenamun at his side, the injured and the priests of Sekhmet. As the doctors examined the wound, they realised Nevertheless, they did all they could in the in linen soaked in oil and honey to hold the Despite their best efforts, the king's leg the nineteen-year-old King Tutankhamun was There would be no long and prosperous reign, again. With the death of her husband, Ankhesenamun from amongst Akhenaten's children and ruled While it would have been possible for her rule in her own right, the court decided she The pharoahs of the Eighteenth Dynasty were but there were no close relatives left. As Ankhesenamun insisted on marrying a man of sending a message to the Hittite King Suppiluliuma if he could offer a solution in the form of in place of her late husband. When Suppiluliuma received the letter two he was being offered. He had been fighting the Egyptians in the to incorporate Egypt into his empire in an Nevertheless, he remained cautious and decided offer was genuine, or if Tutankhamun was alive elaborate Egyptian ruse to cripple Hittite Ankhesenamun was not pleased to learn that her offer, as she was in something of a race Traditionally, a pharaoh would be buried seventy not be buried without a successor in place. Without carrying out the necessary rituals his eternal afterlife would be blocked. With winter approaching, there was no chance the Hittite king within seventy days. Nevertheless, the royal artisans hurried to that would help his journey into the afterlife. Egyptian kings typically had their grave goods for only nine years and died unexpectedly reign artists and sculptors had been busy than producing his funerary goods. No matter how fast they worked, the royal entire assemblage of grave goods for Tutankhamun repurpose those prepared for Neferneferuaten, The most spectacular object among these items goldsmiths changed to bear his likeness while In addition to the items intended for Neferneferuaten, of items either owned by the late king or Also intended for burial in Tutankhamun's stillborn daughters in tiny coffins. Although work had started on a tomb for Tutankhamun, As Maya and other officials inspected the tomb, they decided to use the one being prepared distant relative. The undecorated tomb was not yet suitable to excavate a new chamber that would become a small room beyond it known as the treasury. The two existing rooms in the tomb would later After excavating the burial chamber, the royal existing designs from papyrus prepared during In accordance with the traditions of his time, him in the Theban Necropolis where priests in the afterlife. The late king's body was taken nearby to into which his soul could return to rest. His brain and internal organs were removed, inside the body. Traditionally, the internal organs would have were placed in a chest divided into four compartments Neith, and Serket. The king's body was covered with natron, dry out the body and stop it from decaying. After forty days, the natron was removed and with amulets and other pieces of jewellery, The king's hands were crossed in front of On Tutankhamun's head, the embalmers placed between layers of bandages, all covered by spectacular item on the mummy. Early the next year, the Hittite envoy was of Hattusa in what is now central Turkey alongside The queen was outraged that the Hittite king once again. Suppiluliuma continued to have his suspicions the Egyptian messenger that the offer from He duly dispatched his fourth son, Prince Ankhesenamun and become the new pharaoh. When Zannanza died en route to Egypt in unclear of murdering him. Upon the death of her prospective husband, than to marry the elderly Ay, her grand-uncle, In his correspondence with his Hittite counterpart, but denied any wrongdoing. Suppiluliuma responded by launching an invasion for the captured Egyptian prisoners to bring for many years to Hattusa, a disease outbreak With Ay in place as Tutankhamun's successor, the end of March, seven months after his death, On the north wall of the burial chamber, the performing the opening of the mouth ritual act symbolising rebirth in the afterlife. This ceremony was typically led by the crown to Tutankhamun's throne. There was no time to build a wall separating only three walls were decorated for the time The scenes from Tutankhamun's burial ritual burial chamber before the ceremony had taken The king's mummified body was presented a sled and dragged across the sands up the tomb that had been prepared for him. Before the body entered the tomb, Ay performed touching Tutankhamun's lips with an adze, With his mummy carried by priests, the late was placed into three nested coffins inside The innermost coffin was made of solid gold, decorated with glass and jewels. After the lids were placed on each of the resin, but the heavy granite lid of the sarcophagus The workmen then discovered the lid could coffin were too tall and had to be filed down The workers then put together the wooden panels king's body, but in their haste assembled east and west and north and south. In the meantime, Tutankhamun's canopic chest the treasury with a box containing the remains nearby. At the entrance to the treasury, a shrine was guarded by a jackal representing the god After the funeral, the artisans built the it with a scene of Tutankhamun in the afterlife After their work was done, the entrance to and stamped with official seals. Several months later than anticipated, Tutankhamun where he would be engaged in a daily cosmic of evil that threatened to disrupt the earthly Yet the late king's continued existence if the priests at his mortuary temple continued were to remain undisturbed. After King Ay assumed the throne, Tutankhamun's bleak. Although he had married Ankhesenamun to legitimise his existing wife, Tey, as his Great Royal Ankhesenamun was not featured in any of his historical record. As far as Tutankhamun's spirit was concerned, into twice within the space of the year. The thieves may have been artisans who had they carried out various small precious items While the authorities made some attempt to returned to its original place, and the tomb Within a year of Tutankhamun's burial, a of the Kings and deposited a metre of rubble the tomb of Tutankhamun would remain undisturbed After reigning for around four years, the His designated successor, General Nakhtmin, him. Since Ankhesenamun was either already dead was claimed by Horemheb, the highest-ranking As Tutankhamun had been buried in Ay's intended Western Valley of the Kings originally intended death. Unlike Ay, Horemheb had no royal blood whatsoever, have been Ay's daughter. While he continued his military campaigns new king considered it his primary duty to While Horemheb continued Tutankhamun and Ay's to erase the memory of his immediate predecessors, with his own. By doing so, he not only consigned their names their spirits in the afterlife. Not only did Horemheb order the desecration of his mummy, he also usurped his predecessor's He took credit for Tutankhamun and Ay's and Karnak. All over the country Horemheb replaced Tutankhamun's He would undoubtedly have done the same thing to access after being buried under rubble. As Horemheb had no surviving children of his named Paramessu. After a reign of around fourteen years, Horemheb as Rameses I, the founder of a new Nineteenth The second and third pharaohs of the Nineteenth of whom is more widely known as Rameses the much of the prestige lost in the aftermath Horemheb's efforts to erase the memory of time memory of King Tutankhamun faded away. In the mid-12th century BC, around two hundred working on the tomb of Rameses VI built their the entrance to Tutankhamun's tomb. Over the course of the following three millennia, and Napoleon Bonaparte all conquered Egypt pharaoh named Tutankhamun. It seemed that memory of his reign had been When Napoleon Bonaparte led his expedition by his officers and men, but also by a large of the ancient Egyptians. Egyptian artefacts, including the Rosetta examination. In the 1820s Jean-Francois Champollion successfully ancient Egyptians using the Rosetta Stone. This initiated the modern study of ancient Over the course of the 19th century, Egypt officials. The European interest in Egypt was partly Mediterranean and Red Sea by the Suez Canal, a part. Although officially part of the Ottoman Empire, from 1882 onwards. Wealthy aristocrats and businessmen from Europe applied to the Egyptian antiquities service These wealthy individuals financed the archaeological the work, laying claim to a share of the finds. By the end of the nineteenth century, archaeological Egypt which would have been familiar to Tutankhamun: capital, Memphis, the monumental religious and tombs of the Theban Necropolis and, most The concession to dig in the Valley of the among the archaeologists working in Egypt, an intact royal tomb, as most of the tombs by grave robbers either in antiquity or in Between 1905 and 1914, the concession was In February 1905, the intact tomb of Yuya the great-grandparents of Tutankhamun, had British Egyptologist sponsored by Davis. By this point, Tutankhamun's name was known his name appeared on the inscriptions of tombs reign remained a mystery. Over the course of a decade, Davis had financed in the Valley of the Kings, including a small on a chariot bearing the names of Tutankhamun, as the tomb of Tutankhamun. By 1914, Davis gave up his concession and Between 1905 and 1908, Davis had been assisted who had previously worked as an inspector in the summer of 1905, several months after French tourists caused him to be reassigned. By 1909, following the recommendation of Gaston Carter began his collaboration with George to visit Egypt every year to help his recovery When Davis gave up his concession for the believed that there were more discoveries permission to dig. The outbreak of the First World War disrupted to Egypt, while Carter worked in Cairo as time to carry out any new excavations. Yet, in his spare time Carter continued to and focused on the central valley, the region Amarna royals had been discovered by Davis. He was not convinced that Tutankhamun's that the king's tomb still awaited discovery. By 1917, Carter was able to begin work to excavating nothing of real significance had tomb. By 1922 Lord Carnarvon had lost hope and informed The archaeologist urged his patron to give of workmen's huts near the tomb of Rameses Carter was even prepared to finance an extra authorised him to carry out the work under Impressed by Carter's determination, he On the 1st of November 1922, Carter's team On the 4th of November, the team stumbled leading to a sealed tomb. Although the tomb did not look like a royal excitedly sent word to Carnarvon announcing Carter reburied the steps until Carnarvon's The steps and doorway were uncovered to reveal As the excavation continued, Carter could not a cache of funerary goods from different that the tomb had been broken into before By the 26th of November, the entrance corridor Accompanied by Carnarvon and his daughter, the antechamber and asked for a candle. As he peered inside, he saw a glittering collection his eyes. Carnarvon broke the silence and asked Carter replied, "Yes, wonderful things." The following day, accompanied by an Egyptian first people to step inside Tutankhamun's Carter and Carnarvon found signs that the order to reassure themselves that the burial broken through the same opening before resealing An official opening of the tomb was then held The discovery was reported in The Times of As the man who discovered an intact royal he had a great responsibility. He installed a steel gate at the tomb's to document each item from the tomb in its for examination. In this work, he was assisted by the chemist while a nearby tomb was commandeered to serve of the artefacts. By the 16th of February 1923, the antechamber could begin on the burial chamber. A number of factors hindered the work on Tutankhamun's press and the arrival of thousands of tourists the golden treasures Carter had uncovered. Work was further delayed by the death of Lord became infected. Lady Carnarvon was allowed to keep her late disputes between the Egyptian government and of the finds from the tomb. When the press claimed that Carnarvon had Carter insisted that the tomb was safe and It wasn't until September 1925 that work his coffins. After the lids of the first two coffins were in all its splendour. As the two inner coffins were stuck together were brought to the antechamber where the revealing the mummy with the famous gold death Since the mummy itself was stuck to the golden coffins into the laboratory. Unable to separate the mummy from the coffin, his coffins, an operation carried out by the As layer after layer of the linen bandages collected for further analysis. By the time the king's corpse was revealed, In order to remove all the items found on dismember the body until the decapitated head Derry eventually separated the mask from the of the king whom he had just cut to pieces. It was not until 1932 that conservation work discovery had elevated the status of a relatively millennia, to become the most widely known A replica of the tomb's antechamber was Wembley Park in 1924 and 1925, while shops images of artefacts from the tomb, most notably to the public in the Egyptian Museum in Cairo Carter reassembled Tutankhamun's body and sarcophagus in the burial chamber. Carter died in March 1939 shortly before the It is believed that during the war the tomb a team of researchers in 1968 found that the had described when he returned it to the tomb. In January 2005, Tutankhamun was taken out In November 2007, Tutankhamun's body was in a climate-controlled case. Pending the discovery of any new royal tombs, in his own tomb. In recent decades researchers have used the draw conclusions about Tutankhamun's life The theory that he had clubfoot is supported found in his tomb, but it is possible that embalming process or by Carter's team and of royal authority rather than to help the Similarly, there are competing theories about DNA testing suggests that he suffered from has fuelled the belief that he was murdered, to a hunting accident. The absence of Tutankhamun's heart and damage to the chest, though this may have been the during the break-in during the Second World Although Tutankhamun's body remained in exhibited abroad on several occasions, beginning by a campaign to raise awareness for the conservation of the Aswan High Dam in Egypt. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, the Paris, and throughout the Soviet Union. Since the 1980s, Tutankhamun's famous gold to stay forever, but other items from the 2004 until the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic The whole collection of artefacts from Tutankhamun's is being prepared for display at the Grand of Giza. Over a century after Howard Carter's discovery life is still being re-evaluated. New technology and scientific methods may and reign of the pharaoh whose successors Likewise, there are many details about Tutankhamun's remain unknown and the young pharaoh's parentage Thus, King Tutankhamun, despite being the death mask has become a symbol of ancient He grew up in Akhenaten's court at Amarna, cult of Aten, the memory of which was later After spending the first decade of his life disorder, Tutankhamun came to the throne and and disestablishing the cult of Aten, abandoning centres of Memphis and Thebes. After his death at a very young age, his legacy was usurped by his advisors and successors, Tutankhamun from history. For more than three thousand years thereafter until Howard Carter's discovery of his tomb fame that easily eclipsed the significance What do you think of Tutankhamun? Was he the tragic boy-king who spent most or should he be recognised as an important for restoring a degree of political and religious reign? Please let us know in the comment section watching.