- [Instructor] In the modern world, we humans are completely surrounded by electromagnetic radiation. Have you ever thought these traveling electromagnetic waves? The great scientist, Heinrich Hertz, was the first man to transmit and detect electromagnetic waves. In his famous experiment, a high voltage current was of two metal wires, in the gap between them. This spark resulted in the radiation of electromagnetic waves. Those electromagnetic waves and created a spark in a metal coil located over a meter away. If you had placed an LED in that gap, the bulb would have glowed. This was a clear case of and detection. However, before Hertz, the James clerk Maxwell, had already laid out the foundations for by formulating for mathematical equations. However, these equations raised a question, how do electromagnetic from wires and propagate through a space? More specifically, what we need is a traveling electromagnetic wave and not a fluctuating one. Let's explore this logically. Consider an electric charge, which is moving at a constant speed. The electric field around it is shown. Now imagine for a fraction after that, it continues at a higher speed. What we need to understand is the effect of this acceleration The interesting thing does not travel at an infinite speed, instead, it travels at the speed of light. Similarly, the information of velocity of the charge to the whole electric field region. The field near it knows about it, but the field far away still has no idea that the charge has accelerated and it is still in the old state. Let's separate out these regions with the help of two circles. Since the electric field cannot break the field between these This transition field is known as a kink. The kink moves or radiates To show the kink animation in a clear way, let's move the camera We can say here that the has caused an electromagnetic disturbance or electromagnetic radiation. Based on this understanding, the most important experiment in the field of antenna technology, the oscillating electric dipole. The interesting fact about is that it produces in a perfectly sinusoidal manner. Let's see how it is achieved. Before getting into the electromagnetics, let's understand how velocity and acceleration vary in this simple case. It is clear that at both ends and in the middle the velocity This means that this is a case and deceleration. The electric field pattern is drawn here when the chargers are far apart, and when the velocity is zero. In order to have a better understanding, let's examine one of the Let's observe the electric You can see that the electric The reason for this deformation is simple. This time period is the region with the highest acceleration. As we saw earlier, accelerating or decelerating charges cause In short, the old electric field does not get adjusted to This deformation is continuous since there is continuous When two charges meet the deformed line also meets there. After that, it detaches and radiates. This radiation travels If you applied an electric with respect to length, you can see that the is perfectly sinusoidal in nature. Please note that this will automatically generate perpendicular to it. Now let's have a look at how A time varying voltage is applied due to the effect of the voltage the electrons will be and create positive and negative charges. With a continuous variation of voltage, the positive and negative charges will shuttle back and forth in the wire. The simple arrangement is The dipole antenna as we saw in the previous section. In this case, the antenna The frequency of the transmitted as the frequency of the The same antenna can act as a receiver if the operation of the When propagating electromagnetic the oscillating fields and negative charges at The varying charge accumulation means a varying voltage signal is produced at the center of the antenna. This voltage signal is the output when the antenna works as a receiver. We can note here that for perfect the length of the antenna should This is the first antenna design criteria for proper reception or transmission. The second most important design criteria is a term called impedance matching. Perfect impedance matching will make sure that the waves are radiated in the most efficient way. When an alternating current it faces opposition from the inductance and capacitance. This combined effect According to the maximum to transfer the maximum amount of power the load impedance should match For further understanding, let's take an example of a circuit containing an alternator as a source and a motor bulb, et cetera, as a load. In this setup to achieve from alternator to the load, the impedance of the load must match with the impedance of the alternator. A similar impedance balance is required in the case of an antenna system. Since an antenna works on the impedance of the transmission lines also becomes important. Hence to achieve maximum power, the impedance of an antenna should match to the impedance of the source and transmission line as well. If the impedances do not match, some portion of the power would be reflected back to the source instead of radiating A free space has an In a parabolic antenna, as a transmission line, which has a different impedance That's why a feedhorn is also included in a parabolic antenna. This way, the impedance of the wave guide is matched with the so that the EM waves can We hope the concept of such an important is clear for you from this video, and please don't forget