Practice is something we do lots I think I've been learning all my life how to practice, and I think I do it And I think I'll probably do it Few pianists know their instrument One of the most legendary living pianists his immense musical wisdom is inspiring, not just in his concerts and recordings, Because very often people give up from difficult things It doesn't feel good, it's not easy, Learn to do what doesn't go easily. because in learning all that, principles...principles that will serve you for the rest of your life today, this master of the piano is going from his lessons on tone based premium on These are tips that you can already start It's just like in the gym. If you want to press 100 pounds you don't start with 100, and see how you can build up your muscles Whereas if you just try harder, Same thing with piano playing watch the full version and much, much more content by Ohlsson Be sure to check out Tonebase Premium, the platform that makes videos And if you're interested be sure to like just you wait, Irma Wolpe. One of my other teachers, always said &quot;Only we pianists are afraid of a distance Sometimes, if it's a jump, in the Chopin First Concerto, because that leap of the tenth...&quot;ba baaa&quot;&quot; has to be &quot;rammm ba baaa&quot; It can't be &quot;DEE BA UGHKGH&quot; And I, you know, I smudged or something &quot;If you just play it as an octave, Then just leave out the top note But in other words, it's I can even do it like that. But the gesture of the *beautiful Chopin moment* you want when you're on a black note I don't know if you can see this here, I don't hit it with the tip of my thumb I actually open the thumb so that It's a lot more secure. And same thing with the fifth finger. I don't hit with the tip with the side. So you have less likelihood of missing. Same thing in Beethoven, surpassing not it's actually much easier with the thumb but not this way just with the side In almost a semi-closed position because then you don't have to. I've seen people too worried and playing wrong notes Part of the piano playing is percussion, really secure. Besides, it looks good, it' s not &quot;BUMPBUMP&quot; it' s &quot;baBUM&quot; It's a gesture. It's like bouncing a ball. Or in the Schumann concerto, it's not because nobody's you need to practice it But don't aim for the downbeat, That's where you need to put an accent, they're in the middle of it The downbeat will you see, I'm going for the first note if I go for the second note, it sounds uncoordinated and effortful. And by the time you get to a much more your transcendental study of Liszt, If you're playing, you're going to get stuck. So each one of those is it's that relaxation response we've all missed this one, it also it occurs to moment, it's very intense. The hand is busy, D'ohhhh oh gosh! So okay, how to do it? I think too many people go too fast When I was younger. You want to go from the first note Make sure we hear let that happen, and then let let this go. In other words, don't. But now most people play 1523, 51515, which is very fine. You have the opening The moment you get up to the five, don't so you have to jump, bring it, let it get lazy and move up here so that you're actually a little bit Or you can do my fingering, just gave you for the office. But 15124 and then 1515. I don't know why it's more, it's more secure for me and it works better for me. So good luck with that. the last thing you can control and the hammer clicks up you're not in control anymore. So once again, and since you have you're free to go have a cup of coffee but it's going to stay there for you. It doesn't help to put all of your emotion into your body and hold on to the piano no matter what I do once that's happened But once you've hit that, you need what I'm now notorious for going the relaxation response, you need incredibly sharp attack and you need your tension but not in between, because obviously You know, I can play this without changing my hand position within an octave. But look at all that jumping and you want to hear a steady, steady stream of notes. You can't hear, obviously. I mean, then that's ridiculous. it's not only a study of expansion of which isn't so obvious of physical blocks of notes, which is repeated. So we see this big stretch, try to accommodate the stretch. You can't play this piece At the very least, when you hit the fifth finger, you have to So. Okay, we've got one note. Well, well, that's very nice. So we've got one note, piano and slow. Now, if I've got a very big hand. But look, my, my second finger is now on so I have to do something So I have to stretch it rather than stretching it out distressed where it looks like And I'm a pretty strong pianist. That doesn't work. You actually have to let your hand go. You have to let that thumb go so you almost get the second one finger to the C, not literally, Same thing with this. I mean, look, look, there's my finger and it's trembling The tendons don't like it. So I'd have to move my hand I've played that note. Now, this is interesting. How am I going to get from 4 to 5 Well, if I just open the hand again, the fourth thing, it will come up and then I'm in a position Now, I promise you, that's not the way And when I was very young and played it that's not what I knew, In other words, You have to figure out each one at a time, slowly with I'm doing exaggerated movements, okay? Now I'm playing Then now you can add your strength You can do it however you like. If you want to do more with your fingers, you can be tense, but you have to get out of the tension Wait. And then you can actually start adding speed. listen to the diminuendo of the piano. But let the note not just go stop to off. I held it until the beginning of the rest. And even on a diminuendo box like this, It also tells you is the artist That is not. We haven't been we haven't stopped. You almost lean forward naturally. Not because you want to lean forward. The music continues. The music tells you either with your body the next bar is just very impressive. It has 128 notes in it, just like this. There are 128 or 132 actually, But remember that once you hit a note, So rather than thinking of it, it's much easier to think of it as. And so once you're once you're in the first one, get off it. And with the help of the pedal, you're there. So you're sort of jumping off Because if you think of it as you're going to be a mess very often I hear, well, I'm exaggerating, but I think you've But you lose an awful lot of music. And how are you going to get symmetry 63, for example, at the top of this thing. And he does something which later Brahms would do he writes one, two, three, four, five, six, one, two, three, four, five, six, And then the right hand is where it's one, And they have a war with each other. And if you're just rattling really fast, it only sounds like impressive But if you actually feel the tension now it's kind of a war going on. And even though I'm not as fast there's so much activity with a pure arpeggios, you've really got some vast, vast, vast sweep along for a whole page, there's a famous saying at Conservatories starting at the Juilliard School the same, that you'll have the talented at age 17. Let's say she listened through the door When this guy is practicing, by the night. The next guy isn't such a piano god, sensuous sound and deep musical feeling. You open his practice room What should really happen is the opposite. Because you should. You should go towards the areas But it doesn't feel good, So you've got to figure Who are you and what are you better at? What are you were set so you know, if you're really great by Bach and Beethoven sonatas work on Debussy for a while you won't lose what you're good at and we tend to like to be in our comfort So this is all part of the wisdom of life to get better and or the success Thanks so much for joining us today. And remember that the full version from many more fabulous pianists, Check the link in the description