From a young age, I've always money. I always knew it was something bigger. I'm doing happens to be making money. My name is Jenny, i'm 28 brand, Freja, has brought in Freja is a handbag brand. We specialize in making functional pieces to support endeavors. We originally and then now we have kind of everyday bags, shoulder bags, I wanted to create a brand world. So doing everything being really transparent in have a profit margin of about After all our expenses, we first time end of 2023. I started Freja after a of interview prep when I I didn't really have any I was trying to bring a trying to bring my laptop, my So I needed everything to compartment. And I wanted coat. Because this was a full day of interviews. I carrying like a cotton tote Didn't get the job. I had a problem that I wanted do it well. I used that to school. And then it was also start Freja I started makers based in New York went I found one based in and then I started sourcing up the sample. It was not It was actually very sad. It looked like a But now I know. At least I know what I'm I'm like, okay, there was a upfront to and my sketches work off of. So I get it. I'm like, okay, I tried I'm going back to China sample maker in China. So I asked around my circle sourcing agent. There were I was like, want to be able everything's sourced. I want paid. I want to be able to of be my way of showing the China can look like. I'm I'm proud to be Chinese. I don't hide that. We're made I don't think there's really proud of that. And then I picked the one deliver a sample, but they is something I was looking with the same factory today, I present to you version one after a year, this is what it I decided to use vegan Animal leather, I didn't sourcing and making sure that it, so I decided not to go We invested about $30K into that included all ordering hardware, paying our factory the bags to us. Freja before we had any product to launch We're no name No one knows about us. Why would you buy from us? I had to give people a reason story. So I thought, let me doing. Like, let me share Let me share everything that And like all the changes that I think I collected 2,000 I was like, oh, you know, I only have 300 bags. Send out an email not a I'm like, okay, my launch I couldn't afford to not make way to sell those. Customer acquisition wise, I really, really slow for the I think a lot of our initial then clicked into our following us, following the newsletter. First month was Next month same thing. I had enough to live off of Our rent I was splitting with That was $1,200 a month. Honestly, beyond that, and expenses, didn't go out. I think after six months in So I didn't have to dig into People really wanted more and them. That really helped me for that existing batch money. The good thing about of everything you make. top so you don't really need Wh en I graduated from grad salary for a UX designer in like $86K to $90K. So, like, you know what? I'd I made my own job, and I will would have made otherwise. I think two years in, I saw York City, and that was such I ran up to her, we chatted. I think Freya really came to be like other brands, like to emulate a lot of brands speak in their tone. Transparency has been one of very beginning ever since we share exactly how much it We did a round of price because I didn't really know I increased everything by telling everyone like, hey, Like we will be increasing much or we're not going to do So if you wanted to get your Everything we earned was into the business, straight And then 2023 November, we sale. And then all of the that inventory was like So that was the first time we to kind of play around with. It. I think it worked because we were so, we really, really appealed to Right now, we're definitely but our core customer from specific. And I think that's couple of years. I didn't be acquired. I started it outlet that I could turn into I think now maybe this year I designer, because in the past am yet, but this year I'm a stride. I think I can call If I were to go back in time piece of advice, I would tell intuition. Trust yourself. You already have everything Here I am, year five. Definitely underestimated years, but I'm just glad we I want to do a lot more connecting with the people People show up to events with like, hey, this was my like that. I also want to empowers young women to chase I think that's what Freja can do it too. You can do what you want, and long as it feels meaningful