Thank you, thank you! I like not knowing what's gonna happen I like making memories sometimes I do all this crazy **** around my colleagues just so that they can tell their friends I did it. Rather than talk about myself, just genre, stand-up comedy is an I don't think any other country could unbeknownst to many people in this that exists in this country that is somebody. Each and every one of you has a champion in the room. We watch you guys fight but when we're together we talk it and I watch them on stage and everyone's Don't get mad at them, don't hate them. We go upstairs and have a beer sometimes I even appreciate the artistry that they not that serious. The First Amendment is the Second Amendment is just in case the first one doesn't work out. We gotta let some air out of the ball, tight it doesn't feel like it's ever honored that my colleagues are here in in America right now to look at me, look anybody I just did it what they're gonna no, this is called leverage The thing I like best about tonight was parts of my life, like friends that I from Ohio then and now, friends of mine blew my mind you guys have no idea how you inspired me. I want to give a special shout-out to my OG Tony Woods. Miles it's one of my favorite- Miles Davis said so much cool **** but one of the things he said I always loved, he said it took me years to learn how to play like myself, you know he would watch other musicians then he would try to play like Dizzy or Bird, all the guys who Bird, if I was Miles, I was trying to I ever saw do it absolutely right, There's something so true about this genre when done correctly that I will fight anybody that gets in a true practitioner of this This is the truth and you are content, I'm talking about the art form. [Applause] And what I really wanted to say to do it- I'm gay! I am gay and I can't being gay like this. So many special shout outs, one of the century, my brother and my mentor the mighty Stan Lathan. I'd never dreamed someone as great as you. I wouldn't want to do another special with vegetables and live as long as you can Neal Brennan your speech made because it reminded me of all those hard got for it. The other real special this would have been possible in any Mom, my mother. Mom, mom, mom, mom. You have no idea when I put this woman through If you had just given birth to me, that the fact that she raised me and raised our house. I knew the word &quot;griot&quot; when I Africa who was charged with keeping the tell a griot of the stories and they would tell future generations. When they got they say in Africa, when a griot dies my mother used to tell me before I ever should be a griot,&quot; and she filled me with educated in African American Studies and that I was being raised in. I'm being have to tame. By the time I was 14 years old, I was in nightclubs mastering an adult world. I was terrified. The crack epidemic was going on and my mother would hear gunshots outside and be scared to death, &quot;Maybe it's my son,&quot; but early in my career, the club with me. She'd do a full day of waiting for me to go on she would how long that car ride is home? How many of you have ever heard your tonight son,&quot;? I was a soft kid, I was sensitive I cry and my mother used to tell me this thing, you said this to me more than once you so you can be the lamb you really are.&quot; I any of you when it comes word to word, I can chill and be me. And that's why I every practitioner of it whether I agree with them or not, I know where they're coming from they want to be heard, they got noticed, they just want to be understood. tonight, mom, I would like to honor you in my own but because now I am a man with great and influential friends, I'd like to ask my man Thundercat to come out on stage, Washington, DC thank you very much for Today is officially Dave Chappelle Day So, in the future, on Dave Chappelle celebrate it to make one incredible Thank you very much, goodnight.