Imagine waking up the morning of prom, or and sure enough, you look in the mirror to It's happened to lots of us. Acne, or acne vulgaris, is the most common It affects about 80% of people at some point Most people get acne between the ages of 11 to struggle with it, too. Acne happens when follicles and pores become And ... it sucks. But by studying how acne forms, doctors have It all starts with your skin: a complex organ blood vessels, and glands. Your skin cells regenerate about once a month, off, and new skin cells rising to the surface. This whole skin-replacement thing isn't But lots of these dead skin cells come out And pores make things more complicated. Skin pores are essentially just openings for Hair follicles, the root ends of the hairs, clusters of sebaceous glands, special glands Sebum is that oily, waxy stuff that comes It helps keep your skin waterproof and moisturized: it keeps water already inside you from getting So, sebum is important. But things can go very wrong if your sebum When your body doesn't produce enough sebum, to bacterial or fungal infections. But if your body produces too much sebum, skin cells, and cause a blockage. Increased sebum production is one of the major Increased keratin production is another one. Keratin is a protein produced by your hair It gives structure to each strand of hair, But when the hair follicles produce too much dead skin cells, so they can't just shed You end up with a blockage that then traps Once the pore is officially clogged, it becomes -- especially Propionibacterium acnes. That's a species of commensal bacteria, It naturally lives on your skin, and it's The commensal bacteria that make up your microbiome bacteria from colonizing on your skin. So having colonies of Propionibacterium acnes You want them there -- as long as they stay When the bacteria find their way deep into when they can cause an infection. And infections often cause inflammation. When you get an infection, your immune system and sending extra immune cells and enzymes Different combinations of symptoms cause different heard before:Blackheads, whiteheads, pimples, things. The scientific term for a clogged pore is worm. People started using the term to refer to out when you squeeze it looks kind of like When the main symptom is just that the pore either a blackhead or a whitehead. Blackheads are what it's called when the The trapped sebum and dead skin cells become material into a dark color, kind of like how When the comedo closes, skin cells grow over from happening, so the whitish color of the That's called a whitehead. When there's a comedo plus an infection kind of acne: pimples! The typical reddish bumpy kind are more specifically If the inflammation gets really bad, sometimes pus. Those kind are categorized as pustules, and sometimes white from the oozing fluid. The most severe kind of acne is generally That's when the infection takes root in Sometimes the infection causes more solid And sometimes the infection causes pus-filled So that's how acne happens. But what causes it in the first place? What makes healthy pores become clogged, infected, Again, there are a few different factors involved. Genetics seem to be important, for one thing. So if your parents had acne, you're more Hormones also have a huge influence on acne testosterone, which influence the development Which explains why acne is so much more of Androgen hormones are linked to sebum production. So during puberty, when the hormones are highly Increased stress has been thought to increase So if you find yourself breaking out the day When you're stressed, you produce more hormones, Since sebum is an oil, a lot of people say Sometimes you'll also hear that dairy makes chocolate. But the truth is, scientists aren't really There have been lots of studies investigating But others don't. We need more comprehensive, controlled trials to any real conclusions. Doctors do acknowledge that there's anecdotal diet has helped with your acne, then it makes There just isn't enough evidence to support But we do know that exposure to other topical can cause acne by blocking your pores with It's easy to avoid the problem, though -- just which means that they shouldn't clog your But the natural oil on your face isn't really You'll often hear that you should wash your isn't caused by dirt or by the natural oil And washing your face too much can actually To treat acne, the goal is to reduce the factors The one thing you shouldn't do is pop a The big risk is that you'll push the infection skin, instead of out to the surface. Plus, you'll irritate the area, causing longer to heal. You might also spread bacteria to non-affected Instead, treatments try to lower sebum production, the pore as much, prevent bacterial growth, Treatments can range from mild to aggressive, For mild acne like blackheads and whiteheads, medications. One of the most effective is benzoyl peroxide, killing bacteria. It decomposes into super reactive forms of the bacteria need to survive. Another common treatment is salicylic acid, them from replicating. It can also break down skin cells and keratin Inflammatory acne, like papular pimples or to reduce the inflammation. That usually means prescription meds. ###Antibiotics -- the kind that are also from strep throat to urinary tract infections They stop bacterial growth and reduce inflammation. Another kind of treatment involves retinoids, Retinoids work by binding to skin cell receptors skin cell growth. So retinoids work really well to unclog pores They're anti-inflammatory, too. In severe cystic acne cases, stronger retinoids to reduce the size of the oil glands so they And since hormones are a big factor in sebum can regulate female hormones and reduce the Fewer androgen receptors at work means less Sometimes, severe, cystic acne will leave These procedures don't necessarily treat the bumps and scars left over from bad breakouts. Dermabrasion uses a gentle sanding tool to over from cystic acne, but it only works for This procedure has mostly been replaced by to remove skin layer by layer until the scar Then there are chemical peels, which use compounds what's basically a controlled injury to of cells. The dead skin cells peel off, revealing healthy Luckily, most people grow out of the acne-ridden continue to have acne well into their 40s But even though a bad breakout might make treatable, and it's not life-threatening. So take care of your skin, talk to your doctor them, and trust that your acne will probably And then you get to look forward to wrinkles! Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow, If you want to help support this show, just And don't forget to go to youtube.com/scishow