- Bill Whalen- this is the last class you have of the stare out the window counting down the clock. I the last day of school, I always felt bad for the great to see you. I hope you had a nice ride up not familiar with Victor's background, Victor is farm in the Central Valley. And I think coming up -Victor Davis Hanson- century than Palo Alto, but it's a good cross can see the decline in infrastructure you go to a public facility...homeless. this area, it starts to increase the viability. and now it can take four or five and sometimes - Bill Whalen- -Victor Davis Hanson- of course dissects my route and it's but a lot of delays and it sounded just a bunch of overpasses, nothing after - Bill Whalen- I write a lot about California, and I think from High-speed Rail over the last 10 years. 1938 and the Blues musician Led Belly records know who Leadbelly is? Any of you know who Kurt out here. Kurt Cobain was inspired in part a guitarist. I think Cobain spent ridiculous was still with us. Cobain's been gone about 30 called Scottsboro Boys, Victor. It's a song accused of raping two white women, one of whom And in his notes, he writes, and I quote, "I stay woke. Keep their eyes open." Fast forward on X or Twitter or whatever the heck we call it And this is in the aftermath of the shooting of the year 2017. Woke has actually shown up in and I've quote - "Aware of and actively especially issues of racial and social justice." season right now. Republicans are having word woke is going to get tossed around right his candidate identity. Vivek Ramaswamy laments, Nikki Haley calls wokeness and I quote, hands down." So, Victor, you have a -Victor Davis Hanson- it's a direct evocation to the 19th century awakening. And it was the idea that people woke society. You wake up suddenly and you realize it? And it seems to me that it's the old bromide result society that mandates parity on the backend control interference in a person's own life for a correcting injustices. Where it's different from class. And it really started with Barack Obama. We common currency and we... race in this country, discrimination by the majority of population, but slavery and Jim Crow. But Barack Obama redefined white. And that brought the population that was rather than just 12. And then he did something woke. He separated oppression by class for the barometer. If you're in East Palestine, Ohio because you're white If you're in Bakersfield, you see people who there hasn't been one person in but they're oppressors by the nature of their And that's very helpful for the Marxist Whereas Marxism always failed in the United parents are very wealthy, you may not be wealthy, upper middle class or wealthy. And so that permanent underclass. But when you introduce can't construct your race, it's permanent then it's a much more powerful idea that of result primarily, but not exclusively on strange things. That's why I think the to believe that LeBron James is a victim. He's Barack Obama ventures out from his Colorado or his new Oahu mansion to lecture us on Whereas in the old days, under the old paradigms because of a history of racism, people who were were poor. That's no longer necessarily have higher incomes than so-called whites do. Arab Americans, Nigerian Americans. So, for class, and it was very effective. And so to make everybody equal. And we do that in we do it with hiring, we do it with exposure on it's at war with meritocracy because meritocracy way in practicality, but ultimately, it's going And that's something is not necessarily merit. and I was wondering why every time I got there, you get stuck in. I mean the whole car was and pick it out. And so, I said to him, you're the chief ingredient of asphalt, why can't we hire our first cousins. And what he meant civil service meritocratic system. It's a tribal to this because we're the only multiracial it before. Brazil is the only contemporary multi-ethnic democracies, and they're So, this idea that American can be defined by of ideas that you're an American because you constitution, you believe in these tradition what makes what we're doing. So, this is a very going to go back and start judging people by their not essential to who we are. But when you make to say, if you go down that road, you're going to and Thucydides history, you're going to see a a thousand years. You're going to see things - Bill Whalen- was the phrase politically correct PC for short that's not pc. Yeah. So, what happened to PC? -Victor Davis Hanson- it was different than PC because it had this as I said, the 19th century great awakening. become woke, it was an emotional, it was was far more furious and powerful than just and then political correctness it had things like incorrect when you talk about your climate any type of ideology that we've seen in a long identified by your superficial appearances, that will be the barometer of success or failure to people in collectives. So yes, there may if we say white, we can say white rage, white people or we wouldn't collectivize it. And that's - Bill Whalen- Disney has a film coming at its remake of Snow not a cartoon. Its stars. Rachel Zegler, who Side story remake. She's been doing a lot of she tends to cause trouble. The Disney probably story, a stalker, and she said the following to be saved by the prince and she's not going about becoming the leader she knows she can be, she could be if she was fearless, fair, brave, -Victor Davis Hanson- woke in the present without a historical context. taking Classics of literature or music or contemporary political purposes. And in emperors would be there. And then they called you could save money by erasing his face and old emperor's body. In the Soviet Union they all of a sudden, Trotsky is the hero of the so you hire hundreds of thousands of people and magazine. I lived in Greece during the and they had certain ideas about going back to the They changed the language. They used the going to speak ancient Greek. They started adding and you couldn't show the female physique. through magazines and when women had bikinis, bottom with the Marks-a-Lot before they could we take Classics and then we recalibrate them to is it never ends. So, all these woke people they have moral superiority that's never been superior to everyone, and they never think that, each generation gets to tear down statues, rename So, it's conceivable that 50 years we nutty regime that says, I can't believe you people do that. I cannot believe you people. You what we're going to do is we're going generation and we're going to get rid of all 60 years ago that we find deplorable. And it never Snow White or Kill a Mockingbird or a statue past and they can be contextualized and they're rather than to take the arrogance that we're going going to be one bad person and one good person. what tragedy is. Great-- good people that do bad it's a very sophisticated complex matter. And for enough intelligence and morality that we can pick he's exempt and he's culpable. If you want to do you've got Stalin, you've got Mao's Cultural