Housing should be a right Every American deserves a call home. Rent growth is in big cities, rural north--it's across the A lot of jobs that require going to go away. Our mortgage system is one decides who has a stable needs to serve all of And it's not doing that. Mortgage rates are on the showing any signs of Mortgage rates have now first time in a long also been rising. If you look at predictions may be, say, two or three people are looking at .5%. A mortgage typically buy a piece of real property serves as Today, 63% of homeowners their mortgages, Every percentage increase significantly increases especially for low and So there are good reasons raising rates. But this trying to purchase a But experts say that high issue with mortgages that from achieving home Our economy has totally years, and mortgages have If we update our system in America, it will having a more equitable How do mortgages make it home in the United be done to solve it? The price of a home often money that most Americans Mortgages exist to allow families to purchase a payment, receiving a loan But cost still remains a We have an affordability States, and I would say exacerbated an existing gotten worse. So what we fundamentally and that correlates with challenge. Americans today are forced finance a home. The Federal Reserve Bank median income household of its yearly income on a For reference, households their monthly income for cost burden, according to and Urban Development. The cost factor is also large percentage of they'll even ever be able owning. And even condos in costs across cities and up, significantly amount and mortgage loan Saving for a down payment barriers to for Responsible Lending worker needs eight years payment for a median for 20%. While certain programs to be purchased with being able to afford a with its own set of If you come in with a lot to qualify for a expensive to get a Something like 40% of no financial margin. They $400 medical bill or So the idea of being able is almost unimaginable. And again, it goes back Worse than ever right now going up, energy costs skyrocketing so much now. All of those get in able to save for a down A number of state and offer what's known as programs to combat this There is not nearly, those down payment The other problem has not standardized and it lenders to use them and them. And it also makes know about them and how Congress was considering a assistance for first part of the debate over year. But the Senate So we're still hoping Another prominent issue is mortgages or loans issued Having smaller mortgages i definition those are a family on a more For first time small dollar mortgages affordable, low cost suburban or rural Prior to the pandemic, home sales nationwide $100,000. Yet just 23.2% mortgage, compared to or above $100,000, Institute. It is particularly hard smaller houses with a lender and to get that And they also expensive. And the issue has been The total value of $10,000 and $70,000 and $150,000 dropped by over respectively, from 2011 Meanwhile, values for rose by a staggering 240% Another study found that dollar loans were notably for larger loans. And it's not because Accompanying research small dollar loans had applicants for larger The real reason is It costs about the same application and run it fund a mortgage and have those things regardless is. So if it cost me the a $700,000 mortgage as it mortgage, but I get all based on the loan amount, less revenue on a $70,000 $700,000 mortgage. The lack of small dollar these affordable homes investors looking for Small dollar homes that step on the path to of modest income are not which means they're cash. That means somebody to come in and offer to They often buy the homes where they buy them house. They get an remote inspection, and And that's pulling a lot already an overly scarce for these smaller, less So a lot of harm coming people being able to mortgages. In response, home buyers methods to purchase a One example that is people end up into contract for deeds, where renting. And if you make on time, you eventually But if you miss any the house, you have no And there are millions of there in the country people don't have the They're being pushed into On top of everything, it's difficult to qualify for The Housing Credit represents the lender's remained almost at the aftermath of the 2008 In response to the great lenders and investors got underwriting criteria and sort of reactive level The deck is particularly with low credit scores. As millions of homeowners forbearance programs at pandemic, banks raised for protection. During the fourth quarter quarter of new mortgages with credit scores under An important part of the of that is credit scores how much family and If you're a wealthy difficult to get a less wealth and a lower challenging right now. And despite the many prevent lending bias is still prevalent According to the most Mortgage Disclosure Act, purchase applications applicants and 12.5% for compared to just 6.9% for applicants and 9.7% for Lenders can look up potential homebuyer, debt and student loan that are in default, opportunities for less homebuyers. Expecting historically had the liberties to be making one of those their lifetime is like no training or coaching championship title. It's just unrealistic and has certainly added to buying in the U.S.. The easiest way to solve resolving the supply of If we don't increase the first time homes and for working families with then it's going to be just from a lending have more housing. If you just provide more housing prices even more supply. Another important aspect market that supports the If we have more supply, we downpayment assistance to need more subsidy counseling and families clean up their prepared to be able to Several measures can also of the systemic barriers subgroups from achieving Our mortgage system just economy and people who scrambling to put as much money as they But those are just economy. And our mortgage people who are playing by a chance to get ahead. If we want to overcome barriers to homeownership we really want to really hard about barriers and doing directly, like looking assess credit, looking from gig economy jobs, and seasonal jobs, and members who are for ways to help people assistance to establish Continuing to question and system in the United preserving the ideals of Our mortgage system is one decides who has a stable secure place to live, who and it needs to serve all And it's not doing that. And so unless there are significant interventions we're going to look back we're even in a worse 2022. Rent in America is getting where you live. Rent growth is accelerated In big cities, rural north. It's across the The areas where we are growth are in places like Yes, my name is Maria and During the pandemic, a leave and actually the $100. I am due to renew spike of $400. Making matters worse, few construction are Rental demand continues to the rental units that are expensive ones. That is Meanwhile, workers pay match the new rent. We had wage suppression have the period now where especially at the low And so the question is continue? Experts say the rent impact on the economy. A lot of the monthly household is money that's to upkeep of the house. So it is a very important expenditures. In the most competitive Rents are creeping toward Renters in smaller squeeze, too. For rentals in Gilbert, in the past year. Meanwhile, rent for a growing at its fastest to CoreLogic. So how did One answer is the bounce You saw tech companies, smaller cities. Cities San Antonio, Charlotte. These are cities that because workers had more And when the city starts rents go up because it's But the story goes back way back to the Great President Obama, are you This has been building the financial crisis back ago. A lot of communities difficult to build more core. Building materials, been in short supply. That's been a problem. Labor. A lot of people trades in the housing and because of changes in we have a lot fewer into the country. Many of the construction trades. builders, they rely on And since the financial particularly smaller been unable, to because other reasons, unable to So there's a melange of After the financial crash stalled. By the end of fewer options, especially Pre-COVID, we saw a huge Millennials love to live They were actually living previous generations weren't able to get out because home prices were So you had so much demand Then the pandemic hit. So if you look at some of buildings in the really districts, the big actually declining in the pandemic. But smaller cities like received more of those That sent prices upward Right now, I would say for $2,000. But this place, originally set at $1700 Maria is a teacher and every day. She and many the luxury to move save cash. That's creating wider There's a lot of evidence closer to where the is having a meaningful long term economic figure out a way to laws and get the lumber need and able to build are, you know, our grow more quickly, more run. Renters in the suburbs are feeling the Economists say that right now is uniquely Because the vacancy rates It's the lowest we've Coming out of the rents to keep rising. Fortunately, builders are They can make a lot of and house prices this So they have a lot of homes. And that's surely. We are seeing So that's a good sign. And we've seen an housing starts. That's that's the preferred the pandemic. So having homes maybe puts a little prices, sure, maybe it the stock of single available in the market moderate rent growth. And in the cities, some whether to convert their into residential The idea is to say that buildings, you know, established, but maybe residential units. For the short term, the market. If I had signed the lease, of my savings. And so I decided to move I'm losing about 150 These hikes are hitting inopportune time. Over decades, wages for stagnated. The wages and benefits of suppressed in the period Growth was very slow. There was growing against the middle and bottom 90%. In 2019, Oregon became the statewide rent control. They cap increases at Cities like New York, San D.C. also limit rent These policies have some One study found that more likely to stay in control. Other economists does more harm than good. So what history has shown control, yes, it benefits pay lower rent, but that more homes or provide So all the housing stock time. And one does not So we want to encourage The answer to rising rents Both Congress and the Fed the economy. It should workers earn higher There's been a huge goods and services. So we're going to see a unemployment, I think. This has always led to those in the middle and The other related the structural changes the economy rather than low unemployment? And I improving labor $15 minimum wage, bargaining. I think it to maintaining low Which means that the might be getting yourself roommates. They're not building right now because for construction is so high land, labor, materials, shortages of labor, that affordable housing. You know, it took us ten predicament. It's not year or the year after. before we solve this The homeless crisis in again. The COVID pandemic costs and a rise in nearly 600,000 Americans We have to shut down a to be able to walk past is in such a difficult Being homeless, your day where I'm going to lay my getting my next bite of And what people don't they walk past a person this person is costing Cities across America are combat the crisis. In 2019, New York spent a to support its homeless California is also record, allocating $4.8 the same issue over the And areas like that just any better, despite the claims that this is a top budgets keep going up. Overall, homelessness in 10% compared to 2007. It's even worse for individual homelessness, percent in the same 2020 saw a 30% increase homeless, erasing over since its dramatic rise Right now, we are trending So the state of pretty tenuous and there that are taking place So how is the U.S. addressing the homeless solved? Homelessness is the most vulnerable In 2020, 20% of those who from severe mental suffered from chronic In response, the U.S. has long relied on a homelessness, where those meet specific sobriety or completion of qualify for a home. That was until this man, Sam Tsemberis, pioneered initiative. At some point, myself and with realized that really changed, get sober, take together in order to earn not working. It was just, you know, People were on the sober. They were not They were interested in secure. The Housing First tenets. First, the most homelessness is permanent And second, all housing provided immediately Putting people in housing were desperate to do, People are safe, secure, us, I need more help So then rather than coercing people to get to housing, and then they Under the George W. Bush administration, the gained the spotlight as homelessness. Related programs soon dollars in support from as the United States Homelessness and the Urban Development. Housing First's rise nineties, especially the it really gained traction should dominate these services agencies and And so we're in a meet people who work at major agencies in it's relatively rare to to Housing First. If you really look at it, government will give housing and service cities across the For decades, the Housing successfully housed the most. Shannon McGhee A nonprofit organization, helped Shannon move into 2020 after staying It started in 2008, losing then not having a strong me throughout the the family house. They didn't have anywhere to stint of being homeless. From being housed to now shelter for me was very It was a cultural shock. It was very hard to the living standards. I finally got connected a social worker with them And since being connected has turned around 360 I'm housed, I'm looking I'm in school now. So without having Pathways support and that coach to wouldn't be where I'm at A study in 2004 discovered provided with stable, services under their stably housed at the end Another study in 2000 effective than 88% of the participants remain housed, compared residential treatment And it's not just in the A similar study conducted results, showing First programs obtaining much higher rate. The evidence has shown housed immediately and homelessness created a be more successful. I don't have to be in that I'm subjected to using for money that I didn't I can change my focus. Because now I can say, How can we get you to gainful employment? What steps can we work on Housing First not only with housing, but the get back on their feet It's Housing First, not Because there are very there's a team of people, social workers or social psychiatrists, people It's like a support And then the team says to They provide wraparound So if I need assistance my ID or birth with that. They support If I need to make hospital, they support me With any and everything done, I have support Housing. Supporters of Housing cost efficient. A comprehensive study in shelter and emergency with Housing First What people don't they walk past the person this person is costing People get very sick when They have to be taken to Sometimes they steal They have no money. They Court costs, police time, When you tally up the are homeless and very we're actually spending or $100,000 a year in is still homeless. But perhaps the biggest is the improvement in the provides. Being homeless and being a want my child to see me kind of put a wedge in little bit. But once I provide a space where we she wouldn't have to be lifestyle. Being able to know that I'm in control What happens here is all But Housing First also criticisms. Experts like Manhattan Institute hasn't shown any real When the public is told policy is going to end expecting is that they're homeless people around. That homelessness numbers a result of the policy. And I don't think the case of Housing Critics also point out not be as cost effective Research in 2015 permanent housing successful in achieving also more expensive than A 2018 survey by the Sciences, Engineering and that there is no prove that permanent improves health outcomes costs. No government that I'm by investing in homeless First approach. You can talk about That is, if you invest First, that will trim some other service to actually save money, government, to the point about, let's say, a tax investing in housing there has been some with respect to that There is also the question housing actually triumphs treatment. If we want more from talking about far more But in the housing first which housing just air out of the room. And all we keep coming enough to expand the housing to help the Meanwhile, Dr. Tsemberis argues that the First are designed to unhoused rather than to They want to go back to first and then housing Because that changes the homelessness is the fault You know, anybody who society like ours with no government, it's only Housing First hit its administration that programs focused more on They were talking about policy, housing fourth, And that was very Housing First and they fourth. You know, employment and housing You know, that was a attack. The Biden administration, to Housing First. The American Rescue Plan 70,000 emergency housing $350 billion in state and funds in an effort to aid instability. The Biden administration Housing First approach. They feel that in a housing should be a right every American deserves a call home. So they are and the support. Critics of Housing First need to be giving more chance and approach the structured manner. We need to have them programs, residential the homeless population because the homeless . Within that framework, programs would have a programs would have a rule the roost in the way Those in support of more resources and government are needed to and for all. Well, if you don't have program to deliver a listening and your You need to have the the policy, which is first, but then you need policy: apartments, in order to actually make We're nowhere near where investment, either of affordable housing, address the homeless We're nowhere near. What's important is that that can be solved as attention, care and cause. It's just very disgraceful so blessed, so wealthy, right in the past, if not do something to fix this it smaller, ameliorate So there's a lot of good So that's what gives me turn the nighttime stars just turn up the lights for all. Because the is we know how to do it. We have the cure. We have good examples of We need to take it to