Seven years ago, a student came to me He said, &quot;I'm working with three friends, and we're going to try to disrupt And I said, &quot;OK, you guys spent &quot;No, we all took internships &quot;All right, but you're going to &quot;Not exactly. We've all Six months go by, it's the day before the company launches, and there is still &quot;You guys realize, That's literally all it is.&quot; So I obviously declined to invest. And they ended up (Laughter) They sell glasses online. They were recently recognized and valued at over a billion dollars. And now? My wife handles our investments. Why was I so wrong? To find out, I've been studying people Originals are nonconformists, people who not only have new ideas but take action to champion them. They are people Originals drive creativity They're the people you want to bet on. And they look nothing like I expected. I want to show you today about recognizing originals and becoming a little bit more like them. So the first reason was they were really slow Now, you are all intimately familiar Well, I have a confession for you. Yes, that's an actual term. You know that panic you feel when you haven't done anything yet. I just feel that (Laughter) So this started early: when I was a kid, I would wake up at 5am, start playing and not stop Eventually it got so out of hand and did a story on the dark side (Laughter) (Applause) Since then, I have traded hair for teeth. (Laughter) But this served me well in college, because I finished my senior thesis And I was proud of that, I had a student named Jihae, &quot;I have my most creative ideas And I was like, &quot;That's cute, (Laughter) No, she was one and as an organizational psychologist, So I challenged her to get some data. She goes into a bunch of companies. She has people fill out surveys Then she gets their bosses to rate And sure enough, who rush in and do everything early are rated as less creative than people who procrastinate moderately. So I want to know what happens She was like, &quot;I don't know. (Laughter) No, here are our results. You actually do see that the people are so busy goofing off And on the flip side, are in such a frenzy of anxiety that they There's a sweet spot Why is this? Maybe original people Maybe procrastinating To find out, we designed some experiments. We asked people and then we get independent readers to evaluate how creative And some of them are asked Others we randomly assign by dangling Minesweeper in front of them for either five or 10 minutes. And sure enough, are 16 percent more creative Now, Minesweeper is awesome, because if you play the game first there's no creativity boost. It's only when you're told that you're and then you start procrastinating, but the task is still active that you start to incubate. Procrastination gives you time to think in nonlinear ways, So just as we were finishing I was starting to write and I thought, &quot;This is the perfect time while writing a chapter So I metaprocrastinated, and like any self-respecting I woke up early the next morning and I made a to-do list (Laughter) And then I worked diligently toward my goal of not making I started writing and one day -- I was halfway through -- I literally put it away in mid-sentence for months. It was agony. But when I came back to it, As Aaron Sorkin put it, &quot;You call it procrastinating. And along the way I discovered that a lot of great originals Take Leonardo da Vinci. He toiled on and off for 16 years on the Mona Lisa. He felt like a failure. He wrote as much in his journal. But some of the diversions transformed the way that he modeled light and made him into a much better painter. What about Martin Luther King, Jr.? The night before the March on Washington, he was up past 3am, rewriting it. He's sitting in the audience and he is still scribbling notes When he gets onstage, 11 minutes in, he leaves his prepared remarks to utter four words &quot;I have a dream.&quot; That was not in the script. By delaying the task of finalizing he left himself open And because the text wasn't set in stone, he had freedom to improvise. Procrastinating is a vice but it can be a virtue for creativity. What you see with a lot of great originals is that they are quick to start And this is what I missed When they were dragging I looked at them and said, &quot;You know, a lot of other companies They missed the first-mover advantage. But what I didn't realize was trying to figure out how to get people to be comfortable ordering glasses online. And it turns out the first-mover Look at a classic study comparing the first movers with the improvers who introduced What you see is that the first movers compared with only 8 percent Look at Facebook, until after Myspace and Friendster. Look at Google, waiting for years It's much easier to improve than it is to create So the lesson I learned is that You just have to be different and better. But that wasn't the only reason They were also full of doubts. They had backup plans lined up, and that made me doubt because I expected that originals (Laughter) Now, on the surface, a lot of original people look confident, but behind the scenes, they feel the same fear and doubt They just manage it differently. Let me show you: this is a depiction of how the creative process (Laughter) Now, in my research, I discovered There's self-doubt and idea doubt. Self-doubt is paralyzing. It leads you to freeze. But idea doubt is energizing. It motivates you to test, just like MLK did. And so the key to being original is just a simple thing of avoiding the leap Instead of saying, &quot;I'm crap,&quot; you say, &quot;The first few drafts and I'm just not there yet.&quot; So how do you get there? Well, there's a clue, it turns out, in the Internet browser that you use. We can predict your job performance just by knowing what web browser you use. Now, some of you are not (Laughter) But there is good evidence significantly outperform Yes. (Applause) They also stay in their jobs Why? It's not a technical advantage. The four browser groups and they also have similar levels It's about how you got the browser. Because if you use those came preinstalled on your computer, and you accepted the default option If you wanted Firefox or Chrome, and ask, is there and then be a little resourceful So people hear about this study &quot;Great, if I want to get better at my job, (Laughter) No, it's about being the kind of person who takes the initiative and look for a better option. And if you do that well, you will open yourself up There's a name for it. (Laughter) Vuja de is when you look at something and all of a sudden It's a screenwriter that can't get the green light In every past version, But Jennifer Lee starts to question She rewrites the first act, reinvents the villain as a tortured hero and Frozen becomes So there's a simple message When you feel doubt, don't let it go. (Laughter) What about fear? Originals feel fear, too. They're afraid of failing, but what sets them apart is that they're even more They know you can fail or by failing to start a business at all. They know that in the long run, but our inactions. The things we wish we could redo, are the chances not taken. Elon Musk told me recently, He was sure the first few SpaceX launches would fail to make it to orbit, but it was too important not to try. And for so many of us, we don't bother to try. But I have some good news for you. You are not going to get judged A lot of people think they will. If you look across industries and ask people about their biggest idea, 85 percent of them stayed silent They were afraid of embarrassing But guess what? Originals tons of them, in fact. Take the guy who invented this. Do you care that he came up that it scared not only kids No. You celebrate Thomas Edison (Laughter) If you look across fields, the greatest originals because they're the ones who try the most. Take classical composers, Why do some of them get more pages and also have their compositions One of the best predictors is the sheer volume The more output you churn out, and the better your chances Even the three icons of classical music -- had to generate hundreds to come up with a much smaller Now, you may be wondering, how did this guy become great I don't know how Wagner pulled that off. But for most of us, we have to generate more ideas. The Warby Parker founders, when they they needed something sophisticated, to build a retail brand, and they tested over 2,000 possibilities before they finally put together Warby and Parker. So if you put all this together, are not that different They feel fear and doubt. They have bad ideas. And sometimes, it's not in spite that they succeed. So when you see those things, Don't write them off. And when that's you, Know that being quick to start can boost your creativity, that you can motivate yourself and embracing the fear of failing to try, and that you need a lot of bad ideas Look, being original is not easy, but I have no doubt about this: it's the best way Thank you. (Applause)