This video is brought to you by Incogni. Wave Energy Converters have been making a thanks in part to China's brand new, megawatt-scale, This device isn't the first of its kind, for this underutilized but potent branch of What is wave energy generation, and how does And if wave energy is so great, then why is Let's dive into the ocean of renewable energy, than the sun. Maybe the surfers were right all along. I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. Wave energy is kind of a branch of the hydropower Instead of using dams and gravity to capture it's translating the motion of the ocean In other words, wave energy uses the kinetic similar to wind energy. Technically, they're both trying to capture different states of matter. There are a couple of important differences First, unlike wind, oceanic waves are not The surf's always up, dude! And second, water has more mass than air. Because potential energy is calculated using more energy. That means there's a lot more potential In theory, the U.S. coasts alone could generate That's roughly 64% of total U.S. utility-scale And waves tend to increase in the winter. So, when shorter days start to negatively stronger! Sounds great, but what's the catch? A lot like solar, the trick is efficiently into usable electricity. At the heart of this problem is developing can generate electricity while surviving the The oldest record of humanity harnessing hydropower Back then they used trip hammers and a vertical-set as break ore. So, it's appropriate that we return to China This is a massive WEC called the Nankun mobile And when I say massive, I mean it! The Nankun weighs in at 6,000 metric tons, of electricity per day. This is equal to the daily electricity consumption The sheer size and megawatt-scale generation over older, smaller kilowatt-scale wave energy But the Nankun isn't the only WEC. From serpentine point absorbers buoys to Oscillating move turbines, to even weirder stuff, there's to be the one to efficiently and commercially Why is this? It's not like we see a ton of different not a huge variety of different solar panel What makes wave energy so weird? Well, unlike solar or wind, we haven't found yet. When it comes to WECs there's a lot of different less researched than other renewables. According to Robert Thresher of the National there are a vast array of different designs, best WEC. Back in 2014 some experts estimated wave power However, since then the number of papers published Even though research is growing rapidly, what's Wave power faces more engineering challenges WECs, by design, have to be strong enough all day, every day, for decades. Again, surf's up, dude, surf's always There is no escape from the surf!! And that's on a normal day. These systems have to be designed to withstand as well. A poorly designed system will be slammed to The ocean itself is not particularly welcoming Salt water is corrosive and can destroy metal While waterproof casings and sacrificial anodes is still one of the major torture tests on There's also bio-fouling, where organisms adhere to anything we toss into the sea and But despite these challenges, the clean energy good to pass up. And with the field as young as it is, there's all vying to efficiently overcome these challenges One promising up-and-comer is CalWave's Are you tired of me saying "wave" yet? What is xWave, and how does it work? Before getting into that I'd like to thank your online privacy. I've mentioned this before, but I signed and after I did I saw a major increase in from companies I've never heard of. This happened again just a couple of weeks And that's because they sold my information it too. Incogi can help with this. We have the right to request that data brokers of time and effort. I signed up for Icogni, gave them the legal sat back and relaxed. You'll see updates on your account for which too and which ones have complied. It couldn't be easier. I've been letting Incogi stay on top of very happy with the results. They're still staying on top of it for me If you want to take back some of the control give Icogni a try. The first 100 people to use code UNDECIDED Thanks to Incogni and to all of you for supporting So back to xWave and how it works. Designed and patented in 2012 by CalWave, overpassing waves into power. The xWave's rugged design allows it to capture even reposition itself in the water column In 2016 CalWave won the $500,000 second place Then it was off to Scripps Institute of Oceanography up against the biggest storm to hit the area This actually brings up a good point. Large storms can bring waves that are too Big waves may also damage WECs. But the xWave can autonomously detect oncoming safely duck beneath the waves. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory studied the device some great all around grades. The threat of entanglement and collision were Any sounds or Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) by its hull. And to top it off, the xWave only uses Green chemical spills would be harmless. I never thought I would say "lubes and oils" How does it compare to our other recent breakthrough, I couldn't find any environmental impact only just began trial operations in June, was forthcoming. It is important to note that the lubes, oils, energy hasn't been utilized much in the It's good to see companies like CalWave the results. But all the environmental friendliness doesn't at generating energy to deploy in the first The smaller x1 devices can generate 100 kilowatts, while their largest device, the xWave x100, CalWave claims they're scalable too, of As we'll see in a moment, this is a pretty Plus, the company claims their xWaves are According to CalWave, the xWave achieves a own. But this can be boosted to over 80% if it Wind and waves actually form a dynamic duo. Remember how waves tend to be strongest in Well wind tends to surge in the summer. When comparing the cost and lifetime power levelized cost of energy (LCOE), a calculation power a given project will produce over its the same period of time. Both wave power and offshore wind tend to but co-locating these green energy devices They can share electrical export infrastructure, costs, and it makes maintenance easier and So even though colocation isn't a unique their device is being engineered both to work We've talked a lot about how the environment It's frustratingly difficult to say exactly because the field is so young and there are Literally tons of different designs, each parts of unique marine ecosystems scattered It's a lot to calculate and it's going to For example, many free-floating WECs utilize collected back to shore. Marine life, like sharks, can sometimes be For instance, some oceanic fiber optic cables a not-so-gentle test bite. The exact reason why is still kind of an unknown, better and address. For something like the loud air pump on an away resting seals and sea turtles. How do you account for all this? Further complicating things, these devices Its difficult to study such a long-lived device as hostile as the ocean. Given the potential environmental concerns know that xWave's diligent studies show These studies even accounted for scale up. While scale up seems simple - just build more have been a limiting factor in the past. This is what makes xWave's scalability and Of course, cost is always king and WECs have Installation and maintenance are often difficult or under choppy waters. We can see this play out with other renewables. Remember our similarly high-LCOE-havin' There's a reason why they tend to be significantly This is partly because finding a suitable safely can cost 2 to 3 times more than the And both installation and maintenance usually to be safe or 'just right' which further These engineering and financial challenges scale or in controlled environments. At the end of the day, the ocean is a difficult It can feel like the ocean just doesn't But again, these challenges are worth addressing, University of California at Berkeley's Reza of a solar panel receives 0.2 to 0.3 kilowatts a wind tower absorbs 2 to 3 kilowatts. Every meter of the California coast receives Certainly puts the potential of wave energy And there's good reason to be optimistic. A 2019 study from NREL suggested that if all could be as low as $0.30 per kWh by 2033, LCOE of course varies a lot from site to site, Information Administration (EIA) put the average MWh, and onshore wind at about $38 per MWh. It's not expected for wave energy to get The conservative estimate is around $130 per $70 per MWh (plus or minus $30). Considering solar is currently one of the looks like it won't lose that crown anytime But in the optimistic scenario wave energy Wave energy is still a new field, and its mean that it's not nearly as 'solved' But the sheer variety of ways we can turn an exciting field. And the potential, near-limitless clean energy As the Nankun and xWave show us, once the well be one of the most potent renewable energy costs can come down. So what do you think? Are you still undecided? Jump into the comments and let me know. And be sure to check out my follow up podcast your feedback. Thanks to all of my patrons, who get ad free And also, just a reminder that I'm going in Vancouver, which runs from September 8 It's a phenomenal fan event about home energy their latest tech, and fun sessions on a wide If you want to attend, use my discount code, I'll put a link in the description. And if you do go, be sure to say hi. Thanks for watching. I'll see you in the next one.