Transcriber: Nil Celik My father started his career in a time when the internet did not exist, neither did the easy access He was earning good money, and when accidentally, an insurance sales he signed a life insurance contract in order to put His first encounter was at the age of 50. He discovered that the stock market is accessible and not only for the multi-millionaires. He learned that at a very expensive where he was told he could become rich financial products that were, very expensive and often lack the promise But they are one of the few opportunities to invest in the stock market So he took a bold decision. He borrowed money in order to invest it in mutual funds. Shortly after, the dot-com His funds lost in value, We as a family, we needed money, and he was lacking of education By selling his parts, he realized financed with borrowed money. Financially, it was a disaster, but how could he have known His case is not an exceptional one. Hundreds of thousands out there Unaware of the availability we trust professionals This raises questions such as: Who's a trustworthy advisor? How do I not lose money but still can make my savings grow How do I not mess it up? And is that even possible? Yes it is. I am convinced by following some very simple Let me first tell you why I'm convinced that you can learn how to do Let's start with the why? Maybe a little question in the round: Who's investing right now Okay. Who was already invested in 2020? Okay. That's what I was - a bit expected. And in 2008? Who was already Okay. Very little. Okay, okay. 2008 was my first financial crisis. Financial crises typically come such as job losses, monetary losses, even home losses like in 2008. But often, they mark a turning point As I said, 2008 was my first At that time, I was glued to the TV, watching stock market reporters how markets are crashing, I didn't have any like-minded investors nobody to share my fears and no social community around me I had no blogs or websites at my knowledge where I could have read Twelve years later, but this time it was different. I will tell you why. The Covid pandemic made Up from February 2020, the stocks prices started as they never did before in history. At that time, during my vacation I produced a video and why markets I was also sharing what I will be doing with my personal finances. More than 400,000 people saw that video. Back then, I had created, together a community of people Led by the pandemic crash, in order to engage closer And here's the thing that changed. Unlike me in 2008, instead of fearfully watching their TVs, young people, like many here, They seized the opportunity. They took advantage in order to buy stocks cheaper. The crisis was the beginning who celebrated their stock market debut and took over control So what was the shift between my father's time and the post-Covid world? It was the time of the beginning of the rise Now information is freely available and communities stepped up When we started YouTube in 2016, it was the second largest search engine Here are two examples. On the left side, you see explaining how to add fractions. 2.6 million people saw that video The second one is a video we produced Two million people saw that video. It was one out of 700 that we produced. Today, you could be enjoying and with the simple switch start listening to a finance podcast or dive into an absolute beginner's guide. Knowledge is now freely accessible Learning about finance was never as easy. But knowledge is not everything. The real value lies in applied knowledge. I had shared today the story of my dad, who did the mistake of investing I shared the story today so that you are aware of the risks But so as I do, hundreds, They share the stories, experience reports on platforms like Reddit, blogs, podcasts, newsletters, you name it. You can start following them. You can now learn so that you can avoid them. Another thing that has changed is that cost of financial products In the past, my father in order to buy those funds and had to pay When I started investing, but still at EUR20 per order. Today, brokerage is almost free, permitting you to start collecting Let's say 50 to 100 euros But broker commissions Also newly, very cost-efficient ETFs - for those who know me, had been conceptualized, not for us private investors, but initially for professional This is usually a good sign, as professionals tend not to fall but ask for high liquidity and low costs. Participating in a financial market had never been as accessible, So this is why I am convinced that you can manage Let's now talk about the how: Now that you have access, use the aforementioned tools for yourself you need for your particular situation. You're young, you have time, you want to grow your wealth Learn how to invest in a stock market Key learnings here are diversification You want to live in your own little house? Then learn how to save for it You want to get out of that? Learn how to create a sustainable budget and never need to borrow again. The more you learn, Second, follow the money because they are everywhere A financial advisor offering you has a high incentive from the company he represents regardless if you need it or not, A bank advisor will not be able as he can only advise you on the products And the mortgage lender if your real estate project for your financial situation. Follow the money and ask who benefits? Third, always exercise especially when faced with an offer Did you ever hear of this revolutionary, with no risk, high reward and at the same time, (Laughter) This product does not exist What if you hear of this fancy startup based on blockchain Democratizing in this context often means But start asking "Buy now, pay later" give you an easy access right at the checkout Did you ever shop something online Do you want to pay your - in two or six or 12 months? This is exactly this. In my view, there is no need via consumer credits. Others provide you trading without fees High frequency trading with risky products This usually as more than 80% Brokers benefit the more you trade. You risk losing more. Don't get me wrong. Revolutions in finance benefit but in Europe, you should be wary because often the innovation but in the marketing strategy Finally, don't be afraid because if there's one guarantee, then the one that you will not This is usually true for any sports, and for your finances. What makes the difference is the application of knowledge So start applying soon and if you're hesitating, You're afraid of investing EUR5,000 This is totally normal. Just reduce the budget or to a monthly savings plan Taking over control might be one of the most impactful It comes at a risk, Today's landscape is shaped and supportive communities. This is how you navigate wisely. Thank you. (Applause) (Cheering)