In June 1944, this now silent village in All that changed one sunny afternoon when the SS woman, and child was killed, and Today those ruins, untouched for almost 80 the most horrific days of the Second World war. along with the latest technology to and tell the story of what happened on the By the time the first allied boots touched the German Army was already in serious trouble. to hold the western allies at bay with a units and only limited reserves. That limited units like the SS Das Reich Panzer Division the south of France, it had been rebuilding when Lying unsuspecting along that route of Oradour itself was in 1944 a rather unremarkable its unassuming way, it had a population of some had been added to by refugees from the annexed border, others fleeing Franco's Spain and even who found safety in the town's tranquillity. it is hard to imagine the community that once period photos and aerial imagery, we can recreate clock back and virtually walk down the streets Following the main tram line which ran to the left of the road, and opposite that Monsieur homes and continue down the street, we approach Mr road, outside which stood the distinctive village to reveal the pharmacy on the opposite corner and Turning back right and following the and setback slightly on the right hand-side is taught 106 of the village children. Two doors then the Butcher and Monsieur Compain, the A little further down Rue Desourteaux and passing a small road turned left after the Laudy family Laudy's barn. Further up that street was Oradour's Turning back right as the main street widens, village, including Madame Milord's cafe, home and more left-hand turn can be seen which led to Alsasce-Lorraine and, facing us with its was Monsieur Bouchoule's barn. Finally, turning Century St Martin's church with its distinctive Leaving Oradour in relative peace, let's in this area by June that the infamous Das Reich, reputation for brutality, found themselves. Whilst ranks, including many French-speaking Alsatians, The Das Reich was made up something like this. the main fighting formations were the 2nd SS Regiment, the 4th Panzergrenadier 'Der Fuhrer' Looking closer at The 'Der Fuhrer' Regiment, Sylvestre Stadler, it was composed of three SS-Sturmbannfuhrer Adolf Diekmann, a 29-year-old he had been badly wounded in France in 1940, Under Diekmann's command were four infantry Otto Khan's third company. It was So let's first understand why the Das Reich needed the allies were rapidly consolidating all five of thousands of men and vehicles per day. Every invasion that much harder for the Germans. And so, the Das Reich, had received orders to move his The obvious journey to make, especially for the fair wind, the Das Reich could cover the 450 miles but for an unlikely heroine in the form of things in Normandy may have been very different... Working as part of the Special Operations Montauban railyard In the middle of the night and seized the axel bearings on more than Das Reich - An act which doubtless So, with rail travel, no longer an option, would be problematic - Armour was mechanically not only cause a huge delay, but major attrition be, and so at 8am on 8th June the leading elements It wasn't long before they encountered trouble. landings in Normandy, harassed the Das Reich the Das Reich split into two, with the Der and most of the Division's armour taking that Carsac and Rufillac, although unable to stop the By the 9th June the journey had become a nightmare the population by making examples". That same battalion in the right column entered the town of from a strong force of French resistance - with armed Maquis, rounded up all male residents and of the town, only stopping when the supply of Two important incidents took place on 9th was to follow. First, a German officer named ahead of his approaching troops in the left the town of Neiul. He would escape a few hours Gerlach later reported, and this is a major he was briefly held in Oradour-sur-Glane. Limoges, Der Fuhrer Regiment's 3rd Battalion and captured by the resistance group George It is likely, though not certain, that the along with news of the capture of Kampfe, and vague reports by collaborators of a village, all set to the backdrop of to set out with his 3rd Company in For the residents of Oradour the 10th June began the local schools still opened for the village as usual, as was Mme Milord's cafe. of the unfolding events was the sound of Residents stopped and watched in the streets as before coming to a stop, with men In all, a little under 200 heavily armed SS time all roads in and out had been blocked. a retired Doctor, and father of the current standing next to which, apparently organizing Speaking through an interpreter, Diekmann informed and that all inhabitants were to immediately One of the few surviving witness accounts of the mayor that he had been ordered to take 30 who had probably already been executed about 7 What followed was a systematic with inhabitants told to leave their Some residents, perhaps as many as 30, fearing concealing themselves in various outbuildings and By now, all semblance of a normal day in Oradour classes, patrons of the local restaurant left as he returned to the village and forced to leave who happened to be passing through Oradour All this time, various German vehicles were outlying farms and buildings into the group, By about 3pm, the assembly was complete. anyone appearing to be over the age of about 14, Perhaps more ominously, the story the No longer was this an identity check. In fact, no that the village would be searched for weapons, until the search was complete. The first to leave told, ranging in age from two months to 91. They In the fairground, only the men remained, sitting 3:30pm, they began to be roughly separated into armed guard. The relative quiet, was from time as the SS, searching homes for stragglers, shot One young man who initially avoided detection was to join his fellow students but to run and hide in his young sisters to join him, he went alone. As he was spotted by a group of soldiers Playing dead for as much as an hour, Those locations chosen for the men to be held were garage, The Denis' family wine cellar, Mr and Bouchoule barns. As the groups of fathers, towards these buildings, perhaps for the first Joseph Bergmann, a native German speaker, and to the Laudy barn, remarked to young Robert likely having overheard a conversation Back at the church, the women and children waited Marguerite Rouffranche, who was present with Crammed inside the church, we waited in Around 4.00 p.m. a few soldiers, around 20 from which hung strings, which trailed to the exploded with a loud bang and gave off a thick, half-choking and screaming in terror, rushed to breathable. It was, thus, that the door to the pressure of a terrified crowd. I followed them The Germans saw that people had escaped into who was hiding there. My daughter was killed I owe my life to closing Firing burst out in the church, and then straw, lying on the flagstones. I had escaped the cloud of smoke to hide behind the altar. In that went to the middle one, the biggest, and with the to reach it. I don't know how, but my strength was out of the opening that was offered to me by the When I looked up, I saw that I had been followed from the window. She fell down next to me, but the The woman and the child were killed. which killed the SS man who set it off, and the to the other troops guarding the groups of men again with the buzz of machine guns. In Madame After a few minutes, we heard an explosion 'fire'. It was like hell, two machine guns opened the screaming. The first burst hit As I did, so I was hit twice more in the thigh. fell over me. It was those friends who saved me. Germans were talking to each other quietly. When I remember hearing the noise of a rifle being It was terrible. As I started to my shoulder must have been sticking out and then I heard the same rifle cocking noise. but no, it was for my friend Joseph, Shot four times and badly burned when the barn was escaped along with four others by hiding in an Everyone else fell victim to either the bullets in five other locations across the village From about 6pm, the SS systematically travelled alcohol, and anything of interest before setting complete, mounted their vehicles and disappeared 8 hours before. In their wake they left 643 proud village of Oradour-Sur-Glane, visible As the sun rose on the morning of 11th June, the inhabitants, having hidden in terror all night and began to interact with frantic parents children had failed to return from school the small rearguard of SS troops had passed the night, It was then that residents could finally return One of the first to visit in search of his eight and ten-year-old boys, He lay on his side and was half-burned ... but crowded together, lay at least twenty small there. This cover did not help them much. They But there is one thing that I must say, and Not a single adult hid behind the altar. They Others made the same awful discoveries from the village for one reason or another, siblings and children had all perished, often One of the very last to be found at Oradour, at the church, was Madame Rouffranche. Shot five from the vegetable patch where she had lay for her physical wounds eventually healed, Clearly aware of how their actions would be to Oradour over the next few days and the dead and hide the scale of the atrocities, It was not until a few days later when French process could begin. It was a huge task only 52 would ever be identified. was immediate, even within the German military senior officers demanded explanations of and protests were made by the Vichy Government, who had apparently only issued orders for Rommel became involved and internal court-martial who was generally held to have personally The internal military scrutiny did not last of the perpetrators were dead, killed in action Eventually, in 1953, a trial was held in 14 of whom hailed from Alsace. 20 were convicted sentence. But as so often happened in a Europe every single conviction was reduced, and by 1958 were later conducted, including that of Heinz Company, who became the only officer convicted He served a total of 14 years. Today the and where the blame lies continue, is that none of those responsible paid So, what became of Oradour? The shattered a new village was created after the war, once been the surviving resident's homes. President Charles de Gaulle designated Oradour a that the ruins should be preserved as a reminder Even today, the ruins of Oradour can be visited many, the real power of Oradour is not found in in those everyday items which are that stand silent, the bicycles still move, the village well that remains untouched, Not far away lies the town cemetery where the entire families lost in a moment. Amongst those memorials showing the faces of both Maybe today the preservation of than just this one village. The tragic truth At the same time, and on the same continent, towns and villages in central and Eastern combatant nations, communities whose memory But perhaps the most powerful message It can be found on a stone at the entrance simply inscribed with the This was a difficult video to make, but one which found worthwhile. We want to add a special work in recreating Oradour in exceptional Thanks for taking the time to watch this video, in our work to share more of this kind of history, That's all this time, thanks for joining