Where did he go? He's coming. Is he here? Leave them alone! Go home! Israeli settlers are emboldened like never before. They don't want any Arabs left here. After the October 7 Hamas attack that killed around 1,200 people, extremist settlers are increasingly using violence to seize land in the occupied West Bank. All the land is Jewish. They kicked me out at gunpoint, For months, BBC Eye has been investigating settlers waging You don't have to touch me, man. Don't touch me. I'm not touching you. Don't touch me. ... and harassment against Palestinians. Leave! We reveal how one is accused of shooting We live in a state of terror. And how organisations, with ties fund and support settlers in this growing movement. The idea is... To "clean" the area from Palestinian presence. I mean, it is important to seize land to settle. These are our lands. As Israel's war in Gaza continues, and more than 40,000 Palestinians killed, we'll show what's next for the settlers. We are returning to Gaza. We are here to stay in Gaza. You want to shoot? Shoot. Kill me now. Just days after the Hamas attack, here in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, a Palestinian family is being forced He destroyed the solar panels, This is for the dogs. He threatened to slaughter me. The family say they are being threatened Did you touch my weapon? We are in a time of war. Don't you understand Hebrew? I'm telling you to get away from me. You are human dust to me, this Israeli peace activists try to offer some We are in a war, get in the car. OK. Move, and I'll get in the car. I'm not moving. Get in the car. Give me a bag for the tomatoes please. I used to grow vegetables on the land I only had to buy meat. All the vegetables, I used to grow everything. Weigh this, my dear. It was a paradise. Ayesha Shtayyeh is now living with her husband ten kilometres from their home in the Hamra area. Hello. Hello. How are you? 'Listen.' 'I will tell you this only once.' 'You have two days to leave I receive threats from people with Israeli "Leave. Leave. We're at war." "Leave." This is not the police. Maybe it's someone working with them. Or it's Moussa pretending to be a policeman. He's a settler called Moshe, but we call him Moussa. He kicked us out of the area. He wants to control all the land. He says, "I'm the government, I'm the judge, Moshe started out with a tent. Then he brought a container, then a Then they got him six or seven kids Then they threatened us with weapons. The police just watch. The Israeli army just watches. Who are we supposed to complain to? We want to go back to our home. Nobody knows of the pain and My hands keep shaking. I'm anxious even talking to you now. The person the Shtayyeh family accuse of leading is this settler, Moshe Sharvit. Grandma! Moshe! Moshe! He has become known in the area for his aggressive Frequently captured in mobile phone footage filmed by Israeli peace activists. Don't attack me. Don't attack me. Since the war in Gaza began, locals say Moshe is responsible for forcing families, including the Shtayyehs, to leave the Hamra area. But Moshe paints a different picture This is where the people of Israel you can see that this place is very vast. We are here to maintain the lands that were Moshe Sharvit is part of a movement that began decades ago. In 1967, following a war with its Arab neighbours, Israel occupied the West Bank and Gaza. Not long after, Israelis began establishing settlements claiming a historical and religious There are now around 140 urban settlements where more than half a million Jewish settlers live amongst three million Palestinians. But Moshe Sharvit's farm, which he established in 2021, is different. It's what's known as a herding outpost. It gives settlers access to vast areas of land, which has led to violent confrontations with neighbouring Palestinian communities. The UN says since October 7, more than 230 Palestinians have been and 17 settlers have been injured by Palestinians. Over the past three weeks, settlers have taken advantage of there to step up their violent attacks. I continue to be alarmed about extremist settlers We warn against the continued attacks and the terrorism of the settlers. The town of Qarawat Bani Hassan is home to more than 6,000 Palestinians. Ayoub Rayyan works for the local Palestinian council. He monitors the expanding Israeli that have come to encircle the town. Here is the settlement of Havot Yair. Behind it is the settlement of Yakir. These settlements have existed and there were never any attacks between us. But approximately two years ago, a settler came to this area and started to create problems with people also farmers, and those working Sometimes he comes with his sheep. Other times he is alone. He carries a gun on his waist. Those tents belong to the shepherd. - You mean the black tents? Yes. He emerges from there. He comes by tractor, by car, or on foot. In the last two years, settlers and Palestinians have for the escalating violence here. Leave, leave! Come here, come here! Quickly! The Arabs used to come here regularly, throwing tyres, trying to Pointing lasers at the settlement, On December 2nd 2023, there was an attack on while the Israeli army was present. Ayoub has come to the home of Mohamed Mer'e, shot during the incident. How is your health right now? I now need to have plastic and a skin graft. It needs time. How were you shot? I was working with my father, and we were told that the settlers came. They were attacking and burning houses, On my way up to my brother's house a settler started shooting and I was injured. Did you see who shot you? Yes. The settler. Not the army? No, I saw him and there were settlers beside him. He was sitting and aiming the gun. As soon as he saw me, he shot me. He wants us to leave the area and our homes. He would kick us out of Qarawat if he could. Is that him? Yes. How do you know him? I have an uncle who has 300 sheep. He used to steal them. So you know this settler? Yes, he's well-known. OK. The man Mohamed claims shot him, is this settler, Eden Levi. Come join us in the campaign Videos from 2021 show Eden present during campaigns to force Palestinians out of their homes Later that year, he set up a herding outpost here, on the edge of a larger, established It gives him direct access to Palestinian farms and orchards that surround Qarawat Bani Hassan. Where was your grandfather born? Most urban settlements have been approved and are legal under Israeli law. But outposts like Moshe Sharvit's and Eden Levi's don't have government approval, and are therefore illegal under Israeli law. Many are subject to demolition orders but these are rarely carried out. Israel doesn't publish official figures But the BBC has analysed data on outposts provided by settler watchdog organisations verifying each location using satellite imagery, social media posts and Israeli government publications. We found that there are currently at least All were built in the last 30 years, but almost half since 2019. The UN's top court has said all outposts and settlements in the West Bank are illegal under international law. Israel rejects this. We're going now to an area northeast of Jerusalem. In the first weeks after October 7th, many Palestinians have been displaced. Dror Etkes is an Israeli researcher and activist who has spent more than two decades tracking the construction of outposts and settlements It's an area which actually was one in terms of Palestinians' daily life. What happened is that in the last five or six years, a series of herding outposts have been and they have changed completely It had become one of the most violent areas, and it has to do with the type of settlers and expanding these herding outposts. Now take a look to the right. You will see one of the Palestinian communities This is how a displaced community looks like. They left this area because they had been It's as simple as that. Settlers supported by military, of course. I mean... It's never only settlers. Never, ever. It's always, settlers can do whatever they want The Israeli Defence forces told the BBC they are "providing protection to all the residents regardless of religion." The idea is to displace communities in order to... Terrible word... to "clean" the area from Palestinian presence. And you build new settlements and outposts in order to make sure that these communities How are you? Hopefully, good. Is your hand any better? Yes, it's OK. Try to move your fingers. These ones. We did an operation for him with lead and screws. And we did repair the tendons The tendons were cut. And the bone is badly comminuted here. We fixed it. Anyway, he will be... He will use his hand but not as normal. There will be some limitations. Fortunately his nerves were intact. The wound is clean, dry. Keep moving your fingers. Exercise them regularly, so they The doctor says that it just needs time. They put a plate in it. Hopefully, it doesn't impact me But right now, it's affecting me. It's annoying me. My whole life is on pause, I can't work or study. It's your hand, you use it for everything. All of a sudden you can't use it. It's a problem. What can I do? God help me. Call the police! With the world's attention on Gaza and violence has also erupted in the some 50 miles away. Extremist Jewish settler attacks on Palestinians France will not wait any longer. It asked the Israeli authorities to put It will also take national measures against We are settling our land from width to length, controlling it and always fighting terror, and bringing, with God's help, While ultra-nationalist settlers were once today they hold key positions in Prime Minister Netanyahu's coalition government. Their political rise has been a boost to extremist My right, and my wife, to drive around the roads of Judea is more important than the Arabs' right Sorry, Mohamed, but that's the reality, that's the truth. My right to life takes priority Ultra-nationalist politicians aim to establish new outposts all over the West Bank and expand existing ones. Havot Yair is an outpost just across the valley from Mohamed's home We heard about an event organised by local settlers. They described it as a 'hike', but they had a clear message to the Palestinians What's important is our presence here all the time, to move around and show presence, We are a settlement without a fence on purpose, so they won't know where they could end up. So it will always be vague. We are on the mountain facing the It has existed for something We were the fifth family to come here. Today we are considered a It means we still don't have legal This means that if I want to build I can't apply for a mortgage. Wow, its horns are so long. It looks like a beautiful village with But anything that happens here comes Where do we pray? The youth are telling us where to go. It's hard to imagine, but there It has always been a dream to expand I mean, there is an importance here These are our lands. Havot Yair began as a small outpost Today, there are around 100 Israeli The hope for its residents is that eventually the Israeli government making it an official settlement. Our security reality is divided between I once again applied for a gun licence. So I don't... I sleep at night. Now, I sleep at night. But we keep our eyes wide open. Why do people have this perception and that we go and fight every morning? That's a question I don't have an answer to. I think it's not fair. I think they are portraying us But we totally live an ordinary a good, bourgeois life, and that This is a farm. You see the goats down there? This is the farm. The goats belong to it. So are people in this community becoming No, no. It's only one youth. He opened it two years ago. But Palestinians across the hill say that youth, 28 year old Eden Levi, is responsible for some of the most serious We went back to Qarawat Bani Hassan still on the road to recovery, to try and piece together what happened The BBC has analysed more than and spoken with many Palestinians Just after 4pm, Israeli settlers appear on the outskirts Settlers say the violence began when Palestinians confronted residents who were walking in the fields around Leave! At 4:21pm, an Israeli army unit is visible at the scene. But they fail to intervene as settlers begin He pushed it, he pushed it. He pushed it. Son of a ***! Word spreads to the town, and Palestinian residents try to stop the settlers. Leave, you son of a ***! They destroyed the cars. As tensions rise, teargas is used to disperse the The IDF told the BBC they had used riot In this video, we hear the sound of fireworks, which the IDF said were directed The IDF also said one settler and slightly injured. In the chaos, we spot a settler speaking with the soldiers. He's carrying a rifle. At one point, he raises and cocks it, aiming towards the Palestinians below. It's hard to make out his face. But using his clothes, rifle, we can say that they are consistent As settlers continue to damage property, some local residents try a different Mohamed is one of them. I had to go through here to get I was walking up here, exactly like this. In grainy footage, we can just make out two figures. They've broken away from and are moving towards Mohamed. It isn't possible to identify them, but one is clearly not in uniform. Mohamed gives us his account of the shooting. I was shot here. I was here. He was over on that side. He was crouching on one knee I was heading this way. He shot my left arm. I turned, I wanted to get away from him, I know it was Eden from his clothes, He has long hair. He's well-known. I saw him when There is no visual evidence of the moment or who shot him. Eyewitnesses said they saw Eden Levi firing One man who says he was less than told the BBC that he saw As night falls, settlers and the IDF leave the area. Palestinian residents assess During the course of the day, two other Palestinians were injured and taken to the hospital for treatment. Another man, Ahmed Assi, is unaccounted for. A martyr! A martyr! He was found dead 130 metres from where Mohamed was shot. There were no eyewitnesses. But X-rays of Ahmed Assi's body show that the bullet that killed him remained lodged in his chest. It was a 5.56mm rifle round. And from the weapons identified expert analysts told us that it was most likely fired from rifles and by Eden Levi. We live in a state of terror, not only fear. He can break in at any time. He's armed, and no-one can stop him. Even the army protects him. There's nothing we can do. - Does the Palestinian Authority protect you? No-one. No-one can protect us at all on our land. What can we do? Eden accepts he was present in Qarawat and adds: The attack on Qarawat Bani Hassan is one of a number of recent incidents where uniformed Israeli army soldiers are accused of failing to prevent The IDF is being accused by both sides But I'm telling you that they do the job and it's a very hard job, and they're trying to fulfil the mission in the best way that they can. Avi Mizrahi is a former head of the Israeli Most of the settlers in the West Bank which pay taxes, do their military service, and are law-keeping citizens. OK. They don't break the law. Whenever you put outposts it brings tension with the Palestinians Now the IDF is protecting, first This is its role. It is supposed to allow a normal life in the entire West Bank, also And it's doing its best. But yes, I do admit that sometimes, when you have the Palestinians on one side, you can find out that it's not a mutual I'm here. Where are you? Here they are, here they are. Here they are. These are the settlers. They come to our lands and kick us out. They keep roaming around. And they're armed. For the first time since they were forced Ayesha and Nabil Shtayyeh are trying to return. Hello. Hello, sir. Welcome. They're joined by a group of farmers who have also been unable to reach their lands. And by Israeli peace activists. - Can we talk? - Can we talk? - Can we talk? Don't film me. That's Moshe Sharvit. That's the settler that resides here in this outpost. He's trying to confiscate all this land. This is land Palestinian farmers say they own and have been cultivating for decades. In the 1990s, the Oslo peace accords set in motion It divided the West Bank into three areas. In Area A, the newly formed Palestinian Authority, or PA, would run civilian and security matters. In Area B, the PA would run civilian matters only. And in Area C, all security, planning and building would Palestinians living here require Israeli approval They almost never receive it. Making homes, like Ayesha and Nabil's, illegal under Israeli law, and subject to demolition. This farmland is mine. 10 dunam here (10,000 sq m), 20 dunam there, That is my home. We plant wheat on this land every year. It's our source of income. My father, grandfather, and uncles bought it in 1953 Look what they did to the house. He broke the main door. The water tank we drink from, he stepped on it and broke the tap. Come and see what happened to the solar panel. - Who did this? Moshe and those who were with him. May God punish him. What have I didn't hurt him. I didn't do anything to him. What have I done to deserve this? He destroyed everything. - Who did this? Moshe. They kicked me out at gunpoint, They cut the sofas in half with a knife. Look at the sofas. What have I done to deserve this? For him to do this. He cut it to pieces with a knife. What did I do? My house, my home. My house, my home. I sold my jewellery to build it. I renovated it. We've been here for 50 years. 50 years, 50 years, 50 years. That's him. It's not long before the Israeli army They tell the Israeli peace activists to take their equipment and leave the area. I was asked to remove the container. There's no more work for me here. According to the Israeli army, What can I do? May God give me strength. Abu Saher. Let it go. It's pointless. The house is destroyed. Destroyed. Thank you very much. Thank you, Nabil. Britain has imposed sanctions accused of committing human rights abuses in the Palestinian territory, the Only yesterday, we, for the first time, announced some sanctions against violent settlers who were carrying out criminal acts It's harming an entire public, a public of law-abiding settlers, and many of them have been killed in this For equality? You should have taken hundreds and imposed these sanctions on them. We're going to the edge of the I want you to see how close the settlement is to the old city of Ramallah that has existed Moayad Shaaban is a minister and documents attacks by settlers. He shows us how close even established to major Palestinian cities. This is the settlement. This is Psagot. We left the centre of Ramallah, five or seven minutes later, we're here. This is the settlement's gate. Do you see it? Attacks happen daily. The [Israeli] army used to stop there were much fewer attacks. But after 7 October, the number Yes, there is an Israeli government. But in the West Bank, it's the settlers and the - What's your response to Palestinians who say the The Palestinian Security Forces' main priority and they're not able to. They would be bombed or shot at. Palestinians should lodge complaints which then contacts the Israeli Civil Administration to at least put an end to these attacks. However, under this current government, and under the instruction from the army is participating, and protecting and is a partner in these attacks. The Israeli Forces apply in the West Bank the policy of the government which exists I would say that this government, right now, is not trying by their actions, to bring On the contrary, they are bringing them up. Because now the outposts, or what we called are being in the area with the authorisation with the backup of the government. And that's different from the time Most of the sanctioned settlers live in outposts dotted across the occupied West Bank. And among them, is Moshe Sharvit. He has been sanctioned by the US, EU, for human rights violations And by the UK who say he forced 20 families Just weeks after the UK measures a local camera crew filmed an open day at his farm. Hey, I'm Arava, nice to meet you. I just want to say a few words The sheep are generally very nice. They don't kick, they don't headbutt. The first five, please. Just so you understand, we're one and another family that just joined us Moshe talks to his visitors about the farm and the importance of it being in this area. We're seizing here a few thousand dunams. It's about the size of a not-so-small city. If someone understands 7,000 dunams (7 sq km) is endless. Everything we drove by is yours? It's not ours, it belongs to the The biggest regret when we was that we got stuck within the fences Eventually, the space is the most This farm is very important, but the most important thing for us The farm today has around 7,000 dunams (7 sq km) No-one can come close because they understand understand that this is their country and they came here to stay. Speaking candidly, Moshe lays out the strategy and how he's able to control seven which Palestinians say is theirs. Herding outposts like Moshe's are just one part of the bigger settler network that receives support from powerful groups with strong ties to the Israeli state. They don't publicly state how but we've uncovered how two organisations that are used for outposts which are The first is Amana. An organisation that has built and supported and housing projects in Israel since 1978. Dozens of settlements, and almost Together, we will move towards the next vision. Settle a million in Judea and The real construction, providing services, providing them infrastructure, bringing the mobile homes to the place. This is what Amana does. In a leaked recording from a meeting the organisation's head spells out how much land has been occupied But he says there's a new strategy. And these herding outposts appear at seizing large areas of land. These court documents show that Amana loaned to help establish some outposts that In one case, they loaned more than a million Shekels to a settler for buildings and livestock. And once he'd established an outpost, he received more than a million to help connect it to electricity and water. Just outside of Jerusalem, we see how herding outposts can be just the first stage in the creation Here is where the weddings take place. This is the outdoor event venue. Ariel Greenglick's farm was established with the support of Amana. This is where we live, it is our house. These are my wife, and our children. We came here four years ago. We came here to establish a farm with the But in 2023, the Israeli government started the process paving the way for a huge urban with over 3,600 homes. It's not my land. When I arrived, I knew I was here temporarily So I never got attached to the I knew I was doing something here Nine other outposts began the legalisation whilst at least six were granted Showing how herding outposts can become These settlements and outposts without organisations that sponsor These organisations are known. They are proven to be involved A second key body supporting settlers is the World Zionist Organization, or WZO. It's been around for more than a century, and was instrumental in the establishment One of its key departments is which describes itself as It's a body which runs a very, very, which had been expropriated by the Israeli to different Israeli settlements or settlers. The Settlement Division doesn't publish details about its individual dealings with settlers. But contracts obtained by the settlement help us understand more. They show how the Settlement Division for grazing and farming throughout the West Bank. But the contracts forbid the building One of them is for an area we know well. Hamra. What you see here... This is a contract between the WZO and a settler which they hide his name. And you can see this is the area The red stains on the map. This is here. This is where we are right now. There's only one settler here in the area Which is Moshe Sharvit. The name in the document is redacted. We can't be sure if it's Moshe Sharvit's contract. But the date matches when he arrived in the area. We have also found evidence of the WZO allocating land to other settlers who have set up illegal outposts. Eden Levi is one. When we contacted Eden Levi, his lawyers told the BBC that his farming outpost had been "allocated to him and he had a "contract he signed On another contract we've seen, a settler's name is clearly visible. Zvi Bar Yosef. He is also sanctioned by the UK and the US for using intimidation and violence Like Moshe Sharvit and Eden Levi, he lives in an illegally-built outpost. And we found at least three other outposts on land allocated by the WZO. There is a massive Israeli state involvement But this entire involvement is done counter to the law that the same state Since October the 7th, more than 30,000 Palestinians have been killed and 70,457 injured in Israel's military offensive on Gaza. How many cars do you have? Oh, you are on the parallel road, so you will Months into Israel's war on Gaza, and settlers are hoping to expand their movement. We are returning to Gaza. We are here to stay in Gaza. It's our country and this land is ours. Nobody can take my land, OK? - You want to go into Gaza right now? Yes. We must establish Jewish settlements We have to delete the term Gaza strip. If we don't do that, the whole war was in vain. Today's demonstration is in memory of who was killed fighting in Gaza. We won't forget anyone behind, everyone will The people of Israel live. Hold it, dear, hold it straight. Harel was with me two days before he died. He said, &quot;I don't mind dying, so that the people of Israel It's to not forget him, and to say, 'We have to get back to there. This is our country.' A group of settlers managed to break past and erect two small structures before they were taken down by the army. They said, "We're here in the Gaza Strip and we are starting our first It's just saying that this is what we want, and this is where our heart is, and this is what the next step is. The act was largely symbolic. But it was the first time these settlers in almost 20 years. The UK has announced new sanctions for attacks in the occupied West Bank. It's the second such round of sanctions and it follows similar moves by Four more settlers are sanctioned and this time, Eden Levi is among them. They say he took part in assaults and as part of a wider campaign to drive We stand against the Arabs and over Area C in Judea and Samaria [West Bank]. We are preventing their domination so that a and we can settle the entire Holy Land. I'm picking cucumbers to make pickles. Take these up to my dad. I used to be able to carry many things. Today, I can barely hold anything. I still do physiotherapy. I was told that if that doesn't help, I will need to have another operation. So far, no court has brought us any justice. Nothing, no power can stop these crimes. They said they will sanction him, but have the sanctions been effectively Nobody knows. What more can you want than to have To work. To have a home. We live a simple life. God bless. Let them leave, this is all we ask. We ask for real sanctions against Because a settler can't just carrying a weapon, unless the state and army are protecting him. After repeated attempts to speak with Moshe Sharvit, we decided to visit his outpost - I think there's a gate. - Yes, there's a gate. That's as far as we're going to get. - Good morning, Moshe. Hello. - We're from the BBC, we want to ask We want to speak with you about the sanctions. I don't want to talk to you. We find him alongside his brother, David. We've spoken to a lot of the who said that you've used violence on them What do you have to say? Maybe it's a different Moshe. It was definitely you, we filmed you. We've spoken to a Palestinian woman I'm sorry, I don't know about it, there are a lot of Moshes here. It's a very common name here in Israel. No. It was you Moshe Sharvit, I'm not Moshe Sharvit. I'm sorry, maybe it's someone who looks Will you let the Palestinian families I don't know what you're talking about. Bye dear. Those people in those outposts, they don't fear for their life. They know that they can They take into account that they but they still do it because their ideology is that, 'And I don't care about what the Israeli Hi, Mohamed, you're not coming? - I'm coming, I'm on my way. OK. Because there are already two people here, from Moshe. More than five months since they were Ayesha and Nabil try to return once more. Today, Moshe's brother David arrives to meet them. He's filming us? I'll film him too. The army has arrived. I'm going to him. Where do you think you're going? I want to go and talk to him. Let her go. How are you going to talk to him? I want to go to my house, please. He speaks Arabic. Here, here, film here. Here, film here. Wait my dear, wait. I want to go to my house. You want to shoot? Shoot. Kill me now. - Do you speak English? I speak English. - Why are you guys stopping all these people? Sharvit is whispering in his ear, He is telling the soldiers what to do, you see? I don't know what to call him, I want to go to my house! Stop. With you, in the car. Go back. With you, in the car. I will bring her. They will kill you. I don't want to. I want to go home! Come here. I don't want to. I want to go home! I want to go with them. You go back. Shame on you for not letting me Enough, enough. Would you like it if someone took