In crime-ridden Detroit's near future, Officer Alex Murphy sets out to take down a ruthless gang, but is instead shot to shreds, and promptly resurrected by his employers - OCP - as RoboCop. This is his Evolution... Animated! In the first film, RoboCop's suit is grey titanium with added kevlar for bullet-resistance. He's programmed with four prime directives: serve the public trust, protect the innocent, uphold the law, and the inability to act against senior OCP officials. His suit features a hidden compartment in the leg to hold his gun, a retractable spike that can access police databases, and an infrared mode. Additionally, he's required to eat a baby food-like slop to sustain his organic matter. He aims to take down the thugs that murdered him, and while he takes a beating, he ultimately completes the task and goes in pursuit of their associate - his corrupt, and recently fired, OCP superior - all the while slowly regaining memories of his human past. In 1988, an animated Robocop is unveiled. He has a red light on his visor, and instead of bullets, he shoots lasers. But this series isn't canon, so let's move on. In Robocop 2, Robo is promptly instructed to forget about his human memories, and this time, his suit is tinted blue, and shinier. He is torn apart by cult leader Cain and his lackeys, but is reassembled and reprogrammed by OCP to be more kid-friendly "And now, a word on nutrition." - buuut he snaps himself out of that rather quickly. Meanwhile, OCP attempts to create a succession of RoboCop follow-ups, but they both commit Robo-cide. Their third attempt at RoboCop2, is monstrous and features claw-like hands, floodlights, a shoulder placed assault cannon, a battering ram, and a mini-gun. This Robo also has two extra arms - one equipped with a plasma torch and one with extra strong clamps. He's outfitted with Cain's brain, and will do anything for a street drug named "Nuke", but after he runs amok, the original RoboCop returns to tear him apart. Robo's suit in Robocop 3 switches back to grey, and Murphy's face looks completely different. He now utilizes a machine gun arm, which features a rocket launcher and flame thrower. Plus he uses a jet pack to help him take down robotic samurai and a corrupt mercenary. Taking place after the first film, in RoboCop: The Series, Murphy again looks unrecognizable and his inner helmet components are much paler. He's now equipped with non-lethal weapons like mini gas canisters, slippery grease spray, a force-field and inflatable airbags. Also, he occasionally teams up with a helpful cyber-ghost. The second animated show features a beefy, dark blue RoboCop with a red visor. He's able to form any weapon that you could ever think of, and is even outfitted with airbags, rollerblades, propellers and basically anything else that could be useful. Oh - and he can connect to a RoboMotorcycle. Ignoring the previous TV shows, in RoboCop: Prime Directives, Robo is shorter and sports a more weathered suit. He's given another facelift and his under-helmet plating is simplified. This series also introduces John T. Cable, who himself is involuntarily killed by RoboCop, but is resurrected donning his own shiny suit with darker plating, a silver visor, and an extra gun holster, allowing him to face off against the original Robo. In the 2014 reboot, Murphy is blown apart in a car bombing, but is saved by a sleek robotic suit, with a right hand that's free of armour and a visor that can go up and down. Later, he upgrades to a black suit, with a more tactical appearance. This time he's fed intravenously, can run at super-speeds and retains his humanity and memories, but his emotions are able to be suppressed to make him more robotic. This Robo also has his own futuristic motorcycle. Like the original Robo, he seeks revenge on the gang that tried to murder him as well as his corrupt superior, but this Robo gets to live happily with his family. Thank you for watching the video, give it a like if you enjoyed it, and shout-out as always to the beautiful Patrons. If you haven't seen the first two RoboCop films definitely seek them out as they're worth the watch, and then come back to enjoy other Sci-Fi Animations on the channel and, oh ah, yeah, subscribe to see even more!