By the end of this video, the same boring kind of way. How's it going? I'm Eddie with Guitar Mastery Method, and chord shapes that you already know, and start looking and sounding like a pro. And by the way, all of these occupy the bottom three strings of So real quick, let me show you the core We're gonna use the F chord shape, the decor shape, the e miner cord So we're gonna take those four basic them further up the fret board using basically means we're taking the same of the intervals, all that stuff. And we're just gonna be moving them So even though the actual cord, like changes, the shape does not change. Hence cord parallel. Right now I'm gonna give you an example of the boring way to play chords. So let's say for example, we're in the rhythm, you know, on a right, you can the open a however you want to do it. Let's say I, you know, I wanted Something like that. Right? Nothing wrong with that. It's fine. It's not really exciting, you know? Uh, I, there's definitely room for, take cord parallels to that same sound like if I were playing it. So right there I was staying true to the But you know, making it much these chord parallel shapes. It kind of takes a page out of the it just sounds so much more upbeat, a lot more fun to play than just the So, lemme break down what I did. You know, I picked the Keve a. Which implies a major, right? And I started with the F Bar cord shape. From over here and apply it up So earlier when I was saying how the, is a fragment of the full F cord. That full F cord or bar cord You can move that anywhere on That you take it to, even though the same, hence cord parallel, right? So if I were to, you know, take that f to a, because the fifth fret right on they're the same note, which is a, I would just move it up here to the chord shape, the F chord shape. So what I'm doing is with my first the B strings, right on the fifth I'm just fretting the six fret on the three strings so that that right there Right? Because it's literally Right? So I would do that. The next thing I would Which when I showed it to But when we're moving it up the use our first finger to bar, you to accomplish that cord shape in. So in this case, it was just taking my um, seventh fret GB and high sring. Right? And then finally the third shape I The decor shape here, but we're Fre on the G-string. 10th fre on the b stringing And one thing you can do if you like transition from, let's say the e miner, is to keep that bar shape, bring it up. To the ninth foot and then just the 10th foot on the B string. So that's one way you can do it just to, you know, still the same chord, just So these three chord shapes work So if you're in a major key, you e minor and decor shapes, the And that's really all, you can just at all kinds of different orders and it will still be true too, whatever But what about if you wanna start Right? If that's the case, these are the So instead of a major, let's The first cord that you should use Right? But if we're in the key of a miner would just be having your first strings on the fifth fret, right. Then you can play the So if, uh, we're an A minor, it's on B stringing seventh threat on high smoothly go back and forth between those. And then the third, uh, cord miner, which in this case would be. Ninth Fre of the G-string, And then, uh, eighth So if we're in the key of a minor, same idea, right? But just different key. I could do something like this, you know, just literally going those three chord shapes and it. Now, what if we were applying these Something with more than Well, let's take the blues for example. Let's say a 1 45 in the key of A, right? So the one, four and five And the reason I'm using full bar right off the bat, is so that we can starting, uh, playing those three The cord parallels that So if we're doing a 1 45 in the key are gonna be major chords, right? So we can take those same ideas, right? Starting with a, and then when You know, just taking the same e minor and D chord shapes. And then same thing with the five chord. It's the same, same idea. You can almost think of it like if you, the pentatonic scale and moving it across. Different, um, uh, different It's the same idea. You're taking a pattern, right? Uh, a scale pattern and The same thing applies with Shapes and patterns are pretty And they can be moved anywhere So let's say we're gonna play, in the key of A and a Blues 1 45. And I'm gonna play those chord each chord, and we'll see how they. So in that example, just took a slow like this because it's really slow. Gives you time to breathe, time So I was anticipating the cord changes You know, up the neck. And if you kind of think about it, uh, right, the f the e miner and the D cord The one, the four, and the the whole neck almost, right? Just by using those cord shapes. So if I were to start an A four cord right from here, And then of course with the eor, you know, so it's almost like it up the fretboard just with that. Of course, it is important if just using three chord shapes, what chord to play them on top of. Right. So over the a, I was playing these Right. So my recommendation is when backing track, just listen. Right? Kind of, you know, let trial and Play out, you know, the chord blues, you know, like gives you some and anticipate about the chords. But on this backing track too, See the chords written out for So you can follow that and anticipate that you can, you know, play And if you're wondering, Hey, Like if I'm playing lead, for . The answer is absolutely. In fact, it is a common thing done by a only apply just scale patterns and scale to also throw in some like really nice the types that we, that we play just now. Like those kind of triad Based on three notes. Uh, so you can do something like Let's just. I wanted to play the A minor Which you can play in an A major blues. You can get away with that. That's partly what makes the blues key of a major, you can get away with So I'm gonna just play through the scale, and pepper in those major cord shapes I'd say that sounded pretty good. So you absolutely can apply these minor pentatonic scale in a bluesy But now let's take that same So I'll do the same thing playing instead of using the cord parallel I'll use the ones I'd use in a. I'd say that worked pretty well too. So when you're having fun with this, you apply the appropriate cord parallels Sounds pretty. So now you have the tools to the same boring kind of way. You can apply these chord You can apply them in chord progressions can even pepper them into your solos. And this is just one example of a million out of a rut with your guitar playing. You know, we tend to settle in and get Let the years go by and then look back and Usually it's because there's one progress that we just never identified. Sound familiar? That I got something for you, my friend? A free survey to find out what your All you gotta do is take a couple and you're gonna find out exactly progress for all these years, and order to break through it immediately. So click the link here or check the link Also in the description box, reference material for this lesson. It'll show you all the diagrams that we had gone over today. And if you enjoyed this video, know in the comments just how much I wanna thank you for I hope you've enjoyed this lesson as I'm Eddie with Guitar Mastery seeing you and the next lesson.