I got sick with fever and like every person my favorite doctor which is Google and tried to how to get myself fixed and I discovered a very out is that fever is a temporary increase in the thought that fever was the disease, turns disease. See, your body has in the brain it has it sends a signal to your thermostat right here, your body starts feeling hotter and the purpose fight off that disease and the purpose of that hotter environments. So I actually instead bless the fever. The fever is working. The fever me. It's just trying to spot that virus and my body somewhere and is trying to drive it's kind of how fasting works. See your body something that is not supposed to be there by when your spiritual life is under attack, one is by increasing spiritual temperature. Somebody say, came out. Came out but why did not only germs come out because fever forces them out. So I want to encourage you, one of the prayer and fasting is we're simply increasing there's a little discomfort sometimes, you can that is not of Him out of our life. Sometimes when a lot of these germs, a lot of these vipers can heat, you start reading the scriptures, you start fasting, you start giving, something begins to since I start getting closer to God, things got it's that the bacteria, it's the viruses that claim your life because now Jesus is laying claim life Amen. Now the reading that I would like to for this fast is in Matthew chapter 17 verse 21. verse. If you have a different Bible, you don't one of the members of our church ran to me and he have it, I knew I had a wrong Bible and so I'm in a second but first let me read it from mine and that King James is better than other translations gonna promote New King James. Similar purpose this kind, there are particular kinds of problems Now, to explain why certain Bibles don't have this how the Bible was translated. Some of the modern accurate manuscript and the oldest manuscripts do as well as Mark chapter 16 that part of the Mark cast out demons and everything so some of them, the modern translations do not have Matthew 17:21 it's recorded in Gospel of Mark chapter 9 verse So New King James Version along with some other they follow, they call it the majority rule. So has like over 20 something thousand manuscripts. in most of the manuscripts it had this verse, Bibles. But the idea of prayer and fasting is all contradict the power or the scriptures. In Mark In fact, some translations actually two Greek prayer but words might have been added by some in the early church. You must understand when festive life. In fact, one of accusations against okay so Jesus is a happy guy. If you think that heaven, we're not gonna do that. Praise God. So in Old Testament God only gave Israel one days a year. So if you think that God is for fast God loves food Amen. So just make this clear okay Jesus when He was accused why He doesn't fast says because I'm with them and they don't need to fast on your wedding and if you do, you're just weird. You don't fast on your wedding and when the bridegroom is taken then they will fast. seriously. The early church fasted two days a a.m to 3 p.m. So it's like a half day fast. This that you were required to fast before communion fasting in the early church was pretty intense. reason why at HungryGen we're speaking about of us will not die out of fasting, we will die a money industry and most of us, the problems is due to not fasting and so we as a Christian just physical fasting is a spiritual practice, I want to share with you concerning how to drive out certain problems that otherwise you to share with you three simple thoughts and I pull out your phone, pull out the notes on so that you can stay engaged with that. The first 'Personal transformation precedes power precedes power demonstration. Now the context of and fasting comes from the story of Jesus being the mountain, nine of them, they were casting out couldn't cast out that demon and so they started deals with the demonized boy and delivers I want you to see what Jesus did. So He didn't go there for photos. He didn't go kind of clear His mind but to pray meaning, somebody say, 'as He prayed' so as He prayed, translation says transfigured and His robe see this before Jesus moved to the valley He was on the top of the mountain and He was I want you to notice what God changed. His face demonstration. Many of us we need to reclaim our us for our Valley problems, what Mountaintop us. Before prayer changes your husband, it will it will first sanctify you. The Bible says as He of prayer is personal transformation. Now getting seeing your therapist, eating your vitamins we need to do that, that's part of the package. spending time with the One who made it. And you and planet who did not need to pray, it would be be Jesus yet He had time to pray but I want we believe in one God in three persons. God is nobody so He created humans because God needed got that idea from but it's not in the Bible. means there was always a relationship. There was why God made you and I relational, craving for a being who was relational for eternity. That's why continued with the Father, with the Spirit. That's He wants a relationship. That's one of the Trinity and seeing how they relate to each other, Why? Because in the marriage relationship they're all equal but they have different roles You never see the Spirit of God having an issue one promoting one another. One submitting to one one honoring one another and so you look in your to be a reflection of what is happening there part of this communion with this relational being Prayer is the bedrock of personal transformation. meal and when you get pulled over because you I'm not talking about before exam or because you prayer as a lifestyle, intentionally pursuing the prayer doesn't only have the power for personal only His face was altered, the Bible says His robe up, the glory of God came. I believe as you begin four times, whatever your rhythm is to spend time only personally you become a different person, because when you're relating to a Divine being, it But I believe also that God will do things through I read this story this week that touched me. It brilliant scientific mind of the 20th century. farmers to plant peanuts instead of cotton. He had for prayer. He would go in the woods and talk conversation he had with God that not only changed United States. And he said this, he says, I asked, made for. The great Creator answered, you want Ask something more your size. Then I asked, dear the Creator replied, little man you still ask and improve your intent. Then I asked, Please Mr And he said then the Creator taught me how to again. Something happened ,he actually the idea he got from God, he revolutionized the products could be derived from a peanut. A lot of shaving cream, hand lotions, some even caramel, mayonnaise and coffee, a lot of that stuff came as the peanut had become 200 million industry one man's encounter with God. Mark Batterson between the best you can do and the best God precedes the powerful demonstrations that you initial going into this prayer season and fasting you can stop praying for your family but sooner work on you. God wants to change you and then if you're taking notes, I want you to write enables you to overcome but arguing disables mountain and His face is transfigured but you to notice in Mark chapter 9 verse 14. He comes down from the mountain. He's noticing a boy and instead of attempting to look for some open doors or break soul ties, there's a lot of you know content out there and the father and the mother again, finding what disciples started to do is they started with religious leaders who have absolutely no When you abandon your prayer life, you will absolutely have no bearing on the effectiveness you're going to argue. You're going to fight. be maybe toxic, maybe you're going to become always defending, always fighting but in skunk but you have to have to ask yourself Your goal is not to be engaged in every battle to be only involved in battles that have a spoil Disciples instead of winning this battle in the boy instead of trying maybe harder, maybe few disciples over there interceding, maybe running up to Jesus, getting some so let's put and so I want to ask you a question today, if I am pretty sure that you have somewhere in you're spinning your wheels, doing stuff that draining you and is giving you anxiety and God didn't call us to win arguments. We're not great debaters, we're great witnesses. saw and witnessed. We're witnesses, we're not so anchored In Jesus that we have victory in the we must do whatever it takes to find that switching our method now into arguing and the third point I want you to write this problems. I didn't say Mountaintop people you spend time with God in prayer, God guidance wisdom and ideas on how to fix I He doesn't give you ideas. He just increases some problems get handled and when I was younger, problems. I said Lord, take away the stress. Take my science teacher whichever one is easier for you I had to have a driving test and I grew up and I away the taxes. Lord take away you know the people Lord take away the staff. Lord take away the if God will take everything away, I'm going I no longer pray God take away the problems. Some increase Your strength. Mountaintop people have to handle Valley problems. Because sometimes you valley of the shadow of death, you can handle it you will not fear evil. His staff and His rod gives me power to overcome in the valley, it the valley not get stuck in the valley, not the valley and come on the other side where I goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of So when Jesus came down from the mount and were arguing. They couldn't get the demon out of a the Bible says, He says this, How long shall tired of y'all. That's my translation. It's not Jesus is like you know what, I'm fed up with How long shall I be with you? Then He identifies live by the valley. He says, you unbelieving and disconnected from God. Perverse means you're that sometimes we lack victory in the valley but like you know how our phones sometimes in you get disconnected, you drop the call. There's reception. It's that unbelieving factor meaning, it's broken. But usually what I found out is that have a weak connection with God without And you cannot have a strong connection to God That's why Jesus's solution to the valley problem except by prayer - fixes your connection to In other words, prayer is what repairs that weak disconnects you from the world whereas before you claimed to be a Christian but honestly, you were the world and then loosely connected to God and why am I not getting victories? Why am I victories? What if the secret of your victory How is your connection to God? I'm not saying, do you believe in Jesus? Demons believe, occasionally go to church? I occasionally I'm not saying is your mom or your dad, He only has children. How is your personal answer that, if you're noticing it's weak, I your connection to God is weak, you have another one gigabyte upload speed. For some of us, it's of us, it's videos, it's entertainment. For some physical health. For some of us, it's friends and and distracting us from our studies, distracting the Lord wants to do is He says, if you want this reset everything. Reconnect prayer and then fast, watch, how you will experience victory in your is disconnecting from the world. Why is this to understand, Eve ate herself out of paradise eating. Esau ate himself out of his inheritance. not with pornography, it was with food. The Bible When the king stomach gets too exalted, you stop A lot of us have an affair with food. Food is our it's not your friend. You're supposed to have Some of us were deeper and closer friends with Because we comfort our negative emotions by eating overweight and I understand it's a sensitive topic just drop it in the comments. Don't actually throw the Lord wants us to be a people who don't ourselves and He wants us to live our lives where of the ways that you humble yourself. It improves appetites. It doesn't move God, it moves you. starvation. Starvation is environment imposing body. It's very different. Diet is you trying to in line with God. Amen and so I want to encourage we still have a 21 day, for those of you who are already walking on water? And even if you are, in your life you're believing for a breakthrough. go a little bit deeper, a little bit closer. No fast all water. You can choose whatever that the this and then join the prayer as well. You may kind of like fever. When you get fever, things you stop doing everything else. You're lying is going on. Cleansing is happening. A fight some things can stop for a season, maybe certain things but at the same time, you can continue It's not about you trying to be holier than the purpose of fasting. It's actually trying to as you connect through prayer, disconnect through This kind will go out. Habits will be broken us are battling not just with the obesity, something is in a spiritual realm that doesn't with poverty that cannot be explained. We work ends meet. If it's a spiritual problem, you so it needs to be met with spiritual methods. depression. We've already taken the medication. therapist. We already you know trying to do all it's deeper than your physical, this kind goes up God. Check your connection to the world. Are you of every movie actor but you don't know the name artist and every billboard song but you don't That could show very deeply connected to the not condemning anybody because I am as guilty of one of us that maybe the reason why we're seeing to see is because we're deeply connected to the we are loosely connected to the place where God I don't want to be a Sunday date, I want to