Hey Vsauce! Michael here. And here. Michael here! hey vsauce! what is here? .... what is there? what is there? What REALLY exists? Do waves exist or are there just things that When does a piece of food I've eaten stop Do chairs exist? Ontology is the philosophy of existence. And chairs are what philosophers call ORDINARY Ordinary objects are the plain old common buckets, rocks, stuff like that. Their existence is as obvious as possible but the more we try to sus out where they First of all, sure, this could all be a dream. Maybe we've all been hallucinating chairs Or this could part of the simulated reality harvested for energy. But underneath that skepticism there's a answer first. Regardless of whether this spoon is made of possible to be "made of" something? Take a look at these two things. As we all know, two minus one is ... TWO?! There ARE two things here: An origami crane AND a piece of paper. I'm kidding, of course, there's really are the same. But watch this. Where'd the crane go? If the paper and the crane were truly identical, But clearly they don't: the paper can survive Also, I made the crane, but I didn't make And the paper was around before the crane. For two things that are the same, they sure This relationship is called CONSTITUTION: It's a one-to-one relationship, but there's on here, too. This paper is made not of ONE other thing, subatomic particles: electrons and quarks, This many-to-one relationship is called COMPOSITION. Philosophers call whatever it is that matter is a thing that, unlike a piece of paper, No substructure. Not even a top or bottom. It could be the case that there are no simples, smaller and smaller substructure. Philosophers call such a reality a GUNKY universe. If structure never ends in the other direction bigger with no final complete composite, that's Point is: believing ordinary objects exist common. It's called ontological reductionism. It's the position that wholes are NOTHING But our cranes and our paper challenge that notion. just BEING those things. Let''s agree on what it means to exist. Let's say that for something to exist is Pegasus exists if we mean "are there any And pegasus does not exist if we mean, "are horses that evolved on Earth through natural okay, so if we can agree on that, then of course chairs There's this one right here. I can see it and feel it and taste it. yea. It's dry and .. a little bit salty. Dry and salty are what we call PROPERTIES. Properties tell us what things are LIKE. For example, this slice of cheese is FLOPPY. By noticing and sharing properties, we can And we all more or less agree on what things We give names to stuff and if they catch on, "noun" next to them. But are all of these nouns an inventory of we MADE? Let me put it this way: do islands exist? Well, it's in the dictionary and a quick zero islands, so yes. Islands exist. But what about incars? An incar is a car that is IN a garage. As a car leaves a garage, an incar diminishes Later, an extremely similar incar may emerge Are there any cars in garages right now? If so, then incars exist. You might be thinking, "that's not a thing. you just made that up. And it's silly: "being in a garage" Stop trying to make incars a thing." Ok, first of all, I didn't make it up, Eli And second of all, if you think incars aren't An incar might just be a relation between relation between land and some water. Now, "island" might be a more useful concept OBJECTIVELY more real than incars? And what about trogs? A trog is an object whose parts are a tree Here's a picture of one. Do you see the trog? this is its tree part You might be thinking, come on, how can THAT The tree and the dog aren't even connected! well so what? These two pieces of fabric aren't connected Now sure, if we cut down this tree and burn to apologize to what's left of the trog But maybe we should? What if some extraterrestrials showed up and trogs -- would they be wrong? Could we convince the otherwise? Ontological realists believe that we could. That there really is a mind-independent answer People like Theodore Sider believe that the up into objective, real things by finding Ontological anti-realists disagree. Their position is that what we think there It's a good one for us and our needs, but other. So who's right? Hmm... well if these blocks compose Just because we don't have a name for .. this.. accidentally built something. Does it? When DO two or more things compose something Peter Van Inwagen calls this the special composition In MATERIAL BEINGS he considers possible answers: in contact. That's a good thought, but it doesn't Or why two books are still just two books you know, Maybe a certain degree of FIXATION is required. Or a 'melding' ... if a surgeon sewed and we shared the same blood supply ... you that we'd become some new kind of animal. There'd still just me and you. But like, stuck together. The philosophy of parts and wholes is called Mereological Universalism is the belief that and the answer is this: any assortment of stuff, no matter composes a thing. some pages compose these books but I don't just have two books here. Oh no, there's also a third thing let's call it a &quot;took&quot; because it's parts are Two Books. There is also something composed of my left ear, England, and the Eiffel tower. Just because it has no name and no one's of intrest on our parts. To a universalist, eliminating some composites We may as well accept them all. Eliminativism is any belief that accepts some Peter Van Inwagen, for example, believes that shirts or shoes. Right here there are just some simples -- atoms or whatever There isn;t something else here called a shoe. But he thinks that because people believe how something could believe it existed without that, there must be people. He goes further, though, to argue that ALL While admiting he doesn't have any "knock-down" because simples that are part of a living -- while shedding some members and gaining other organisms, unlike, say, waves of water in the act of a life must compose something. That position is ORAGANICISM. It's been called the belief that people Mereological Nihilism is less generous. It's the belief that there aren't any Because nothing ever composes. The nihilist doesn't believe that there There are lots of simples, but that's it. That might sound puzzling: how can a bunch and molecules that are arranged like this That's JUST IS what a chair is! Good question. Let's call that deflationism: the belief positions are talking past each other: they believe that there are simples here and that Since that's just what a chair IS, they Those who say they don't just being weird Deflationism has many supporters. And it truly is the heart of our issue today. But to address it, we should first see why form a chair. Let's begin with over-determination: If able to interact with us? The thing is, though, everything this alleged simples here and any other simples An account of the activities of every ATOM in this room, leaves nothing for the chair to explain. Composites are causally redundant. Believing in chairs is like believing that, describes why the water in a pot boils, there's boil-o that comes out of my stove that does and if there was no boil-o the flame would boil-o. Chairs are no more real than boil-o. Composites over-determine what happens in the world. They also lead to over-COUNTING. For more on that, let's say hello to this Hi. I'm Michael Stevens. You may know me from such films as "Lady Key Of Awesome #42" and The Emoji Movie. But today, I'm here to talk to you about This season, subscribers will be receiving the Sherman line, a kit to find out what bacteria the average color of neptune and yes, uranus, impossible colors. And right now, if you subscribe with code BOGO, we'll just pay shipping How many THINGS will you be receiving for You might think 15: 8 things plus 7 things. But don't forget that you're ALSO That's 17 things! ORder now. That's a good deal, but the ontology seemed If I count some parts, I shouldn't also But if you believe in composite objects you After all, the composite exists. So if this chair contains, say, 100 sextillion sextillion and one things here: all of these That seems wrong.. but wait, there's more. If I take a knife and scrape off a tiny part I think most of us would say yes. It would still be a chair even if I removed And again. A series of tiny innocuous removals is called The trouble they cause is that while it seems annihilate the chair, clearly, ENOUGH minute chair. Nothing at all, in fact. But how can that be? How subtracting zero over and over again EVER Clearly, there must be a point at which a Different people might give different answers we could just stipulate the boundaries: we precise way. If we did that, if we defined the shape, function, so precisely that the even the smallest deviation ... how could we know if it'd done it right? If we called up God and said, "hey dude, Okay, now we're going to remove a single Ta da! It's no longer a chair is it?" Would God would be like, "pwha! Correct! you guys nailed it. That is exactly right. It was a chair before and now, in my infinite was what made the difference." Unless there's some explanation for why instead of some other way, our stipulations Ordinary objects may be unredeemably vague. But being vague may actually be a feature of ordinary For example, how many people is a crowd? 10 people standing together in a huge empty standing further apart in a tiny waiting room The fact that our terms depend on context, and less like they're describing THINGS That rather than telling what there is, they Peter Unger has pointed out that there's a sorities sequence without paradox: stuff. If you innocuously remove pieces from something have some stuff after each step until you the last piece is removed, there will no longer This might show that there ARE composite objects: As soon as we pretend that some stuff is a Suddenly we're talking about a thing that and unless contradictions can exist, words thing in the universe. Sorites seqeunces lead to other problems, Like: the PROBLEM OF THE MANY. If removing a tiny number of atoms from this chair still here? I mean, there's this one. And then there's this one, which is really similar to the first but doesn't have these atoms on top of it. I don't even have to remove atoms for this All I have to do try to define which atoms At the atomic level, there isn't a definite Near the edge, it will hard to tell whether in the chair or part of the ambient humidity. Instead of there being a single chair here, billions of candidates for the chair. Which one is the chair? But now, suppose that instead of removing pieces like in the problem of the many, we new, similar pieces. This is the set up to the famous SHIP OF THESEUS Suppose I buy a boat and name it THESEUS. Over time, parts of the boat wear out and After, say 10 years, I might realize that boat on the day I bought it. Do I now own a different boat? Have I owned TWO boats? But now suppose the someone has been following each old part I throw out and storing them After I replaced all the original parts they they way there were 10 years ago. Which boat is THESEUS? Both? If we conclude that ordinary objects don't theseus, over-determination, and over-counting If there are only simples and they never compose is easy to answer: neither! Neither are the boat and nothing ever was All that happened was that some simples got The simples the scavenger has are the simples no mystery of persistence: removing or exchanging stuff. There's no mystery as to which of the billions the removal of no specific atoms will ever is no chair here and there never was. There are only simples arranged chair-wise. The illusion that there ARE composites of our minds. It's a helpful one that allows us to track when taken seriously, it obviously isn't And that's okay. We shouldn't be embarassed when we talk Our words for ordinary objects really do refer correct than believing that, say, the sun Unlike the false statement that chairs exist, into a black hole yesterday could even be Because of this, Trenton Merricks calls the as good as true." This is all silly, though, right? Of course there are chairs. If you believe that there are some simples a chair! Because that's just what a chair IS. It's not some additional THING over-and-above Each is still an atom or electron or whatever, Not so fast there, chair-lover. What do you MEAN "a chair IS simples arranged the phrase "simples arranged chair-wise" There's nothing else for that phrase to There aren't all of these simples and then arranged chair-wise. So do you mean that "chair" is a disguised That it refers to lots of things like the Because "these books" only commits us but not an additional single Likewise, if "chair" just means this simple to a whole bunch of things and not one of Sure, "chairs" exist if by chair we mean But if by chair we mean an actual object in friend. Except... maybe there is no chair over-and-above when an assortment of simples are arranged Each member continues to be a single atom BECOME one thing: a chair. Okay, so then either there's no chair here, has appeared: many things and ALSO one thing respect, are still identical! It looks like chairs can't be identical of.. but chairs also can't be DIFFERENT from else there and, after counting and accounting the existence of a chair to cause or explain. To rescue chairs from non-existence, we need of its atoms -- and therefore distinct from over-and-above them. We need to find a way to make chairs ONTOLOGICALLY To have our cake and not have it, too. Amie Thomasson does this in a very clever She points out that if I ask you, "hey, open it, see that's it empty, and say, "there's came over, looked inside, found a single eyelash What is this?! you said there was no THING gosh dangit, the whole things is actually Of AIR." That would be weird because when I asked if that I meant anything TO EAT. By arguing that the empty fridge is not REALLY what Thomasson calls a "neutral sense." I used it to mean any and all entities that But you took me to be using "thing" in A sortal is a term that tells us what a thing there are AND know when there is or isn't "Water" is not a sortal. If I told you there was water in my basement I'd have to use a sortal to answer you. For example, "gallons of water." Thomasson argues that the neutral use of "thing" For example, if I used thing in a neutral sense and asked how many orange things are in this video you would have no idea how I wanted you to carve it all up thus, there would be no would be no single correct answer. You might say, &quot;uh, one orange thing? Your shirt?&quot; But then I could say, "what, no there's my left sleeve, my right sleeve, the inside of the shirt, the outside of the shirt. Come on, there's way more than one.&quot; Unless we use a sortal net, any search for Not because there are no things, but because to apply when searching. For Thomasson, this means that what we find use. If I ask if there's anything here that the to, you could note each such thing and give "Chair" would not be on the list. But if I asked you if there were any medium-sized "chair" would probably go on your list, If an application condition is satisfied in So CHAIRS do exist. If the application conditions for one thing if we find the first thing, we have found ANLYTICALLY by the existence of the first For example, if I say that I live in a house I live in a building. There's no paradox here, I don't live things that defy the laws of physics by being Instead, the conditions that apply to a house So a single chair is not impossibly identical Nor is it somehow over-and-above its parts. Instead, atoms arranged chair-wise merely The entailment connects things differentiated When we ask which one is the ship of theseus, neutral. We need to say what we mean by "ship of then this is it. Do we mean the thing registered to me by the well then it's this one. "But which is the REAL one" is an incomplete When it come to sorites sequences, I think is. I don't think there's an objective answer what is and isn't a chair, but that doesn't it can just mean that every single collection of our minds and that we get to decide which Vagueness comes from our minds and our language We don't have to believe that our reality that it's stipulated: it is a reality that decided to give us, but what we have decided There's no fact of the matter as to whether up this stuff. It's a pretty useful way to do it, and helpful is a thing WE imposed on the world. As Michael Jubien puts it, "there are no many things as we like." As for the problem of the many, we can simply of slightly different chairs here. Some include a few boundary atoms that others pretty much in unison, in our daily lives we mean when we say "this chair." However, let's go back to our cranes. When we talked about holes we said that holes That their existence seems to require the can HOST the hole. Perhaps this crane is holey, too. Not a physical thing in its own right, but There is no material crane here, there is But once we start entertaining that notion, all ordinary obejcts and even ourselves are ontological parasites Michael Jubien calls our tendency to think of the material that is chairing OBJECT FIXATION Object fixation is useful and "nearly as should remember that while chairs exist, they touched or or felt or tasted. All I can do is taste some stuff while it If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck, duck, but it is arranged duck-wise. I think that the only concrete physical things our universe could be gunky -- the material And yes, this stuff is chair-ing, but the stuff A chair leads to paradox. To see how we could have made that mistake, that often "it depends on what the meaning There's the "is" of predication, which cheese IS floppy. And then there's the "is" of identity example, 2+2 IS 4. To believe that chairs are made of matter -- is to confuse these two ISes. When a collection of properties are extremely some stuff, we tend to just go ahead and NOUN believe it doesn't just describe some stuff, I think we have an intuitive sense of the seen in how we order our adjectives. "Big" can mean many things. A big diamond and big house are very different "Blue" tells me a bit more about what specific. So specific, in fact, that we call it a noun. This increasing thoroughness may be partly cheseburger" sounds fine, but blue big cheeseburger" When we embrace the idea that cheseburgers as an abstract set of properties like juicy, paradox dissipates. You and I are not physical objects either. "Michael-ing" is a bunch of different They include things like, "knowing who Kevin a roughly continous relationship with the Michael-ing today" and so. Some of what it means to Michael does concern exist even if I shave off the stuff I call If I shaved off my beard, there would still different stuff than before. We're able to lose parts and change and hosted by matter. There's no thing that is you and no thing As Alan Watts would say, the universe doesn't Chairs and tables and rocks and buckets and people are not made of atoms, they are preformed by atoms. We are disturbances in stuff and none of it This stuff right here is not me. It's just me-ing. We are not the universe seeing itself, we I am not a thing that dies and becomes scattered, And as always, links to read and learn more can be found in the description down below there's also a link down there to subscribe to the curiosity box if you subscribe now, this will be your first box but remember, use code BOGO and we'll you are summer box as well completely free give your brain a treat. support vsauce, support Alzheimer's research, and creators everywhere by joining today I'll see you there. And as always, thanks for watching.