Greetings my beautiful lovelies. Welcome back to another $2.00 meal. Today, I'm making a recipe that was requested by @Biesiadaraptor on Twitter, who brought this to my attention. I had no idea that Meghan Markle has a fabulous recipe for pasta, but it's an everyday recipe made by Meghan Markle, the Duchess of Sussex; and she calls it her filthy, sexy mush. Sold. Sold, sold, sold. I am also sold because it only contains three ingredients, besides the pasta. And, it sounds a lot like my brother and I's favorite childhood dish -- mushy mimi -- which uses zucchini that's been cooked down to create a lovely mush. So, the Duchess recounted this recipe in a Delish interview -- I'll put a link down below to that if you're interested. And, listed three ingredients: zucchini, the lovely squash of summer, bullion (which is an instant, concentrated soup base), and water. And, we're also gonna use a little bit of olive oil to saute things. So, other people have tried this recipe, they've included other ingredients but, I'm gonna do it the three ingredient way. Because I think, let's keep it simple. Right? Let's keep it simple. This is a super budget-friendly meal. It's healthy. It's vegetarian. So, if you have a vegetable garden, and you've ever grown summer squash, you know you only need one because man, these plants know how to reproduce. Okay, on that note, let's get this started. I almost forgot to tell you why this recipe is so intriguing, besides the fact that the Duchess of Sussex makes this for herself, is the fact that you cook the zucchini for four hours. Four to five hours actually. And, it's supposed to just mush down and make this beautiful sauce that tastes super rich. And, it feels like it's creamy and got tons of butter in it. But, it doesn't. It's just mushy, mushy, sexy, filthy zucchini. Sounds fabulous, right? Alright, let's go ahead and make it. So, I've got five zucchini that I've chopped up here. It's better in my opinion to get the smaller to medium sized ones. The seeds tend to be a lot smaller and they're not as woody. Okay, so I've got my pot heating up here. I'm gonna add a couple glugs of olive oil. Dun dun dun da~ And... get this ant off my... why is there an ant in my bowl of zucchini? Ugh Oh well, added protein. Here we go. Oh, there it is get out of my... ugh. Thank you! Zucchini sautes really nicely actually. But, the trick to sauteing, or to getting a nice little caramelization is not to touch it. Just let whatever you're browning sit in the oil, nice hot heat. Resist the urge to nudge it around too much because then you don't get a nice crust. So, we're gonna let that sit there for a little while. So, if you've missed the previous episode of this series where I make a Cameroonian egg omelette spaghetti sandwich, I will put the link down below. Alright, let's give our zucchini a toss. Yes. Rouge. It's starting to get some caramelization here. We like that. Mm-hmm. So, the zucchini is starting to sweat down a little bit, highly technical term, and now I'm going to add in half a cube of bullion. I'm gonna taste it as it's cooking, if it needs more I will add more. But, it's better in my opinion to err on the side of less than more. Now, I'm gonna add some water. This is probably about a cup but... And, add about a half cup of water, quiet things down a bit. And, give this a stir and desserrrr... dissolve. Dissolve is the word I'm looking for. Yes. Dissolve the bullion. And, then we're just gonna cook this down for hours. Four hours. So, we've got ourselves a rolling boil, and we'll turn this down to low. Cover this up. I'm gonna let it go. Alright. I'll see you back in four hours. Alright, my beautiful lovelies. I'm back. It's four hours later and my zucchini bolognese sauce is complete. I have to agree. That is some filthy, sexy mush. I am a huge fan of overcooked zucchini. Love it. Love it. Love it. Love it. And, it feels really good, cause it feels like confirmation that it's not just a childhood nostalgia thing. It's the fact that it's delicious. Because I'm like I love mushy mimi because it's what Wee and I ate when we were kids. No, I love it because it's delicious Well, and also that Wee and I ate it when we were kids. Okay, back to this dish. I've cooked up some linguine here. I'm gonna quickly toss it with our sauce, and then let's give it a taste. It has gotten really warm, and my glasses are sliding off my very sweaty nose. haha I've got some fresh parsley, while my pan is heating up, I'm gonna chop a little bit of that over here. Because it's growing in my garden, it's beautiful, makes all dishes prettier. Okay. My pan is warming up. I'm gonna add a little bit of butter. Just gonna add a little bit of butter to that. Now, I'm gonna add some pasta. Oopsie. Oopsie, my pasta's stickin' together. Whoops That's okay we're gonna loosen it up with some sauce. It's all good. 'Kay, I'm gonna toss my pasta around in that butter a little bit. I'm gonna add a splash of water. Kinda loosen things up a little. There we go. So, I am a big fan of adding a little bit of sauce to my pasta and then putting extra sauce on top. I just feel like it makes it extra tasty. I'm gonna season my sauce with some pepper. I'm also gonna add a pinch of salt. So, I tasted this while it was cooking, and it was delicious, and half a boil cube worked really well for me. Alright. So, now let's add our sauce. Alrighty, two scoops of our beautiful zucchini sauce. Just enough to kinda moisten things up a bit. Reduce the heat, and add some freshly grated Parmesan. Cause cheese and pasta are best, best friends. Toss this up. Oh yes. Little splash of water. Oh yeah. So, let's go ahead and plate this. I'm gonna grab some of my beautiful pasta, and when I'm dealing with, like, a noodley pasta, I like to do this: Oo, not that. This. Like to give it a little spin. I think I learned that from Lidia Bastianich. Think it makes it look pretty, give us a little kind of a nest look. Do do~ And, add a little extra sauce on top. Oh yes, this is the perfect recipe for summer Let's add some freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano. And, then, a little bit of parsley. Ah, that's beautiful! Alright, let's eat this while it's hot. Now, I've got myself a fork. Do you use a spoon when you eat spaghetti? I generally don't. Had I not added cheese and butter, this would have been vegan, because my bullion was vegetable based. Alrighty! Here we go! Itadakimasu. Mmm-hmm. That's pretty stinkin' delicious. Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm. Imma have some more. *humming* *singing* I'm gonna add a little more cheese. Yep, let's... I'm just gonna have another bite. Itadakimasu. Mmm-hmm. Pretty stinkin' delicious. The zucchini cooks down, and gets really sweet and mushy, but it makes a glorious sauce. You've got the grated Parmesan cheese that adds a little bit of richness and a nice little cheesy funkiness. And, the butter kinda ties everything together. The bullion gives a little extra flavor, a little bit of salt. The pepper and the cheese go beautifully together, and you've got very nicely cooked linguine. Delicious. Mm-hmm. Okay, so final verdict, I absolutely love this super simple, easy, inexpensive and perfect recipe for summer. Particularly if you've got a zucchini plant in your garden. Uh-huh. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. So basically, this is a more sophisticated, grown-up version of mushy mimi. Instead of using ramen noodles we're using pasta, but we're still using bullion and we're still using zucchini that's been cooked for a very long time. Granted, the noodles are cooked properly and the noodles are not completely mushy and mimi-like, but still you've got the kinda essence of mushy mimi. Mm-hmm. Alrighty. Thank you guys so much for watching! I hope you guys enjoyed that one. I hope you guys learned something. Let me know down in the comments if there's a recipe that you'd like me to test out or try, or if there's something that you'd like me to taste. Be sure to grab yourself an &quot;eat the ducky moss&quot; shirt. It's only for a limited time only. So, I'll put the link down below and yeah. Please share this video with your friends. Follow me on social media. Like this video, subscribe, and I shall see you in the next one. Too-da-loo. Take care. Bye! My nose is so sweaty! I turned off the air conditioner because I wanted you guys to hear me, but it's officially time to turn it on because you know, my glasses are not staying on my nose. I haven't got much of a bridge you see so these glasses go &quot;nyeah&quot; and then I can't see.... (*whispers*) Yeah, alrighty, back to my pasta....