Whenever Pvt. Pyle f---s I will punish all of you! Yep, there we go. The DI and the drill sergeant dole out punishment as a mass punishment. I'm Command Sgt. Maj., I served about 11 years and then as a senior that conducted basic combat training. Today we're going to be and seeing how realistic they are. Forrest: And always answer &quot;Yes, drill sergeant.&quot; Drill sergeant: Is that clear?! Yes, drill sergeant! The standard for responding is, &quot;Yes, drill sergeant,&quot; and if it has to have then the whole platoon Done, drill sergeant! Jesus H. Christ! This is a new company record. The drill sergeant was so in the early part of training, it's a challenge for somebody who perhaps has not what we would call weapons training, to be able to take that weapon and do what you saw Forrest do there, which was that functions check. What your hope is as is that everybody in there Shrimp and potatoes, shrimp burger. What's funny is when with toothbrushes, that's There was times where, you know, you'd give a recruit scissors They're fostering this environment of working together as a team, which you saw with the weapons training, which is what I call mindless repetition. Just do it over and over and over again until you get it right. That has the same training The approach that the was very, very common during the Vietnam War. So that's about a nine. Pick it up! Move it! Move it! I want to see some fire here! When you look at obstacle courses, usually in boot camp, you'll Obstacle courses are really designed to find your upper-body strength and also determine your endurance, and so it may even test fear of darkness, and then the teamwork, helping each other. You saw that a couple of times in there. And definitely that screaming and yelling. Often we call it simulating Drill sergeant: Create a loop. This is the rabbit hole. The rabbit comes out of his hole. What is interesting is is no longer taught in basic training. It is in Ranger School, though. You're actually tested As things change over time, that the leaders think that people need upon finishing basic training. This is to be your lover, perhaps the only thing in That's one of those things, again, that you get from TV in Hollywood where we place all of this level Now, granted, it is an because you really want to be So taking it apart, putting it together almost to the point where you Talk about it in a way that's kind of a Hollywood Oh, I'm sorry, sergeant. I can't touch a gun. For that time period, being World War II, being a conscientious objector was going to definitely be a challenge for the leadership here. This guy particularly is Desmond Doss. He was actually a Medal and he didn't have to I would definitely say Drill instructor: Can't a few love taps? How the f--- are you when grenades are going off in your face? Unfortunately, what we wind is drill sergeants or DIs like this one that will touch and grab by the throat. That was familiar in other DI movies. Touching recruits in Always has been. Sir, I got lost on the That's exactly why, right there. The open door that I could do even more, and it turns to him slamming and that's why it's unacceptable. Because where do you draw the line? Them paintball bullets, they hurt? Oh, s---! Paintball is something, it was pretty painful. That guy is going to not to put himself in a window And so that's why paintball Simunitions, is kind of what we call it, is very, very useful in Drill sergeant: The sounds are live rounds. You will get the fear out of you. Keep moving! Keep your head down! Yeah, that's a trainer, a sergeant, a leader's worst nightmare, is to have somebody in Shooting the rounds over their head, we actually do that, and but the conditions are totally different. The guns are raised up a whole lot higher, and it's what we call a safe surface zone. So even if you stood up it's almost 20 feet above And, again, this tragedy right here, as unfortunate as it is, it does happen when those things are not adhered to. For a boot-camp movie, Rusty bayonet, Liebgott. Now, thanks to these men every man in the company who This is pretty neat, as the command sergeant For the 2nd Battalion, 506th out of the 101st Airborne. This right here is Easy Company and their preparation for World War II. During that time period in our military, not many people were married, right? And everybody was always looking for a two-day or a three-day pass. The stuff that they're being inspected on, like this parade-level stuff, and they're out there in combat gear, I could see where he's going with trying to instill discipline. Just, I'm sure morale is not going to be too high much longer. Platoon: Stand alone! Stand alone! Sobel: Do not help that man! Do not help that man! We ran this mountain a couple of times. Currahee Mountain. Yeah, it's no joke. What I noticed here though, you know, he was telling them to leave that guy. Not leaving a fallen comrade, that was part of the warrior ethos. And never quitting. So when you tie that together leaving somebody behind would be something that we wouldn't do. That would be a 10 for And for World War II, it'd probably be about a eight in realism. Drill sergeant: &quot;Yes, drill sergeant.&quot; Do I make myself clear? Recruits: Yes, drill sergeant! You get them in the barber they had no hair. Like, that's even part of a The males, anyway, are where they cut it all the way down. Female recruits are not required. And believe it or not, it's a health and hygiene issue, right? Because you get people that and so you don't know necessarily if they have, like, head lice or any other type of issues Cherry: Next we got You just get shots until you and you're completely inoculated against every disease known to man, right? Execute. Drill sergeant: Move, goddamn The difference that I could they have them all in an open room or an open bay. It wouldn't be done that a military entrance processing All military members go through there, and there's no drill sergeants there. It's just a staff of military personnel, administrators, doctors, counselors, because what they're doing whether or not you're fit to train. Cherry: They had us strip and duckwalk the circuit of a big room. Oh, yeah, duckwalking. I remember the first time I did that. I was like, &quot;What in the world?&quot; They have you walk from one and the doctor is looking your musculoskeletal development, if you're flat-footed, also But yeah, you definitely full of other people. Be hard to assess. I would have to say it's Because that's not necessarily how that whole indoctrination process would happen with the drill sergeants. If you survive recruit You will be a minister So far this is looking pretty good. Because in the DIs in the Marine Corps, they actually have a script. They say, &quot;You'll sit up So while the difference in the titles, the drill instructor was Drill sergeants came And the interaction in the is always going to be what Everywhere you look, or drill sergeant that has been given is being reinforced. And so when you see R. Lee he's doing exactly what a DI would do. He actually was a drill He served several years during You maggots understand that? Sir, yes, sir! Bulls---! Can't hear you! Sir, yes, sir! If you notice, the DI and it's not because they it's just so they don't have to repeat the same commands over and over. So if you have a recruit he or she is going to all the way on the other end of the bay. 5-foot-9, I didn't know You trying to squeeze an Another thing that you and TV shows is the DI doing a lot of cursing and swearing. Cursing and swearing is not but it does happen. For that Vietnam era, Now you have people who are and it's a different view. I was part of the committee what we called shock and awe, commonly called a shark attack, as opposed to this fallacy, which was we have to break them down and focus more on the teamwork. And so that's what The 100 Day one, here's a challenge. Pop that blister! Lamont: Mm-hmm. Part of that indoctrination is the wellness of the and so they have to inspect the feet, inspect the hands, and make sure that there's no open sores. What the f--- is that? What is that, Pvt. Pyle? Sir, a jelly doughnut, sir! We've gone away from footlockers and modularized most of So you wouldn't necessarily and he definitely wouldn't be standing on the equipment like that. They have this term in the and that's where they actually so that they can do that inspection. From now on, whenever Pvt. Pyle f---s up, I will not punish him. I will punish all of you! Yep, there we go. Especially in the beginning the DI and the drill sergeant is going to definitely dole out punishment as a mass punishment, even This opportunity for and held Pyle accountable and that's what the DI is reinforcing. We'll hold each other accountable. I would have to say it was probably about a nine for that era. If we're talking in today's terms, it'd probably be about a seven in realism. We are going to win this war When they were standing in formation and the leader stopped and and he looks like a middle-school kid, there was actually a guy named Flaherty. This guy was 4 feet 9 inches, and they called him The Giant Killer because of all the different exploits that he did during Vietnam. And he was smaller than Rogers was, right? Nobody's got that flag in 17 years! Yo, the smallest guy in the formation wound up coming up with In the basic-training environment, you probably wouldn't have placed on a trainee or a recruit. That's some that's going on there where an assessment is being done, right? Because they want to know if What they were actually would not necessarily be something that you would see in recruit training. So I'm going to give it a five. Left! Face! Yeah, that's the campaign hat or the famous drill sergeant hat. I just happen to have mine with me, and, you know, there's by the male drill sergeants in the Army, but then also by the male and What's unique is, while all the branches except the Navy have some the Army still has a separate hat for the female drill sergeant. It's called a bush hat. A-left, a-left, right, left. There she was just Singing do wah diddy That part where the one that diddy bop, it's that's actually where Popular tunes, R&amp;B music, I Even my own voice has in the Gatorade commercial Work, work Hard work So these guys, they're just, you know, jumping in on a bandwagon, in there at the same time. Razzle dazzle! Hut, two, three, four! Hut, two, three, four! Yeah, that ain't happening. However, in the Army, in what we call the advanced which, those periods of to six months, maybe even a year, drill and ceremony to continue to motivate those individuals that have the longer periods of training. But not as likely in a because we're focusing on and treating yourself and I'd have to say a four. Locate a wounded soldier, You must then transport him to There's a lot going on there so far. When it started out, it that you would see in recruit training. You know, a lot of female leaders now are in positions of senior leadership, something that hadn't until the military had the ranks of the infantry An aggressor team will They are all awaiting ranger training and can't wait to capture you. Based on what the information and the instructions they were given, it's actually an advanced You know, medical training. They're not going to be that would go that deep, when I saw them in the river there, because the risk for, you or something else with then not too many people put a recruit in that type of environment. Again, the risk factors that you'd see in recruit training, but definitely something as far as the military's concerned. You know, Marines have a Crucible, and the Army has this Very similar, in the final that they receive during And there are medical lanes a casualty or transport a to really see if all of the training has actually reached the that these individuals can leave and go to their next assignment. I have to give that a Casey Jones was a son of a b---- Casey Jones was a son of a b---- Hazing is something that, but it happens. This is depicting an initial entry training or but it's Officer Candidate School. Typically, officer candidates have either been in the and reached enlisted ranks. There's levels of hazing that may be more acceptable versus in the recruit training. So there was a mandate across all of the branches to come up with progressive ways, if you would, in order to attack and And so whether it was you know, Not in My Squad, not just on leadership, but on each other. No, sir! Drill sergeant: DOR! I ain't gonna quit! Right, then you can forget it! You're out! Don't you do it! There's about two or three so that you don't have that who might take something personal like it looks like in this clip. Because of the flexibility and the things that take place in the versus what happens in recruit training for initial entry training, I would say that it's All right, Shirley, you can drop them now. Weight training has always been something that's important in the military to be able to carry your body weight. And in some cases, you or drag somebody else. The sand buckets and them a lot less expensive than But then they get the same Drill instructor: See the jab? Outside? Right into the body once again. Working with the blade. They were doing combatives, and then the drill instructor was showing them with the because every Marine, every soldier, every person that joins the military is a fighter first, right? And so pugil stick training that that confidence is and their ability to stand their ground. And it's also fun to look at. I would say it's about a seven. My favorite drill instructor was Jack Webb in the movie &quot;The D.I.&quot; It actually shows both sides of the drill instructor's life. What does he do in the evenings after he's away from the bay squad? If you enjoyed this video, why not click on this video above?