America had promised to Saddam Hussein is still free and no Washington lied to the world, and its 128,000 deployed GIs Since that date, every day, Here we go guys! On the horizon, black smoke, an American military convoy We are in the Triangle the stronghold of Saddam Hussein. These b****s fell on us - Where is the injured person? - At the back of the truck, The soldier has part of his leg torn off The b****s! - The enemy is entrenched to the north of this And now all our strength We came under quite heavy fire. Highway number 1 cuts Iraq in two. Rocket launcher attack, explosives This is the daily life of GIs. In a few minutes, But the anti-American guerrilla They strike and they disappear. The GIs still take prisoners. - They were running. - We didn't find any weapons. Peasants who were fleeing. In the eyes of American soldiers, - Any individual found around We will question them later. Return to Ranger base, the 8th regiment of the first corps Each base has its own mini Guantanamo. Suspects of the day Colonel Guinner - I refuse to sit still We were called for help, so, we're going to put on our helmet Before shooting, the Americans Further on, on the side of the road, Maybe a bomb? A plastic bag, a dead animal. Or a simple trash can. On the evening of the attack, Not for a long time... Rewards offers Informants would have located the Using a GPS, it would even have the satellite coordinates The Iraqi informant, - $100 is a lot of money If the information allows capture, EUR90 the equivalent of 4 months' salary. - I don't trust Many people give me Only a few informants - I saw 15 guys - Have you seen them? - Are you sure it's on the right? The section of Sergeant Martinez and his Their mission: - Stay alert and above all no noise. 1 a.m., the operation begins. The column rolls, all lights out. The soldiers must surround 1 hour of progress and the GIs are lost. Contact details of informants Eventually, they locate the target. - Now we're going to invest in the house. Men are separated from women Apparently it is not - Ask these b**** - But I do not know - You don't know where this house is? The officer breaks down. One last suspect - Down ! - Let's go, everyone! Come on, leave them like that, - The bad guys are all the old ones And now they have lost everything. They want revenge. Under pressure from the captain, - He's lucky he's not dead. They capture the head of the family. - That's Saddam Hussein's signature. The only proof for the Americans is that we are Saddam's party. - We have confirmation Now we're going to clean both All the men in the family are arrested. - What did Saddam give us? He made us starve, - It still remains difficult. We just do our job. - We caught the guy we were looking for. A dozen suspects all suspected of being linked Ironically, for these ex-Baathists, they are locked in Return from mission - Did you see that b**** hiding behind - It always happens like this! - It could have been a little funnier. What an incredible bed! - I like raids, I like to attack - For what ? - Being in a rush. Break down the doors. Enter. - And the people inside. - Not really... I'm not going to start killing a child, Wake up early for Rangers Under the orders of Colonel Sassaman. - Everyone ducks. An elite regiment proud to have made a mark proud of the Rangers' glorious past. It is this same regiment, who landed in 1er - I always keep it in my big pocket. and it says: Utah Beach Muslim countries and terrorist countries most likely decided against American forces What I can say it's that I saw strangers from Egypt, Iran and who are in this country. Once a month, Colonel a prayer breakfast. These are the officers as good Samaritans -Joshua was a warrior. It was he who succeeded Moses and we can who carried out the operations Choose for yourself the God you on this side of the river, But as for me and mine, Colonel Sassamann promoted from Westpoint, It represents the official voice - No nation To each his own belief and we, And in America as in the army, This is how we honor God, The GIs settled in an old On the walls you can read - Dear soldiers, thank you. You do so much You fight for what's right You are very brave people You do everything you can We wish you the best. You are PS: Come back soon! We received a package today These are letters written Every soldier here received one. Finally someone People want us to come home. - This is my mother, my son and my wife. Now American soldiers We were attacked with mortars. We're looking for these guys, we're - Is Bush right? - And you, what do you think about it? - I think yes He's trying to win He tries to make the world - Are you ready - No, I will not die for Iraq, Travis has responsibility but also to bring them back in his armored vehicle. - I'm not really trying Try to understand Not so much because I don't have but above all because And I don't want to rationalize But what really frustrates me, It's like they have no honor. I mean, they have the opportunity There are plenty of natural resources here. But if they do something, it seems So they don't do anything, they don't care. Change of regiment. This morning, heavy resources are deployed. They must arrest a group of partisans. Under the orders of Captain Rayleigh, about fifty men - These are warning shots The man in the hood According to him, the terrorists are hiding - I swear to you by God, - We are sorry, brother. - Did you see what you did to us? - This way, I won't get there. - The house is that way, straight ahead. Go for it ! It's this house, A little further in the neighborhood, The alleged terrorist head of the family is Hidden in this armored vehicle, the informant does not identify him. He is not a Fedayeen. - America? - You like your job ? - I like helping people. If we can make - But showing up at people's houses - Honestly, is there anyone in the middle of the night ? After 2 successive failures, The GIs are always - Everything will be alright. In the house, behind, a man opposes - Shut up ! Give me your hand ! - We're not sure he's our man, - Did someone shoot? - Yes, someone shot. - Out of pity, only May God protect you ! I kiss your hand. - By Allah, we did nothing. - Americans have behaviors We were freed from Saddam, but those Saddam Hussein is more honorable Curse the honor of the Americans Saddam did what he wanted, They enter the houses they separate families, Is this democracy? Back to base. It's time - You can take that home with you. He was a drill sergeant for 23 years. This is Sergeant Cooper's 1st War. - All the guys got that. It was the commander who gave it to us. As you can see, there are really very hard... They live in sort of huts. What if I stayed? Yes of course ! Because I was made to be a soldier. For the rank and file, They have just learned that they - What I really want to tell them - On French TV, you can! - I don't know if I'm going to say it. Washington? I **** Washington. Why are we here? For so long ? You know, life here sucks. - If there is a pretty French girl who - We've been doing the same things for 6 months and After 4 years of services rendered to the nation, Higher education, social security - That's not I'm not sure what it is. - Here, it's like Vietnam, in the sense that we don't really have In the middle of the afternoon, new mission - This is where we got shot, we will have to work seriously It's another informant who tells them TNT would be hidden on a farm. - We're going to raid houses, Burst doors, It's the only fun thing to do here! - For what ? - Because what we usually do, I don't really think There are other tyrants We don't decide we're going to invade their country So why did we decide It's oil, that's what I think. - Are the French here? - Then they would do better - For what ? - We are losing men. It's a waste of time. The purpose of this operation suspected of possessing explosives, and being part of a gang of thieves All areas surrounding the farm are searched. A wreck is discovered. - It's the van - Yes, there is a white van It was the helicopter he spotted. Farms are searched 1 by 1. - I do not understand - And M****... After several hours, a few weapons, - There is no longer a banking system so it's not abnormal to see It's not bad, but for the sheikh It's probably not much. In the loot found among the peasants, - They are twins. - We're here for TNT and weapons. In fact, this farm belongs to a notable, - We have to find the TNT. All right ? We stop playing! Ask him ! Run into him. Ask him ! - He tells me to tell you that you have to tell us He says he doesn't have TNT. Money, no more The sheikh's cousin is arrested. The next day he was taken home with apologies from the US military. According to current martial law, 80% of suspects arrested are released after 24 hours of interrogation. Hard to fight