While '90s kids swear by their era being grew up in the 2000s have no shortage of memorable But looking back, there were a lot of jokes I'm Kifinosi with WickedBinge. And these are 2000s Nick Toon Adult Jokes: By the way, we're going to end with Spongebob stuff happening down in Bikini Bottom... First, let's grant everybody's wish and Cosmo and Wanda's Godchild Cosmo and Wanda's former godchild Maryann fishbowl castle. The reason? She took out archduke Franz Ferdinand and This implies that world conflicts are canon you could've been doing a LOT more to help. "My Dreams Were Shattered Years Ago!" When Timmy accidentally steps on his father's that his dreams were already shattered years However many years ago he was born, to be You know who's dreams weren't shattered? DINKLEBERG. Tickling the Cha-Chas Cosmo apparently enjoys exploring his feminine he wears a skirt and comments on how the breeze Male genitals are the implied joke here, but get pregnant... So it might be more mysterious than we think. NUTS Of course, given the fact that Timmy is part that plenty of puns using the word "nuts" Let me blow your mind right now. Timmy's Dad actually says "Deez Nuts" In one part, Timmy's Dad comments that it's crying... This episode is also called "Who's Your Oldest Pun in the Book... Literally. When Tom Sawyer steals Cosmo and Wanda's alterations he could make to the universe. He could turn gravity into gravy, or planets We have to stop him!" Therapy When Timmy's Dad is talking to a puppet Timmy is mature enough to understand how weird help. "Under-the-Bed Monthly" Magazine Timmy desperately wants the legendary toy him a magic copy machine that can bring images That said, the ad for his wanted toy was in considering the types of magazines you'd be glad Timmy's just interested in backflipping Crock Blocked. Yeah, this is the actual title of an episode. Crock-Blocked. Like... They LITERALLY just added a letter to co- I respect the audacity. Maybe Some Dreams Need To Be Broken... If you're one of the three people on the Sparky was added, you might remember a concerning Squirrely Scouts. When Timmy protests their usually-deadly annual tradition...and that if he took them to a he'd get arrested. His certainty makes you wonder...has he done Mr. and Mrs. Turner's Bedroom Life Well, apparently something he hasn't done the bedroom with his wife. When he gives her a blindfold as an anniversary for years... and something tells us they aren't Mr. Turner's wife is a freak. On that note... Timmy's Mom Had It Going On On the topic of Timmy's mom, we can't show Timmy her old swimsuit, which still fits. Good for you, Mrs. Turner... but Timmy might Cosmo... Had It Going On? Well, maybe not, but on the topic of Timmy's time that Cosmo literally got a boob job. Shame on you, Timmy! In the special episode "Information Stupor sending a picture of him in a red dress to Timmy's Dad sees this and comments that websites... The Bad Parenting Test Timmy's parents are watching Dr. Bill's If this isn't bizarre enough, his oddly or not their child spends time in their room bother me." Yeah, that's um... at least he's cleaning "The Toy" Okay, there's literally a ZERO percent chance When Timmy and Poof are taking a bath... one Really? And just in case you think there's plausible On Timmy's face. Okay, we only have one radical entry for Rocket Steroids In the episode The Ice Queens, Otto is knocked to pick on someone with his own steroid dosage. Are you prepared for the incredibly EVIL next It's time for INVADER ZIMMMMMM! A Quick Jab at the Execs It's no secret that Invader Zim was far In the Christmas special "The Most Horrible got a little bit of clever payback when a story for its logical fallacies, which turned executives. We never deserved this beautiful show, did Zim's a Little Too Excited... In one flashback, Zim commandeers a giant to "twist some knobs" and "pull some It's easy to miss weird innuendos like this says is already super bizarre... Slurs for Humans More good examples are Zim's various slurs Some of our personal favorites are "frolicking classic "Dib-monkey." Geez Zim, we knew you were trying to conquer There's a LOT of Horror References... Invader Zim is famous for two things: first, Second, its' incredibly morbid sense of From Zim going through an off-screen "initiation" an entire episode about him stealing organs objects-oh, and we can't forget about an Exorcist reference. Can't you see she's trying to draw a little You Don't Want to Know What Comes Out There's one episode where a character named brain of a squid... tries to squirt ink to He says that's not working... and all that Well, judging by that white stain on the door... I think we know what he's talking about. https://youtu.be/tT2P_jWeRH8?si=WBL5fBuNEhZro1dT Now it's time for out most intellectual Boy Genius. Bolbi Stroganovsky Among the weirdest characters in Jimmy Neutron of his time than anything else. I'm just saying-a guy who's basically blender being called an unknown species by standards. Regardless of the ethics-you can't deny is a masterpiece like no other. Many Brains, Few Morals It's easy to forget that, for a kid's characters. Even Jimmy himself wasn't safe from this, destroyed the world or even qualified as crimes Remember the episode where he made Sheen a Carl's Interest in Jimmy's Mom If there's one running joke in Jimmy Neutron Wheezer's constant infatuation with Jimmy's It can be as innocent as serenading her after Or as downright creepy as having her shrunk Those of us who have had our minds completely disturbed by the latter. An Interesting Sponsor In the special episode "Win, Lose, and Kaboom", happens to be...tentacle lubricant. Seems like someone's been watching the more Or some REALLY weird SpongeBob SquarePants Hugh and Judy in General Refreshingly enough, Hugh and Judy Neutron parents go-they're genuinely supportive, and each other. And believe me, they REALLY love each other. Clip: One of Those Games There's one scene in particular where they one that involves Hug wearing spandex. Hey, whatever keeps things exciting for you "The Banana" And of course, we can't forget Hugh's when I was seven years old I sat on a banana...and Maybe Timmy can give Jimmy a reference to But let, very quickly, move onto My Life as Sex Education If having a chalkboard with "birds + bees suggestive enough, the teacher in this semiaquatic 69. Any subtlety that would've been there is Okay! We're going ghost for our next entry-Butch Phantom. Fun At The Dance? In one episode, Sam is transformed into a her down, and forcing Sam into a not-so-fun Briefs or Boxers? When Danny is infatuated with the popular a little fun by forcing his pants to involuntarily Thankfully, Paulina actually likes his undies-so registry. Danny Phantom, Animal Rights Warrior Danny manages to single-handedly save the he discovers that one of the two remaining Meaning that Danny just saw a gorilla's We've Got the House to Ourselves... With Danny and Jazz out of the house, for When Jack observes this, Maddie is immediately Until he runs off to get a checkerboard, much On a side note, the moms and dads in 2000's with each other. Yeah, Dash Called Danny This Cartoons have always had some bizarre, usually but Dash takes it one step further in one I don't know, maybe Dash is struggling with Tucker Foley, Wannabe Casanova Danny's buddy Tucker is always trying to to the geek being embarrassed quite often One of the most memorable examples was the do "after hours"--and let's not forget kiss from a girl-only to be Frenched by Grab your fire extinguishers-next is the Aang's Bathroom Break While in the home of a fortune teller, Sokka bathroom break-and quickly specifies that I doubt Aang even knows what he was talking too surprising that's where his mind went. "Floozy" Back to weirdly direct name-calling in kids' they leave to continue their journey...but than she lets on due to Aang's feelings out of earshot. Legalize The Secret Tunnel In the famous Secret Tunnel episode, the Gang stereotypes. It's also worth noting that one of them he promptly scurries off. Smart move, Sokka. Toph's interesting training method In an effort to provoke Aang to improve his nuts from his bag. She also takes a staff, and proceeds to crush It's a staff and a literal nutsack. The Wonders of Drugs Sokka getting absolutely high off of the stuff entire show-but let's not forget the time to try and get the Avatar state to come out... "Aang, what are you doing?" "crack." Shoutout for our next entry having one of ever heard-The Mighty B! Honestly, Just the Whole Show The Mighty B isn't the kind of show that's is good, since its cast is mostly children-but extreme usage of gross-out humor. It's not hard to see how this show was inspired as the animation is, it's no less full of the most hyperactive kids over to another For our grand finale, take a look outside-you Please, Not the Monkey Dance! It's the furthest thing from a secret that over exposing talking farm animals. He's so tired, in fact, that when hypnosis dance"--he's absolutely dreading it. Otis's Questionable Biology. Let's just get the anatomy question out He has udders that frequently squirt milk. I KNOW it's a cartoon, but it's hard not is spraying white liquid from his crotch area Otis's Rectal Exam Well, I guess any doubt over Otis's gender needed a prostate exam at one point-if his far from a pleasant experience... "Now, let's see what we got in the dairy Was there ever a more perfect scene for a In this episode, Otis's old school bully Otis to remember all the times he forced Otis Seriously-this bully was a duck, so getting scenario here...*shudder* Okay, finally we get to Bikini Bottom... Let's talk about SpongeBob SquarePants. Practically Everything Squidward Says of "adult" jokes, but it's worth mentioning. I don't like the notion that everyone becomes I do love, and COMPLETELY agree with, the as we grow older. Whether it's his mourning of his dead hopes refusing to give him any R&amp;R, Squidward is "Coming to bed, honey?" Staying on a similar subject, when Spongebob prison, SpongeBob recalls how wonderful adult The traffic, the meaningless work, the failing, get so existential? Shoutout to SpongeBob for staying so dang Square Pattern Baldness in "The Sponge Who Could Fly," SpongeBob insanely precise hairstyling skills). But when Spongebob leaves Sandy's dome with sure of whether or not he's got hair...and "Krusty Dogs" The whole episode of "Krusty Dogs" is say "weiner" over and over. Not limited to Squidward's line of hoping up in his face". Whether kids or adults, one thing is for sure: "Patrick, your Genius is showing!" In the episode "Texas," SpongeBob praises Bottom by telling him his genius is showing, "where?!" I'll ask the same question there: does Patrick are? Nancy's Pencil Organization Tips SpongeBob's OCD kicks in during one morning organize his pencils and notebooks. Thankfully, Nancy is kind enough to give him one of the pencils belongs shoved up his a- Squidward's Makin' WAFFLES! In "Fools in April," when he attempts he can't help but have his head transmutated And again, in "Christmas Who?" when he realizes how much of an absolute jerk handmade gift, he feels like a... "Byeeeeee, Squidward~" Spongebob and Patrick are tasked with delivering good people of Bikini Bottom. Upon being commissioned, SpongeBob says his Then to Mr. Krabs....then really says his saying. For a guy who's asexual, SpongeBob has a sound strangely suggestive. "Do You Want it to Hurt Me, Kevin?" Case in point: his encounter with Kevin C. Spongebob will do anything for Kevin. Like...ANYTHING, anything. He's more than willing to punch himself pleasure of this cucumber-shaped neckbeard. The Balloon Theft of 2001, SpongeBob presumably didn't He paid for it fair and square, but I'd money on it. Haha, get it? It's funny, because it looks like a... Yeah, we won't even say it. There's a concerning amount of things in Sandy Cheeks in Bikini Bottom... Most of these jokes aren't too meta, but and a character named Sandy Cheeks, and-if character named Mr. Krabs, you can't expect There's also that joke theory that Spongebob one. Bubble Bass's Ad Crossed Nuts," Bubble Bass advertises Sandy's no way to say that normally. The yellow fish's line "this guy's butt does not help any. Sailor Mouth episode "Sailor Mouth" is quite literally word from dumpster graffiti. It's unsure which word this is, but it's answer. They could be saying literally anything behind episode has more replay value than a triple-A The good reasons to run around in colored When SpongeBob and friends team up with Mermaidman E.V.I.L., Mermaidman reveals that superpowers After all, "why else would we run around Well, Squidward assures us that he has three it a bit disappointing that he doesn't at one of those reasons. Also notable is his reminiscence on his time How much you guys wanna bet he made a few Extra Goofy Goobers that the characters in Spongebob's world or deeply mentally disturbed. In the SpongeBob Movie, at least one of these go on an ice cream binge at Goofy Goober's When SpongeBob wakes up, he's stumbling call out Mr. Krabs for not giving him the Go off, little square dude...but maybe shower "And now for the chaser!" When Mr. Krabs flushes Plankton after yet paws on the secret formula, he laugh heartily It's suggesting that Mr. Krabs is about in and of itself...but there was recently Closed Doors," consisting of vile drawings One example of these is the storyboard of Mr. Krabs actually took a violent on-screen Really glad they cut that scene, personally... No, Mr. Krabs, it's that time of the month. A giant red blimp arrives at the Krusty Krab, his old eyes. Squidward assures him that it's just that he's talking about. Does it really look like a gigantic blimp, Nasty Patty the classic Spongebob episode that was about they fully believed was an innocent man's Honorable mention to the later episode "Out attempting murder on Squidward to sell his The mystery of the coin slot seahorse led to her tied up on the bike rack Scooter mistakes her for a kiddie ride(somehow) it off screen...and promptly being kicked Guess Bubble Buddy wasn't the only one to "And why aren't you in uniform?!" SpongeBob's just too sweet to say no when being fired from the Krusty Krab. He's even willing to play along when Squidward him food and drinks. He's not even doing it for laughs-he's Is this some weird kink of Squidward's? The world may never know...and I honestly "Did you want to?" Patrick having a crush on Mindy in the Spongebob The same cannot be said of his reaction when are down. If nothing else, it's great that Patrick to ask before flashing her. What an absolute king. "Now, you get behind her and I'll push." The inner machinations of Patrick's mind to get behind his grandmother while he pushes to her that he's a grownup. The literal best interpretation of this is woman, which really calls the big guy's Sexy Krab-Kar Wash Just..soak this one in. Really let it marinate in your brain. Acknowledge that this is a canonical scene Side note, how often does Mr. Krabs borrow "Well, at least it's underwire..." Uh...pretty often, I guess. Or he's borrowing SOMEONE'S, in the alternate patty stealer. "Not the way I use 'em!" "Eat Barnacle Chips. They're Delicious!" "They are most certainly not delicious..." "Not the way I use 'em!" Patrick...Patrick, sincere question. How do you use them? How do you use them? There's, like, 1000 ways I could interpret devices, the worse they get. Please, PLEASE give us the answer the world The Incomplete Snow-Mermaid Man, for a couple of kids, these little guys They sculpted this mermaid statue all on their Now all that's left is two more big, round, Who knows where they'll end up? A Seven-Mile Spanking Machine! SpongeBob's butt has been broken, and he's That means no football with Percy, who seems It also there's means no participating in Thankfully, Squidward has no such injuries "Is this where the line starts?" Either Squidward or one of the show's writers The Squidward's "Ending It" Reference a blink-and-miss-it reference to the infamous Oh, and not a one-off line or something in flash a picture of the infamous red mist picture There's no telling how many children they how many more they did when they replaced "It's just a prank, bro!" Mr. Krabs manages to wash the Invisible Spray around pranking Bikini Bottom. Call it sheer dirty-mindedness, but this screenshot Krusty Krab must be. Model Sponge him, he searches for a new job and starts Spongebob's shocked expression upon hearing really tells you all you need to know. At least buy him a drink first, jeez... The "sports channel" my head as a kid. In "Your Shoe's Untied," SpongeBob is to quickly switch to the sports channel when I was always wondering why SpongeBob was so the big game, but it's clear now that SpongeBob Absorbent, yellow, and apparently horny. Zee Tickler joke character in "Karate Island" is a By this point...yeah, you probably would. Sandy has to fight the Tickler, a karate master Tickler, also the name of a type of condom It's even weirder when you consider that tray of phallic jelly-filled doughnuts into "Sorry About the Scabies" This bakery had a cake specifically for apologizing bugs that can be transmitted as an STI. This reveals that STDs are apparently enough to just...happen to have a cake apologizing Also, note that the same bakery didn't have Don't drop 'em a Bath" is peak fiction, one reason being hunt to get Gary in the bathtub. Two pink, soapy doubloons are his reward, "Squid Baby" this episode for the grand finale. The episode "Squid Baby" is about SpongeBob he himself is a baby due to a head injury. It's clear from the adult diapers, poop got to be some creepy, barely-disguised fetish. It's not even a funny episode, it's just...weird. It's the epitome of that era of SpongeBob I wouldn't be surprised if they just copy-pasted