I'm going to try to rank four pages in the first anyone can use I've got less than 7 minutes the first position I'm giving $1,000 to a random actually be giving away money. If you can press copy this simple tactic to get rapid rankings plus it works for website not just e-commerce. it is the easiest and fastest way out of any search. My SEO team has used this beginner pages in the number one position for popular [Music] This is a technique and how I discovered it 2 in a highly competitive niche with an article is that? By adding H1 and H2 tags and making a few crowned number one. The article has stayed first directly above the definition making it a breeze volume for this keyword there was an instant page. In 2014 Google made a change to search This old Google update is what will let you show snippets of a web page that gave answers to search feature displays a summary of text, Many marketers worry that people don't need not the case because a link of the source is Epic benefits of following this video to rank for improved brand Authority, higher organic of driving website traffic. An Ahref study 99.58% positive that Google only features need to optimize a page ranking in the top 10 of If you're not ranking top 10 for anything the study found that you can create in-depth in blanks that searchers might have. This Featured Snippets are fantastic for SEO getting into the number one search result. you're updating your content to better serve You can also get more clicks. The Ahref study of on the intent of the search query. When the user need to click any result. This is a prisoners website will steal the position. A third benefit voice search. A BackLinko study found that 40.7% Snippet. To show you how to do this, for Galen Leather and I'll try to rank four all with less than 7 minutes of work. If I fail query gets a Featured Snippet by looking at the then searching those keywords in Google. That is to the Ahref site Explorer, look at the organic remove first position rankings with another and content that I can quickly rank for with If you want to give yourself the greatest chance ranked two or three. Featured Snippets have their from Matt Diggity in his video on the Google queue for Featured Snippets. You can see where so that you can then optimize the right page for because you can see what's needed to rank. Let's kit meaning' plug this into Google travelpro.com then do is remove the website from search results -site:travelpro.com next I see the number one the search. I repeat this process until my website exclude in your search is the ranking queue for after the ones where your website is ranked featured Snippets queue. For this experiment I'm only YOLO once! My wife and I just had our third hard for myself to buy a new crib for the little random queries from the Ahref report that have ranking between the second and sixth position. I'm patina on leather', 'A4 notebook size', 'leather real experiment. It's getting real real. For each week I'm giving away $1,000 to random subscribers subscribe to the channel and comment on the video. give me some life wisdom or help me thrive with my message you for your PayPal before transferring you want to rank for and you know the keyword to replicate the format of the number one ranking a simple paragraph. Other times you will see years, numerical data. Other times, a list format require step-by-step instructions. Videos, often for 'how to' queries, like 'how to remove an oil and still have the darn oil stain stuck. Google get the Featured Snippet, so your best bet is to isn't enough though. How can you make your web these four pages so I don't give away $4,000. In that Featured Snippets are algorithmic. A variety then and since then, John has been secretive about technical method to achieve it. His secretiveness their way to the top. I'm screwed. You're screwed! I'm going to depend on data, using large data what gets ranked. I found there are three other place. First is to be succinct. I'm going to word is unnecessary it's going to be culled. Ask make sense?' Tthe second secret is the inverted grab attention and keep attention. You share the when where why and how. If there's room you further background information. The tactic makes attention as quick as possible then deliver on third best change you can make to rank first in rankings using all the good SEO things like and getting back links. I won't discuss that in quickly. For help here you can watch my YouTube I can do. 'A4 notebook size' in search results compare content. Here's the content on the website Heading is a H2. This is Galen Leather's content. H2. I also changed format to notebook format. experimentation. Here's the second page I need three for 'what is patina on leather'. Here's H2 tag immediately followed by a clear definition right. Galen leather also has a H2 tag. The intro of patina. Also, fine is an unnecessary adjective adjective 'leather' makes the content seem so I removed that and cleaned up other I want it to ranking first for 'leather grades'. language. There's two possible pieces to modify. the intro. It makes more sense to have a proper Let's edit the intro to be stronger. For the is 'oil vegetable leather'. I've read the top I reckon there's some improvements to make. I can redundant H2 tag that targets nothing compared made the definition more chronological in its crawl the updated pages in order for the changes money on the line I want results fast, so I enter indexing. I've done this for all pages on Monday see how the pages rank. What will be the results? industry? I can't sleep! Wait that's not baby for my lack of sleep. How much money will It's been 7 days since I made the changes. leather. The page didn't get the Featured three. I'm a skid mark. I've spent all didn't work. Let's do the next check. A4 notebook This is unexpected... While it's the first which is in the second position in with that one G saving my baby doesn't have now. Next is leather grades. Ah I don't have this Unexpectedly the ranking snippet has been optimization test I could follow the list format describe the different Leathers. This is the there's best practices but nothing is guaranteed. again. I can also get more backlinks, improving try again! That's the big secret to this strategy the last page, oil vegetable [Music] leather. my bro David is editing the video and I had to number one for 'Leather Grades'. This beginner didn't happen in a week, I'm a man of my word I'll subscribe to the YouTube channel and leave me [Music] win.