Wade here, Thoroughbred Diesel. I'm here with my good friend Lenny Reed from He came here all the way from Coeur d'Alene, And what we wanted to talk to you just a little that he's ready to introduce to the world. Hot off the press EDM. Talk just a little bit about it Lenny. Well, we've got got two shops really. We've got one in Washington State and we've And the race shop that you're referring to So the dream of having everything under one is now becoming a reality. So, we're a few hundred thousand dollars deep with spray angle. So if you wanted to try... If you're doing a dyno testing and you wanted we'll do that for you. We've also, on top of that, we can do hole If you're going to chase a factory hole, so and the factory Bosch nozzles call it six increase that hole size by three thousands If nine thousandths is going to be too big, So we've invested deeply into our own nozzles the USA. They're micron. The needle valve to nozzle itself is going going to be within five microns of one inch, Since it comes in a blank, if your dream is thousandths, we can answer your dream. We don't have to chase any holes. We get to start with a fresh blank and make So that being said, it's going to be amazing We don't have to wait on outside contractors, we don't have to wait with their limitations off of how much time or effort they want to Now, if we see something that we need to chase, Yeah. So talk just a little bit about Extrude Hone the EDM route? Extrude Hone, we've been using since 2004 It's really taught us a lot. We've learned a lot. K factor is the radius inside the spray orifice So it is a transitionary period. The barrel, the actual spray orifice itself in length. So how you enter into that and how smooth dictates greatly on what the atomization is you're actually going to get out of each hole. So if the hole's cut really fast and there's you get a fluid under a lot of pressure, it's edge. So to increase flow without increasing hole To increase fluid flow, make that hole as Not to catch you off there. DDP, probably one of the first companies out me, close up shots of your hone orifices on as showing people how cleaner the holes that into flow, better atomization. Absolutely. I've always felt like there's always been love that. If you don't do it, don't brag to do it. And if you are doing it, we do everything Just because somebody else has an Extrude the exact same quality of work. Those pictures that you're referring to, those what we're doing right and what we're doing And yeah, we've always tried to bring forth really solid, true information as possible. Nothing's ever perfect. This new EDM tool we have coming, it's in We'll be able to make a hole... If you called up and said, &quot;Hey, I want to I'd say, &quot;All right Wade, are you sure? Do you want it at 20 thousandths and two tenths, That's how close we can get it and we can one inch now. Yeah. Let's talk fuel and the new push for clean Let's talk about how this is translating to that's able to go into an emissions equipped straight away out of it. Provided that the tuning and everything is I sense that that's what you're working towards. That's the direction you're taking your company. Talk on that. DPF come out in 2007 and a half basically, the easiest, quickest, simple thing, the thing DPF off, delete the truck, make it illegal. Five years ago it was very common. It wasn't really prosecuted often, but today It's not the way that we should have always And it's exciting for me right now because always upset. People get upset, people don't understand And really what we've been working on at our make better throttle response, more horsepower, as possible by making small tweaks to the Leaving tuning factory, not setting any codes, to delete the truck. So, for example, if you go and buy a brand easy. For you to strip that thing, delete it, then difficult. So now you've got this 75 $80,000 anchor. Car lots don't want it because they may sell tested. So when you go to the get rid of the vehicle to get rid of. Warranty's obviously voided that moment. So our trucks that we've been driving at the We've had good reliability out of them. So there's a lot to it. But it's a science that we've been studying Moving those holes and changing the shape like that. And yeah, we've been working on it long enough to do this and it is a change in the tide. People are going to have to start doing the out, you send them in, we calibrate them for that you're after. Throttle response is going to be better, all a few days and it's not that big of a deal. Yeah, yeah. It's amazing to a lot of people, you tell in your truck, fifty horse power, set of injectors, going to be more efficient.&quot; That's not that hard for them to believe but get better fuel economy, they kind of start on. In my own vehicles, whenever you're towing or Dodge, all these trucks are going to get That's it. It's very unfortunate when you get a brand I jumped in my truck, hooked onto my trailer, It's a two and a half day straight drive. On the average there, I was getting about gallon. Now bear in mind, that's loaded. Total GVW is close to 25,000 pounds. DEF consumption was atrocious, absolutely Now back to what we were speaking about with increases or decreases atomization, it's a So the DPF, the faster that it plugs up or the more it goes into regeneration, the more On the way there, used a bunch of DEF. On the way home, used a bunch of DEF. Left my truck completely stocked just to collect At 5,000 miles, we started working on the overall horsepower that we were gaining, but DEF that I stopped using. My DEF consumption today is probably 50% of we've had the injectors out several other 400 horsepower to the rear tire. So it's about a 40, 45 horse improvement over no check-ins and lights. There's been nothing on that truck. It's been great and it runs perfect. There's something to be said for owning your off the line [crosstalk 00:09:50]. That's awesome. Yeah. I've said this before, you have a lot of passion in your product, as well you should. Lenny's taken DDP to the next level and staying One of the things that we talked about last we get a lot of snow and I've got this little The Kubota, as soon as I mowed the lawn with Try and mow the lawn pointing up a hill, not We dynoed the tractor and it was 16 horsepower Just because we have our own fuel shop, we modified those, increased the horsepower to 12 inches of snow, it throws that snow 35 It's fast. It's got a ton of power. Those are the kinds of things that like that may do some weird stuff that's entertaining never stop. It's the Kubota, it's the trucks, it's everything. And whenever I run out of a tool, we've got If I'm waiting on the contractor, like the just a matter of extrude honing nozzles and There's an actual throttle plate in there. That's the restrictive part. We have to send those out, have those EDM Very soon I won't be waiting on that guy. Very soon I'll be able to modify those in-house Yeah. You've always done a good job with education. Only company out there right now that gives percentage over. You're able to bring that to the market and an educated decision on what they're offering. Because most guys now, you either buying them 100% over from another company. You give both numbers in everything that you're I'm trying to make sure that everybody could key to... When you bring in a new shop that's used to to buying 60% over, 30% over, 100% overs and that, but we don't offer it or we used to amount of new shops that wanted to be interested So just by in the parts description, this percent over, it gives every single person it is they're going to get. That's it. All right. Look for, I think we said this a couple of Look for some great damn big stuff coming Lenny Reed, owner of DDP. Guys, if you're looking for any DDP products right there on the website for you. Be glad to help you with anything, questions If you have any questions on setup, what's that, we'll be glad to help you. Lenny thanks for coming down, man. Appreciate it. I really appreciate you guys flying us out so I can drive home. That's it. Thanks guys.