Today we're buying cheap knockoff items from And this video is sponsored by Squarespace. I'm a woodworker so I bought nothing but woodworking knockoffs. Everything came all in one package. Let's just dive right into it. Okay. All right. This is obviously a knockoff of the Woodpeckers. Woodpeckers is known for their extremely high quality tools. Little on the pricey side, but it's one of those you get what you pay for. You pay good money. This is going to outlive you and your children. When you buy the Woodpeckers, you don't have to put it together. This one, I did have to put it together and it locked in solid. Just slightly worried that it's a little out of square. You can get this in 300 millimeter, 400, 500, and 600 millimeter. The size that they do have in common is 600 millimeter. Temu is $31.48. Woodpeckers is $151.99. Huge, huge price difference. It feels good. It feels really good. Daniel's already eyeballing it. He's like, Hey, if you don't want that, I'll take it. The cool thing about these rulers is it has a little pencil holes in there. Stick your mechanical pencil in there. The Woodpeckers, this part of the, of the rule is level with the board. Pencil just flows nice in there. I noticed with this, it's not completely level with the board. So I draw and then it stops and hits there. It is pretty darn square. One thing that might turn some of us off is this is only metric. Woodpeckers comes in imperial and metric. Both made out of aluminum. The Woodpeckers definitely feels more high quality. I definitely am going to trust the Woodpeckers more, but would I use this in a project? Let's go rank them. We've got eight products today and we're going to So for now we're going to set this at the This is freaking bonkers. This is the three piece silicone, silicone, silicone glue set. Hold on. This is a direct rip off of Rockler, but even the packaging is identical. Look at that. It just doesn't have the Rockler logo on there. Maybe they are made in the same place. I don't know if they are not. This is such a rip off. The Rockler says Rockler. It's embedded right into the little, the little squeegee there. This one has nothing. Look at this photo here. You see that photo? If I go to the Rockler site, the same exact photo. I really honestly don't know if it is a rip but the Rockler is $17.99 and the Temu is $6.98. Don't think it came out of the same mold. I can't be 100%. Next is the brush. See there's a, there's a different sheen to the Rockler and of course the Rockler, Oh patent Rockler would rockler.com. They got their patent right on there. I'm sensing a lawsuit. I, Oh, okay. I feel like this is a illegal rip off and then the, the dish, Oh yeah, this is, there's no doubt they came out of different molds. See how shiny and this feels really good. This feels kind of cheap. You can even see a defect in the, in the cheap Temu one here, but basically you'd pour some of your glue in there and then this is your glue dish and you can use the brush to brush it on and then you can use the spreader and then glue doesn't stick to the silicone. So once it dries, it just flakes right off. On the back of the packages. They have the exact same identical wording. The Temu says made in China and then the Rockler says made in Taiwan. 100% believe this is a rip off, definitely doesn't come from the same factory. I like the T-square more than I like the glue dish. They're both rip offs, but this is more of an identical rip off just done more crappily. So we're going to put this at number two. Oh boy. Oh boy. So, Oh man. Oh man. Let me go get my gripper. I mean, I knew I was buying rip offs. I didn't know. I will say like I do not support ripping off somebody else's products. There's a lot of time and engineering that goes into making something. You might see something as expensive, but you don't know how many years of development that thing took. And then when a company comes along and just rips it off, they get to skip all those years of research and development. It is not an exact rip off of the micro jig gripper, but it is, it is very close. I am what you would call a super fan of the microjig gripper. I use them in almost every single project here on the channel. I rarely talk about them, but I feel insanely safe using their, their products. It's much better than a push stick in my case. I love these things. I use them all the time. If I wanted to cut this piece in half, I definitely wouldn't want to use my hands cause So I would use this push block to push it through there, but you could see I would cut through this little piece right here, but it's movable so I can move it out here, but now it wobbles. So this comes down, add a little bit more support. On Temu it is $41.98. The gripper is $64. So it is cheaper than the gripper, but there's not that much of a price difference. There are patents for the gripper, so I'm not sure how they're getting around that. Let's go rank it. Out of the three things so far, I think I would rank this number one. If you can afford it, buy the actual micro jig one, please. Dominoes. I don't think they call them dominoes. They call, oh they do. They call them domino wood strips. If you're not familiar with dominoes, let me explain. So this is the Festool domino and then this is the Temu. They're made out of a different wood. The Festool is a hardwood beech. This looks more like a soft maple. I don't know if that's much of a difference, but this, the Festool has a heavier weight and it just feels stronger. This is a 50 pack. The Festool does not come in a 50 pack, but it does come in a hundred and the hundred is $31. So half of that would be $15.50 and the Temu 50 pack was $7.98. So basically half price. Let's say I wanted to butt joint these two boards together. I would put a domino here and here. I'd add a little glue to the tenon, pound that in. On this other one, I'll use the domino. I didn't go deep enough, but you get the point. Pretty much the exact same shape as the Festool domino. Just seems to be made of a cheaper, lighter wood. Let's go rank them. If I'm making furniture that's supposed to outlive me, I'm probably going to go with a higher quality wood Number four. Oh man, dude, I don't even want to use this. Oh man, let me go get the real one. This is supposed to be this, the Arbortech turbo plane. So this is for power carving. The Arbortech turbo plane is $159 and this guy is $9.58. Oh my goodness. This works amazingly well. I'm not going to use this for more than like 30 seconds. I honestly don't trust it. It feels cheap. These carbide teeth are welded on. I honestly do not trust this. Like this feels insanely dangerous. The Arbortech turbo plane is just made completely different. It's only got three blades compared to one, two, three, four, five, six, but this leaves a super smooth cut. It removes a lot of material fast. I'm sure this removes a lot of material fast. I do not trust this at all. I'm even scared to use it for 20 seconds, but I'm doing this for you guys. I'm putting my brother's life in danger for you guys. I'll start off with the real thing to show you how easy this carves. Look how high these teeth stick up. That's what scares me so much is that they protrude How high do the other ones stick up? They just barely. Yeah, it's a, it's a complete difference. I am. I'm not, I'm not lying when I say I'm scared. It worked fine. I would say the, it's hard to explain in words. The feel of the Arbortech just feels smoother and better. This definitely removes the material. I'm definitely scared of it. I I'm actually at for your safety. I'm recommending that you don't get that if you want I just highly recommend the turbo plane. It's easy to use. It's the safer option. Whatever you do, do not get the chainsaw looking ones. These are insanely dangerous. Like you, it will kill you. Stumpy Nubs has a great video on these. I only have it in here for demonstration purposes. Do not use these. Do not use this. Use this instead. Nothing else needs to be said. Number five feels like a bottomless Santa bag. Oh yeah. This is my Knew Concepts coping saw. And then this is my Temu coping saw. It's got the patent right there in the aluminum thing-a-ma-bob. no patent on this one. Definitely a rip off. This, uh, the new concepts one has a bigger throat, but everything else seems to be about the same. Looks pretty darn similar, slightly different handle size. Let's put it to the test. Works exactly the same. The blade sticks in there. You tighten that down and then this adds the tension. It uses a cam. This cam actually feels like it's doing something. I think there's a slightly different shape to the cams. The new concepts definitely feels better. In my email, I paid $20 and 27 cents for it. Okay. When I go to the website now, it's only $6 and 48 cents. What? Okay. Get this, get this. The new concepts one on Lee Valley, $169. $169 compared to $6 and 48 cents. The new concepts one, this is their patent. This is their design. It feels more high quality. So I'm going to move these down one. I'm torn between the T square and this. Since the T square is metric only, I think I would use this more often. We'll put it at number two. Let's go with the bigger of the two because I know what this top one is. I don't remember what this one is. Oh, the pocket hole jig, the pocket hole jig. Ooh, I ain't mad at that. Oh wow. That looks really nice. I ain't mad at that at all. So this is similar to the Kreg K5 pocket hole jig. It is not a direct rip off. And some of you might not know this. Kreg did not invent pocket holes. I don't know of any other jigs like this. There are probably some out there. I'm just not aware of them. So it's not a direct rip off. This drill bit, it doesn't fit into the, the hole very good. It's, it's really tight. I have to twist, like I have to twist it to get it down. It's big enough where it falls in there, but there's no play. This one, it really, it feels like I'm just scraping metal on metal and it's a terrible, terrible feeling. So it just gives me the, it gives me the willies that metal on, ugh. You're putting a board into this nice quick clamping system. If you're putting a thicker board, this moves quickly and easily up and down. To set the different thicknesses, it's a little bit more work. You have to loosen this guy and then turn this guy to find the right, ow, damn it, son of a bitch. I just pinched my finger on there. Maybe that's my fault. So a little bit more this way, then there we go. A little bit more work. The price of this on Temu is $58.48 and then this is $129. So quite the price difference. There's some conveniences here. This has the wings to hold long boards. It's also got storage for all your bits in there. There's I, I was going to say, I don't have any complaints about this one except the knob just fell off, but it just came on screwed. I have no complaints about the build quality of this, except this handle looks like something that you you can tell Craig designed this whole thing. After this, we've got one more package to open. It's the most expensive one. While drilling out these pocket holes and testing this jig, I'd like to tell you about today's sponsor and that is Squarespace. I have been using Squarespace for like 10 years now, over 10 years now. I used to be a professional web developer. That's what I did for a living, but the reason I use Squarespace is God, I did that again. The reason I use Squarespace is it just makes my life easier. I don't have to focus on the cloud, the backend, the code, none of that stuff. It's just, it's drag and drop. They had this thing called the fluid engine, which you don't need to know what the fluid engine It makes it look good on mobile tablets and desktop. A lot of you are makers and woodworkers and crafters Squarespace is the perfect place to do so. You can sell the things that you make. You can sell physical items as well as digital items, which is what I do. The great thing about Squarespace is you can Let's say you're at a craft show or you're just out and about. You sell something online and you meet up in person to drop it off. You can take that payment right there on the Squarespace app. You couldn't do that 15 years ago. I used to make websites for a living. I know exactly how hard it was to set up the SSL certificate, make sure everything is talking to each other. You've got the bank processor. You've got the thing that talks to the ... It was insanely difficult to make everything talk to each other. Now you just need a Squarespace site. They have award winning, beautiful templates to get you up and running. You don't have to know a thing about design. You've got your back. Visit squarespace.com and when you're ready to launch, visit squarespace.com/makesomething for 10% off Let me tell you my thoughts about this pocket hole jig. Works totally fine. Totally fine. Would recommend if you're on a budget. Do not grip this handle like how you think you would grip I've done it twice now. Bit did loosen up a little bit in there. I'm going to have Daniel zoom in. You can see where it wore away some of the metal. That's only five pocket holes. I got a feeling this is just going to keep getting moved down and down. And then this, the glue thing, uh, I think I would use this before using the coping saw. I'm so torn. One or two. Pocket hole's not illegal. Yep. You are right. Let's put this number one. All right. One more. The big one. I mean, it's not that big, but it's, it's the big one. By order of deduction, I know what this one is and I am super curious It'd a little palm router. Oh, uh, sort of. This is, it looks to be a competitor. We'll use the word competitor to Makita. It's got the same exact color weight wise. The Makita might be just a little heavier. I don't even know what that means. The, the depth stop here is pretty darn cheap. It's just this, this plastic piece. It's all plastic and then it's got the screw Um, I don't know if I trust that. That's what I was thinking. How long will that last over time? The Makita has this quick release metal housing, rubber grip. Yeah, everything about this, like quality, like this is insanely higher quality. Insanely higher quality. Is that the right way to say that? I feel safe enough using this. Does it have speed control? This one does not have speed control and the Makita does. It's not a 100% direct rip off, but they know what they're doing by using that color, right? I don't have a lot of confidence in that lasting for a long period of time. And what the heck is that? Who's using that to, to, to measure their depth, right? So that just locks on there by squeezing the plastic together. That's going to break someday. This metal housing cam lock, uh, nice indentations for the measurements there. Yeah, that's that. This is nice. The reason I was so curious about this router is the price, $33 and 8 cents. I don't know that you'll ever find a palm router for $33 and 8 cents. The Makita, $159. The Makita has a button to stop this from spinning and This doesn't, the cheap one doesn't have a button, so you actually have to take two wrenches, which is if you use a router a lot, that is a pain in the behind. That worked just fine. So now I'm going to throw this bit into the Makita. Ooh, that's already warm. Feel how warm that is. That was, yeah, that was just an eight inch cut and it's already that warm. I'll see if the Makita gets that warm too. That's concerning. The Makita never got warm. Slightly where the bit was, but the shank didn't get warm. The Temu is still warm for me using it five minutes ago. They both say they go up to 30,000 RPMs. You be the judge. I mean, I can't visually tell, but it sounds like this one is going at a much higher speed than this one. If you're in the market for a cheap router, I wouldn't suggest this. I would go to Menards, Lowe's or Home Depot and get what they are I would just feel a lot safer. That is, that's all I got to say. I have two videos where I bought every single ad I saw on Facebook. I also bought the five most expensive woodworking tools on Banggood. So if you like this, you'll like those. I'm going to put this, you know what? Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope. Yeah, this is so tough.