Mankind had never seen anything like it. effort to stop a war, all people saw was darkness and destruction. it was August 6 ever created by mankind. one-mile radius into rubble. killed a hundred and forty thousand Hiroshima Japan. As powerful as this bomb was, mankind has since invented a weapon that is hundreds of times more powerful. called the hydrogen bomb. To give you an Hiroshima bomb was dropped in New York one-mile radius. But if a hydrogen bomb not just destroy everything in a it would make into rubble everything in calamity. The world now has over 10,000 every single person on our planet many powerful? How do they actually work? The bomb on Hiroshima released an energy equivalent bomb released the energy equivalent of While the atomic bomb like the one that principle of releasing energy through fission - see my video on that - a releases even more energy - and that is it powerful than fission. It is the same fission is combined with fusion in a of magnitude higher than fission alone, making of times more powerful than atomic bombs. of the bomb creates energy called deuterium and tritium to create that is made of one electron orbiting extra neutrons in their nuclei. A large two isotopes fuse together to form less energy than these two isotopes One of the main problems with creating Tritium. Scientists found that they could hydrogen bomb with a compound The result was a dry, solid, stable powder most hydrogen bombs today use as their actually occur? Ordinarily the nuclei of these nuclei have strong positive This is why scientists chose hydrogen as has only one proton and thus would have multiple protons in their nuclei. But if fuse? It turns out that if you increase it is possible to combine nuclei the atoms speed up. But an extraordinary in order to give them a chance to temperatures needed are astronomical, Sun - 100 million degrees Celsius. The Celsius. At this temperature the isotopes This is when the electrons orbiting the nucleus, and the nuclei and electrons are temperature soup. At this temperature, the And when they get as close as one times the strong nuclear force which is is responsible for keeping protons and combines the protons and neutrons together to form a Helium nucleus and a free neutron. But degrees achieved? This is where the hydrogen bomb enclosure comes into play. The provide the energy needed to heat up the degrees. So how do they work together? A one. It contains an ordinary chemical on Nagasaki, and a fusion bomb. All three initiates the fission bomb, which how the fission and fusion bombs work how the bomb is put together. In a located at the top, inside the cone hydrogen bomb vessel sits. The casing of acts as a mirror to reflect the neutrons allowing them to escape the vessel. A of the casing. It's shaped like a sphere. conventional chemical explosives casing, inside of which is a small to six inches in diameter. Below this bomb. It consists of a cylinder made of Lithium Deuteride sits inside the sits a rod of Plutonium. In between the made of styrofoam. And here is how it all detonated by exploding conventional the sphere of plutonium 239 our uranium or compression of this material creates reaction of neutron splitting atoms split more atoms apart. The chain This fission explosion creates high up the styrofoam and turns it into beryllium-lined walls and focuses its x-rays travel at the speed of light, so than the physical shockwave from the the shock wave reached there first, then before it could create fusion reactions. compresses the fusion cylinder causing releases Tritium. The Tritium and neutrons. the neutrons cause the Uranium fission reactions. This causes more only from the outside in but also from which releases more neutrons, which causes loop of fission-fusion-fission-fusion huge explosion occurs ripping everything in only about 600 billionths of a second, bomb implosion, and 50 billionths of is an immense explosion with a 10 powerful than the Hiroshima bomb. And from? Well, if you could weigh all the and all the atoms released after the explosion would be less than the sum of difference in mass is converted to E equals MC squared. And exactly how much an idea, the bomb dropped on Hiroshima energy, about 1/3 the mass of a U.S. pounds. A hydrogen bomb however converts to pure energy. But in order to convert 140 kilos, or 300 pounds of hydrogen fuel. France, India, Russia, the United Kingdom, nuclear weapons deployed today are smaller and lighter, and so can be missiles. These things don't just kill, quite efficient at it. Avinash here if you like our videos andconsider subscribing and ring the bell upload more fascinating videos we make 1 next video