[ Steyr &quot;Single Rune&quot; SS Contract K98k ] Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I am here today at Morphy's and we're taking a look at a rifle that is the subject of a whole bunch of controversy and bad information. This is a single rune bnz 43 K98k. In other words, this is a Steyr-produced So let me start at the beginning It is of course founded as the It starts off basically just as a for the nascent And as the party grows in the SS grows in size and And by the time we get to 1939 the SS and it's sort of ... not a shadow military, but it's a second military the actual official German armed forces And there's a lot of bad blood The army really generally does not like the idea The SS has the ear Anyway, what is relevant for ... today's the SS had its own independent organisation The SS did not begin as It wasn't able to just go and issue weapons, it had to And so in the 1930s you a bunch of sort of oddball stuff When the Anschluss with Austria happened you would see a lot of SS contracts ... These things kind of become available ... many parts of the Czech arms industry. Earlier on the SS would take older and they would modify them Those, by the way, are the guns where And those things are a really and all sorts of because there aren't a whole lot of By 1940 the SS gets its sort of the TOE, standardised with the German army By a little later on in the war, the SS would But the SS always sort of And where this comes when the Steyr Company to produce rifles specifically directly for Now there's a reason they're able to do this, first dibs on arms production, and that is true. What happens here is in 1942 gets the idea to run this new plan where they The conundrum he has is and they cost money to feed but they don't get anything out of them. So how can we monetise this, And the answer is &quot;Ah, the SS will rent concentration So the arms companies can get cheap and the SS can get some money, And that's where this comes from. Steyr ... begins to set up ... associated with the SS camp of Gusen. This is essentially a sub-camp of the And they are enticed to set up And in June, so just a couple of they sign a contract specifically with These are guns that are not (... As I think I've already said But what that means is that a lot of So the SS contract rifles don't go through We are used to seeing on The WAA and the number under the eagle Well, those inspectors are all part of And so these rifles produced specifically for the Now, this ... whole production for Steyr and for the SS for about 15 months. So the contract is signed in June, And the issue that they ... they want to start putting but some parts come The receivers in particular are and it's one of the things to actually get up in production And so they end up bringing in a lot of receivers In particular the factory which is under Steyr management And those receivers that are not going through the same inspection procedures, And so they are specifically marked with they are bound for this specific SS contract, So let's take a closer look at what the specific characteristics Then we'll talk about why Alright, so this is a K98k first thing we're going to look &quot;bnz&quot; here is the German ordnance system Early on they were &quot;660&quot; then they went to &quot;bnz&quot;. And it's important to recognise that this If the plant was owned So the Gusen ... camp the stuff from Radom and the stuff from Steyr's We have a year code down here, you will They used that, just 4 is 1944. And then of course this is the single rune that Now a lot of people think that that rune And that is both correct and a So this production line at Gusen at first at least, during this period And so there was no need for them to The runes are there on parts that were actually So in particular early in production, Gusen couldn't make enough of its own with production from other Steyr factories. Those other factories would mark receivers with that SS rune to indicate that they were to indicate that they were So the receivers that were actually ... Essentially it's only the backup or And you will also sometimes see That also had to be brought in to supplement Now that being said, SS equals money, money equals people are So let's look at the other elements that First off, there is no letter German army guns have a letter suffix. And they'd go out to like 9999 and then when they got to &quot;9999 a&quot; The SS didn't have I suppose as and so the SS guns will go up to ... 9999 So it's actually fairly production timelines of because there are a lot of But this is very important, no suffix. There are Now in this particular case and that's because this is a barrel ... again to supplement And that's a known thing, that did happen. If you see a WAA, an on the receiver of a Gusen gun, ... So we have a final inspection proof there, But there's no number under it, there's no We do have &quot;Mod 98&quot; on the On the army production guns like every In particular, here on an we'd have a serial number The SS guns are only serialised on the bolt Now they were also serialised A little bit later on, they would start but this one is earlier Army guns will have serial numbers The SS contract ones do not, this one does not. And then there would also be serial numbers Now this particular rifle And I know that because I opened it up and I looked But I can also look here and we have a Waffenamt That tells me again this is an army production Now when exactly this stock was Was it during the war? Was it after? But the stock is not the original stock Alright, a couple of other things First off, the original idea was that entirely with ... concentration camp labour, and you wouldn't have That didn't work, you did in fact need to have People with specialised education to do some of And so the production line at Gusen who had the relevant The same thing applies to the that were set up by Gustloff at the Buchenwald camp Both of those companies were with concentration camp inmate labour They also had sabotage. Now there of the K43 lines for Gustloff and Walther than That seems to just be because mostly as well as the K98k is a little A lot of the K43 sabotage And it's just like there is no gas port that in a way that's not visually distinguishable The K98k is a little harder to mess up. So there was some sabotage at Gusen, but it doesn't appear to have ever been a Also, for Steyr this SS to make use of some parts that had So there were a lot of basically If something wasn't quite machined right, the Waffenamt would reject it out of hand, The SS didn't care or didn't And so Steyr used this opportunity to that it had lying around in scrap bins And so on these single rune guns, as well as what is generally called the &quot;SS contract guns&quot;, ... I've seen ... authentic examples of these rifles that have for example bolts taken off G12/34 rifles that are essentially K98k actions And you will occasionally find &quot;Because hey, if you've already got the part, If the SS isn't going to care, or isn't going to notice So the idea that the SS would have worked through early 1944. And then there started to be a couple the Gusen production line back towards So first off, in February of 1944 the main Steyr and large parts of it were taken offline. And that forced the Gusen plant to be used So that would start to reduce the number of More substantially however, the Russians occupied That was a major production facility now guns that had been going to the And within a month this SS contract for Gusen is The Wehrmacht basically looks at this and goes, from other sources, but now that the Radom plant Those guns are going to become And so in October of '44 we see the Gusen plant and produce rifles that are ... So these single rune guns, as I said, you will see Once you get any later this special sort of batch There's more to say about but it's I think a little too detailed How the little minutia of parts from there incorporate into the rest of Anyway, hopefully I have been on what is otherwise something that I think It's cool to get a chance to that is totally legit except But all of the markings on it, of what an early single rune gun ought to be. And talk about what the truth is So, a big thanks to Morphy's for Hopefully you guys enjoyed the video.