wolves howling what are the dangerous degrees of coldness the freezing world 6 Million the dangerous cold degrees in the world a freezing world in the northern parts of Russia which is the coldest place in the entire globe after the two poles there's a small village totally immersed in the snow where the cold degrees reaches -71 with the 6 million subscribers reached in our channel, I decided to make this experience the coldest town in the world where I take you with me on this fantastic trip ... a difficult one in fact while coming from the desert ... how would I bear it how? is it for real? how much can I bear the cold? 6M ... the 6M's video the challenge is like this I have to make you a special video while in the desert, we filmed there and got through the hottest degrees today, we're also in the desert ... and all of a sudden ... flying for 6 hours From Dubai to Moscow ... and from there to ... have you ever heard about Siberia ... Welcome to this flight heading toward Moscow ... one of the coldest places in the world in the winter ... you feel like, it's a big and undiscovered continent when it's a part of Russia people usually visit Moscow ... but this part of Russia, we know nothing about it I had in mind that I should practice ... I'm going to practice every day... we reached Moscow, Guys today, the fight gonna happen ... today, between the good and the bad between the cold and the red our flight is tonight we have almost 7 hours in Moscow we need to find the coldest town on earth and it's not just one or two hours flight but 7 hours let me explain this for you, Guys ... Russia is one of the biggest countries in the world and because of Siberia the Russian maps look huge ... without it, Russia is just a very small country one of the coldest cities in the world this city is in a Federal Republic called Sakha and it's capital is Yakutsk ... or YaKootia in Arabic one day, this city got -71 it's getting cold just talking about it Waw, we're heading to the unkown, Guys ... boarding now for 7 hours with 7 hours flight ... the time zone there is 6 hours different from Moscow can you imagine it ... it's the same Time zone with Japan in the name of Allah and at him we trust the Siberian region was so isolated in the past where are we ... it was a place to exile criminals where are we? ... it's 09:00 am people that are undesirable ... got exiled there buying clothes ... in order to get through this cold can't work ... it has to be like this inside, See? they have a very different and special life ... people who live completely different from the rest of the world Guys, we took this one too ... and gloves let's make this freeze, Guys ... we're taking it outside what are we really going to do ... we have some experiments in the street ... the first one is the noodles it will freeze in just 10 minutes ... let's see otherwise, there's also the experiment of the boiling water ... when it freezes when you throw it in the air Okay, one of the most asked questions is &quot; how do they dry their clothes?&quot; I know they dry it indoors, never outdoors look, you put water on it look at this ... it has started freezing the lens freezes also ... after every 5 minutes you can't get your hand out for more than 20 seconds ... it starts to freeze immediately the sun started to show up ... it appears just for 3 hours a day we're directly beneath the soil... didn't I told you about it ... Permafrost it's the layer of soil that continuously remains frozen beneath the soil that's why they made this frozen place underneath the soil the whole year it's a geologic term it means &quot; a permanently frozen soil&quot; it's beneath the upper layer and it's always below the zero degrees we got inside their house and this a place where they put their food and things in it ... this is their actual fridge their freezer look, how it looks like in order to get water, they need to put frozen ice here and leave it for a while until it becomes water look, those are the ice cubes that they bring it from the river and break it and melt it at home to make water while we have machines to freeze water, they have machines to melt ice the water is frozen outside, and there's no way to make wells or aquifers so they bring it from the river, it's the only way ... but it's frozen, so ... so they bring the ice and liquefy it here and then drink the water here where they park their car, to avoid it from spoiling he's saying &quot; you should never stop the car's motor &quot; so they go to every place leaving their car working unless &quot; you're doomed &quot; Okay, here we are making a tour looking at their &quot; lifestyle &quot; from the first sight, you can notice that their houses are not directly to the ground, because it's frozen so they build those pilers and then build their houses or apartments up there, because the ground is frozen the whole year look at how their houses how it looks like Guys, I know you're seeing the snow ... but this snow is not normal at all, I can't describe it more I can't get my hand out of the pocket for more than 3 seconds... it's always snowing and even for a very dangerous level we're filming for 3 minutes and go back quickly into the car it's almost the same with a fridge or a freezer where it's between -10 to -20 here, it's -50, can you imagine where I am the battery will stop very soon ... I'm changing the camera every while I don't know how to film in a place like this See? for them, there's only one month a year ... enduring the very lowest cold degrees here, was a decisive factor for the Russian winning in the WWII because the Germans couldn't bear this cold when they tried to invade Moscow Subscribe to the Channel for &quot; 7M to the Amazon &quot;