- Welcome back to NautiStyles to our Affordable Liveaboard Yacht series. (upbeat music) The ultimate affordable liveaboard yacht. (upbeat music) - [Rico] Welcome home. - Wow. (upbeat music) About four years ago, we filmed a tour of our boat we lived on for eight years. We put it out on YouTube And it actually shaped our and it organically started our Affordable Liveaboard Yacht series. So, if you haven't seen that tour, I will put it down in the It was a Meridian 408. This is 2007 Meridian 459. This was actually our dream but we couldn't find one and it was a bit out of our price range when we were looking. So, we settled for a Meridian 408, but this I think is the ultimate affordable So, let's check it out. I would invite you in, but I think we need to talk which is definitely custom. - [Rico] Yeah, this is a Really cool. So, actually, boy, you because it's- - [Rico] The ladder is to have it easier for us to get But you can obviously put it back on there and it's a super, super - Okay, come on board and we'll tell you guys and why it has such a - [Rico] Okay, well start - Yes. - I don't know. Why don't you... And I put you to work. - So, over here, we have which is of course still Over here, we have the transom So, no random people take a shower in the back of your boat. - #floridaproblems. on this side here, we - Oh wow. So, we have the cable reel right there, a shore water hookup, shore power hookup of And then, it's neatly tucked in here and runs just to the back, so it doesn't create a And it just looks quite nice and clean when everything is closed up. Nothing else on this side here. Let's go onto the cockpit, which we didn't have. - Yeah. So, this was one of the features that we loved and wish we had. We didn't have this beautiful cockpit and didn't have these beautiful So, anyway, we're not gonna If you guys are interested, - you're gonna go check out the video. I'm sure most of you have seen Four years or four and a half. So, go check it out. - Yeah, I think so. In our cockpit, we have dive bottles here. The reason being is the current and he wanted to have a really diving spot, spaces for the bottle. So, this boat is perfectly So, if you are into fishing or diving, you are gonna be in heaven on this one. - [Rico] Including this would and it has been converted but temporarily to fit more dive tanks actually. Got our water fill there. - What's here? - [Victoria] Oh nice. Very nice, actually. - [Rico] Fender and line storage. - [Victoria] We have - More storage. (door clicks) Oh, there's more here. Wow. - Another dive tank. Actually, great location. we do have our generator. - Wow. stern thruster, batteries. The house batteries are there. Then, the stern thruster And of course, the And then, on this side is more storage. So, you have plenty of space actually to still put your toys down there. This one opens up and if you both open up, it's also really easy to do because it's very easy access. There we go. Oh, there's also a Fireboy here and the reversal oil changing system. - [Victoria] Oh that's nice - Yep. Inverter bank. And then, of course the stern thruster start engine batteries are here too. And now, let's go up to the upper cockpit. - Welcome to our upper It has a full enclosure and also has a mosquito or shade mesh. So, you can actually roll these windows up and still have the mesh on the other side. - [Rico] So, super cool. You have this built-in settee here with a beautifully finished wooden table. - This boat has lots of upgrades. You guys are gonna see them. You've already seen some but there's also interior upgrades. The previous owner put a and the current owner did as well. So, it is in a really, and it is one of these boats that when you see on the market, (finger snaps) and snatch up, so. - Yes. that it is for sale? - Yeah, well, obviously, it's right on the channel. - We don't do affordable yachts - Okay, okay. - Yes. walk us through the upper cockpit here. - So, this is gonna Spend a lot of time in So, we have sink right Goes all the way deep right here. Then, we have a bit of a lower storage on both sides as well. This is a great Bosun's Locker. Just a nice spot. You can also, a great spot to be able to put something here underway. Like we used to put food here, like a kind of a buffet style, where people grab like a This is great, 'cause it's - Yeah. Very nice. And we're gonna go and do the tour of the- I don't know if you wanna mention them. - Yeah, of course I wanna mention them. - So, I'll show you, which Show you this one? - Okay. So, they're very, very but once they're closed, this space is, no matter what weather you're in, is so comfortable and cozy. - [Rico] Well, originally, with the enclosure up on the fly bridge. But if you have that this becomes one big enclosed You can air condition it. second living room. - [Rico] You can air condition it and you can heat it as well. - Yeah. Second salon. All right, let's go forward. - [Rico] Cool. - All right. Side boarding doors right here, which are also great if you Here, you could see you for boarding ladder right there. - [Victoria] And... - [Rico] Get our waste pump out here and fuel fill for the starboard tank. - [Victoria] Okay. Going forward. - [Rico] It is a comfortable. - Very comfortable, you have It's a perfect height even if you're a little bit wider here, that you can still get through. It's very, very comfortable. And you still have perfect communication with everybody up here when Welcome to the bow. I have a little nostalgic feelings. - I do. We spent so much time on - And so much time up here, like, whale watching, dolphin watching, just such amazing memories. - I cannot wait to be on I miss it. me too. but it's not the same when you like live on it. - Speaking of home, you often ask if I miss living on a boat. Yes, I do. And I cannot wait Best sleep of my life was onboard. Since we sold our boat, I have been struggling plus add on stress of traveling, constant state of jet lag, This year has really kicked my butt. I'm constantly feeling and when I wake up just having anxiety. So, about five months ago, I realized that I really have to start taking care of myself. One of the first things I did, I bought this ring, not sponsored at all. It measures your heart rate, stress levels, activity, and sleep. And quality of my sleep was actually what freaked me out the most. Look at this. Yeah, it's pretty bad. Rico falls asleep within minutes and I just lay awake with my mind racing. Do you have this? I I have tried lots of under tongue sprays and capsules. I didn't feel much different. And sometimes it felt and groggy in the morning after I took it. So, it's been a couple of to share this product I found with you. I just wanted to really that it wasn't just my So, I wanted to introduce (packets crinkling) Beam Dream. (chuckles) It's basically a delicious hot chocolate that helps you fall asleep and stay asleep and wake up in the morning It's like a guilt-free and you guys, it really works. Nano CBD, reishi mushrooms, magnesium, L-theanine, melatonin. Again, I've tried different stuff that has similar ingredients, but Beam must have because this actually works. And you know here at NautiStyles, we don't promote or show you anything that we So, before recording this, I was like okay, how do that they don't think this is because I think they should really try it. And you know what, don't take it from me. Look at my ring results. These are my stats before I started using Dream You see that? (soft upbeat music) And these are my current You see that? The stress level when I and the quality of sleep is close to 100. I'm telling you, this really works. So, we reached out and to help them bring awareness to the brand and also get a special discount So, if you follow my link in description underneath the video, or you and use my code NAUTISTYLES you get early access to Beam's Don't miss out, because this They also have a great 20% off savings every They give you a free frother You'll need that to make And you can earn loyalty You also get referrals for 'cause trust me, you It's like totally life-changing. This is one of my Oh, it's so good. But they have lots of different flavors. So, check out their website. They also do really cool with Thanksgiving and Christmas coming up. So, check it out. Use the link in description of the video, use the QR code, NAUTISTYLES at checkout. I hope you guys get a For me, it's been life-changing. All right, let's go back to the tour. - [Rico] So, we got two sun pads here, got a hatch here which leads to the VIP. We're gonna see that in a - Cup holders right there. - [Rico] That's right. - And you go. - Okay, you go, me go. Okay, we have the windlass here with a brand new chain and road. Look at the search light. It's massive. Oh. - [Victoria] Why do you have to touch it? It was beautifully polished and now it's all got fingerprints on it. Stop it. - Okay. - [Victoria] It is a very nice searchlight. Stainless steel anchor, stainless chain. We got our freshwater rinse here and it's obviously a drainable locker, so you can also use it for anything else you wanna put in there. And then, we got our chain Brand new road, brand new So, lots of space in there. And then, we have our for the anchor. And that's it on the foredeck. Let's go. - [Rico] Check out the fly bridge. (gentle music) - So, that's our companion But first, we're gonna (gentle music) Check this out. I mean, second salon. You will spend so much time here, not just when you're cruising or underway, but also in the evenings, You can also do like a which would be a great to have drinks here. And you would turn the chair - Yes. So, here, everybody This is one of my favorite So comfortable. And there's a drink fridge right here. Just a fridge to be able to have here. But that great spot for drinks. And all of this again is enclosed. Even have a rod holder here. - Oh yeah. This forward window is strata glass, looks like strong plastic - [Rico] It's very, it's super clear. Yeah. like the rest of them, you can fold it up. But this one is super, It doesn't matter what it's really good visibility. The visibility on this boat is fantastic. - Yes, I can 100% agree with that. Then, like I mentioned before, originally, the boat doesn't So, it's always custom-made. Maybe it was an option back then, but usually it's just custom-made. You have this rail here on the back, which is like a drain rail. It's already kinda molded for So, this is all extra. If you wouldn't have this because you have some or something like this, you can enclose it from here to here. So, if it rains, you keep - [Victoria] Oh, they even have that. - Yeah, it's cool - to have actually, if you or the enclosure on top and which it is theoretically So, it can be rained on, no problem. It's made for that. It Got a starlink there sitting on top. Of course we have the radar mast here and our VHF antenna, Okay, so- it was upgraded. It's a new chair. It's So, we have the helm wheel here. 12-inch multifunction display right here. Brand new chartplotter. We have the SiriusXM weather Raymarine multifunction display. We have the autopilot right This boat has a bow and a stern thruster, search light control, throttle controls here And then, the shift So, they're mechanical controls, not electronical, fly-by-wire controls. So, you have the throttle separate from the shifter, We have our start and stop Fuel transfer switch right there. Bilge pump switches, anchor windlass, courtesy lights as well as Trim tab controls, horn control, And then, VHF radio here on the bottom. - Right here, we have a right for your paperwork. Cup holders everywhere. Let's go. - The interior. (upbeat music) Oh, welcome home. - Wow. Okay. That staircase is amazing. - [Rico] Oh, you locked it. - That is not original. (door sliding) - Wow. and it is gorgeous. - It's amazing, right? - [Victoria] Yeah. What a change. - Yeah, ours was like lightly This looks, and it's so solid. - Yeah, it's great. - All right, let's do this. So, first of all, immediately, you see that the carpet is covered. They have covers on. You guys know some of my little tricks when you're going boat shopping, when you see covers on things that you know that this boat because they're constantly they're protecting things. They want to make sure that So, covers here, check mark. Looking at the condition and the all furniture, was reupholstered possibly, It's brand new. by the previous owner, - [Rico] not by the current Changed all carpets. - Yeah. And it looks like- - [Rico] Did a lot of upgrades. - Really nice carpet underneath as well. - Yes. Like heavy-duty, great carpet. - [Rico] Oh, so it's like coming home to me (laughs) in a weird way. - It's very nostalgic. - One thing, which is always or any kind of TV you're watching, there's no smell TV, there's This boat doesn't smell at all. - It smells really nice. It smells very, very good. So, 2007, being in Florida, lots of boats have that musky smell or the sewage smell or something. Nothing here at all. Smells completely clean and really, really pleasant actually. - Very true. - It's a big one. When you guys are boat shopping, you'll notice that all of a sudden, that's gonna become a big you walk in, you're like... (Victoria inhales) - And most of the times, the head hoses. - So, not flushing enough water, not emptying the tank often enough, hoses get old, they start smelling. That's one of the issues with it. So, yes, usually if it's bad, you have to replace all of those hoses to get rid of it. - Anyway, on the good stuff. - Yeah. I feel like I know the And this is part of the reason we think this yacht is perfect. Meridians just make fantastic liveaboards, because it is just so much space and with an aft cockpit, your owner state room being but the biggest thing is the headroom. - Mm-hmm. and you in the market for there's not gonna be And this yacht is definitely, most definitely great for a tall person. Okay, let's go through quickly. There is some storage here. We have, aha, breakers. - [Rico] Okay, so we have low voltage breakers here, I mean, the blower control right here, generator control, tank monitor system. And we have our overboard blackwater, overboard pump system right here. - All right. That's not all. (doors clicking) - If you call now. we have our battery switches and some push breakers and some pumps as well, - Rico knows those because - Yes. they were there at one point. And he changed the pump like two times until he realized the breaker was out. - Yeah, so- I love that on this model, they don't have the internal helm here, which we had, which They actually have a beautiful settee. The windows are fantastic. These two are openable, so you can create a You literally don't need air conditioning when it's a nice and cool day, you can just open the windows. This couch actually is a pullout couch. So, you can add another nice bed here for overflow if you ever - [Rico] Or for movie nights. - Movie nights. Oh, yes. Right here, we have Really, really good space. And that brings us more This table is hi-lo. Sorry, I feel like I'm at It's like a - six-degree of separation. It's a little distracting. So, they have a hi-lo table. And you can tell that this that was done. Look at this metal work in there. - All right, welcome to the So, we have a sink right here. Underneath the sink, we have storage. They have a nice spice rack. Look, there. Trash. This is cool. So, you have your three-burner cooktop with an actual countertop cover. So, you can extend your which is- if you do something underway, - [Rico] it's already sunken in a little. So, the pots cannot slide off the hub. I think it's fantastic. If this was, it looks it must have been upgrade over the years, when they designed this model. - You have drawers here, very nice size. There's no dishwasher currently, but this would be a really if you guys needed to have one like me. So, a small one that could fit here. Don't ask me how I know. You can fit one right Also, you can get a larger oven. We had a toaster oven, but a bigger one. One of this, what is it called? Bre... - Breville? Or one of these kinds. But it fit perfectly and you guys can use that for pizza and all that good stuff. - So, yeah, you can have in this small compact galley. You have quite a bit more storage We have my favorite Norcold You guys know this for a while. You know I feel about Norcold. And then, of course we have a microwave and little toaster oven here. But the owner of this vessel said, this fridge works pretty well. So, I think it might have been just us. - [Rico] Okay. - And we have a nice drawer right here. - [Rico] And then, we do know that underneath the carpet, right in the floor. we gotta show to you. Really, really large right there. Did I open this, no? - No. - Yes. there's a little bit of We could put spices. Of course So, a really, really nice space. - Okay. there's a secret compartment - [Rico] There is right underneath here. Let's just open this quick. There we go. We can open this. - Wow. - [Victoria] Check this out. Technically, you can have your washer and dryer in this space. - Yes, the current owner And obviously, it's a It's pretty massive actually. Okay, let's go forward. - Let's go forward first. Well, first of all, let's go to our cabin. Welcome to our forward VIP cabin. We have a queen-sized bed here. Openable portholes on both sides. There's a large hatch overhead, which we could open and Very, very nice feature. Of course night lights. We have storage here. - Large TV. There are TVs everywhere. There is a hanging locker on this side and we have an en suite You can go that way. Ta-da. Which is a nice size for But also a very convenient - Mm-hmm. going out for a day. So, ooh, this is cool. - That's different. We have storage here. How brilliant. - Yeah, that's cool, 'cause this head for us was because you only have - the space here, which is also But having a proper, proper So, you have your head here, your sink, and a very good size one person shower. Right? - I'm wondering if this because it's such a great feature. - What? - No, it wasn't option. or Meridian thought, that would be good to add - [Rico] Yeah. - Let's go aft to our owner suite. Ah, this is such a cool space. So, we have a queen size bed, we have openable portholes here, but you also have this For this cabin, they're very big size. They have mosquito net, so you can open it up, have a really, really Storage. - [Rico] Actually really (door thuds) - Agreed. Nightstands There's drawers as well. This is great. The headroom when you go in Of course you have a shade. We have more storage And this room has a split head. So, on this side aft, we have our head. Very convenient here. Tons of storage right here. We have a openable porthole, check. Very important, separate Then, on this side, we A really good size one These were bamboo custom-made for both of these spaces Really nice upgrade. So, you have this curtain here, you can close it up, so (curtain ring clinks) And as well, you have And our sink is right in the center. We have storage here and I don't know how many times in eight years I have opened this door. (Victoria laughing) - Thousands of times. Okay, where are we going next? - You missed the closet. And the closets. I forgot the closet. - And drawers. Look, it's been a while. So, we have a closet space here and there's a large hanging locker here, which was my main closet. Can you believe that I forgot it? And there's a little more up here. And a lot more, 'cause we and a massive storage This whole bed is storage. Is that it all? - Ah, our boat feels so small right now. (Rico laughing) but it's so much space. Okay, we are gonna show (upbeat music) - So, this panel comes out, this panel can come out, and this panel can come out as well. And then, that gives us the access here to the engine room, engine - [Victoria] Spent a lot of time in. - Kind of familiar- (Rico laughing) - Okay, let's dive down here. Okay, so right here, I'm This staircase is removable right here. Then, in the center, we have the sea strainer Then, there's the sea strainer And here, the one for the port engine. This is kind of cool, because for storage of spare parts or fluids. We actually had the Then, the current owner which helps you to suck which the bilge pump because it always leaves like an inch or inch and a half of water in there. It cannot pump everything out. So, he actually installed this with a little valve system as you can see. So, you can suck out the water and also fill your, for example, coolant for the main engine without It's pretty cool. All the way on the outboard side, they're on the port side, we Starboard side, we have also the primary fuel filters with the side glasses underneath. Then, we have one of the Water heaters all the way over there. There is the other Sea-Fire fire suppression system. Turning around, looking aft, we see our shafts there There's the other one. Our main engines, in this case, these are Cummins with In the center here, we Exhaust systems going overboard. Blackwater pump to pump when you're offshore. All right. - Concludes our tour of I hope you guys enjoyed it. Make sure you hit that like, subscribe, and write us a couple of comments. And this is probably one of the So, if you are interested, I'll put the contact in the Ciao. (monitor beeping) (clapperboard clicks) Looks like, oh no, nothing, nevermind. (beep) That's right. Should probably put it back.