(inspiring music) - [Voiceover] On clear summer nights, we have long watched in awe as a broad band of light rose up across the sky. Now we know that behind this luminous veil of gas and stars, a restless universe is being shaped by shattering collisions, (collision rumbling) explosions and shock waves. Two groups of astronomers that has accelerated to They believe it holds clues of a mysterious object that's lurking deep within the galaxy. (exciting music) What are they learning about at the center of the Milky Way? (exciting music) (rumbling music) (gentle music) To observers in distant space, our Milky Way galaxy would a flat spiral with vast arcs of gas, dust, and about 200 billion The center, bulging up and is tightly packed with stars. Thick dust and blinding starlight have long obscured our view of the mysterious inner And yet, the clues have been piling up that something important, something strange is lurking there. The fist to take notice was the physicist Karl Jansky back in the 1930's. He had been asked by his employer, Bell Telephone Labs, to that might interfere with what it saw as he killer app of its time: Radio voice transmissions. Using this ungainly radio receiver, Jansky methodically scanned the airwaves. He traced most of the nearby and far away. (thunder rumbling) There was one signal he could not explain. It was a hiss of radio noise that sounded like steam. Jansky narrowed it to a region in the sky, the constellation of Sagittarius, in the direction of the Located within a larger Jansky's source would become Word of Jansky's finding got out. He assured the public that it was not aliens seeking contact. Whether it was or wasn't, for the next three decades. Then, a young astronomer got interested in probing deeper into the galactic center. - Sagittarius rises right about there. First comes Scorpio around midnight, and then Sagittarius and and the very corner of the galaxy right up there. of those rare researchers whose curiosity and determination push our understanding It was the 1960's, and astronomy, like society, was in a period of ferment. Astronomers were peering corners of the universe, looking for answers to a When Eric began his career, a class of extremely called quasars had just been What powerful objects Did they come from the as some astronomers suspected. To look into the center of another galaxy, you'll have to pinpoint Young Becklin first took aim at our luminous neighbor, Andromeda. In this recent ultraviolet image, you can see a dense glow in the middle. Becklin found the point where the light reaches peak intensity and marked it as the center. From our orientation in space, the Andromeda galaxy is in full view. But our galaxy is a different story. We live inside it. To pinpoint its center, Becklin had to find a way to see through all the dust and gas that He went to a military contractor and obtained a device Its wavelengths are similar to the distances between which allow it to move Looking toward the galactic center, Becklin began measuring the as it rose to a peak, Thus began Becklin's long quest to see what lies deep in - This is the center of the cluster. - [Voiceover] Becklin interested in the galactic center. - Sagittarius star can be a black hole. Now we know of course-- - [Voiceover] Ryan Hardgenzo and a team based at he Max Planck Institute for Extraterrestrial Physics in Germany began a similar campaign in 1990. They came to the mountains to use the recently christened of the European Southern Observatory. (gentle music) A few years later, in 1993, high atop Hawaii's Eric Becklin and colleagues, including Andrea Gates, began using the giant new, The American and German To identify the source of radiation first observed by Karl Jansky. - [Voiceover] Sagittarius - [Voiceover] They found is coming from the region they call Sagittarius A star. - [Voiceover] That's a road map, and that's the center of our galaxy. - That is too small and That was not true of stars Tracking the precise would take the sensitivity - You can ask, &quot;How well &quot;in our field of view?&quot; And we can position things if viewed from New York. So you could basically tell somebody's waving like this with as viewed from New York. - [Voiceover] It's powerful with the luminosity of Meanwhile, astronomers had focused the new Hubble Space Telescope A giant elliptical cloud made up of nearly a trillion stars, 50 million light-years away called M87. They tracked gas whipping at speeds of almost 2 That lead them to calculate the mass of the gravitational at 4 billion times that of our sun. This measurement, the first of its kind, pointed to the presence of a black hole of truly super massive proportions. But that did not conclusively If a super massive black hole lay at the center of our galaxy, the German and American teams each hoped that Earth's proximity would allow them to assemble conclusive evidence. - And that's a real image. - [Voiceover] Their search to map the layout of our galaxy and find clues to its history. Astronomers were eager of space telescopes, on the galactic center. Using Hubble, astronomers documented vast arcs of gas heated from large stars. Capturing infrared light, picked up the swirling heat signatures of dense star concentrations. The Chandra X-ray Observatory recorded multiple sources most likely given off by ultra-dense neutron stars Based on Chandra data, that a swarm of 20,000 black holes likely inhabits the of the galactic center. - If you would stand in the center of the galactic center right now, first of all there would Very unlike the situation we're used to where we have one sun in There would be stars all around us, and very massive stars. Lots of radiation, we There's lots of ultraviolet radiation, x-rays are floating around, gas clouds bash into each other. And then of course, the black hole itself from time to time, it creates material and then releases radiation. It's a very hostile environment, really. (eerie music) - [Voiceover] To show there's a super massive black hole in the center, the teams would have to to a very small region, and that it has enough gravity to whip the stars orbiting The light of these stars travels 26,000 light-years to reach us, only to be blurred in as it hits the Earth's atmosphere. So both teams turn to new methods designed to sharpen the light. - 16 is right in the area. - [Voiceover] The idea was to snap thousands of pictures in a short time. Because the atmosphere is in motion, the stars apparent position may shift from image to image. To pinpoint the star's true location, the computer averages the positions and looks for correlations of the star's light. The first few years data allowed the teams to calculate and their rough trajectories - These stars are going as fast as 10,000 kilometers per second when they go through closest approach. That's going about 3% the speed of light. Keep our fingers crossed. That allowed them to narrow and to calculate the strength That gave them its mass, roughly 3 million times that of our sun. Because no other single object it was strong evidence of a black hole. But it was still not iron clad proof. Their data for example didn't rule out a dense packed into the center held there by their mutual gravity. The proof the team sought would come in the wake of In the early years of the new century, large telescopes around the world began to install upgrades. Most large new telescope designed to be mounted Behind the mirrors, engineers to subtly correct the shape of the glass as changing temperatures deform it, or as atmospheric turbulence To these adaptive optic designed to project an artificial As turbulence distorts its light, a computer subtracts the from the light of the real stars, bringing them back into focus. This is a Keck Telescope Without adaptive optics applied, and with it. This increase in to see what happened in 2002. The German team had from the new, Very Large Telescope array at the Paranal Observatory In the spring of that year, one of the stars they had been following, known as S2, made a dramatic move. S2 suddenly swooped around the center, accelerating to an astonishing 18 million kilometers per hour. The American team saw it, too. It had come incredibly close about three times the distance If there had been a S2 and its light would have wobbled. It did not. This was the evidence the team had sought. It showed that Sagittarius A star is a single object. Without doubt, it could (slow music) This observation came at a time when astronomers had begun to believe that super massive black holes play an active role in They had found that of nearly every large galaxy. In fact, the larger the galaxy, the larger the black hole. That suggests that the two each shaping the life story of the other. As matter flows into a black hole, it heats up to millions of degrees. Despite the black hole's intense gravity, much of the in flowing matter and shoots out in powerful jets that roar out of its poles. The more matter that rushes in, the more the black hole pushes back out. The force and heat from can have the effect of by slowing star birth, and by pushing gas out As a result, a strict between the size of the black hole and the size of the galactic The astronomers wanted to know: Is the Milky Way's own still active and growing? Or, has it gone dormant? Just as the black hole revealed its existence, it would show its true colors. The year: 2001. Scientists were beginning to work with the recently launched Chandra They pointed it at Sagittarius A star, and by chance at that moment, the black hole erupted. The teams on the ground for longer periods, hoping And so they did. They saw what are now outbursts that take place near the event horizon. When it falls in, around the black hole lights up. - [Voiceover] Okay, here between those two sources, where there is no other object. And here we have the same region, the same two sources, and now in between we So, this is the flaring - As gas, gas clouds if you like, come in, they sort of spiral and get ever-hotter before they disappear, and in the very innermost region, just before it disappears from our sight, that's where they would be the hottest, and so an accretion event, think of it, sort of a clump falls into the center, - [Voiceover] A group of to get a closer look at these flares and perhaps to directly From Earth, it is but the size No single telescope on Earth has enough resolution to so far away. Astronomers think they by linking observatories around the world to create what amounts to an known as the Event Horizon telescope. This simulation shows A super massive black hole in silhouette, framed by eruptions on its surface that travel around the - The reason that this periodicity, the fact that things change repetitively in the same way over a certain timescale is that the materials and so this timescale to go completely around the black hole, and so that also tells you how close it is to the black hole. And the key here is if the there's no rotating, the shortest period that you should be able to detect is about 24 minutes. So if it is rotating, and you think it is coming then that's telling you that because material can get - [Voiceover] Meanwhile, a major effort to map of Sagittarius A star to shed light on the monster's current The great space observatories, Hubble, Spitzer, and Chandra, combine to produce the of the galactic center. In this image, the central zone, 160 light-years across, stretches out like a vast claw. Sagittarius A star is the x-ray hot region on the lower wrist. Out on the hand is a dense grouping of about a thousand stars It formed just a few million years ago. Only its tight formation saves it from being torn apart by the intense tidal forces at the center. Below is the quintuplet cluster with the largest star The pistol star weighs in at Large stars like these generate fierce winds of plasma that fill the galactic center. They should provide a steady and cause it to glow brightly. Monitoring x-ray emissions astronomers found that are just a little too far away to feed the monster. As gas swirls in, a portion heats up and pushes outward. This outward wind is enough to block much of what's flowing in. So, what would cause it to flare up? A separate study suggested that what's falling in is not gas, but comets and asteroids that had been stripped away from stars whose orbits had brought them in close. - This is the center of the cluster, and Sagittarius star was over there. - [Voiceover] The black hole remains in a state of semi-retirement. Will it become active again? Working in the cold, clear one group of radio astronomers surveyed the broader region surrounding the galactic center. Data from their South Pole telescope contained signs that is slowly materializing. A huge ring of gas looms When it accumulates some 300 million solar masses worth of matter, it will reach a tipping-point. The cloud will begin to that orbits close to the center. This inner ring will condense, then erupt with star formation before spiraling down toward As the cloud falls into it, the black hole will visible across much of the universe. Don't wait around for it. Such outbursts happen every There is another, much smaller cloud that is now on a black hole rendezvous. The cloud, weighing several approached ground zero. This simulation shows less than a fifth of a light year. It stretched out as the black Its momentum will carry most of it swirling past the black hole. In time, it will settle into an orbit and slowly but surely Meanwhile, on a rocky outpost 25,000 light-years from the astronomers continue They have found ways to shaping our universe over And yet, it's often the that feed their sense of wonder. Since they started their work, these groups became the first to witness an object making a complete orbit around a center of a galaxy. The star S2 does it every 16 Earth years. Its dimmer cousin, S102, goes around every 11.5 years. No doubt over the course we'll answer many of the questions that swirl around their companion, the super massive black hole. How did it form and shape Will it one day, from the become bright and powerful (gentle music)