For hundreds of years, the Spartans were Spartan children were trained to be deadly at alongside their warriors, and no one could But nothing lasts forever, not even Sparta. It turns out that their greatest strength Legend has it that the founder of Sparta if we go by historical and archaeological by an unknown ruler who led a group of tribes However, there may also be a connection Menelaus from the Trojan War epic. We do whoever it was created one of the most powerful The city of Sparta grew in size and became the city-state at any given time, and its society Upon being born into Spartan society, a baby They would look for any defects in the the infant would be abandoned on a nearby hilltop. thrown from the top of Mount Taygetus into a pit the Spartans may have been more compassionate and But if a child did have a disability, it's the rigorous training regimen that every Spartan this military-education program known as the Agoge Greece. Spartan children were voluntarily where they would begin their education and During this training, they were also taught important than anything else in their life. A Spartan child was taught how to be deadly their commanders or their kings. This skills acquired at a young age is what made In 480 BCE, tales and poems would spread strength of the Spartans. It was at this led a small force of Athenians and other Greeks These brave Spartan warriors held Xerxes' forces No matter what the Persians threw at them, King Xerxes even deployed his most deadly to try and break the Spartan line, but even they betrayed by a fellow Greek who told Xerxes of a This allowed his men to surround the Spartan 300 Spartans at Thermopylae became legendary. needed to organize their forces and repel the Around 50 years after the Persian Wars, Athens Both wanted to spread their influence across civilizations. These tensions quickly Peloponnesian wars. The result of which powerful city-state in all of Greece Between the Persian War and the First carried out constant raids on one another. men and resources but never escalated into an Sparta signed a peace treaty with Athens However, in 431 Corinth, one of Sparta's allies retaliated by invading Corinth's lands, Sparta treaty, and the Second Peloponnesian War had territories where they decimated their forces, Knowing that they could not beat the Spartans in used their Navy as a way to wreak havoc on Sparta. their ships dominated the open and coastal waters. an armada of fast ships that could maneuver into anywhere along the Spartan coastline. Their ships would attack Spartan settlements. Before Sparta retreat to the safety of the Mediterranean and The inability of Sparta to conquer the city and the fact that the Athenian army would led to an eventual stalemate. In 421 it was Athens would protect each other for the next 50 go to war with one another while what came to Both societies were strong, and so it seemed that everyone should have However, this was not the case. Only Sparta attacked Athenian territories once it hungered for more land and resources. They as their societal system was based exclusive to certain bloodlines. But they did acquire more men to fight in their armies as This time all of the allies of This put the Delian League led by Athens War raged on for several more years. In 420 Games for breaking their sacred truce and In 404 BCE the war finally came to an end when Spartans had learned from their previous mistakes, ever going to defeat their enemy. So, they spent to improve their own ships and make them general Lysander led the Spartan Navy to victory Yet, even with Sparta being victorious their empire across Greece, the great Sparta was now the strongest city-state in the reason for extending their borders was within its territory. On the contrary, the and it had been declining for a while now. The They lost enormous amounts of All of their combat wins were bittersweet as Now that the war with Athens was over, population to replenish the soldiers there would be no way to maintain control knew this was a problem, the citizens of Rather than focusing on increasing their Sparta continued to wage war wherever dominant force in Greece, it seemed that the gone out the window and its citizens Spartan forces continuously broke alliances revolts throughout the empire. One way been to allow people from outside But this was against the strict rules that These rules not only hindered any efforts to grow also made it nearly impossible to quickly train warrior was to make it through the Agoge. And a student must supply his own armor and make it training. If someone could not do these things, Since not everyone who joined the Agoge soldiers continued to diminish. This meant to supplement their armies. These soldiers and they were not as devoted to the But it wasn't just the lack of replacement that caused the decline of Sparta in the years themselves began to become greedy and forget their Generals and soldiers became more interested These changes in attitude and the desire to than to bolster the status of the State led to a were becoming incredibly rich, while others were this created some tension amongst Spartans. But something that would further exacerbate As Spartan families became poorer, they could not needed to participate in the Agoge. It was not excellent warriors, but the fact that they could ineligible to be trained as Spartan soldiers. the Kings of Sparta and other prominent members of citizens of Sparta were becoming more discontent while simultaneously being unable And without a pool of new soldiers, there By 375 BCE, things had become really bad for and some of their enemies were gaining a was becoming an enormous thorn in Sparta's side. This part of Greece would be responsible Thebes had become increasingly powerful in won the Peloponnesian War. Spartan the region for about 30 years, but they This was unacceptable, so Sparta launched In 371 BCE, King Cleombrotus led Spartan who commanded the Theban army. This and the outcome would not only be unexpected but Cleombrotus had just over 10,000 men at lack of Spartan soldiers, only around This meant that the remaining men might fight as a force made up of purely 10,000 Spartans. even a King had to make do with only a few true Cleombrotus also had around 1,000 calvary. control of their empire, the men who were were much less enthusiastic about going into On the other side of the field, 7,000 hoplites Epaminondas knew the Theban cavalry consisted and he would most certainly use them to his for Thebes was that Epaminondas himself was a won a number of battles and would make Sparta Most of the other Theban military leaders tried to of Thebes and make the Spartans siege the city. Spartans and retreat was not an option for him. soldiers due to the fact that he already knew what same phalanx tactics for hundreds of years. It plan that might just break the lines of Sparta and At the beginning of the battle, Cleombrotus did set up in a phalanx formation, 12 men deep, with heavily guarded than the left, and this is where Seeing this as a weakness, Epaminondas being more innovative with his tactics. He had and made his lines narrower. Epaminonda wing to create a formidable force The two Greek forces slammed into each shields shattered; soldiers fell from fatal but then something incredible happened. The cavalry to rush through the enemy from within their ranks. The Theban soldiers and surrounded the Spartans. Everything began While all that was going on, Epaminondas had This pushed Cleombrotus and his Spartan warriors They were unable to reposition in time In a desperate attempt to Cleombrotus broke rank with his men and rushed The elite Theban soldiers known as the As the Spartans approached, they were and the Spartan forces had to retreat. major battle in recent memory, and the Spartan empire as this would be the Epaminondas used the momentum from the defeat deeper into Spartan territory. He did not try he just freed them from Spartan rule. Epaminondas indentured servants of the Spartans to rise After the loss at Leuctra, the Peloponnesian they no longer needed to be a part of the league were more of a liability at this point anyways. began to fight back. Independent city-states After defeating Sparta, Thebes became the They threatened to create a new empire, which In 371 BCE, Athens tried to hold a but the Thebans refused. They had crushed lands. It seemed as if nothing could Things got so desperate that Sparta and and fight alongside one another against someone who had once threatened the Greek way who helped them continue their conquest of Greece. This alliance went on to defeat Sparta There was nowhere else for the warriors of had lost all of their empire and influence, They still had the best warriors in all of following the Peloponnesian War, which cost them keep other city-states at bay as they tried It is estimated that the Spartan from around 9,000 to 4,000 citizens between its This was mostly due to the even if the Spartans ended up winning the weakened and they lacked sufficient numbers there was no way to conquer the surrounding areas Things became so bad that the Spartans began society to try and increase their numbers, but continued to decline, the number of people They no longer needed to fear the Spartans. Sparta kept to itself for over a century. Of raid the lands around them, but they did not have while also keeping invading forces in check. The He had reached the throne by executing two other In order to ensure that he would not be Nabis was not a nice man and did not have He was greedy and selfish. After becoming to regain some of its former glory. But benefit the average Spartan citizen but He sided with Macedon during to secure more territory for Sparta. But Nabis decided to jump ship and throw Sparta's reached between Rome and Macedonia. But Nabis This led to the Laconian War of 195 BC, which was fought between Sparta and an alliance Rhodes, and Macedon. During the Macedonian Rome let them control the territory as payment incorporated into Laconia, which was the region Nabis stripped the wealthy landowners of Argos helots who were only loyal to him. He also started ensure its safety for what was to come. Socially for Spartan citizens, which in turn, would help He freed the slaves in Argos, which were then strength of Sparta. So, really they were just Nabis seemed to be making good on his but he would not get to see his When the Macedonian War ended, the Spartans Rome tried diplomacy to convince Nabis that he but he refused. This led to the coalition of The Romans and their allies attacked the and stripped them from Sparta. Argos was Sparta was just not strong enough to repel city-states. This was the final nail gains they had made were completely strength or time to rebuild their crumbling Sparta was stripped of its independence, and Nabis ruled for a little while longer The last king of a free Sparta was now dead, and Several years after the Laconian War ended, diplomatic relations with Rome while also ruling the Romans made it clear that the Achaean League especially not into Sparta. The Achaeans League since the Laconian War but had held The problem was that the Achaean League still which was becoming a real annoyance. But all they did was send some emissaries to try the agreement decided upon by these talks. In invaded Sparta. They successfully entered the Rome saw this as unacceptable and an insult with the Achaean states. The Romans Sparta demanded their independence The Achaean league now had to deal with This combination ended up being more Roman soldiers swept through the territory and longer be trusted to make their own choices, any walls protecting a city that was involved in This restructuring of the region under Roman Eventually, Rome allowed Sparta and Athens This freedom meant very little though that they had lost almost everything that first place. To add insult to injury, in 267 and sacked Sparta. The Spartans could The fall of one of the greatest Greek Sparta had grown from a nomadic tribe into only 300 warriors, conquered the Athenians, they then overextended themselves, and everything people tried to maintain their identity but the Spartans are still talked about as one of the Now watch "Most Hardcore Soldier: Spartan." Or check out "The Real Story