If you had asked me a couple of months ago, I this video off with some kind of observation problem might be it's getting overshadowed that's no good because the Bravia 7 has been usually along the lines of, &quot;Where Well, friends, here it is. And honestly, Welcome back, everyone. I'm Caleb Dennison, and Mini LED TV that, while still fairly expensive, well, it's a Sony TV, so we can all fairly expect it legitimately is very awesome, but it's I've ever reviewed a TV that aced so many exams Now, I'll tell you right now that a big upgrade over last year's Sony X90L. And as Sony's step-up Bravia 9 is, it is indeed and yet, the number of people I'm going well, relatively small. How do we square that So let's get into it, and by the end, you should Sony starts out with a big win, in my up. Not only can the feet be placed at but when it comes to putting the feet into the TV, them in. You do have to adjust some screws in the like a soundbar, but most folks are going pop the feet into the bottom of the TV, and plug And the Bravia 7 looks and feels great Dig below the surface, and what you have here Sony has created a customized UI at least for now, is my favorite among I haven't gotten to the new Panasonics that just to that honor. But whether it's my favorite or Of course, you only spend so much time rooting minimize by automating a lot of things. And run Google TV darn near flawlessly for me thus problem getting custom picture settings to but that was fixed with a recent software The remote is now made with Sony's which Sony uses in a bunch lower its carbon footprint. That's Now, most TV enthusiasts already know this, but though they do program that chip with their secret includes the inputs and outputs, and that means those is the eARC port, which, for a lot of folks, Sony would very much like you to occupy that port Quad system, a move that I wholeheartedly Now, this issue of only two HDMI 2.1 most folks. But for anyone with both the or one of those consoles and a gaming PC they devices can connect to the TV for full-on stop yelling at Sony about this. Yell at MediaTek and a chip that is more or less the same as the all its code again, and we don't have to suffer four HDMI 2.1 inputs. Please and thank you Now, let's talk about sound quality. It gets a of Hisense's TVs have been getting from me, but with good balance and reasonably high fidelity. these days, if voices sound intelligible, you're TV, the sound is not good enough for me to want to Theater Quad here. The Theater Quad system's Bravia 7 TV speakers aren't going to do anything Now, I'm about to get into picture quality, but experience I had when getting this TV ready switch the picture mode to Professional and means the TV is going to be dialed in for its most but that's easy to adjust to taste. Now, I'm used the Professional mode, but in the case of this TV, Cinema mode, and Professional mode, So if you get this TV, you need to expect to go yet a step further on this whole unexpectedly among its features a Prime Video Calibrated I've explained what these are in a different picture modes are available, I am not in support I've just opened the Amazon Prime Video app, and the TV to be brighter across the board. here's Prime Video Calibrated mode turned on. wonder how many folks will be unaware of this and Now, to be fair, Sony is not to blame for this. news is that Netflix Calibrated though you do get a prompt Anyway, here's what I suggest you do to get this you're just watching it in a pitch-black room, with the Local Dimming setting at High and the can then evaluate whether you want to further adjustment. So I really want you to hear me on you choose the Professional mode, especially, but so don't worry, you just need to do a Also, I got a software update one which I think also went out to the Bravia 9, the other things that you see listed, an issue subtitles are shown, an issue I believe I spoke Zeke, let's see if memory serves. This is the end as you can see, we've got a starry space scene When the bright credit comes up, you'll notice all of the stars get brighter too. Yeah, for an update when you set up this TV. It should but as I like to say from time With that stuff covered, let's now proceed Nerds.&quot; This is where we get into some of the nerdy for you, no problem. You can skip ahead and I promise you I'll cover all the meaningful right after this. For you NIT nerds, though (merch I'm going to breeze through most of then you already know that this TV is right? And it does. But as usual, we'll start interesting results came in. Anyway, I can't brightness setting was in the professional I got started on it, it was up to 30. Regardless, 30, and 50, with all other settings at default, peak brightness was off. SDR peak brightness it got to 375 nits and maxed out at 50. The bright but far lower than I was expecting. So then local dimming to high, and I found myself in the What I like here is that Sony gives you a broad need it to be. White balance measurements but that is easily fixed with a couple of clicks professional mode came in with a max Delta E similar story. Excellent performance in were above a Delta E of two, and only by a gamut test were under a Delta E of two, and the Bravia 7 aced it with a max Delta that is awesome for a stock picture mode. Color Moving on to HDR, and I know I probably spoiled it was around 1,900 nits. The TV tested the the window size up or down brought the peak nits for me, 1300 with its default settings, and Now, a real-life HDR test shows peak HDR to the 1100-nit territory, which is enough to that you can lay your eyes on. The Bravia 7 about as perfect as it gets. Now, you can HDR if you want. More on how I think but in the professional mode, this is What else? Oh, HDR color checker--super all of these right. Sony, you folks continue and I, for one, am here for it. DCI-P3 a passing grade but expected. And BT 2020 which is great for a mini-LED TV, though I do have One other nit nerd-specific thing: I checked the since that seems to be a known issue on some like the A95L and the Bravia 9. And, I mean, but I'm really struggling to see it. Might do Bravia 7, both playing the same scene, and see Okay, so if you're just rejoining us after need to know about the Bravia 7 picture quality. end with two problematic things, then we'll wrap Okay, the Bravia 7's brightness capabilities are as the brightest TV--that honor goes to the Hisense life, the perceived brightness of this TV is It's truly incredible when the TV is on this TV is very good. I sometimes wish halo is visible disappears faster but that's when I'm looking for that kind of get caught up in the story, I notice none Again, the Bravia 9 is technically a better most of its mini-LED competition for real-life is barely visible from dead-on center. but I'm going to get to that. For now, black is slight noise in super-dark blacks. They noise and banding in really challenging dark As for color--SDR and HDR--A+++. Valedictorian, As for motion handling, Sony remains the king. will give Sony a run for its money. But, like Sony's processing helps ensure it's the best low-bitrate content cleanup is as good as it gets. better than Sony, and specifically the Bravia 7. and it looks great from a normal seating distance. is, but from normal viewing distances, it looks and even the great Sony can only do so much with As for gaming, if you're a fan of this gamer. I don't care about 144Hz; I care about But most of the games I play don't offer and that suits me just fine. If you want a deeper reviewers who will have better info on the gaming though, this TV's game mode is great, Now, my friends, we get to the bad news. The and while I've been willing to forgive much less so much less expensive, this rather expensive Sony out here with some awesome off-angle viewing for anyone out there who wants to criticize Sony as far as I'm aware, BOE, the top provider in some Hisense 75-inch models--is only available and its naturally superior off-angle viewing while an option for the 65-inch size. And it could be quality reasons, which is why we may not see it But an off-angle improvement filter is something For now, if you have a big enough it may not be a problem. But if you're going to couch using a 65-inch TV, the folks on the side you don't have to be that far off to the side and that's why I'm so disappointed. Also, the has me bewildered because I can see but it doesn't seem like it's doing much. like actual light bulbs--anything that is up on the screen, and you can see it when you're This TV can get bright enough to battle back daytime living room TV when it is a dark mirror, One other annoyance I'll call it. I know the filmmaker mode, that it's meant to be and it's meant to express the creator's intent, is too dim. Dolby Vision Dark is especially the average picture level is just too low. measurements I got on this TV, but I know too often. I rarely settle on Dolby Vision Bright but on this TV, I pretty much have to choose too often is just unwatchable for me. Maybe Netflix shows is just to drive me crazy. I don't The off-angle performance and the poor reflection and it's super frustrating given that this TV is just state-of-the-art awesome, like so, so good and just really enjoyable. You don't awesome the picture is--all in a really attractive in. But at the end of the day, I feel like this where light control is pretty much built in, and reflective screen. Sadly, that makes for a pretty top recommendation. The average American living I think. I don't know. What do you think? Do you own this TV and feel differently that I used normal house lights here, not But if you're looking for a killer TV for game room, that sort of thing, the I know at least one X90L owner who's going to see but it's true. The Bravia 7 is a big step I'm glad with like 90% of it. Now Thanks so much for watching, everyone. Like experience and your questions in the comment if you think somebody else would find it helpful I'll see you on the next one, and until then, A++ plus plus plus plus plus.