In this video, I have to guess my girl best friend Chelsea from these five girls. There will be four rounds, and at the end of each round, I can eliminate one girl. If I guess wrong, I have to buy Chelsea a Cybertruck. What? It's too expensive. Wait till the end for a crazy twist. Let's go. All right, girls, I will find you, Chelsea. In the first round, Alan will ask a question about himself, and the girls must answer. Let's go. The first question is, what is my favorite food? Mmm, I know what it is, and my answer is... Tom Yum! I think it's salmon sushi rolls. I think it's Korean Tofu Soup. I think it's BCD Tofu House. I think it's Sundubu from BCD. Wow, I can't believe so many people got it right, actually. So three, four, and five got it right. But I think five only got it right because three and four said the same thing. And number one said Tom Yum. I never talked about that before. Number two said Salmon Sushi, which is my second favorite food. So I'm kind of suspicious about number one and two, but let's keep going. Question number two is, what is my favorite band? Exactly, I know what it is. Playboi Carti. I think your favorite band is K-pop group, KATSEYE. I think it's KATSEYE too. Oh, I know this one, it's easy. It's TXT. I think his favorite band, he has pillows of it... Twice. Wow, they were super good answers. I can't believe it. I love KATSEYE so much, but it's a new group. So it's not really my favorite. And I also love Twice a lot, but my favorite band is really TXT. And it's because I love the messaging of their music. But the person who got it really wrong was number one, who said Playboi Carti. It's not even a band. It's like an individual rapper. So I'm really, really suspicious of number one. Hmm. The third question is really hard because I've never actually told anyone this. So they would only know if they can see what I don't eat. The question is, what am I allergic to? Honey. Yeah, it's honey. I think it's just dairy products. I've heard you talked a lot about it, so I do believe it's dairy products, too. Well, as your best friend, Chelsea, I know that you don't eat whey protein because it makes you break out, but what you're really allergic to is cantaloupe. Are you sure it's cantaloupe? I think it might be pineapples. Wow, this is pretty crazy. I can't eat dairy and whey protein because it makes me break out, but I'm not technically allergic to it, but I am actually allergic to cantaloupe. So number four got it right. What? And number one said honey. It's just random. I know right now that number one is not my girlfriend. So I know I can guess this one later, but for now, I think there was enough weak moments from number two that I can guess number two for right now. Oh my gosh, I knew it was you. Oh yeah, it was so much fun. I'm not your girlfriend, Chelsea. Good job, Lena. -You did awesome. But I think there's a real Chelsea in there somewhere. I wish you good luck. Bye. Number two is... Round two, guess the laugh. The next round will be harder. Alan will have to guess how Chelsea laughs. You're so funny, Alan. Babe! Alan! Okay, at this point, we definitely cannot let this one go. I definitely know that number one is not my girlfriend. Actually, I'm very suspicious about number five, too, because that one was a little aggressive. And babe, I don't think Chelsea has ever said babe to me. All right, number one, come on up. Alan, are you sure that you want to choose me? You're choosing Chelsea. I think the height is like Chelsea's height, but I don't think Chelsea has leg hair or tattoos. I think that you are Nick. Ah. I just wanted to confuse you, Alan. OK, Nick, you're out. Number one is... Ah, I can't see. In round three, Alan will be blindfolded and must feel each contestant's hair to guess his girlfriend. Ah, okay. Hello. It's really soft hair and it's curly, but it's short. Does Chelsea have short hair now or? Oh no, wait. I can't remember because her hair was longer then she cut it shorter. Okay, I don't know. This is the next hair. Okay, it feels soft. Oh wait, it's kind of a similar length. Wait, the length is kind of similar. I don't know. This is the next one. Oh, it's so soft. Oh, and it's really long I don't think Chelsea's hair is this long anymore because she cut it. Wait. Oh wait! For some reason, I recognize the smell. I think this isn't my girlfriend, it's my soulmate! Whatever number this is, I guess. Three, two, one! Wow. Honestly, when you said it's not my girlfriend, it's my soulmate, I was like, I was about to say the same thing because I knew that hair is not my strong point. I feel like your hair has a certain smell to it. Really, like, like it really always smells like you. Thank you. Well, great job. Great job, soulmate. I wish you good luck. Thank you. Not to buy a Cybertruck. Oh yeah, oh shoot. All right, well, that was number three and it's... Are you ready for the final round? In this round, we will know under which mask Chelsea hides. The last task for the girls will be to draw Alan in just three minutes. Okay, it's the last round, and I can't see or hear them. Let's see how they draw me. And the time starts now. Girls, grab your paints and go ahead. So I feel like Chelsea is a great artist, so I have to do really well. So I'm not very good at drawing, but I have made a lot of meaningful memories with Alan. So, hopefully, when he sees this, he knows what memory I'm referring to. Ooh, I'm super excited to see how they draw me, and I feel like I'm probably not gonna judge it on who draws better, but how they know me through the drawing. Alan has some black hair right now. Little squiggles. I'm gonna draw a heart on Alan And I'm going to draw some stars. I think it's ready. Okay, I think I'm done. Okay, it's time to decide. I hope I guess right or else I have to buy Chelsea a Cybertruck. We've reached the most important moment of the video. Did Alan figure out where his girlfriend is? Alan, tell us the number behind which Chelsea is hiding. All right, it's time to see the drawings. Whoa, oh wow, interesting. Let's start with five. It's pretty straightforward. Definitely a drawing of me wearing the pink headphones. And meow. I think meow is Chelsea's way of trying to communicate with me. And next is explosion. There's a big heart. It's a really big heart. Oh, there's... Ah. There's some drive in the nighttime. Okay. I know who it is. Let me give flowers to the one who is Chelsea. Ah. You know what? Number five, great job. You know, number four, it's too big of a mess, but number five, that one really looks like me. I mean, come on, it's the same headphones. And that's why I choose number five- Just kidding, number four, of course. I would've really cried if you chose number five. Oh my gosh, I love the drawing. I think it really represents what you guys don't know is that there's this really important drive that I took to Lena's birthday at Joshua Tree where I thought all about my life and what I want to leave behind. And I feel like that's what Chelsea was trying to communicate to me. Exactly. I feel like as best friends we have a lot of deep meaningful conversations. But this night in particular, we were just talking about life under the stars in Joshua Tree. And I feel like I drew this because Alan's really thoughtful and he has a really big heart. And you guys don't know this, but he thinks about you guys all the time. And great job, Michelle! You did so good. It was super close. Picasso, look at all the paint on my hand. That concludes it. Chelsea won, and thank god I don't have to buy a Cybertruck. I don't know how to feel because I already picked out the color of the Cybertruck, but I love you, bestie. All right, you guys. Click here to watch another challenge video from AU.