So you're saying the pentagram works? Hmm. Alright, you're the doctor. If a game has combat, it's probably going Pills, beams, regeneration, food, spells, There's a thousand ways to flavor healing, to need to grapple with. If the player can heal, what's the catch? There's not a lot of drama in it if you If you can wipe away the consequences of combat If your reward is a new lease on life, what Let's talk about how to spice up a healing Eh, maybe you're not fit for medicine. Maybe computers instead? Learn to code with today's sponsor, Boot According to Stack Overflow, the median salary was over $100,000. Boot dot dev has taken the tactics from modern an eye towards starting a career in backend The platform is designed to get you writing tutorial hell, and they've embedded the keeps you locked into the learning process. It's self-paced, and by the end of it you'll languages like a pro, perfect for tackling If you get stuck, Boot dot dev subscribers full of people learning alongside you, and build a successful programming career. If you've ever been curious about learning Take it! Click the link in the description box and first payment for boot dot dev. That's 25% off your first month or year, Thanks to Boot dot dev! So what's the problem with healing anyway? Healing's great. It might be necessary, in some form. But if your plan is to just add some health a little dull, isn't it? There's a lot more room for creativity. You can use healing systems to build interesting Dilemmas they have to puzzle through, sometimes Designing a spicy healing system takes something tactically boring. The Kingdom Hearts devs found that out the The first Kingdom Hearts has a weird healing The first quarter of it, you're weak, your can do to heal is vacuum up tiny health orb Once you finally unlock Cure, though, the game. Cure is easy to use and quick to activate. The spell upgrades, too! As you get more MP and you get the higher exponentially easier. You can save yourself at a moment's notice Cure spamming is a viable way to get through other magic options to save all that mana It simplifies the game a bit. Maybe too much. To address how overpowered it could be, Square for the sequel. Instead of segments, spellcasting now makes games. Don't spend it all, though. Dropping down to 0 MP puts you in an 'MP a cooldown before getting your spells back. Cure is still around, and you can use it whenever But it'll cost you. How much? Well, how much ya got? Curing costs the entire remaining bar, so for a time if you use it. You really have to commit if you're going This change also made offensive magic more You don't have to save up for a cure if anyway. If you're going to be locked out after the Cure in Kingdom Hearts 2 became less of a instead helped give players the go-ahead to cavemanning and healing. You can think of healing like an 'undo' button, If that 'undo' is free - if it lacks checks out of fighting. Why learn how to fix a bad habit, if you can You might be able to ignore major elements and generous healing lets you get through Cheap healing can dramatically reduce a game's Players loooove to optimize, even if they The two new open world Zelda games have surprisingly If you're not allergic to weapons breaking, to be the most satisfying. You're barely getting by in fights with dose of improvising. Combat is scrappy - for a while at least. As you get more hearts and more options, that game's cooking system. As you grab ingredients, you can easily make things together. As long as you have access to a cooking pot, even throw in a few combat and defensive bonuses When you're in a fight, no matter what's and be right back to full strength. As long as you're not getting one-shotted, There's not even a limit to how many meals You can even eat ingredients by themselves. Eat forty apples, if you want. That'll do the trick. Even if you get one-shotted, the game provides You're an unstoppable healing machine. Luckily, the games are fun for other reasons, than other Zeldas, The limited inventory slots think more carefully about getting into fights It's fine to have a very generous heal system, alter how combat feels. Great, now you're convinced that a spicy I'm glad I've convinced you so easily, So let's say you've got a healing system What can you mix into it? Health doesn't have to just be about how The health you have can also impact whatever Advance Wars has always had a special relationship The combat power of your units is proportional The weaker one of these tanks is, the weaker The less health this infantry has, the more Units with 1 HP are good at taking pot shots Better to try to heal up if you can. So how DO you heal your dudes? Everyone has access to two main ways: You properties and gain 2 HP per turn, or you health numbers will be added together right Since heavily damaged units can't contribute way to get one back to fighting shape. It's a tradeoff, though. You aren't really 'healing' a unit as None of them can heal above 10 HP, and you You're essentially sacrificing one of them anything that one extra guy could do for your Even an APC with 1 health can take up a square. When you merge a unit, it can't even move Healing is quick, but it's not quite an If that unit was getting hammered last turn to where you started in a hurry, and with If you merge things to heal, you might have capturing a city, or keeping them from running The number of units you can bring to the party in Advance Wars as how much health each one They might be cannon fodder, but they're There's no quick fix for healing in Advance You get your health back, but at what cost? Time? Or manpower? Or even more than that. Othercide is a roguelike tactical RPG - a and some dramatic color choices. You can heal units, called Daughters, in Othercide lower ones. The surviving Daughter gets her health restored, Better traits come from higher leveled sacrifices. Othercide is built to get you to build up all while under the risk of permadeath, XCOM The game's healing and progression mechanics a possible way to sandbag your entire run. To build up, you must first tear down, or Healing can also be risky by how it excludes This shows up all the time in games with animation Hollow Knight has a spell called 'Focus', to repair one unit of health at a time. However, it's not just the SOUL cost that You've gotta commit to it. You have to hold down the spell button until Be careful though, you have to be very selective If you get hit while casting, you take damage, the SOUL meter that you were spending. Picking the wrong moment can put you in an It's not a complicated animation lock, but to still make you think hard about when to Fromsoft uses animation lock in a similar The specifics change game to game, but many your main healing option, like the Estus flask Generally, you can only use the flask so many You can upgrade that number, both in charges you're not going to be so full up on Estus deploy it effectively. The healing itself can be gradual in some that your opponents can dish out is far more It creates a moment of hesitation, even when Do you have the chance to do it right now? Or do you have to wait a second? Or move to a safer spot? The signature feel of Souls difficulty is safe, not even when you're recovering health. Get even more extreme with it and you might No game series emphasizes animation lock more. Every action you take is tempered by finding you do requires you to make at least some Healing is no exception. Using potions in the older games locked you They even did a little celebration flex animation Like the other games we brought up, healing position than before. The level of commitment forces you to actually you fight and to search for those golden opportunities. They're in there, but you do have to find It's part of what made the series generally time contributed to the depth of each encounter. The more modern games like World and Rise while moving. You could even roll out of the healing animation They also added more 'area of effect' cases. Still, even with the changes, you had to pick Your AOE heals aren't always available, In return for the potions being more convenient, to roll out of the animation. The tweaks make the system maybe not as punishing, You can absolutely go too far with animation Ever had to lock your physical body into an Metroid Other M has a 'Concentration' Unlike any other game in the series, enemies You only get patched up at save stations. They're all over the place, but it's still Aside from that, all you have at your disposal Normally it's used for reloading missiles, you're in critical condition. Find a spot, and Statue of Liberty your Wii Better hope the motion controls play nice. And that there's no monsters around. Animation lock healing is meant to be annoying is a step too far. It's right in that maximum-awkward era of Nothing will ever be as 2010 as bad motion You don't have to get too cute with these Healing feels kinda defensive, y'know? You could change up that healing feeling by Let's call it Ironic Healing. Healing systems can be an efficient way to The way you reward resources like health is more successful than others, and players will In a lot of older shooters, falling to low become cautious, defensive, and slow down. Hanging behind cover, taking pot shots, maybe up. In many games, that was all you COULD do to action games. I love Modern DOOM. It's whole deal is geared toward making possible person you could come up with to around. Everything about the game's aesthetic, tone, aggression and violence. Including the way you regain health. The Glory Kill system is built to give out state, rush in, and take them out up close. You get wayyy more health and ammo than you'd It seems a little risky to do, but that's It's active encouragement for you to get swapping to the right weapon for the job, to keep yourself alive in the process. It's exhilarating, and defines the feel Now, you don't HAVE to play like this to Enemies will still drop some health and other any guarantees unless you rush in where angels With one tweak, DOOM's Glory Kills flipped become the kind of aggressive shooter it was if you want the same system but even LESS All the blood flying out of the demons you it in the air, which is easy thanks to the Just grab it before it hits the ground. Wouldn't want any of that floor blood, gross. If you want to tie healing to aggressive actions, games, either. F-Zero is one of the few racing games where In most of the series, your machine's health You can speed yourself up whenever you want, You can recharge at the track's healing scattered over a track. You have to juggle your resources, choosing of blowing up, or play it safe and... probably Some of these games add in a little more reward for eliminating other machines, to encourage F-Zero 99 takes it even a step further. KO's in F-Zero 99 are important. You get rewards that carry over between sets 'ReTiReD'. But there are two types of KOs. One is for these grey CPU drivers, which give But if you want a full charge, you can take Both of these make the meter itself extend, rest of the race or the grand prix. Player KOs are less common, since you need at just the wrong time for you to have the car on the track, you better believe everyone's If you're low yourself, you might just get machine. If you time it right though, man, nothing Boost your way to the front, you've earned F-Zero 99's KO system turns a limited healing and I wouldn't have it any other way. Healing in a risky healing system almost always else. It's about the opportunity cost. This pattern shows up in many of the games are more blatant about it. Healing in fighting games is somewhat rare, Your life bar is the most important resource bit of it through Red Health. It's more common in Tag Team formats, like Skullgirls. The specifics vary game to game, but it generally take damage, part of that damage shows up You've lost that health, but you do have If you tag out your active character, they on the bench. As long as you're fine without that character At any time you can tag them back in, but The question becomes 'How badly do you need Could you hold out a little bit longer and do you need them to make a power play? It's just one element, but it adds depth one way or the other. It's yet another split second decision that that thrives off of navigating those decisions. In Roguelikes, the time or money you spend to expensive over the long haul. Repairing things in FTL always comes with If you need to patch up your ship, the cost You can't spend them on other things, but The bigger dilemmas show up when you have something else. You can encounter someone who can help you Repair, OR upgrade your systems. Some bad encounter where you lose half your pick up both the secret upgrade and keep your Your crew might need repairs, too. Each of your crew has their own health bar. Boarding a ship and fighting their crew, getting the harsh vacuum of space can all do some in the middle of a tense fight. To heal up your crew, they need to physically for a bit. There's a weird healing gun too, but that's really. While they're getting back to fighting shape, Maybe the shields won't work quite as well, a crewmember manning the station. In a tense fight, that can easily contribute one. Even worse if one of your crew dies and you You can't just replace a crew member at There are only so many ways you can get another middle of a firefight. Damage in FTL is painful, and the game steers very carefully, lest they be sliced open in Dave the Diver has a slightly inverted take Chill out in this ocean dreamscape, where oxygen meter. Don't wanna run out of that. OK great... and the health bar? Where's the health bar? Uh... ow. Oh, the AIR is the health bar. OK. You've got a lot of time and a lot of O2 feel too much pressure down here before you've But if you're going shark hunting, you're You can suck down a can of air to heal right around a spare, and it takes quite a while Especially if you've pulled aggro on one You have to prepare before you go, but you to the fight. How big of a fight do you think you can survive If you get the mix wrong and run out of air You'll just lose all but one of the items But there's a lot of cool stuff down here. It'd be a shame to leave it behind. In Dave the Diver, the healing itself isn't of plenty of other things you could be doing Healing doesn't always have to be risky It could be risky to the healER instead. The Medic in Team Fortress 2 shoots a beam of close to. The beam can overheal, too, giving a big chunk Medics tend to jump around, person to person, If they're any good. When an attack starts, though, they sometimes themselves to someone attacking the front For the defenders, it sure would be nice to undo the damage you do. Where is that medic any... oh. It's much harder to blend into the background it a touch riskier to be on the front lines. Anyone paying attention knows exactly where The medic might be the juicier target, and can remind the opposition to take out the The game didn't have to do it like this. It could've been invisible, or an auto-healing paint a target on the healer. But they did. And the game's probably better for it. Your least risky move of the day is to go This channel's audience is actually pretty Go down there and let's talk about weird Games with no healing at all. Auto-healing. Any kind of weird system you know about, shout Healing can feel very basic, but there's part of your game. Healing happens in high stakes situations, gameplay. Add something unexpected into a healing system, your game's new centerpiece. *chill vibes from Pokemon Black and White*