In Egypt lived a people, the Hebrews, but too numerous and too powerful, they ended up worrying the Pharaoh who reduced them to slavery. Unable to weaken them, he went so far as to order the massacre of all newborn males. A mother, who wanted to avoid this fate for her son, placed him in a basket on the banks of the Nile. It is the Pharaoh's daughter who finds him and raises him as her own son, she gives him the name Moses. As an adult, he visits the Hebrews and discovers the discrimination to which they are subjected, he then kills an Egyptian who was hitting a Hebrew. Wanted, he must go into exile. It was only many years later, when he was 80 years old, that God, Yahweh, appeared to him in the form of a burning bush, he commissioned him to bring the Hebrews out of Egypt and lead them to better lands, the land of Canaan. Moses complies, but the Pharaoh refuses to let the Israelites leave. Yahweh then causes his kingdom to suffer ten catastrophes, the last of which is the death of all the eldest sons of the Egyptians. The Pharaoh is then forced to give in, but when he learns of the departure of the Hebrews, he becomes frightened and rushes after them with his army. Moses and his people find themselves stranded between the Red Sea and the Egyptians, listening to Yahweh, the prophet stretches out his arms and the sea opens in two before him, allowing them to cross it on dry land. Later, it closes on the Pharaoh and his army who are swallowed up. What follows is a 40-year journey in the Sinai desert, where the Hebrews face numerous misfortunes and lose faith in God several times, so much so that the latter refuses them access to Canaan: this generation will have to be decimated before the people cannot set foot there. Moses himself dies just before entering, it is Joshua who succeeds him at the head of the Israelites. They then meticulously conquer the land which was promised to them by Yahweh, they massacre the inhabitants and burn the cities; then, once the conquest was completed and the territory divided between the different tribes, the Hebrews concluded a new alliance with God, just before Joshua died. After a period of instability, where the Israelites often turned away from Yahweh and were regularly invaded by other peoples, a monarchy was established, it was the birth of the unified monarchy of the people of Israel. The first king was Saul, but he disobeyed God and was replaced by David, who was succeeded by his son, Solomon. The latter founded the first temple in Jerusalem, but his reign displeased his people, and upon his death his kingdom was split into two, the kingdom of Israel to the north and the kingdom of Judah to the south. Over time, the kingdom of Israel turned away from Yahweh and eventually collapsed under attack from the Assyrian Empire. Only the much more glorious kingdom of Judah remains, which restores the unified monarchy of David under the reign of its best king, Josiah. Eventually, it too ended up falling under external invasions, and the Hebrew people were exiled to Babylon; he had to wait several decades and the reign of the Persian emperor Cyrus II to be able to return to his lands. This is how the Old Testament describes the early days of the Jewish people, their exodus towards a promised land, the establishment of their monarchy and, above all, their adoption of a monotheistic religion. It is a story that mixes myth and history, and we probably find more of the first than the second, but... when we seek to retrace the history of Judaism and the Jewish people, we cannot detach ourselves from it, it is one of the rare written sources, and the most important, that we have on the subject. On the other hand, we can qualify this, try to separate the myths from history, that's what we're going to do here. But before that, I'm going to take a minute to tell you about the partner of this video: HOLY! It is a healthy drinks brand, no sugar, no taurine, with natural tastes and aromas. With my code Ephistoire5 or automatically with the link in description you can benefit from EUR5 off your first order! It's very simple, you take your bottle with 500ml of water, you pour your pod in and you shake, it is near ! No plastic bottles, no cans. The best is to take a deluxe discovery pack, that way you receive your bottle and a selection of lots of pods different from the three HOLY ranges: the energy range, with new caff which avoids the post-caffeine crash, I always take it from the personal room, with my favorite flavor, mango kiwi; the iced tea range, to avoid sugary sodas, I really like the raspberry-vanilla and hibiscus tea flavors; and finally the hydration range, after sports or when you have a hangover, with the white peach flavor which is really good! In short, HOLY is as good as traditional sodas and energy drinks, and above all better for your health and for the planet! You can save EUR5 on your first order with my code Ephistoire5 or automatically by going through the link in the description, and in the meantime, it's time to go back to discovering the history of the birth of the Jewish people. This whole story, in the biblical tradition, therefore starts from the exodus of a large people from Egypt, more than 600,000 men, crossing the Sinai desert before settling in the country of Canaan. Let's be clear, it very probably never happened, such an event, especially accompanied by so much disaster, would necessarily have left us traces, Egyptian sources, however... we have nothing. But that's not all, the Old Testament places it around 1440 BC, but at that time Canaan was under Egyptian domination and remained so until the invasions of the Sea Peoples, around from 1200 BC, it is unlikely that the Hebrews left Egypt to reach another territory under Egyptian domination. And finally, nothing seems to point towards a sudden population of the future territories of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah at this time. But, the Bible is not completely wrong either; already, it was common at the time for Canaanite groups or peoples to flee their region to settle in Egypt, quite simply because the country of Canaan was much more prone to famines, trade and work could also attract them to the land of the pharaohs. We can read the Old Testament that the Hebrews worked as slaves on the construction site of the city of Ramses, this city did not exist on the date of the Exodus which is cited in the Bible, but when it was founded during the reign of Ramesses II, in the 13th century, there were many Canaanite Semites who participated in the construction site. And, it is precisely during the reign of the son of Ramses II that we have the first mention of a people of Israel established in Canaan, on the Stele of Merenptah, which describes how the revolt of this people was put down by the Pharaoh. We could then assume that the authors of the Bible were just wrong in their dating, and that the Exodus would have taken place during or just after the reign of Ramesses II. The theory is tantalizing, but totally implausible; the Egyptians, for whom we have abundant sources, never refer to Israel again, and the reign of Ramesses II represents the zenith of Egyptian power, he completely controls the entire region of Canaan, making a mass migration impossible . could have taken place, and even more impossible that we have any trace of it. Archeology itself is incapable of detecting the slightest remains of the passage of an important group in Sinai at the time which interests us, there is nothing, the places mentioned in the Old Testament were not busy. In short, we can find certain coherent elements here and there in this part of the Bible, but the Exodus, if it comes from a real event, it must be found elsewhere, the migration cannot have had place from Egypt, and it cannot have been of such great magnitude. The conquest of the land of Canaan by the Hebrews and Joshua goes in the same direction. This story is heroic, Joshua captures large cities and massacres powerful peoples; we find none of this in the Canaan of the time. The towns were not, they generally consisted of a palace, a temple and a few administrative buildings, there were no great walls and the people were scattered around; The army local kinglets must have numbered a few hundred men at most, this is what we learn from Egyptian sources. Thus, in a letter to Pharaoh, the king of Jerusalem, which was not yet an Israelite city, requested fifty men to protect his country, we are far from the impressive armies described in the Bible. So, no, there was no great conquest of the land of Canaan by the Hebrews, and in any case this would have been impossible since the region was under solid Egyptian control. But despite everything, the country of Canaan was indeed devastated in the 12th century, several cities were destroyed or burned, and their population was replaced or mixed with a new one, but these events have nothing to do with the Hebrews, it This is the invasions of the Sea Peoples. This means the arrival of new populations in the region, for example, the Philistines, cited as being the great enemies of the Hebrews in the Old Testament; but it also means major transformations for the people already there, for example, we suppose that it was the mix between these new arrivals and the local populations which gave birth to the Phoenicians, by extension, it is very probable that the Hebrews had they too were affected by these major demographic movements. As was quickly stated previously, the people of Israel are mentioned for the first time in the Stele of Merenptah. At the time this was written, that is to say around 1200 BC, we were witnessing a transformation in the mountainous highlands of the center of Canaan, they were gradually populated with small villages, which had to accommodate around fifty inhabitants, or even a few hundred for the largest, we are then far from the palatial organizations found in the rest of the region. The villages are not fortified and no weapons have been found there, which means that the first Israelites lived in relative peace with their neighbors, far from the Bible story, and some religious traces have been found there which show that they were polytheists, they must have had deities in common with the other Canaanite peoples. They were simply farmers and breeders, in small numbers, without great social disparities, who lived peacefully far from the disputed regions of Canaan. This population did not appear out of nowhere, it has surely always been there although there may have been migrations from the desert to the east or from Canaanites fleeing the troubles in the west, only it went from a semi-nomadic lifestyle, where everyone raised their herd, to a sedentary lifestyle. For what ? Probably because of the upheavals taking place in Canaan, with the invasions of the sea peoples, the decline of Egyptian protection and the collapse of the city-states and the economic system, the Canaanites no longer produced a surplus of grain, they no longer can therefore sell more to semi-nomadic populations who are dependent on them. If it is no longer possible to buy grain, then you have to produce it yourself, you therefore abandon your way of life to cultivate, you become sedentary. The Israelites were not the cause of the collapse of the Canaanite populations, as is written in the Bible, no, it was the collapse of the Canaanite populations that caused the birth of the Israelites. Little is known about this people, only one element differentiates them from their neighbors: the absence of pig bones. Whether it was the Philistines in the west or the Ammonites in the east, all the Canaanite peoples ate pork, all except the Israelites. In any case, the region remains divided and very sparsely populated, 45,000 souls at most, for the moment we do not yet see any trace of a great monarchy, nor any trace of the Jewish religion, these two phenomena developed in parallel over the following centuries. As time passes, the Israelites multiply, more and more villages emerge, occupy ever more distant territories, and some of the Hebrews abandon their self-sufficient way of life to cultivate vines and olive trees; it is at this moment that the monarchy must appear. Logically, the villages are now linked together by commercial flows, some coming to acquire grain in exchange for wine or oil, society gradually acquired traders, administrators, soldiers, and therefore probably also kings. The Old Testament gives us the names of the first of them: Saul, David and Solomon. Saul would have been the first king to reign over all the Israelites, from 1030 BC, would have succeeded him, after many adventures, David, who would have conquered a vast empire by crushing, among others, the Philistines ; then, Solomon would have administered it judiciously, he would have made it a very rich and powerful country during the 10th century. We have no reason to doubt that these kings existed, it is possible that this is the case, especially since the Tel Dan Stele, which must have been written during the 9th century to propagandize a Aramaic king, speaks of a victory over a certain king of Israel from the House of David. We must understand house as a dynasty, therefore an Israelite king from the dynasty of David. Either a king named David actually founded a kingdom or at least a dynasty, or the Israelite kings relied on a mythological ancestor named thus, in all cases they were already claiming, in the 9th century, as descendants of David. On the other hand, the entire part which displays the power of the Israelite monarchy, of an immense empire with exceptional wealth, should be forgotten. No archaeological remains allow us to attest to destruction among the Philistines at the time of David, and there is nothing to attest to major constructions at the time of Solomon. At that time, the territory of the southern kingdom of Judah, which according to the Bible was the center of David and Solomon's power, was very poor, poorly suited to agriculture, sparsely populated and cut off from the rest of Canaan by an unlucky geography, there are only around twenty villages there; Jerusalem is then only one of them, it is far from being a city and there is nothing to attest to the existence of Solomon's temple. The kingdom of Israel, to the north, should be richer, it is better positioned and endowed with numerous valleys which allow agriculture, but nothing exceptional, in any case nothing which would allow the surrounding cities to be conquered. In the 10th century, of the 45,000 inhabitants in these territories, 90% were settled north of Jerusalem, in the kingdom of Israel. So, if David did exist, and he did indeed reign over the territory of the future kingdoms of Judah and Israel, which seems highly unlikely, he was just a local wren, ruling from some village . , Jerusalem, but who nevertheless had to demonstrate a certain military genius to succeed in imposing the power of the south, very poor and depopulated, on the north, much richer. After the death of Solomon, the Bible tells us how the unified monarchy of the Israelites split into two, giving birth to the two kingdoms that we have been talking about since before: that of Judah, governed by the descendants of David, and that of Israel , ruled by sinful dynasties who worship multiple gods. If the unified monarchy did exist, then it is an exception in history. Each time populations have settled in the region, abandoning their semi-nomadic lifestyle for that of a sedentary lifestyle, which had already happened twice before the time we are talking about, each time we witness a north/south division, with always the same capitals: Shechem in the north, Jerusalem in the south. So, this division is natural for local populations, and the existence of two distinct kingdoms is logical. In short, the unified monarchy is either an invention or an incredible event over a short period of time. Above all, the south, which is too poor, is two centuries behind the north; the kingdom of Israel had important administrative centers, fortified and equipped with palaces built in stone from the 9th century BC, the kingdom of Judah had to wait until the 6th century BC. to own similar infrastructure. In other words, while the north prospers, trades, becomes rich and quickly acquires all the attributes of a state, the south struggles to develop, its small population remains for a long time still mainly composed of breeders, and its capitals are limited to large villages modest. Domination of the north by the south is, if not impossible, very unlikely. However, the two kingdoms are populated by very similar peoples: the Israelites from the north and the south worship a common national god, Yahweh, but not a single one, they remain polytheists like their neighbors, they also have similar Hebrew languages, use the same alphabet since the 8th century, share customs, such as the ban on eating pork, myths and legends. The Exodus, for example, is perhaps already an oral tradition common to all the Israelites, but it would probably be very different from that which has reached us; Yahweh, for example, would only be one God among many. others, although it could already hold a prominent place there. The two kingdoms are not alike, but their population is. Thus, each kingdom develops at its own pace. While the south stagnated, the north acquired a new dynasty at the beginning of the 9th century, the Omrides, who took their name from its first sovereign, Omri. The Bible is particularly accusatory towards it, the kings of the north are greedy, violent, unjust and naive, they turn their backs on Yahweh. But the authors of this are several decades, or even more than a century, wrong in the events they write about; foreign invasions and alliances are anachronistic. It is to other, external sources that we must turn to understand the history of the kingdom of Israel. This, under the Omrides, becomes one of the most important players in the region, its borders extending as far as Damascus while the Israelite kings reign over a large foreign population. On the Monolith of Kurkh, written by the Assyrians after their attempted invasion of Syria, we find a list of the defeated allied sovereigns and their army: among them is King Ahab the Israelite, son of Omri, with his 2,000 tanks and 10,000 soldiers. Among all the kings mentioned, it is he who has the largest contingent of chariots, the heavy weaponry of the time; after the battle, the Assyrians were forced to turn back without having subjugated Syria and Canaan. Archeology also gives us proof of the wealth of this dynasty: Samaria, the capital founded by Omri, is adorned with an immense palace, some administrative buildings and numerous dwellings, its construction on a hill was made possible by exceptional earthworks. Other large Israelite cities were adorned with important palaces during the reign of the Omrides. In short, if the Bible praises the imaginary unified monarchy of David and Solomon, and demeans that of the Omrides, it is wrong all along: the first were only heads of local clans of no importance, the kings of a handful of villages, while the latter ruled over the first Israelite empire in history, the most important kingdom in the land of Canaan at the time. Finally, we speak of an Israelite kingdom, but it was not; the populations there are so heterogeneous that nothing really makes the kingdom of Israel a strictly Israelite state, the Omrides certainly are, but their population has customs and rites which differ from those of the Israelites, who are only a minority . But the hegemony of Israel cannot last forever, for the Old Testament, the destruction of it is linked to the abandonment of the unique cult of Yahweh by the Israelites of the north, in reality it did not exist Again. First, the Israelite kings had to face the second great kingdom of the region, their only rival, that of Aram-Damascus. It was he who invaded and occupied the territories of the upper Jordan valley and the northeast of Israel between 835 and 800 BC. The Bible ignores this occupation, many cities too removed to be controlled by the invader are reduced to ashes: Jezreel, Tel Rehov, Beth-Shean, Megiddo are deserted for decades and never regain their former glory. The capital, Samaria, was even, according to the Old Testament, subjected to two sieges by the kings of Aram-Damascus, while several fertile territories essential to Israelite power were occupied, such as the cities of Hazor, of Dan and Bethsaida. This foreign occupation ended as soon as the Assyrians found the means to resume their conquest of Canaan and Syria. King Adadnirari III lays siege to Damascus and obtains its submission, the king of Aram-Damascus is forced to pay him a large tribute and relieves the pressure on the kingdom of Israel, the latter is itself vassalized by the Assyrians . The Israelite kings managed, from the year 800 BC, to regain lost territories and conquer new ones from their rival; the authors of the Bible interpret this new golden age as a divine reward, in reality the Israelite kings just knelt before the Assyrians and were, thanks to that, able to take advantage of their good graces to extend their borders. The economy of the kingdom is flourishing, among other things thanks to its olive tree cultivation which is exported very well to Egypt and Assyria, while its population multiplies to reach 350,000 souls in the 8th century. This renaissance ended in the middle of the century when Assyria suffered a coup d'etat; the new sovereign decides to control his vassals more closely, he takes in 738 BC. the southwest route to enslave them. The kingdom of Israel then joined a coalition formed by Damascus and several Philistine cities to try to escape Assyrian domination ; it is a terrible failure. Several cities are destroyed, the king of Damascus is executed and the kingdom of Israel is destroyed; only the capital, Samaria, and the meager surrounding provinces remain. Some of the Israelites were deported, 13,500 of them headed to Assyria while settlers came to replace them. The kingdom of Israel finally disappeared in 722 BC. after the fall of Samaria; part of the population of the city and its surroundings was also deported to Assyria. The figure for deportations amounts to 40,000 souls in total, or 1/5 of the Israelite population of the kingdom of Israel; many Hebrews therefore remain on their lands, in the surroundings of Samaria and Bethel. Finally, only the kingdom of Judah remained in the south, saved by its geography, the poverty of its resources and the small number of its population, unattractive for the immense Assyrian empire. The misfortune of some brings happiness to others: the kingdom of Israel defeated, the kingdom of Judah becomes the last non-Assyrian bastion in the region, finally it is only a relatively autonomous vassal, and the last refuge for the Israelites of the north who, by migrating south, could settle alongside a population that strongly resembled them. Suddenly, Jerusalem experienced a demographic explosion never seen before in its history, it went from 1,000 to 15,000 inhabitants in the space of a generation, its surrounding countryside experienced equally impressive progress. The kingdom then had around 120,000 souls at the end of the 8th century. It finally took on all the attributes of a state, several centuries after its northern counterpart, while its economy began to become commercial, with wine and oil exported to the great neighboring empires. A new religious vision, initially a minority one, then began to spread in Jerusalem: one which, for the first time, placed the storm god Yahweh not only above the rest of the pantheon and other foreign deities, but as the sole god of the Israelite people. It was at this moment that the king of Judah, Hezekiah, chose to rebel against the Assyrians and free himself from his vassal situation. In this sense, he undertook several projects that can be attested archaeologically today: he fortified Jerusalem, ensured its water supply in the event of siege, prepared his campaigns for war and, he sought to attract support. divine support. For that, what could be better than relying on Yahweh, and following this new religious doctrine which makes Jerusalem the most important place of Israelite worship? The king destroys the high places venerated in the countryside of his kingdom, if he does not make polytheism disappear, he makes Yahweh the main god of the monarchy centralized Judah and reduced the religious freedom of its subjects. In any case, it was a wasted effort: following his revolt the Assyrians marched on his kingdom at the head of a large army, seized his lands, reduced his cities to ashes and carved up his territory, alone Jerusalem is spared. Hezekiah loses almost everything, his kingdom is destroyed and part of his population is deported. Hezekiah's successor, Manasseh, reversed course and restored freedom of worship; since Yahweh did not save the Israelites from the Assyrians, why would he make them a unique divinity? The Old Testament, so laudatory of Hezekiah, who nevertheless led to the ruin of the kingdom and its population, is very severe towards Manasseh, he becomes the worst sovereign that Judah has known, precisely because he turned back on promoting the unique worship of Yahweh. However, the 50-year reign of this new king was providential for the Israelites: the kingdom recovered economically and experienced lasting peace, it was even favored by the Assyrians who demanded a much lower tribute from it than from its neighbors. In short, the province devastated by external invasions once again became, in one reign, a prosperous kingdom which he bequeathed to his son, Amon. He was killed after two years during a revolt, but the elites of the kingdom got rid of the conspirators and placed his son, Josiah, on the throne. As Josiah ascends the throne, Assyria gradually loses its control over Canaan for several external reasons. The Assyrians retreated and ceded their territories to a brand new Egyptian empire, the Israelites were little affected by these transformations which seemed to take place without confrontation in the region. This change means one thing for the elites of Judah: the field is clear to unify all the Israelites under the hegemony of the southern kingdom, and to, finally, impose the unique worship of Yahweh on the entire people. But for that, we must convince the Israelite people of the merits of such an enterprise, we must found a national novel. And this is where the history of the Hebrews is written, mixing myths and legends with the geopolitical situation of the moment. When we analyze the Old Testament from this prism, everything makes sense. Why does the story of the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, highlight the tribe of Judah so much? Because it was the elites of the kingdom of Judah who wrote it, or rather adapted it to their political aims, in the 7th century. Why is the story of the Exodus, probably also older, so hostile towards Egypt and gives the name of places which did not exist at the time of Moses? Because it is written on paper, inspired by the epic of Sargon of Akkad, during the reign of Josiah: Egypt must be pushed back to expand towards the north, and the named places cited , notably during the long crossing of Sinai, were inhabited in the 7th century and undoubtedly known by the Israelite elites of the time. Why, in the Old Testament, after the conquest of Canaan by the Hebrews, did the tribe of Judah receive exactly the territories and cities over which Josiah reigned in the 7th century? And why does he only cite cities which were important at that time, but which did not exist at the dates given by the Bible, to the point that some of them were, at the time Josiah arrived on the throne, inhabited? only for a few decades? Why does the myth of the unified monarchy highlight two exceptional kings who reign from Judah, David and Solomon, even though the region was backward compared to the north? And why did the first king of this unified monarchy, Saul, reign from the north, from the kingdom of Israel, before being disowned by Yahweh? This entire story serves to legitimize a conquest of the north from the south, of the kingdom of Israel abandoned by God by the kingdom of Judah led by Josiah, heir of David and Solomon, to finally restore this unique monarchy which had allowed the Israelites to experience a golden age and to dominate all Canaan. Why does the Old Testament go to such lengths to demean the kingdom of Israel and its kings, when it much more often highlights that of Judah? Josiah and the elites of Judah wrote a true national novel, a history of the Israelite people, relying on its oral traditions and integrating into it a host of modifications in their favor. The most important of these, which we have not yet spoken about, is certainly the highlighting of the figure of Yahweh as the only God of this people, and this since the dawn of time. The Old Testament and the Jewish people were born from three phenomena: first, the religious movement which followed the fall of the kingdom of Israel and which, over time, by seducing the elites of Jerusalem, made Yahweh the only god of the monarchy of Judah. Then, through the desire for expansion of Josiah, who needed to found a true national novel to legitimize it, he relies on Israelite traditions but adapts them to his needs. It leads during his reign, according to the Bible, but it probably never happened since this passage seems to be a late addition, to the miraculous rediscovery of a book of the Law during the renovation of the Temple in Jerusalem, in 622 BC, 17 years after his accession to power. It is Deuteronomy which establishes in a supposedly ancient tradition the exclusive worship of a single god, although it does not yet call into question the existence of other divinities, and explains how to carry out this worship, which religious festivals to respect, and what laws to follow. After the discovery of it, Josiah destroyed the sanctuaries dedicated to foreign religions, had all the priests repatriated to Jerusalem, since the cult of Yahweh must only be practiced within the temple of the capital, and profaned the high venerated places. , he did the same in the ancient kingdom of Israel where he destroyed all the local temples, notably, according to the Bible, that of Bethel which had for a long time been the most important place of worship of the Israelites. Polytheism does not disappear immediately, obviously, but it is the beginning of the end. And then, these conquests promised by this new national novel, Josias was not able to carry them out. It is possible that he conquered part of the ancient kingdom of Israel, up to Samaria, but archeology cannot prove this. The most probable is that his kingdom kept more or less the same borders as under the reign of his grandfather, Manasseh, that is to say a state centered around Jerusalem, which must have represented approximately 20% of its population. , which then amounts to a total of around 75,000 inhabitants. The king finally died in 610 BC. at the hands of Pharaoh Neko II, either during a battle, the meaning of which would be difficult to understand given the difference in forces, or executed by the latter, since Josias remained his vassal. In short, the authors of the Old Testament had great difficulty explaining how their savior, the descendant of David, who was supposed to reconquer Canaan with the help of Yahweh, ended up dying without obtaining any great success for the kingdom of Judah. So they simply described this death as soberly as possible, before moving on: "In his time, Pharaoh Neko II, king of Egypt, went up to the king of Assyria, on the river Euphrates. King Josiah went to meet him but Neko II killed him in Megiddo, at the first encounter" (2 Kings 23,29). The rest of the history of the kingdom of Judah is not glorious. Josiah was succeeded by one of his sons, Jehoachaz, who reestablished, according to the Old Testament, the ancient polytheistic customs. He reigned only three months before being deposed by the pharaoh and replaced by his brother, Joiaqim. He behaved as a faithful vassal of Egypt before dying, he left the kingdom to his son, Jehoiakin, who had to face a horrible threat: the Babylonians who, after crushing the Assyrians, fell on Canaan. In 597 BC, their army seized Jerusalem, plundered the city, deported its aristocracy and its clergy and replaced its king, it was then Jehoiakin's uncle, Zedekiah, who ascended the throne . The latter joined, a few years later, a rebellion against the Babylonians. In response, the latter seized all the cities of the kingdom in 587, Jerusalem and its temple were burned, the kingdom of Judah disappeared from the map and the last descendants of David were imprisoned and tortured in Babylon. I told you just before that the Old Testament and the Jewish people were born through three processes: the adoption of a cult of a single god by the elites and the clergy, the creation of a national romance during the reign of Josiah and, a third which has not yet been spoken of, the exile of the Israelite aristocracy to Babylon. The deported Israelites settled there, they were scholars, important men from the ancient kingdom of Judah, they were also accompanied by one of their former kings, Jehoiakin. This is where the Israelites stand out from any other people of the time; they do not abandon their divinity even though it has been defeated, he interprets the defeat differently. The national Israelite novel is being rewritten by the exiles, the old promises have proven imperfect, so they must be corrected. It was at this time that a second version of the history of the Israelite people was written. To begin with, we very soberly recount what happened between the death of Josiah and the definitive destruction of the kingdom of Judah, then we explain why the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem and the exile that followed were inevitable. despite the incredible reign of Josiah. Several additions are made in this direction, the most significant is the one which places all the responsibility for this failure on Manasseh, the grandfather of Josiah, so hated by the clergy for having reversed the religious reforms led by Hezekiah. All the misfortunes that befell the kingdom of Judah did not happen because Yahweh failed to defend his people, they happened because Yahweh decided to punish them for Manasseh's mistakes; Josiah, as perfect as he was, could only delay the inevitable. It is at this moment that the history of the Israelites really takes shape, that it becomes complete and coherent. A few decades later, the Persian emperor Cyrus II allowed the Hebrew exiles to return to Judah. These were then quite few in number, since the majority of the Israelite population had remained there after the Babylonian conquest, but they established themselves as the new ruling elite for several reasons: already, they were privileged interlocutors of the Persians, It is also a part of the population that is economically well off, in addition to being very concentrated in Jerusalem and controlling the new temple. Thus, the Israelites find themselves very concentrated in a small space, the region of Judah, and are led by an elite who designed and promotes Deuteronomy and the other sacred texts which make Yahweh the unique and privileged god of their people, while the temple in Jerusalem becomes the sole center of religious practice. This new elite, intimately linked to religious life, continued to write sacred texts thereafter. In their hands, worship of a single god gradually becomes monotheism; until now we recognized the existence of several divinities, but only agreed to worship one, the national divinity of the Israelites, Yahweh. From now on, Yahweh becomes a unique god, the universal god of all nations, only he has a privileged relationship with the Israelites, whom he chose as a particular people in the midst of all the others. With this transformation, the clergy managed to make the idea of a universal god coincide with the Israelite and Canaanite tradition of having a national god. This is how the Israelite people became, over time, after centuries of turbulent history, the Jewish people. The traditional polytheistic religion of the Canaanites becomes, under the pen of a long succession of wise authors, a monotheism. The people of Jerusalem have an unrivaled national romance, a religion found nowhere else and a mode of government centered around the clergy which allows them to cultivate their differences for a long time to come, the Jewish people was born and, carried by everything that makes him unique, he survives all the trials, all the discrimination, all the deportations, all the massacres, until today. Thanks for watching this long video! For those interested, don't forget that you can benefit from a EUR5 reduction on your HOLY order, obviously thank you to the members of the channel and to all those who leave a like and a comment, and we'll see you soon for a next story episode.