I'm Jonny Dymond and welcome France is an economic powerhouse, in deep political turmoil. We have leading politicians answering Snap elections called by the earlier this year led to a minority political credibility is now weakened. His party is now unable to pass blocs and the road ahead will He wants spending cuts and tax and to make the French work longer His opponents on the left, who seats in the elections, say they Then there's the rise Marine Le Pen's National Rally Party won the third largest bloc in the Assembly. They're arguing for And Europe's foreign policy is now victory in the US presidential election. We'll discuss the Joining me to take questions on all panel Eleonore Caroit is a deputy in the President's party Renaissance. Fabrice Leggeri is an MEP member of Marine Le Pen's National Rally Party. Daniele Obono is a deputy in the left Wing France Unbowed party. And finally, Florence Faucher is a prestigious Sciences Po University. Welcome to you all. Let's go straight to our first question. It comes from Mehdi. Hello. Hello, everyone. I'm Mehdi, a 25 year old French citizen, So has the President Macron failed in his And what could be the Thank you very much, Mehdi. The snap election that President Macron to deliver a majority for any party. The biggest bloc is on the left, Cabinet are drawn from the right. Fabrice Leggeri from the Has President Macron failed in Yes, I think President Macron democracy anymore in France. Because the National Rally, group in the National Assembly. Other political parties have formed biggest one, with more than 120 seats. So we should normally be, at least in that our voices, the voices of, our better heard, but this is obviously Daniel Obono from France Unbowed, Has President Macron Yes, of course, not only did he fail, but Because, let me clarify for people said before me, we, the, New popular citizen in order to rule the country. We were the first coalition that came Macron did is just to deny the people, we should have been the new popular So it's a, it's a, it's a coup. And I think this won't hold for long that he asked the far right, the National Pen approved this government, won't, It's a government of losers and So this is not the way to And I think the people will for that in the next elections. Thanks very much, Danielle. Florence Faucher from, The question about the failure what came out of the elections? Well, no, or rather yes and no. It's, it's an interesting situation in surprisingly to dissolve Parliament And, President Macron was also challenged particular to take into account the, the and very surprisingly followed suit. And it's very much in line with his idea And what he has done is that So has he fulfilled democracy? Yes, because he has given them One of the consequences of was that more that, the French political very divided at the moment. But politically, he was actually, in mean, he was caught by the capacity win as, as quite surprising victory Okay. Thank you very much, Florence. Let me, I want to hear from Macron's party, Eleonore Caroit. Criticism from the right, from the Sciences Po, of what President Macron has Well, that, in my word, is a There's free speech, there are represented, there are different We haven't had such a divided, but this And the way the question Has the President been Well, the truth is, Our These snap selections were But the fact of the matter And it strikes me to listen to the far We're talking about a country we should be ruling the country. It strikes me to hear a coalition on the hundred seats to have a majority in the Well, the truth of the matter is we We're not used to that, you know, or no kind of country where you're the majority or in the opposition. We are moving, transitioning which I think is healthy. And you know, I represent the that lives in Latin America. And they happen to live in country where What you have to remind the audience right The elections happened properly, people have now is the result of the French of kind of parties and now it is our to be up to their desire to have assembly and hence political party. Is a curiosity to say the least, that the votes, that's the Rassemblement National, The bloc, the coalition, that has the most It doesn't feel at first Well, there were discussions with every you need to have is if you don't have allows you to form a government on your Well, what happened is the left and to be part of the government. They said it is our way or the highway. That's not a real good And the truth is we have something If you'd asked me two months ago, because that if we would have had a prime minister said no, that wasn't what was expected. But we have oppositions that Posters because they're They're thinking of the next election. Okay. And I heard my two colleagues That's all they care about. And that's why they can't would have in other countries. Let us go back to our question of Mehdi. You asked the question about Democracy. Is that how you feel, Mehdi? Macron hasn't revived democracy in France. I would rather think he has like, gave him a fatal blow. I don't understand, like, Eleonore, how the new government has not The New Popular Front, whereas, majority in the National Assembly. That's, that's a really fair question should be asked to them. They were offered the possibility to been, had they been capable, yes, of capable of finding allies, they would Okay, we'll leave it there. Thank you. And Mehdi, thank you very The first question of our program. Let's move on. we're going to hear from Justin. hi. Sorry So my question is recent polls top of french people's concerns. So what are some reasonable solutions And reasonable solutions that don't rely Okay Thank you very much Indeed, recent and inflation and inflation is at the What are some reasonable solutions? That cost of living crisis In France, food inflation price Energy inflation peaked at 33 citizens now live in poverty. Daniel Obono. what are reasonable solutions, help with the cost of living crisis? I think it's not so much about it's about what the people need is it's to be able to feed the kids. Over the past 10 years, the number increased from 60 to over a 100. We have billions that the biggest earned in super profits and So there, there is the money for So we propose to raise the minimum wage. And to, index the wages, to think we should cap the price. of energy, food and essential people have enough money to live. So generous subsidies and Danielle, thank you very much indeed. Eleonore Caroit, from the the cost of living, some I liked your question. I like the fact that you asked we all need to be reasonable. When you listen to the debate, you some magic money waiting there to I do believe we need to increase decrease the cost of work in France. Today, we are one of the countries. That has the highest, charges and taxes. Taxpayers pay the highest And I think at some point you Fairness means, of course, that people And this is something that has been also, But it also means that it, you know, can have an economy that is healthy. At the moment, Eleonore, the proposed pretty sharp spending cuts as well. There's little in the way of help for Well, actually, the budget is now being was rejected by the National Assembly. So it's an ongoing discussion What will be there eventually? When I was elected two years ago, the the energy crisis that we were facing. So there's a lot of The question is, are Is public spending efficient? I think we can do Way Eleonore, thank you very much indeed. Fabrice Leggeri, from The question, reasonable solutions. And I know that your party has cost of living and the challenges Yeah, cost of living is one So, as emergency solutions and reasonable so reducing taxes on some basic goods, But we also advocate reducing taxes on solution, France should get out of the means that we should stop funding, at energies, and because the victims are the is to reduce, the prices of electricity. Nuclear electricity is the cheapest and get rid of the, the, the green, that has been, disseminated by, well, President Macron during the, the, the in France, in the National Assembly. Rassemblement National was the only alternative, and, well, cutting, for example, we proposed to reduce, in fact, lost in fraud, social fraud. For example, the contribution made by the, to the European Union has to be reduced. This is what other big So, there are many options, but modernizing public organization, local level, but also at state level. State level, national level. Now it's a big mess, and there is, there Thank you, Fabrice. Justin, you asked the question, with the cost of living crisis. What do you make of what you heard? It was very interesting I heard more of a concrete left, more of like vague promises. I heard social fraud. I just want to jump back on that saying is being investigated for embezzling quite relevant to what Mr We could cut cost that way. like that on the, on the, you Right. The rest, I'd say, yeah, as France might be looked upon thank you very much indeed. Thanks, Justin, and thank you for Let us go on to a question from Mathurin. Hello, my name is Mathurin Gamichon, and can happen in Europe in the next years? What good things can happen in Florence Faucher, what Europeans seem very, Lots of good things, should we know in, a very uncertain world that countries together is the best way and an important role in the world. We have seen Brexit, how it, the has actually left the UK more divided the, the position that are likely to probably weakening the support that but also, increasing or creating a kind The solution for Europeans, for is clearly to work together. Very important decisions that need change and environmental policy. So a lot of, good things should happen. That doesn't mean that they will happen. Florence Faucher from the Thank you very much indeed. Eleonore Caroit from the What good things can happen We are in a very critical situation. As you said before, Trump's election has We knew this. I mean, we had 2016, right? But it's, a new phase. a more, scary phase in a way, because from the other side of the Atlantic. And, European countries They need to work We have a war in Ukraine that is going years, and there is this absolute need real possibility to defend ourselves there's also the climate topic, which 30 percent of European budget is Is to change, protection of biodiversity. So I think there has been a And my last word would Before it was all about the couple, seen in France and in Germany, there And I think it's important and actually such as Poland or countries that heart of the European construction And that is also part of We want to have different and working together. Thank you very much indeed. Fabrice Leggeri from the For a long time, your party was to the European Union, hostile The previous two speakers say the Europe is through more Europe, through What do you think? Well, we say, and our leader, election, that, of course, this that as Europeans, we should, dare we say, that, in fact, we And this is exactly, what the reason European Parliament, because we, we know so the, the French Rassemblement delegation in the European Parliament. Our political group, the Patriots group in the European Parliament, and we can influence decisions. And so we want a different Europe. We want to transform the way the Governments, national governments and first, we should serve our own interests. And this is exactly what Trump is We should dare to say, let's be assertive. For example, if there is, if there should also protect, our market. if, it's about, defense, then we should to purchase, European, weapons. Thank you very much indeed. Daniele Obono from the, the question, what good things can Many things need to happen in Europe. And, I think it can happen if the people for this and push the government. In order for this to happen, The first is climate change. We've seen what has been happening in that when government don't plan ahead, more and is already happening in France. And so we need to focus our resources The problem is especially after the the right and the far right, gained a So, it means that we have to this - He's shaking his head. He's We need to, if I may finish So, we'll need the involvement of the the youth, who has been so instrumental political agenda, to push the government. To, to, to, to act rather than talk and And we see what's happening The people are angry, rightfully so. Thank you very much indeed. We will move on to our next question. It comes from Pierre. Hello, my name is Pierre and my violent police crackdown was a good year old Nahel Merzouk by a policeman? That question, do you think the solution after the, he says, murder, old Nahel Merzouk by a policeman? was a 17 year old man of Algerian descent. He was shot and killed at a traffic stop. A week of rioting followed. Two people were killed. There were conflagrations Two and a half thousand A billion euros, a billion Daniele Obono. Do you think that the response to No, I don't think anyone should die Nobody should die. and, this young man, this young French, And not only that, that's, And, and, and that's why people went And ask for justice, not only for Nahel, French men that got killed over the, over And cracking down on, people who asking There was no political answer The, the, the, the right use after, the death of of, Nahel. There was no. Nothing about the situation in which structural racism in, in our countries. Nothing. Just, Police repression. Okay, thank you very much. Fabrice Leggeri, from you heard the question, do crackdown was a good solution? First of all, I would like to say like, like France has, the right to including, with the use of, force. When this is proportionate and necessary, young man that was unfortunately killed. But the case is that this young He endangered many lives. So he was speeding, he was driving and so on, and refused to stop the car. So that's the, the, the. the starting point of And there, then I would like to say mistake because President Macron and could not be understood that the So I would say, on both sides, while rules, but, the president, unfortunately. made a political mistake because Was the response to the demonstrations much damage and some deaths and many police heavy handed or was it justified? Well, I think that, many French legally in France, they were scared by many riots in, in, in small cities, was quiet and, and, and peaceful. I think that, what French citizens, law, to enforce, to have a strong state don't have to, to be afraid by the police. And that's our answer. Thank you very much indeed. Eleanor Caroit from the You heard what Fabrice Leger said. He said essentially the police The mistake was made by President Macron. I'll say that I'm not surprised. Every single debate, and you would this show, it becomes a political, It's all about who's fault. And, you know, and accusing France of not We are in a democracy. We are under the rule of law. There is an investigation going on police actions were disproportionate And we actually have a service, an actions of police here in France. And this is the case. We need to, to have, laws that doing their job in applying it. And when they're not, we have, I think it is important to debate on proposals to fight discriminations in And saying that it doesn't is just trying trying to use it as a justification. For people that are breaking the law, the debate as you see some in some on the other on the contrary, what migrants are responsible for everything. They're the cause of all of your of what French people are expecting. But yes, to your question, there is Europe and, and throughout the world. And it is our role as people. And to respond efficiently to it, not with proposals that will change people's lives. Florence Faucher from the The question was about the police solution after the killing of Nahel. I think the question is Some of the responses or some of the deployed in recent years have been seen of the local communities in particular in those who are, racialized, we have I think what it shows is the need to, to and on some of the, Their ability to we have also to remember that the these neighborhoods can be quite the, the police forces as has been Let's go on to Evelyn in Nice. I'm French, but I've lead a lot to see how the different parties are our problems when other countries So my question is. When are you going to work together, each other in the assembly, you the nation behind your own ego? Some hard words there from Evelyn. when are you going to work together and hiding the interest of the nation? Behind your own ego. I'm not sure you'll agree that that's Fabrice Leggeri from National Rally Party. Yes, the Rassemblement National in the French National Assembly. We want to cooperate, and if other good solutions for French citizens, we are but the problem is that other political of the situation we have right now since Macron, President Macron and, the left, exclude, Rassemblement National, they party in France, and they were not So this is where we are. But we are not screaming you. We are, reasonable and we want society for French citizens. Thanks, Fabrice. Eleonore Caroit from Renaissance, When are you going to work at each other, is the question. I understand your question, Evelyne, and And it's true that it can be a bit and how the parties cannot get together. They're looking at the next elections. They're Perceiving, hoping, perhaps, that there will be a new dissolution. And all they're doing is doing, you instead of trying to find solutions. We in the country, we're sitting which was our opponents during the with them on many, many things. And we're trying to find compromises. But, I do hope that, That the left stop being, as, in, you know, in a, we will manage to find good solutions but this is not the position they have Well, Eleanor, thank you very much, and here is Daniele Obono from France when are you going to work I think it needs to be said where we actually work together. The most recent one was We made a proposal, and we managed to make it into the constitution. So there are issues that we can agree on. Yet we also have to be honest I disagree with the bill that was between Macron and Le Pen on immigrants I disagree with that and I I disagree with the choice that budget to, Tax more middle class than the wealthiest in this country. I want to hear from Florence Faucher of all, that it was said when this was rather bad at forming coalitions Does France have a problem? Well, France has a problem or rather relative to the formation of coalition. In countries that have proportional coalitions, such as Germany, for instance, coalitions are formed after the election their weight and can discuss issue by before a government can be, created. Can be created. Now what we've seen this year is that in, was signed before the election and that relationship in particular on the left. Now the campaign also, exacerbated political tradition and party one doesn't really talk across divides. So we ha we are left with a that cannot talk to each other That clearly, creates a situation that Do you think the government will survive? I think the government will survive cannot be, the National Assembly I'm going to end this by going You, Evelyn, you, you, you talk each other, hiding the interests Do you feel let down by the Do you think there is another, better way? I think there is a better way. I mean, other countries, It takes, it takes a while. it takes an effort. It takes politeness also. Like, you know, when you speak, I think we a way of talking politely, And when we talk about someone who Monsieur Macron instead of saying Macron? Or we talk about Madame Le Pen, you know? Not Le Pen, you know? Like if they were, you know, bad people? No. They are people giving their I think we have lost, our sense And people were screaming at the assembly. I've never seen something And I think our politicians, We have a debt, a colossal debt that We have to reduce expenses. And all the French people, You know, I am a retired, I have a to do an effort, you know, and, and I to do an effort to reduce the debt, That's it for BBC World Questions, France. A huge thank you to all of our panel and I'm Jonny Dymond. Until next time.