Far out in the middle of the Pacific these coral atolls and shallow lagoons This is Kiribati. Most of its land is barely above one of the most vulnerable countries Kiribati is a geographical curiosity. It's made up of dozens of coral atolls spread out across a vast It's the only country in the world But far from being considered an old legend here talks about it A powerful heritage And to do that, Kiribati has to fortify its shaky foundations. Along a stretch of coastline in Tarawa, A man works alone For more than a year, he's been building his own sea wall protected from tidal surges and steep erosion on the beach. Sea level rise is causing a crisis here and across the region. In some parts of the Pacific., the global average. Seawalls have been haphazardly built all around Tarawa. Many are in a state of disrepair, and expert reports have questioned if they're actually making erosion worse. For years, local resident to maintain this rudimentary defense. He's all but given up. We are trying our effort to to make these walls stronger. But when the high tide comes and is followed I have seen a lot of the sea walls being being damaged, and houses that are very close to the sea If the storm is coming and it's we are not sure with or will be washed away. A few years ago, the Kiribati government of climate change. It was set on a policy of migration and it purchased some 2,000km away in Fiji. It was flagged as a possible future home for the 130,000 citizens of Kiribati's. But to date it Instead, the current leadership It wants to diversify the economy, to these azure waters, In a country with severe water shortages, food insecurity and widespread poverty, experts say both paths - staying or leaving - The reality is this. We can have both. We can talk about both. There's nothing wrong about staying. There's nothing wrong about leaving. But if you leave, if you want to leave, we say You know, if you want to stay, I cannot see us leaving at this time. I'm still trying to adapt. And our work is to say We will fight this problem and where we're living right now. It will stop the water coming, but we do not know, maybe in the next 20 or 50 years, our great grandchildren Kiribati has increasingly been drawn It officially severed ties as it moved to strengthen relations About US$160 million in Chinese financial aid arrived in the two years Kiribati needs much more. Its government has said that needed to keep the country safe. It has an ambitious agenda to physically raise the country, and build roads above the water There's growing frustration and the drip feed of hard-to-access Two things. I always say we need two things which we don't have, and we need - technology and we need funding. Those are the two things If they have a disaster, they fix it straightaway. Young people now are standing at a crossroad. The draw to go overseas to study or work is strong. The fight for Kiribati I spend time with Max Teea an emerging local climate activist. He's adamant that culture and place are too important to just abandon. I think that the young people are scared and they fear for the future If it's still happening because they think it will get worse and worse every year. Some really want to stay here, and some if they get a chance to go abroad Well, who doesn't want a better future? So I think maybe 90% will go. I think my culture is my first priority Without this culture, So I'd rather stay here and if it's the It's not just people moving abroad. Tarawa is getting more crowded More strain is being placed and with it, other compounding impacts. Tarawa is overpopulated. A lot of people are moving to it They want the bright city lights. Water is the main problem It's not safe to drink. It's not safe to cook. And especially for the women to bathe and clean themselves. We're trying to adapt because before That's our understanding now. We know it's there and we know For now, Traditional life is changing, that has lasted for generations People in Kiribati, all of them will say So we are keepers of their home. They go, you know, If they don't come back, it's still the children We cannot just go for good. And I have known that, every person This is home for them. And so, while it is home for them, We are here to look after it, Those in the past