Hi, I'm Matthew Leonard, of the St. Paul Center Welcome to The Bible part of the St. Paul Center's called We're about to embark on and Catholic teaching the most amazing woman It's quite appropriate that in the beautiful Chapel of the here on the campus But before we dive here's Dr. Scott Hahn, Founder and President and author of Hail, Holy Queen, the book upon which Hi, I'm Dr. Scott Hahn. The St. Paul Center to help Catholics through sacred Scripture. And we do that from the heart of the Church. This means not only between the Old but also between And one of the primary ways is through the Journey More than just a Bible study, to find their place It's designed to help you Because the Bible isn't just And that Word That's why St. Jerome &quot;ignorance of Scripture But ignorance ignorance of his Blessed Mother. I've been studying sacred I took college courses, I learned Greek and Hebrew. But if I could that has made it is the Blessed Virgin Mary. Looking at the story Looking at Jesus This is what has made like nothing else. My prayer is that makes it come Enjoy the study! Thousands of books, have been written about Mary, and almost every great, has painted, drawn, Likewise, the name of Mary as they go into battle, by kings and presidents and by the simplest as they've gone of their everyday lives. Don't tell me into a full Mass &quot;Hail Mary full of grace, You know, The Bible and The Virgin Mary, it was at Franciscan University And parking was at a premium because they had I was running late, I'm going to give And wouldn't you know it, I got the second-best parking Right in front of the building So I grabbed my briefcase, and I told the story of how it is There were these two and one of them Matt, you took And I said, Sister, it's because Now maybe that's not an but I still use it, just like many others who in so many situations But for all that, it's interesting to note only records about involving the There are a couple we can draw from that. First, we could conclude an important part that all the stories are just an afterthought, an add-on to the true Or we could conclude that there than meets the eye. And that their meaning if you know how to read It's not hard to see if you with the mind and heart And that's why we're here. We're going to learn from the heart of the Church so that we can and the Old Testament We're going to learn that she's no add-on to the Gospel. Rather, of the story She is at the very center eternal life, Before we really let's quickly review those that refer to Mary, Again, Basically, this is what In addition which mentions her we learn in the Gospel of Luke &quot;a virgin betrothed to a man that she would through the power While pregnant with this son, Mary pays a long visit In the Gospel of Matthew, we learn that in the city of Bethlehem. And was present as shepherds When the evil King Herod of all male children in the horrible slaughter Mary and her husband Joseph Scripture also tells us in the temple And that later, Mary found Jesus Mary was also present where she watched his first public miracle, She came looking for him when and was mentioned when he was rejected Later, of course, Mary watched her Son And was among those gathered awaiting the promised More indirect references where an anonymous &quot;Blessed is the womb Paul mentions her, but not &quot;But when the time had fully born of woman, And lastly, the woman clothed with the sun &quot;who is to rule And that is the last word the Again, depending Mary is mentioned in the New Testament. That's less than and far less than Peter, who gets 155 But it's Mary, not Peter, who makes it into In fact, she's one of only who are mentioned Now how did that happen? How did a woman who Scripture come to inspire some of the Church's earliest as well as some of its most controversial and Those are good questions. And, not surprisingly, they've been sticking points who struggle to find for what Catholics and how we honor her. At best, those non-Catholics look upon as products of a pious At worst, they call it that undermines the perfect and robs him of his glory. That's a pretty serious charge. And it deserves Over the next twelve sessions, we're going We'll see how prayers are composed And we'll see how the Church's are definitive interpretations of Scripture passages In fact, through we're going to find the seeds for nearly all To help you have an idea over the next twelve sessions, We're going to start by talking and specifically, how we need Once we've done that, we'll start putting and see how Mary, fits into God's plan After that, we'll explore Mary's relationship and see what about Mary's Later, Mary's motherhood, including her title will be front and center In Lessons 9 and 10, we'll unpack the doctrine of Mary's and her title, &quot;All Holy.&quot; Finally, we'll see how the Church's and her Coronation is rooted in the Bible. Throughout the study, we'll look not only at what but also at what the earliest We'll address some against Marian devotions and talk about for the devotions themselves. By the end of the study, you'll understand why rooted in the biblical witness is far from blasphemy. In fact, you'll probably not to honor Mary who most perfectly conforms We have a lot but before we can appreciate the connections between and the Mary of doctrine we first need to learn More specifically, what the Scriptures Once we've learned that lesson, we'll see that while might seem they are quite profound We'll also see that into the fabric Now, it's important that when we talk about &quot;learning to read&quot; we're not talking about some secret Catholic method This part of the Bible study is not &quot;The Da Vinci Code Rather, is to give you that Catholics have always used These are the methods when they They're the methods the Church when they in the first centuries They are, in fact, the same methods the Apostles when they penned Only by understanding intended us can we actually understand We're going to begin this simply by taking a look sense of the texts. In other words, what do the words on the page Mary's first appearance comes in its at the end that opens There, she is introduced as who is called Christ.&quot; To understand what Matthew we have to read them in context. They conclude a genealogy that Matthew has primarily that Jesus Christ the son of Abraham.&quot; Now, why does matter so much to Matthew? Why does he have to bring Old Testament guys- into the opening The reason Abraham and David make it into the very beginning is because of God's the covenants The story of Jesus, and therefore, cannot be understood And their story For those of you a covenant may seem like but it's actually To start with, a covenant The punishment for not a mere fine or penalty. Covenants are also Contracts form temporary They involve the exchange I've got money. You've got a car So, &quot;This is mine. Instead of exchanging covenants involve So rather than &quot;This is mine a covenant says &quot;I am yours. In other words, Accordingly, God has used covenants to bring men and women the family of God. That's what we're all made for. Getting back into the family For those of you &quot;Salvation History,&quot; it simply refers to history It's the story of how, he has made men and women God himself in the pages of the Bible. And God, is &quot;the Principle Author 2 Timothy 3:16-17 tells us that All Scripture and profitable for teaching, and for training that the man of God equipped for every good work. The Greek word Paul uses is theopneustos, which literally So when we talk about we mean the words of Scripture That doesn't, of course, mean the words of Scripture The authors of the various weren't automatons or robots mechanically taking down In the beginning... 2 Peter 1:20-21 tells us that were moved to write They wrote down exactly what Nevertheless, still bear their own their own How did this happen? It's a mystery Just as the Word made flesh so is the Word of God both human and divine. Now that we've like &quot;salvation history&quot; we need to take a quick God used to bring into his divine family. God made his first in the Garden of Eden, He made his family with the second covenant his covenant with Noah. This time, he didn't just make a covenant but rather with Then that family when God made his welcoming Abraham's tribe God then made his fourth and the entire And his fifth covenant with which included people from All of those foreshadowed the covenant through which God would bring all humanity Even though all those covenants God's covenants have special significance. Abraham was the founding father And when God made he promised Abraham all the nations of the earth in Genesis 22:18, God also promised Abraham that kings would Later, God swore an oath to one that his kingdom He also swore that David's son And that he would and all the nations The problem was that the Davidic Kingdom collapsed and its people And that was an exile from From a human perspective, it seemed like God hadn't And yet, Israel's prophets or a &quot;Messiah.&quot; This Christ, they promised, would liberate and reunite them in a new And that kingdom, they said, would be a light They also said would be the son God promised Read in context then, the few words that Matthew at the beginning of his Gospel are no trifling matter. &quot;Mary, of whom Jesus was born, Matthew effectively places Mary at the center Of her was born the Christ through whom God would to Abraham and David. But Matthew didn't at the center with that little sentence. He also positioned her The fruit of Mary's womb is the source Through Christ, God bestows his divine blessing Matthew reiterates that point a few verses later when &quot;found to be with child Now the birth of Jesus Christ When his mother Mary before they came together she was found to be and her husband Joseph, and unwilling resolved to send But as he an angel of the Lord appeared &quot;Joseph, son of David, do not fear for that which is conceived she will bear a son, and you shall for he will save his people All this took place to fulfil what the Lord had &quot;Behold, a virgin shall and his name shall which means, God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel he took his wife, but knew her not and he called his name Jesus. What Matthew tells us there, is that Mary's virginal fulfills this promise through the prophet Isaiah In fact, verse twenty-three &quot;'Behold, a virgin shall and his name shall which means, God with us.&quot; Then in chapter two, Matthew repeats showing us that has come through Mary. But you, who are little to be among from you shall one who is to be whose origin is from of old, Therefore he shall when she who has labor pains then the rest of his brethren shall return And you, O Bethlehem, are by no means least for from you who will govern Mary is she who has And through Mary Again, to grasp the full import of what Matthew tells us we have to understand that Matthew assumes. Matthew expects that his one of the great promises The promise that God and dwell with his people before the collapse when the presence of God We see hints of that &quot;Fear not, for I am with you...&quot; We also see it in &quot;My dwelling place and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.&quot; And throughout Jesus himself that, in him, the fulfillment For example, Jesus describes for all time, in chapters 18, 25, and 26. And his last words before his Ascension into heaven &quot;I am with you always, to the close of the age.&quot; That's why Matthew's as the virgin places her at the center for Israel and the world. The literal meaning is that Mary that God long ago She is the sign to his covenant with David. She is the sign to bring about the fulfillment In our next lesson, we'll continue our focus what the Bible by looking at the account in the Gospel of Luke. We'll also see how Our Lady's echoes several in the Old Testament. But before we we're going to do to begin our next lesson. Part of the point is to show that is supposed The story isn't We're standing in the stream Right now. And as we're going Mary's role isn't She remains in the salvation of the world In fact, she has through various apparitions since the time of Christ. So in our next lesson, we're going of very early and then begin each subsequent one of the Vatican approved in chronological order. We'll close our discussions of the apparitions by looking of the papacy Starting with the apparitions is a great way Mary isn't just She's a loving Mother who continues to look after you and me. Until then, God bless you.