The Netherlands. The 1950s. World War II had left the country in ruins and the reconstruction was costly. The Dutch were fighting a war in Indonesia and people were working hard for little pay. But the Dutch were about to become unimaginably wealthy. In their northern provinces, teams of Dutch and American explorers were looking for oil, but all they could find was gas. They had made several discoveries before realizing that all these wells were connected. They were standing on one giant gas field. At that time, the largest in the world. I've done videos already about the massive land reclamation projects of the Netherlands and the Delta Works, which protect the country from flooding. But one of the reasons why they could afford such projects was because this discovery in the late 1950s. It opened a door of opportunities And today there are still hundreds of billions of cubic meters of extractable gas in the ground. But the Dutch made the controversial decision to keep this in the ground, despite the supply difficulties that Europe is currently facing. [Our future, less gas!] And the reason why might surprise you. This is the closure of the Groningen gas field... with Hindsight. So I love making these videos and I hope to one day make it my full time job. With every video that I make, I try to improve a little bit on it. So one of the things I'm doing is I share the script of each video, and all of these have all the sources included in them, and I'm constantly working on identifying my biases and logical fallacies. But I want to give you an opportunity as well to show your support. That's why I created a Patreon page. I created three different tiers beginning at $2 per month, but if you have a little bit more to spare, there would of course be great. This would help me spend more time on perfecting these videos and to keep the upload schedule consistent. I will also be using this Patreon page to ask for your advice and for your feedback, and I'll make sure to answer to each of your comments if you're a video editor. I'm also sharing downloadable presets that we use to create our videos. The first one I shared is a simple drag and drop preset to add depth of field to GeoLayers map animations. So if you want to support me and you have something to share, check out our Patreon page. And now back to the video. The Dutch are amongst the happiest people on earth. They are one of the richest, most equal, and the Dutch welfare state is one of the most generous of any European country. This prosperity is rooted far back in history. But during the second half of the 20th century, the Groningen gas field played a significant role. The first gas was found near Coevorden in the late 1940s, and other fields were discovered in the mid 1950s. It was always known that there was gas in the northern provinces, but what everybody was hoping to find was oil. The Dutch had found some oil near Schoonebeek and established the NAM, a joint venture between shell and ExxonMobil, to explore the area from larger fields. But after searching for nearly two decades, the only found some small natural gas fields. The turning point came with a discovery near Delfzijl. They found gas and sent tests to their control room near Sappermeer. Here they made the astounding discovery that this gas had the exact same properties as two other discoveries that were found tens of kilometers apart. This meant that it was all part of the same gas field, which at that time was the largest natural gas field in the world. This discovery was a game changer. Within a few years, the Dutch laid thousands of kilometers of pipes connecting virtually every house in the country to this field. And the benefits were instantly obvious. Most houses were still heated using coal, which required manual labor, which came with health risks, and which was a significantly more polluting fossil fuel. The Dutch government expected that gas wouldn't last very long and would soon be outcompeted as a nuclear energy. This reasoning motivated their policy to extract as much as they could, leading to an exponential increase of production and almost overnight adding billions of dollars of revenue to the Dutch treasury. In the first years, 70% of all revenue went to the Dutch state. But in the 1970s, this was first raised to 85% and later to 95%. But all this sudden, extra cash began showing a flip side. Here's the problem. The revenues from natural gas strengthened the Dutch guilder. And for other sectors, this meant that their exports now became more expensive and were less competitive. This phenomenon is now called Dutch disease. The increase in the development of one sector leading to the decline of other sectors in 1970, unemployment was just 1%. But only ten years later this had risen to 12%, well above the average of northern European countries. It seemed like nuclear energy was not taking off after all. And there was a global energy crisis. Because of all these reasons, the Dutch lowered production to a more sustainable level. And now you could start thinking about how to invest their billions. I've done a video about Norway and showed how they invested most of their oil revenue into a sovereign wealth fund, which is now worth $1.6 trillion, but the Dutch decided to go in a different direction. They passed extensive reforms to their welfare system and guaranteed child allowances, social assistance and benefits for the sick and disabled. They created the second most generous welfare system in the world, only after Sweden, and much of this was financed by their abundant revenues from natural gas. Other notable investments were made in infrastructure projects, like some of the later works of the Delta Works. In 1992, unemployment had gone down to 8%, and they managed to bring this further down to 2% in 2001. The Dutch had made an epic comeback, and the future of Dutch gas began to look rosy again. This gas is extracted from sandstone that lies three kilometers below the surface. But after nearly three decades of extraction, this rock started to cave. And this caused earthquakes. In 1991, the first earthquake was measured with the strength of 2.4 on the Richter scale. On top of this field are somewhat 250,000 houses, and the landscape is characterized by monumental farms that are sometimes centuries old. That first earthquake, as it turned out, was just the start. With every year that passed, they became stronger and more frequent. And by 2013, there were over 100 earthquakes per year. But it was a particularly strong one near Huizinge that changed public discourse. It measured 3.6 on the scale of Richter, the strongest ever recorded. And it happened right when the government released a report warning for more and stronger earthquakes. This resulted in a loud public backlash. The damage to buildings was now rampant. The NAM and the Dutch state had received billions in revenue. While the internet was full of stories of families who had lost their entire life savings to damages without receiving fair compensation, 1 in 10 homeowners felt unsafe and the added stress led to health problems. The extraction of natural gas also led to land subsidence. In 2018, the land had fallen at its deepest point with 37cm or 15in. And this process is still ongoing. It's controversial to what extent this subsidence is contributing to damages in the area. But it added to an already long list of grievances about the extraction of gas. The government in 2014 decided to gradually phase out production on this field. But this was not without consequences. 50% of all the natural gas that's produced in the EU comes from Groningen, and two thirds is extracted from this field. But in 2016, after another series of strong earthquakes, the government decided to lower the production yet again. Despite this, in 2018 the province was hit with the strongest earthquake in five years. And this was the last straw. Over 100,000 houses were damaged, which is more than a third. And there were a total of 1 million different claims. Ever since that strong earthquake in 2012, the Dutch parliament has debated nearly every month about compensating the damages of natural gas extraction. And that continues to this day. But what makes the situation so harrowing is that this region is already one of the most economically challenged in the country. Groningen is the poorest Dutch province, while in 2018 it was falsely listed as one of the richest regions in Northern Europe. Even ranking above Vienna, Bayern and Stockholm because they included natural resources as part of the region's GDP. But this industry enriched not the region, but the Dutch state and the large oil companies, turning it increasingly emotional. In the words of the state secretary. There are plenty of reasons to close gas extraction. Some find them emotional. I find them rational. Groningen gas cannot be extracted safely. But this has been denied for years. And it's led to, among other things, a huge breach of trust. We close because earthquakes make people sick and destroy communities. The industry undoubtedly has also contributed positively to the region, especially in the early years, and has been a major contributor to the success of the Netherlands in the late 20th century. But that's now over. The Netherlands could get stupidly rich by extracting this gas, especially now that supplies are limited. Some 450 billion cubic meters remain in the ground, which some estimate to be worth $1 trillion. But yet in 2024, the Netherlands entered its first winter without Groningen gas. A little over half the gas consumed was imported LNG. The rest was imported from Norway or produced elsewhere in the Netherlands, and this was a tough decision to make. The Dutch are now working towards becoming completely free of carbon heating by 2050, and this transition will become much more challenging than the last. When they transition from coal to gas, the benefits were obvious. Gas was easier and cleaner and it happened during a time of strong social cohesion. Whereas today, the benefits of transitioning from gas to electricity are less obvious and people are much more critical on the government and less likely to follow their advice. The field is still not entirely closed, and the Dutch government wants to keep it as a backup in case of extreme shortages, cold winters or when political circumstances force them to resume extraction. Meanwhile, earthquakes are expected to continue and thousands of homeowners are still waiting for compensation. But we are living through a historic turning point in Dutch history. This field contributed significantly to shaping the political and physical landscape of the Netherlands. And whether you applaud the decision to prioritize human well-being over capitalist gain, or whether you think the solution lies in capitalizing this resource to invest in a noble cause, it cannot be denied that the field's closure is the end of an era. I've made two other videos about the Netherlands and of course, many about other geographical regions. If you want to support these productions, please consider watching another video from our channel.