Wilbur Soot spent years building amassing over 6 million subscribers on and a band that toured the world. However, after would come crumbling down, as his audience not Hi, I'm the Internet Anarchist. I and today, we'll be covering the story and even bigger fall from grace in the who we'll be referring to as Wilbur, Growing up in the beachside town of Brighton, who divorced whilst he was in middle Wilbur would create his first YouTube childhood friend Ben, where they would upload Wilbur roars. Wilbur roars. According to Wilbur, channel, leaving it as a glimpse into his on the 18th of May 2011, Wilbur Minecraft and Donuts. The channel was where they would upload regular When Wilbur would once again make A Little Brit of Will. The channel would videos. His passion for filmmaking and creating as he would go on to get a bachelor's By 2017, Wilbur would create his new channel named Between the years 2017 and 2019, Wilbur would form a variety of his friends who would make meme based garnering over 283 million views and over 1 the channel would ultimately be abandoned, with However, during the Soothouse era, he created where he would publish Minecraft a collaboration with Jschlatt titled Tiny During 2019, PewDiePie would make Minecraft play series that would gain millions Wilbur's solo channel would initially but in April of 2020, he received an invitation The Dream SMP. This server, created by would transform Wilbur's career. His abilities were a perfect fit for the The Dream SMP propelled Wilbur to fame that of new subscribers as he seamlessly fit into the server. Whilst riding off the high from the Dream Lovejoy, in May of 2021, posting their It wouldn't be long before the band would gain spend the following two years touring the world It's more than safe to say that at this point, million subscriber YouTube empire, created a becoming a superstar in his own right. However, reputation. As little did he know, serious On the 21st of February 2024, creator Shelby About Something More Serious. Throughout experience with her unnamed British ex. She early signs of dangerous relationships, wherein audience believing that she was talking She stated that during her relationship, and would bite her aggressively. she didn't realize it was and would even cover for as the biting went on, it would get change locations in order to not bite the At this point, her friends began to tell her would go on to learn that she was actually being physical app use, I think of hitting. so I thought that this wasn't Uh, I thought that it was just like a constant not hitting me and it didn't start as something biting, which is so weird to me now, but he said even his mom said that that was true and he said been, I mean, I think that that might have been have good reason to believe that every part of it Um, and I had no problem with just biting. but he did mention something early that I should make sure that I was okay with him biting me say that he a ed me, which I thought was really And so why would I call it and why was was being sweet, checking on me to make but of course I was, because He hadn't would? According to Shelby, the safe word for her to say when Wilbur's However, despite that, in the he would allegedly always bite to the point now at this point, weaponized the safe word and constant basis. And he wasn't sorry anymore. had apologized for doing it anymore because yell out the safe word because it hurt so bad second just for good measure before letting go grind his teeth down on my skin and sometimes during this time I was filled with so much nauseous to make matters worse joke about it looking like he app used her but even joke that it looked like he acknowledge how bad it looked that I he stopped Um biting my arms as often, Um, and it was in the last couple of months it was until I needed to use this safe word. Um, Only once, I was definitely hurt. Um, which multiple times a day. Uh, for all of the And when I asked him to stop This is who he is. He isn't going Following the stream, viewers this abu sive ex could possibly be. it was quickly becoming evident Over the following week, many of Wilbur's one post would make things a whole lot Wilbur Soot would make a tweet reading, In the made over my conduct from an ex girlfriend. it fair to offer my perspective, this I have taken my time sharing this statement as and with the hope to gain a deeper understanding final months, I regrettably became slobbish, caused a lot of pain to my ex girlfriend, and I've The end. Making significant lifestyle changes to much my past behavior hurt this person. But I strides from the person I once was. And hope trajectory. The allegation of a b particularly Throughout our relationship, I understood message exchanges on the subject, that and reciprocally enjoyed. I truly believe mutual affection and understanding. Out of and I emphasize my perspective is not shared Instead, I share it in the hope that I can offer a insight into my understanding of the situation. I recognize that this person has of hurt. I want to extend my sincerest I am fully committed to understanding and I hope my perspective sheds light on its message. I am dedicated to earning and and hope I continue to be held to these high Will. It's more than safe to say that the response, with the main criticism being how much he has quote changed, and not enough focusing into the situation to begin with, as Wilbur and instead said he had texts that made it However, some of the responses were almost as YouTuber Dream would receive criticism for taking Shubble's side and taking the moral Dream, the guy who was falsely accused is taking Shubble's side against Wilbur On top of this, Dream conveniently posted revenue to a charity for victims of assault. rather than a genuine display of proof. about accusations being used as evidence, state Shubble's word as concrete evidence, With another tweet from Lyric's reading, saying everything was consensual based on his his ex said it wasn't. Woman's word is gospel nothing. Just testimony got him community noted. Numbers don't lie. And by looking at Wilbur's 220, 000 subscribers in the last 30 days alone. entire previous year. Just as things seemed even worse. As on the 9th of March 2024, even In a tweet from user Alice Nayenya, she shared reading, Hello, I'm Alice. I dated speak out about my experience. I felt like I was scared of his public influence But now after hearing Shelby's story, seeing her bravery, I finally feel safe to break from at the beginning of the relationship, I very reminiscent of love bombing. One of his To quote, be careful unquote, as if they but I believed it was good inside. After and it was like I was dating a completely relationship a secret, but was framed in as if it was in my best interest to keep I believe that he enjoyed having or would have to hide as he streamed, room waiting for him to go offline. He about my interests and the type of content seriously, and would only be enthusiastic about I never felt like he was encouraging towards months he'd made me feel extremely unlovable and in 2019. He ignored the marks on my body, and struggles. I also experienced the biting habit, After a while, I noticed that it was always so I decided one day to not be the one to message spoke to me again, so the relationship dissolved. over an Instagram DM, About the relationship and I gave him a second chance and met up hoping populated areas of town where we got stopped this felt very intentional. Almost as desirability to me. We went to a bar to talk He got us an Uber back to his house. I ended but the last thing I remember was him The next morning, he proceeded to tell me interested in him. These past years have been I couldn't go online without seeing him boy who heroically respects women and go to conventions and enjoy my own up as him. Shelby was right. Staying It was only keeping his. The tweet would garner upwards of 65, 000 likes. And various comments reading, I'm so sorry this happened to you. I'm will be a moment to remember for years to come, response disproving the allegations, displaying his audience back, it's safe to say that not His career will go on as a prime example their favorite creator in the wake of response can make the situation ten to being exiled by the internet. The future Airrack faked his content and doxxed someone.