Leaving earth to find new homes in space is later be necessary for our survival. The planet toxic and energy poor planet that just about humans huddled in underground cities. But what if we think bigger? What if we take places in the solar system and turn IT into but by creating a proper second earth? It Venus is by far the hottest planet in the 460degC, hot enough to melt lead. This heat in the solar system. CO2 is great at trapping Earth's atmosphere is heating up our planet Also, Venus's atmosphere is 93 times denser would feel like taking a dive about 900 meters you instantly. It's a truly horrible place! So why should First and foremost, Venus is almost as big Surface gravity is a big problem when colonizing that long stays in low gravity places will Venus' size means it could be the second home for billions of humans and trillions a beautiful blue sky. A properly terraformed outside of Earth. While we can't exactly terraform Venus today, us COULD take this project on. It will take challenge - like building the great pyramids like humans have never started projects that Ok! Let's do it! Before anything else, we need to cool Venus extremely heavy atmosphere. As mentioned, tons. How do we do that? There are a few options. a huge array of laser beams, that heat up into space. Although we would need thousands of humanity and it would still take thousands Another way is to sequester the atmosphere. chemical reactions. We could mine elements them at Venus via mass driver systems - Electric planets. The metals would combine to bind forever. But the scale makes the whole thing billion tons of material to sequester the and might take too long. An equally ridiculous idea that could actually By constructing a huge mirror to blot out mirror does not need to be complex or massive, support. Building such a large flat surface into a solar sail and push it out of position, mirror will consist of many different pieces. Annular slats of angled mirrors can reflect Mirrors would be angled, reflecting light to the back - balancing the force on the front After a few years of getting the infrastructure For the first few decades, the atmosphere Until, after some 60 years it reaches the the Great Flood begins on Venus, as CO2 turns down- a constant global rainstorm of unbelievable and temperature suddenly begin to drop in into lakes and oceans. The surface temperature is now -56deg Celsius times the pressure on earth. Finally, at a to freeze and the rain turns into snow. This as hard as rock and gigantic CO2 glaciers. at about 3 times earth's surface pressure. you can now take a stroll over Venus' surface. But the frozen CO2 remains a bit of a problem. but if we do, the CO2 ice will melt and fill So we need some way to keep it from doing One is to simply cover it all with cheap plastic venus rock or water oceans. Although some out about us building a new planet containing timed volcanoes could melt a lot of CO2 at Another obvious solution is to shoot it all moon for storage and future use. We can make instead of rockets, but moving all that mass will take some time to solve. Whatever we end up doing with the atmosphere, get from Ice-Moons. Europa, a moon of Jupiter, Now catching a moon and transporting it through So instead it might be easier to cut chunks drones and shoot them at Venus using more save us a lot of effort and energy here - we but in a nutshell, they are slings that can On Europa, they do most of the work needed the Venus tethers, which gently drop it into In exchange, the Venus tethers get to catch it into orbit. method to further lower our atmospheric pressure. After a few decades or centuries, Venus would a few hundred meters deep. It would look extremely countless islands have formed. This is beginning Now the last and most magnificent phase of breathable and adding life. First we need light though and we need to hours long. More than 116 Earth days. So if grill half of our planet. Even without the unbearable levels. The simplest way to create is with another set of mirrors to illuminate Which would let us completely control how The atmosphere is now mostly made up of nitrogen inhabitants will likely be trillions and trillions and release oxygen. We know that they can because billions of years ago, they were probably of our young Earth into an atmosphere with But not only that - Cyanobacteria can fix nutrients that can be used by living beings. dead ocean water and prepare it for more complex On land, our colonists need to grind down soil for nitrogen fixing plants to grow on. creating large forests, covering massive parts First the oceans, then the land. To speed to supply the plants and cyanobacteria. Areas daylight from our orbital mirrors, so the Maybe, we won't have to do this with the genetic engineering matures and our understanding we might just engineer life as we need it. All in all, it would take several thousand humans. In the meantime, you could stroll and an oxygen mask. Settlers would enjoy a bathed in sunlight. They might think of new ice and nitrogen orbiting in space above. boosting the terraforming of another planet, Venus is fully terraformed. Animals roam through Billions of settlers and their descendants images of the past. How Venus was once the of years to freeze hell and to ship in the it possible to breathe freely. They will barely Ok. Maybe it is not that easy to terraform this future to become reality. But it is possible of a motivated and slightly more advanced The only thing that is stopping it is our