Hey guys! Welcome back to Lavendaire. Today I just wanted to sit down Let's talk about success. First off: Thank you so much for 800,000 subscribers. That is amazing, and honestly, I'm able to live my dream because of you guys who watch. Thank you, thank you so much. And at this point, I just want to share because I honestly do feel like I'm living my dream life. I'm on the right path, and I've gotten to a point where I've achieved most of the things that I've wanted to do in this life, and I think maybe because I feel like I can chill... I don't know, it's a weird part of being grateful for everything that you have accomplished You know what I mean? Not needing to do more. But the downside of not needing more is, I feel like I could just stop everything and I'll be happy with my life where I am right now. It's a little strange, but let's start with this: Success should be defined on your terms. You get to decide what success means to you You get to live it, you get to enjoy it. Nobody should be able to tell you or force you to do something that you don't want to do. I think, growing up, a lot of us tend to take from our parents or our teachers or our peers. We think that we want certain things, It's what other people want for us. A big part of life is figuring out Personally, success to me is: Creating a life that is fulfilling and abundant, a life where I can do something creatively fulfilling, a life where I am genuinely helping people and putting positive, good vibes out into the world, helping others in some way, but also reaping financial benefits, being about to do whatever I want, and wake up whenever I want, because I love sleep. I need that freedom to sleep and Back then, I used to look at YouTube channels with hundreds of thousands of subscribers, and be like, &quot;Oh my gosh, that is the dream,&quot; and I just wasn't ever sure that I could ever get there, but that was my goal, to be the YouTuber And I'm really lucky that my path has because I do feel like I have those things And I think what I want to say is: The more you grow and the more success you achieve, at a certain point, the numbers stop mattering. I think your first hundred, or your first paycheck or whatever, And you're like, &quot;Oh my god, I can pay for myself. I'm making money. I'm growing.&quot; All that stuff's amazing. And I realize that back then, I was in survival mode, wondering &quot;Can I actually make it? Can I do this? Will this be sustainable? Can I succeed as a business?&quot; After you get to that point, I know it's different for everybody - you realize that anything additional, And it's less of an &quot;Oh my god,&quot; And I don't mean to sound ungrateful or anything, but the numbers really don't matter. When I hit 500,000, 600,000, 700,000, 800,000, And it's not the number that matters, how happy are you living the life There was something that Drake said It was a bit deal because the award show cut him off. &quot;Look, the point is: who are singing your songs word-for-word, if you're a hero in your hometown. Look, if there's people who have regular jobs, who are coming out in the rain, in the snow, spending their hard-earned money to buy tickets you don't need this right here, I promise you. You already won.&quot; Basically, he was saying that those awards don't matter as much as you think they matter. It's cool for a few minutes or a day or something. But after you get that award, you're like, &quot;...Okay.&quot; It was just temporary, and what really matters are whether you're doing something valuable and If you're a performer, people watching you, people listening that is more meaningful. And as long as you're able to make a living and you're having fun, you're living a good life, There really isn't a necessity and you shouldn't focus on those awards or attaining a certain number or anything like that. You realize when you get there, that you feel the same and it doesn't change who you are, and what matters more is just the daily work how you feel on the daily. What matters is really the stuff that people Yes, it is nice to get external validation. It is nice to get people to recognize your achievements. And it is nice to be able to show off a little But really, that is all just boosting your ego, and it really doesn't matter in the end. What really matters is your internal validation, whether you love yourself, and whether you genuinely love your life. To be honest, I've kind of had this internal because I feel like I love where I am and I feel like I've achieved everything that I want. Currently in my life, I am happy with the I'm happy with the work that I'm doing, and there really doesn't need to be more. I don't feel like I need more recognition I don't feel like I need it, and some days, I just feel like it makes me happier to live my regular life without posting and creating so much on social media because social media can sometimes not crazy, but it's just a cycle that never ends. And when I've tried those social media detoxes, I don't know if you guys notice, And the conflict is: It makes me happy to not post, and it makes me happy to have more free time and not have to force myself to make videos It makes me happy to not post, and yet my job is to post stuff consistently because if you're on social media, People need to see you. You need to share your message And so that's my internal battle because if I were to keep building, it is 'smart' to keep posting consistently but I'm asking myself: What am I doing it for? Do I really need more followers on Instagram? I don't think it really matters as much. I might sound like I'm setting my goals too low, but I think a lot of the life that I want to live It's not about really striving to be the best, because if you're purely striving for that there's no meaning in that. And I think I'm always in tune with my intuition and I want to listen to my intuition go towards what's more meaningful to me in life. And sometimes that might mean, Or maybe I'll disappear for a little bit Or maybe sometimes I'll get really inspired It is just very inconsistent. Basically what I'm trying to say is: My heart is in conflict with my business-practical brain, and that's where it's at right now. But just letting you guys know that I'm happy I feel like I've reached my definition of success, I know that more good things will come in time, I don't have to hustle myself to death to get there, because I'm already there and the rest is chill. And this might change because - say I stop posting and then I'll start getting panicky like, &quot;Oh my god, I need to do something with my life again.&quot; But that time will come when it comes. Not saying that I'm going to stop posting. I still like making videos It's just, there was this internal pressure &quot;You gotta post on this daily calendar on social media.&quot; And when you get started, you do have to do that, When you get started, And my question is, I don't know I feel like I've built it up to here, and now I'm trying to still have the business run without me putting as much effort into it. I'm trying to create more passive income, put my time towards focusing on the things the things that I like to do, create for fun, and figure out how to keep it running without That is my goal. Because I think the ultimate goal of having You get to decide how to run your business And I'm not trying to be the #1 company I'm just trying to live a life that makes me happy, and that's what success means to me. I know that people might have different views on this, and even sometimes I go back and forth between wanting to be a super achiever, super ambitious person, vs. a person that's like, &quot;I could just become quiet and just live a happy life without telling anybody about what I'm doing, But there's a balance there. I think that's also why, this year, because I just want to experience life at I guess I want to live out those other areas of my life, focus on my health, focus on my relationships, focus on feeling inspired in life. And my ideal life is - I just want to keep learning. I love the idea of not having to work and doing yoga all day, taking photos, making videos all day. And I know - photos and videos is my work, This is why I would not last in a regular corporate job. I just get lazy quick - not lazy - unmotivated, quick. If there's something that I genuinely love to do, I work so many hours non-stop on something but I genuinely have to love it. I'm not the type of person to sacrifice myself and do a good job at something I hate doing. So here's me continuing to follow my heart and continuing to follow the things that bring me joy, I guess it's pretty simple, because people would say, &quot;You're ungrateful. You have this YouTube channel that's doing so well and yet you're lazy about it.&quot; It's my life. It's my channel. And I get to define success on my terms. I've said this quote in an older video, but I'll say it again. Success at the speed of balance. I do care about achieving and being successful, but I want to do it at a pace that is not stressful at all. I want to do it at a pace that brings me joy. I want to be able to do all the other things in life I want to be able to take a break if I want to I want to be able to move at the pace that That is something that I am still figuring out, And I think the big part is learning not to feel guilty or learning not to feel less than other people, because if you look on social media you will see people who are sprinting, achieving so much, doing amazing things, Yes, they may be doing that, but maybe their love life or their family life or their health is suffering because of that. You never know the full story So I think, as I continue on, I'm trying to be and always put my self care and my happiness first. Lastly: Does success change you? Does it change who you are? I just want to touch on that. Success makes you a more confident person, yes. At the heart of it, at the core of it, you're still the same person that you used to be, but maybe your successful version of yourself So you are a better version of yourself after a lot of hard work and hardships, It does feel good to be where I am now, And now I've become a little stronger of a mush, I'm still the same person as I was before. But I don't let myself get stepped on by other people. The difference is: You are so much stronger that it's easier to say no to people. It's easier to not feel bad, not be a people pleaser and not let others step on you or overshadow you. And another random things is that if they see you as successful. This includes family members who used to Same thing with peers who see what you're doing. And people in general are nicer to you, maybe. I know it's not fair. You should be nice to everyone equally, but people are nicer if they see you On the other hand, even though I may seem outwardly successful to other people, and I am happy with where I am in life, Life is still tough. There are still things that I have not yet overcome: some fears, my sleeping schedule. I still woke up at like 2:00 PM today - I couldn't get ready in time to film before the sun sets. But I still have my struggles, my personal struggles. And I'm still a regular person. I know it's obvious, but I see so many people or successful influencers or whatever, thinking that everything is perfect for them and they have no right or reason to complain But there are still struggles. I think my high school self would be really proud and really [snaps] at the fact that and still make money while I'm sleeping a lot. I still am proud of who I am and those flaws that I have. And it's just ... life goes on. There's still more to conquer, still more challenges to go through. I think I will leave it at that. I hope that you got something from this video. I know it's quite messy. But I just want to encourage you And whatever it is, make sure and you're following your heart. I know that we have the practical side and you do have to find a balance between the two. And I'm positive, I'm confident that Don't forget that this is your life and your life only. You get to decide what you want to do, so it's best if you do something that brings you joy. Do something that you love. Create a life that you're proud of. Create a life where you will have no regrets Because I can say that about my life, that I'm proud of what I've done, everything I've created, I feel like the flaws are easier to deal with, and I'm not as hard on myself for them, because the important things are good. My foundation is good, So you just deal with it, be gentle with yourself, And always remember to love yourself first, On that note, I am signing off. I love you guys so much Bye!