Otzi: The Frozen Man from the Alps were hiking through the alpine mountains that when they came upon a grisly sight - a frozen in ice. They initially thought they discovered the maybe got lost or injured and died in the Or perhaps they stumbled onto something a Either way, they did what any sensible person As it turned out, their suspicions were off A murder victim? Maybe (more on that later), but definitely The body belonged to a man from the Chalcolithic, He has often been referred to as Otzi the he was found, and became somewhat of a sensation Europe. Today we are doing something a bit different of a man completely absent from the historical There are no texts, no inscriptions, no oral his family life, his accomplishments, or his Every single thing we know about Otzi, we the items he had on him when he died. The Discovery As we mentioned above, the iceman was discovered Simon on the ridge of the Fineil peak, at The two tourists were venturing off the beaten body so it is hard to say with certainty when Most likely, it was that year's warm summer head and torso to protrude out. Extracting the mummy from the snow proved The first day, the Simons found the body but The second day, they brought a few policemen drill, but they had to abandon the mission The third day, another attempt was aborted It wasn't until September 23 that Otzi taken to the Institute of Forensic Medicine There, archaeologist Konrad Spindler dismissed mountaineer and said that it was 4,000 years Scientists realized the potential magnitude the location where Otzi was buried and continued Meanwhile, four separate scientific institutions to perform radiocarbon dating and they all between 3350 and 3100 BC. To put that into some perspective, Otzi had the ancient Egyptians began construction on In the meantime, modern authorities were more With little regard for future geopolitical next to a somewhat-controversial border between According to the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye (which is in Austria) and South Tyrol (which of the rivers Inn and Etsch. However, when it was time to officially draw a mistake due to heavy snow and placed the As a result, Otzi was dug up by Austrian for study. However, two weeks after his discovery, on out which determined that the mummy had actually but on the Italian side. Therefore, South Tyrol successfully claimed examination of the iceman be carried out in Consequently, Otzi has been at the South two decades. What We Learned from the Body called, is categorized as a wet mummy. This means that its body was dehydrated and organs are still well-preserved. Otzi's corpse has become one of the most in history and, believe it or not, we are age he lived in. We are fortunate that he was preserved almost that shielded him from the harshest weather a glacier and protected him from being crushed As a result of this, we got an amazing glimpse the tools, and even the diet of primitive Otzi was a relatively small man for the time. His mummy is a little over 5 ft tall and weighs In life, he would have been a bit taller, around 110 lbs. By examining structural bone units called estimated that Otzi was around 45 years old Most of his hair was gone because the epidermis However, a few clumps were still present around medium-long hair with traces of arsenic in That last part suggests to researchers that likely copper since he had an axe blade that This belief was further strengthened by the soot due to close, prolonged exposure to open Australian scientists from Canberra examined to see what information they could glean. By studying the minerals present in his body, his drinking water and, consequently, identified They believe they pinpointed his origins fairly far from the site where he was discovered. They ascertained that the iceman lived somewhere icy grave. Moreover, they detected contrasts in the isotopic that, at one point, he left his childhood The rest of his bones suggested that the Similaun He had broken several bones during his lifetime hips, and spine all had significant wear and One study indicated that the iceman's tibia the average for late Neolithic men, something over rough terrain. This, compounded with the rest of the physical that Otzi may have been a high-altitude shepherd. How Healthy Was He? This should not come as much of a surprise individual, at least not by our standards. In fact, he currently holds the distinction illness which is transmitted to humans by Scientists could not tell how advanced the iceman joint pains and severe headaches. In addition to his bacterial companion, Otzi a parasite better known as whipworm. Eggs belonging to the parasite were still Perhaps the most curious medical affliction This is a hardening of the arteries which of the modern world. Specifically, it is usually an issue for people as being overweight and getting little exercise smoking and drinking. And yet Otzi feasted on no fast food and heart attack waiting to happen. As it turned out, he had a genetic predisposition a bigger part in the condition than we previously Otzi was also lactose intolerant, but this Europeans. Dairy products represented a relatively new to process them. In addition to all these, the iceman also bad, just unusual. He only had 11 pairs of ribs instead of 12, his eyes and lacked wisdom teeth. The rest of his teeth, you won't be surprised most likely due to his high-carb, grain-heavy So, all in all, Otzi wasn't exactly the The Last Meal were so well-preserved that they still contained It seems that just hours before he died, the would put most fast food menus to shame. We don't know whether this was a regular he was dying and decided there was no point Most of the meal consisted of fatty ibex meat. In its condition, it still had striations it had been air-dried or cooked at low temperatures Modern tests indicate that boiling the meat using temperatures over 60 degrees Celsius striated pattern to disappear. Otzi complemented his ibex meat with a side We're not sure what part, though. While the ibex meat was clearly fatty muscle, an organ like the spleen or liver. His stomach also contained traces of einkorn Most curiously, it appears that the iceman which is mainly notable for being toxic. Researchers are still a bit puzzled over this yet. Was it simply a mistake and Otzi thought Did he use it to wrap his meat and accidentally Did he actually use it as medicine to treat Or, again, maybe he realized he was dying Things can't get any worse." The Tattoos body was that it was covered in tattoos. Originally, scientists spotted somewhere around they continued to inspect the remains closely tattoos against the dark, leathery brown skin. As of the most recent mapping of Otzi's spotted 61 tattoos grouped into 19 different The tattoos themselves are very basic and cruciform patterns or parallel to each other. They were probably made by cutting small incisions Admittedly, the tattoos didn't exactly turn are more interested in their purpose rather Were they purely for decoration, did they or was it possible, perhaps, that their purpose That last option has really intrigued researchers are grouped into clusters and placed on Otzi's places that suffered degeneration and likely Perhaps they were used as an ancient pain thousands of years before the practice was Vintage Chalcolithic about Otzi based on his remains, but there When the iceman was first discovered, he was giving us a glimpse into Late Neolithic fashion. Otzi was a man who liked his leather and different animals to craft his outfit. One of the researchers who helped analyze picky" when it came to selecting his materials fashionista in history. The iceman was wearing a coat, leggings, a His loincloth was sheepskin, his leggings a mixture of both goat and sheep hides that The coat had been in use for a long time as fibers. His cloak was made out of woven alpine swamp that even had a chinstrap to keep it in place. Whether the cloak was actually a cloak or of it survived to get an idea of its full Some have argued that it could have been part unfurled and slept on. The belt was made out of calfskin and had make a small pouch which contained several Otzi also carried a quiver manufactured from An impressive part of the iceman's outfit layers stitched together. The inner layer consisted of insulating dry fiber string. The outer layer was deer hide, worn with the A Czech footwear expert who specialized in of Otzi's shoes and gave them to experienced They found that the footwear was not only and the researcher even got an offer from to sell the shoes. What's In The Bag? To complement his snazzy outfit, Otzi was The highlight of his equipment was a copper discovery. The haft was approximately 24 inches long, crook at one end to hold in the blade. That blade was 99.7 percent pure copper, it birch tar and tied together with leather straps. This tool saw a lot of action as the blade times. This was clearly a valuable item and similar found buried with high-ranking men. This led to speculation about Otzi's origins. Maybe he had not been just a shepherd or a Maybe he was someone of high status like a Scientists actually managed to trace the source southern Tuscany, hundreds of miles from where alpine region had its own copper ore sources. Instead of providing answers, these finds the Similaun Man. There was plenty more equipment in the iceman's We already mentioned that he had a quiver a full bow &amp; arrow set. He had a long stave made from yew which he He also had 14 arrows made from wayfaring of them had been finished with arrowheads The quiver also contained a few antler tips have probably served as the bowstring. Although not as impressive as the copper axe, retoucher. The dagger had a flint blade, an ash wood the only fully-preserved dagger from the Copper The retoucher was a tool that puzzled researchers its purpose. It looked like a large pencil made from the "core" inside that turned out to be a They eventually realized that the retoucher another first for that time period. Otzi also had on him two birch-bark containers leaves. Given that the insides of one container was iceman used them to carry embers around to The rest of the gear included a few pieces part of a backpack, a bird belt used to carry were threaded onto leather strips, most likely The Coldest Case that still surrounds Otzi - what caused his Was he caught in a blizzard? Did he injure himself, thus becoming unable death? Was he a ritual sacrifice? Or was there foul play involved? For a decade after his discovery, scientists to the elements. It wasn't until years later that a more the iceman had an arrow wound beneath his Moreover, the shot hit an artery and caused Otzi to go into shock and possibly suffer Even today, the chances of surviving such had virtually no way of making it out alive. Investigating his death as a regular cold assailant got away with murder. Signs pointed to an ambush. Just hours before his death, the iceman enjoyed There were no defense wounds on his body except old and had already begun to heal at the time As far as motivation goes, investigators ruled Otzi's prized copper axe. Despite their conclusions, detectives reluctantly to remain unsolved forever. Someone may have taken out the iceman, but Believe it or not, Otzi has descendants still When scientists sequenced his genome back to thousands of samples obtained from donors the same ancestry as Otzi. They were all men, as it appears only the Who Owns Otzi? Controversy seems to have followed Otzi even We already mentioned that there was a little the remains, but that matter was solved quickly between the original discoverers and the Government According to Italian law, Helmut and Erika locating the iceman equal to 25 percent of However, the provincial government simply the ones who covered the expenses of removing In 1994, they offered a measly reward of 10 Unsurprisingly, the Simons refused and went It wasn't until 2008, 17 years later, that Although Helmut Simon had died by then, his Simon, who died during a freak blizzard while was just one of several bizarre deaths linked to the one of the pharaohs. Of course, given that hundreds of people were frozen man, having a few of them die over Even so, the "Curse of the Iceman" just Otzi.