- This is the world's strongest magnet, capable of sucking objects in, generating electric current. Can you see that? And levitating non-magnetic objects. It even wreaks havoc on camera equipment. - Wire is magnetic! the electrons just can't find their way. - Well, they get redirected. - So yeah, if you notice know that it's incredibly hard to shoot in these magnetic fields. A portion of this video I came to the National High in Tallahassee, Florida, they have held the Guinness World Record for the strongest - Somebody left a chair where It then got accelerated across the cell, completely pulled the Now we all have those wooden chairs. - For reference, the magnetic field of the Earth is 0.00005 Tesla. A fridge magnet is around 0.01 Tesla. MRI machines can get up to three Tesla. But this electromagnet creates so nearly a million times To achieve this field, the magnet consists of an outer superconducting magnet and an inner resistive magnet. I'll explain why you need The apparatus is two stories tall, but the maximum field, or field center, only occurs in the center of a narrow cylinder that - Right now it's off. - [Tim] There's no magnet. - Can I put my finger in the bore? Is that a bad idea? - No, it's fine. You can totally do that. - I'm gonna see. Oh. So that's where there's 45 Tesla. - Further down. A meter away from that. And so that just drops down for a couple meters? through to the bottom. - The maximum field is - Yeah. very small samples. Think something like a chip That's what users will come in with. So that's plenty big with material science or - Since we can't see or film in the center of the magnet, we're going to experiment with the magnetic field that extends above and around the magnet on this platform. So the magnet's over there? - Yes. extends all the way out here. - Yes. This is known as the fringe field, and although it's much it is still plenty dangerous. - For a superconducting magnet, it depends on the size of that bore. So the bigger the bore, the because the magnetic flux does And you have to form a complete loop. So those loops just move further and further and further So this is the 100 Gauss - So what happens to objects around the 100 Gauss line? - Things with shapes will to the field. So if you have it sitting on a tabletop, say over here, it will And if you get it too much And by the time you notice it's moving, it's already too late. Meaning, no ferromagnetic objects within the 100 Gauss line. If you have anything ferromagnetic on you, any implants that are metallic. Pacemaker? Anybody? Anybody? Anybody? Okay. - Ramping up this magnet to full power takes around an hour and a half. That's because they of current into the outer 47,000 amps. - 47,000 amps, 500 volts. - It is so insane. - [Tim] All right, so let's to full field. - One thing that happens in a strong magnetic field, obviously, is that magnetic materials We cut open a Nerf football and put in a couple steel to tape it up so the We also covered the opening to the magnet so the ball won't get sucked down into it. I got an unmodified Nerf football. And sure enough, it's easy to tell which I tried to throw the football and hit the side of the magnet. Okay. After a few misses. No! Are you kidding me? No. - It bounced around and stuck. It should have looked more like this. Another thing to do if is get ferrofluid fluid. Ferrofluid fluid contains that's an iron containing mineral, and they're suspended in solution coded in surfactants so they But in an external magnetic field, they all line up like iron This ferrofluid fluid started even meters away from the magnet. And as we got closer, spikes aligning the magnetite Closer still and the ferrofluid of the vessel. - [Tim] So it's not much, - A little bit of a tug? - [Tim] Yep, and then and then you'll feel the difference. - Oh yeah. It definitely preferentially Magnetite is actually the to discover the phenomenon of At least 3000 years ago, naturally magnetized pieces in a part of Greece called Magnesia. That's actually where the In Greek, they were called but they were also And it was discovered that lodestones could attract And by the 11th century that magnets could be used that would always point The side that pointed to the north of the earth was referred And the other side, Though these days we and South Pole of the magnet. But why are only some materials magnetic? Electrons are essentially tiny magnets, but in most atoms, they are paired up, one pointing one way and the other pointing the opposite way. So their fields cancel out. In elements with half full well, then they can't pair up. So atoms have magnetic fields. But if neighboring atoms aren't aligned, well then, the magnetic fields of all the atoms cancel out and the bulk material is non-magnetic. But even if you get all these of the material, known as a domain, they may be aligned opposite and cancel out. So you need all the domains to be aligned. Normally when you see these, But not here and not yet. And this can be done by applying a strong external magnetic field. So right now, these are not magnetic. They do not stick to each other. But he is loading them in there, into the Helmholtz coil. - See the machine here? And then you get a permanent magnet. Materials that meet these After iron, the most But nickel and cobalt are In the powerful magnetic field around the world's strongest magnet, what is even more surprising of non-ferromagnetic materials. Here we have four sheets Two different types of When they are stationary in the field, there's no difference between them. But when they move. - Two, one, drop! - Materials that conduct (gentle upbeat music) I'll get into that. But first, this portion of the video was sponsored by Google and they were interested in this video because it's all about magnets, which are core to our future. Electric vehicles, for example, use electric motors, which And US search interest reached an all-time high That is, according to Google Trends, a tool that allows you to see The thing that connects and many others, is that of doing things that are less And Google is like, &quot;We We also wanna do that.&quot; In fact, Google has matched 100% of their electricity use with They also run Project Sunroof, which helps people for their home by to create a 3D model of your roof and estimate energy Personally, I'm just happy to learn that people are searching to sustainability and that to sustainability, too. You can learn more about sustainability and Google's efforts at So thanks to Google for And now, back to magnets. What's happening is that, as the metal plate is the number of magnetic field lines passing through it is changing. This change in magnetic flux called eddy currents in the plate, which create their own magnetic field that opposes the change in the flux. This is known as Lenz's Law. So if the plate is falling the induced currents create a so that the plate is repelled So as that big plate falls, there are eddy currents which should dissipate So I wanna see if we can see that. - [Tim] It's actually slowing down now. 'Cause it's in a much higher field - Now it is slight, that the plate is warming Previously, I visited an at the Palace of Discovery in Paris. Whoa! It uses an alternating but the eddy currents in that plate generate so much heat on its surface. Check out how hot this plate is. I like to think of Lenz's because whatever you try to - There you go. If the plate is falling, eddy currents are induced Look at it! (laughs) But if you try to pick up the plate. (laughs) Come on! Nature also says, &quot;No, you don't.&quot; In this case, a south under the plate, attracting They don't know if I'm weak or if this is actually insanely difficult. Ah, ah. Oh. - Oh my goodness. - Whoa. No matter how hard I tried it just wouldn't go very fast. Because even if I could that would increase the and hence the induced currents and their associated magnetic field. That is ridiculous. It's so weird. We tried a number of other conductive, but non-magnetic objects, like this thick cylinder of aluminum. Drop it straight on the &quot;No you don't.&quot; Try to roll it across It just refuses to roll. We wrapped up a volleyball and passed it across the magnet. Or dropped it straight in. Again, the changing magnetic that produce their own magnetic field to oppose the original change in flux. We wanted to see just how much of the 45 Tesla magnet could achieve. So we decided to fire projectiles from a potato cannon across the top. - You ready? - Three, two, one. Heads! - This is what the projectile looked like with the magnetic field off. And this is what it looked like If we compare the two shots, you can see that as the projectile the induced eddy currents So it remains oriented along And this minimizes the change in flux that's experienced by the projectile. - [Operator] Three, two, one. - Now, some of the of wire that were connected to LEDs. - So the LEDs are actually So no matter which direction one of them will be lit. And we're hoping that as you'll see the change in color of LED of the nose cone. - Mar And sure enough, showing how the induced currents (gentle music) You know, in all these cases the induced electric energy is dissipated, either as light or heat. But what if you had a material like a superconductor below There are two important things to know about the high temperature First, below its critical temperature, most of the material has which means, if you bring currents will be induced to And since it's a superconductor, those currents can persist indefinitely and expel all of the magnetic field. Second, there are some that are not superconducting. - There's defects that are engineered into the superconductors, a second phase that traps and keeps them from moving. It can no longer rise or fall because it's kind of locked in - This is the human levitator. It consists of a 90 pound, hovering above a ring of superconductors. So I'm standing at the magnet, and underneath is the superconductor? - That's right. - When I stand on the magnet, it is pressed down into But the increase in magnetic in the superconductors that repels the magnetic field from the magnet I'm standing on. Maintain my angular moment. Oh yeah. So I remain levitating - [Speaker] I also brought a leaf blower, if you wanna hold on that, turn it on. - For real? - It's up to you. (leaf blower whirs) Now, there's another way to that has nothing to do And it's all because all materials actually They're just hard to see unless a strong magnetic field is present. Some materials are always They display what's called para magnetism. Oxygen is like this. - We have liquid oxygen and it gets attracted to the magnet. It doesn't matter if it's a north or south magnetic pole, the presence of the external of material to strengthen And that causes attraction. Other materials, in fact, by a strong enough magnetic And this is known as diamagnetism. Water is a good example of this. In the presence of the external field, the water molecules become And so they are repelled. So here you can see how to the surface of water creates an indent. You can use this repulsion in a strong enough magnetic field to levitate objects you of as magnetic. Here we're using a slightly so that we can use a periscope setup to actually see into the bore. And our camera is there. on this optical way, you should be able to put everything down. - Wonderful. This strawberry will be magnetic - Well, it's diamagnetic right now. It's just we're not in - Right. - For us to see anything. Because of the water. - Water is diamagnetic and there's a lot of - Oh, that's nice. Oh, that's beautiful. Yeah, it's beautiful. And the same occurs with a raspberry or a little piece of plastic pizza. Living organisms contain enough water that they too can be levitated. They wouldn't do it here at the mag lab but people have levitated frogs. - Oh! Yep, there you go. - And grasshoppers? Even mice in experiments meant to help understand the without having to go into space. So are very strong magnetic - There are no lasting effects, there are no long-term effects. But we have noticed that of actually polarizing the And the effect that that has on the rodent is that the rodent actually spins. - Like they go in circles? It doesn't last for very long. It's only a few minutes of the magnet. - So how do you actually make the world's strongest magnet? Contrary to what I expected, you can't do it just with - The highest magnetic with superconducting wire - That's because to the amount of magnetic before they're no longer superconducting. So the solution is to combine an outer superconducting electromagnet with an inner electromagnet - So the blue, green, that's the superconducting outsert. That produces 11.5 Tesla. Inside of that, we put a resistive magnet that produces 33 and a half Tesla. Maxwell's equations, fields - But making high field magnets with ordinary resistive - For a wire wound magnet, a traditional electromagnet, the highest magnetic field you And the reason is that out of the innermost windings. So back in the 1950s, he realized that physics doesn't care what shape the conductor is. You can take your round wire and smash it into a very thin plate. If you then stack those plates you make a helix, that But now I can push cooling water axially through the stack of conductor. So that means that innermost part, I can now pull all that heat away, which means I can go to much higher currents through these coils up to 57,000 amps than what you can do with a traditional wire - And that gives you 34 Tesla, that? - That gives you 33.5, So we stack all of these They're aligned up with tie rods. We then put about 20 tons of force on it and then lock those tie rods down and that holds the coil together and it gives us our electrical And we're pushing, you know, several thousand gallons per minute of deionized water through 'cause otherwise it melts and you're done. Occasionally you get material failure that happens when the material and starts flexing either or maybe even shorting to ground. And this is what happened here. The coil plastically failed, meaning the metal went beyond where it would come back, and it just completely deformed, which drove it into the coil next to it, burned through the insulator, and then vaporized all of this metal. And you can see more on the inside. It killed this coil, which is the B coil. But because it failed on the inner edge, it killed the A coil. Failed on the outer edge, So that was an expensive failure. - Expensive failure. The record is the highest in the world, period. China recently commissioned very similar in concept to ours. So now there's two of them in the world. - Running the strongest takes a lot of energy. The Mag Lab uses a significant fraction of Tallahassee's electricity. - So we can consume with at full blast about 8% of their - What's the electricity - So nominal $250 to $300,000 a month. - Holy, yeah, that's a lot. So we operate in their which every utility has to have. They have to have that available to push into the grid We have a deal set up with the city so that they can actually that they have to produce, The flip side is, when and we can go down much faster than they can spin up a Genny. - Why do you need 45 Tesla? - There are a couple things One of them is just The other one is putting it like high magnetic field, high electric field, high pressure, ultra low temperature. - Another axis is taking and improving its cleanliness. So getting all the impurities out. So as you drop the you're reducing where the And that improves the properties, enables you to see things to see before. We've only just barely on what can be done with this. People are gonna look back and this will be the inflection point, this five year period.