&quot;I am Mohammed bin Salman, &quot;I'm 34.&quot; &quot;I'm the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia.&quot; &quot;I am accused of murdering a journalist &quot;I'm waging a bloody war in Yemen &quot;People think &quot;yet they receive me with full honors.&quot; &quot;My kingdom holds &quot;It influences the whole world's economy.&quot; &quot;I possess the Muslim holy sites.&quot; &quot;I am the Western world's &quot;I'm a key partner &quot;I'm carrying out reforms&quot; &quot;that will both transform my country &quot;I'm indispensable.&quot; &quot;I am your ally,&quot; &quot;but you have to pay the price for that.&quot; What is Mohammed bin Salman thinking? What is he up to? On the death of his father, and become a familiar figure His and our futures are entwined. MBS's father, Salman, ascended to the throne At 85 years old and in poor health, his first act was to designate Power in the House of Saud but between descendants of the founder. Salman's choice fell known as MBN. At 56 years old, and a graduate of an American university. The king surprised everyone to the strategic post At just 30 years old, MBS, his father's favorite son had no government experience. This appointment far beyond the royal palaces, and to New Yorker Joseph Westphal, and Riyadh's guardian. I was very new there, I did what you normally do you Google somebody. I started to google a bit on my own I asked for a meeting with him. For the royal family his youth, for these are perilous times Good evening to all! May God grant you a long life, I am your father's uncle and the brother of your grandfather. Be welcome. The new minister accompanied by his children, This aging and wealthy generation and disconnected from the real country. Half of the kingdom's are under the age of 25. They feel aimless and here, they're suffocating The Sauds fear During a visit to a US aircraft carrier the new minister I understood, that Saudi Arabia A very extensively large young population, very connected to the rest of the world, with lots of expectations. The Sauds are still shaken up that four years earlier saw the people Protest movements regularly break out, [Arabic spoken audio] The feminists such as the freedom to drive or the curbing of the powers What do you want? Are you following me He understood the dilemma We talked about bringing back cinema, bringing music, art, He was definitely in favor However, he was also, and I have to give him credit for that, not naive to think that he could do that Again, it's a conservative country. He understood the politics of this. The prince knows that if he ever wants he must first make his mark. To do so, he surrounds himself of totally dedicated advisors. Ali Shihabi belongs to the Saudi elite A Harvard graduate and a banker, You need a strong leader to effect change. If you're a weak leader, One of the problems in Saudi Arabia... We've had no drama over the last 30 years, I saw in him special qualities, particularly strength of personality Frankly, you need that. At the gates of his kingdom, there are many opportunities by confronting his country's enemies. In March 2015, in Yemen, a poor country the capital Sanaa The Houthis have the backing The regime of the Mullahs has long sought whom it accuses and defender of an impure Islam. Death to the Saudis! The Sauds feel besieged by Iran and its constantly expanding presence Without your strength and will, May God be with you. Thanks to God, Two months after taking office, the young defense minister Without even notifying his American ally, People say that he was a young, who decided to go to war. Absolutely not. Prince Mohammad because the Americans are always saying: &quot;You want to fight Iran He said: &quot;No, we're going to do it,&quot; and he went to war. An Iranian ally taking control of Yemen MBS may well feel confident. It's the first time in its history but it has the fourth-largest and the support of its Emirati ally. A more seasoned leader that the defeat of a guerrilla force I've spoken to him about Yemen, not just through WhatsApp, Initially, there was a sense My argument was that against the Houthis. He who sells his soul to the Saud, he who sells his soul to the Saud, Death to America! Death to Israel! One has to think of other ways, He listens. I'm sure I'm not the only one He says: &quot;They say death to America and Al Saud.&quot; He's compared He sees Iran as a revolutionary state until the regime in Saudi Arabia In the name of God, If MBS won't listen to calls for caution it's also because this war It's an entirely new image in a country The war is popular, In reality, though, his army is gradually getting mired with no way out. From 2016, the country is even targeted MBS turns to his allies. He felt strongly He wanted more help from us to help them defeat the Houthis. However, we were very committed His allies are under pressure who is shocked in a conflict that's creating famine, and much loss of blood. The decision was made to support them, but with technical assistance and support to make sure their forces The West and America not to get involved in any offensive way. However, Saudi Arabia and built its military and it requires ammunition and supplies. If that does not come, Saudi Arabia This is not foreign aid This is being paid for at top dollar. MBS feels let down by his closest allies, Barack Obama, whose country is disengaging from the Middle East. Worse still, to their amazement, it's to announce the signing with the sworn enemy of the Saud. None of our nations We welcome an Iran that plays The first problem is they felt It came as a surprise They felt that to try to reach a deal with a country If Saudi Arabia is being treated that's also because it's getting bad press Finally, true and lasting security that serves all its citizens Off camera, there's a revealing incident. The president was very concerned that were given to individuals They'd be sentenced ten years in jail, 16 years in jail, and the president The king responded in some way. Then before the meeting was over, which is quite unusual. The young minister even goes so far as to tartly suggest the US president &quot;This is our system, That was the striking moment I'm overstating it, or at least who had the ability, capacity, and it was Mohammed bin Salman. Within the US administration, In their eyes, the bloodshed I cover the intelligence community People on my beat, the CIA in particular, They thought There was a sense that he was impulsive and had a very binary view They thought he might be unstable, because they have so much intelligence He's quite the opposite of the experienced now, more than ever, The Americans can't decide but there's a game or competition as to who has the most If the person who is selected can then develop a special relationship and show that he has special access, Six months later, it's a whole new game. MBS is pleasantly surprised who opposed Obama's Iranian policy. The prince is forever trying not MBN, to Washington. In March 2017, he got his way. At the time, Steve Bannon was in charge When MBS first came over, he was not the crown prince. I felt that was pretty extraordinary. When people said he's impulsive, I also thought that the royal family that if they're sending For MBS, this trip to Washington Today we are facing a very serious danger [Arabic spoken audio] When it comes to the hostile activities that is supporting the extremists in the region and the world. We're optimistic under Trump's leadership. Those three or four days because it was meeting after meeting. What I saw was someone had been well-briefed, What's most impressive He can charm anyone he encounters. From the number of people that he met, extremely cynical people He knew exactly which buttons to push and what message to present It's a skill. When it suits him, MBS knows how to use especially when it comes of his desire to reform his country. We were very impressed, First, this is a fundamental restructuring That's what he's trying or trying to open up to modernity. He has a sense of urgency. That fit well with Trump, because Trump is a businessman &quot;Things should be happening today.&quot; My sense was that MBS was the same way. With Trump's seal of approval, One month later, on June 20th, 2017, in a palace in Mecca, I pledge allegiance to you. Despite appearances his cousin is forced May God reward you This is a relief to me, I will always listen to your wise advice. MBN will no longer appear in public, The ambitious Mohammed bin Salman Just two years he has managed to impose himself and prove himself The infirm King Salman takes a back seat At 32 years old, Without delay, that are both spectacular and symbolic. Within months, he has abolished and granted women the right to drive We have another lovely story about a brother Finally, all previously banned. He has brought a veritable revolution Today, 70% of the Saudi people Frankly, we're not going to spend putting up with extremist ideas. Let's return to a moderate Islam, MBS is shaking up which until now has been We all expected The religious will either have like this leader or suffer the consequences. Months before the law he arrested about 70 to 80 clerics and sent a very powerful message: &quot;I will not tolerate I think it has worked. The grumbling has been very quiet. A few months later, MBS sends this video of a rap concert, &quot;It was either this or the Islamists.&quot; I can't believe My heart is pounding. I feel like I'm part of this, Is MBS a progressive? Is he even a feminist? Whenever I speak to MBS I see that ideology is not very important. Survival and political power, adopting pragmatic and practical policies are much more important. It is indeed about survival. By opening up his country, to offer an indispensable breath and to the Western world, to present a better face for the kingdom he is inheriting The House of Saud but it's incapable Its 34 million subjects pay no taxes, Two-thirds of them often doing nothing. However, 80% of the kingdom's revenues Its price is collapsing, The worst is yet to come. Western demand is decreasing, and in a few decades, Already, 12% of the population In Saudi Arabia, you will be shocked. In Riyadh, forget the rest of the country, we don't have a bus service. You can't take a bus in Riyadh. There is no metro. There is no sewage network. The bathroom water in every house that everybody has to dig, somebody has to come, suck it out, This is almost 80 years The word &quot;austerity&quot; is for the first time No more public servants are being hired. Subsidies have been reduced, That's all a stopgap. In the long term, MBS knows that he needs and he knows he can't do it alone. Mohammed bin Salman's survival to modernize Saudi Arabia If he doesn't deliver then he'll have no legitimacy In the autumn of 2017, the prince holds for an audience of Western businessmen. He needs both their money to develop infrastructure, There is something of a revolution as the kingdom looks to grow. His plan is called Vision 2030, named for the predicted end Your Highness, you have foreigners What do you need most All the success factors are in place Thanks to these opportunities, thanks to this almost empty country, we're looking to develop and create a new way of life. To attract investors, he proposes a series of projects The largest expanse A tourist city aimed at attracting A giant-sized industrial city, and NEOM, a hundred times the size of Paris [Arabic spoken audio] Potential investors All the tens of millions and videos leave them, at best, skeptical. It was good, I think there's a tendency to have big events In the end, you don't get much from that. To finance his economic projects, the oil company Aramco, He's hoping that its partial privatization into the kingdom's coffers. We have the vision and the resources... However, even this prospect However, at Saudi Aramco, This is King Salman Park. The Westerners are taking their time. However, patience isn't one His reforms are stalling. The civil servants are dragging their feet and the state coffers MBS comes up In October 2017, among the richest sequestered in a big hotel. They are accused of corruption and forced to hand over This brings 100 billion dollars but this extraordinary purge scares the Western investors The long detention This is my Diet Pepsi. The richest man in the country, a world-class economic player, shareholder in Disney, Apple, and Twitter ends up ceding part of his fortune Prince Alwaleed had been a client It was quite shocking considering Clearly, some major changes were going on. It was a very original way which is elite entitlement. Somebody once said to me: I said: &quot;It can't afford 50 yachts.&quot; It's a question of us and each one Ali Shihabi is alluding to the yacht worth half a billion dollars, plus the most expensive house in the world bought for 450 million dollars The young prince is ambitious but is subject to his power Although he grants his subjects he doesn't tolerate any political dissent. Where are the women and the human rights activists Think about that. The people should have the power. Think what authority means. This academic will be imprisoned, as will many prominent feminists The political climate It is the worst We have the greatest number the largest political executions. He has arrested people. You have reduced I think that during this period as you're going over a waterfall, You need somebody authoritarian who says: &quot;This is the law and the way we'll do it, because if you let political forces loose, The best bet you can get That's an art, it's not a science. When despotism, however enlightened, is combined with both inexperience it can be an explosive mixture. In the autumn of 2017, overnight, MBS orders a land He accuses it the Muslim Brotherhood, but also, to his opponents, Jamal, you've compared your crown prince You've said he's creating How so? I still see him as a reformer, but he is gathering When the embargo one of MBS's advisors to turn the peninsula of Qatar Soon after, The Lebanese Saad Hariri, who is also a Saudi citizen, arrested, and forced to resign from Riyadh. MBS accuses him Iran's armed militia. [Arabic spoken audio] In the face of international outcry, the prince accepts the mediation the traditional protector of Lebanon. MBS had set a trap Macron was there for three hours, and the meeting was tense, because Emmanuel Macron that should preside over relations implying that Mohammed bin Salman's The prince ends up releasing Saad Hariri, with a check for a billion dollars He doesn't want his impetuous methods so crucial to his future Therefore, in the spring of 2018, he launches a huge charm offensive To promote himself, MBS has the largest and employs as well as an army of lobbyists. It opens a lot of doors. It's like a big rock star tour. In three weeks in the US, he visits Silicon Valley and Hollywood. He meets bishops, rabbis, and former American presidents. He visits the Louvre, and tops it all off with a gala I think, naturally, as someone who is changing the country who wants to be an ally of the West he was attractive. Ladies and gentlemen, His Royal Highness, He owes it all not just to his checkbook, and above all, which he hopes will overshadow I represent the change of this community. That is, the integration Women's issues are important in the West more than any other time in the past. Therefore, these kind of issues on women in Saudi Arabia. The ban on driving Mohammed bin Salman I think people wanted to believe the idea of a very young, ambitious, and open-minded leader in a place that we don't associate with anything He was saying all of the right things MBS is hoping his economic projects For the time being, That's 3 billion dollars, 533. Twelve billion on weapons. The price he pays for American protection. That's peanuts for you, Eight hundred How could the prince not feel That he can rule his kingdom as he wishes. Mohammed bin Salman toughs who are around him. They're his enforcers It's a network that you see to go out and be the pressure The increasing repression, the number of death row inmates such as these teenagers the abductions of opponents abroad, none of this draws any reaction He has been given a green card. He has been allowed to get away and international crisis. Hi everyone, There is some dissent. He's also maintaining the old ways He's expanding on that, There is no opposition to him. I don't understand. Jamal Khashoggi who later became an opponent. Therefore, he's a renegade as well as a traitor due to his links For some months, even writing editorials Jamal Khashoggi knew a lot. He can puncture the narrative [French spoken audio] The fact that Khashoggi writing critical articles, especially when Mohammed bin Salman on lobby groups and think tanks to improve his image in Washington. Everyone has their price. Khashoggi is offered a position He refuses. On October 2nd, 2018, that there's no risk in returning where he has to sign his marriage papers. A team of killers from Riyadh, puts him to death, and then dismembers his body In a diplomatic facility it's so risky that I think, first, it was very stunning. Second, there was a lot of grief There were people here who knew and worked with him. Jamal, God bless his soul, but with very clear political views. In this environment we take advantage of their dissidents, Our security services overreacted to that. It was an incompetent... It was a disaster on all levels. Disasters happen, unfortunately. The real break in the story when we were the first to report the main intelligence agency in the US, had done their assessment drawing on their sources, and determined that directed by Mohammed bin Salman. The murder stuns the whole world Any other leader Two weeks later, MBS summons and accompanied by his father, offers his condolences. The prince's response to the affair is to announce It was an odious crime We know that many people in order to turn Saudi Arabia I have a message for those people: they will not succeed as long as there is a king and as long as there is a crown prince I would like to add something. Prime Minister Hariri Do not believe he's been kidnapped! I have my freedom! There, on the stage MBS can afford to swagger a bit, because he knows that he has To be sure of that, A text message received from MBS after Jamal's killing and murder said that he was disappointed in the way that he would look elsewhere meaning China and Russia. -He told you that? Clearly, this was also a message He was hoping that he was looking at other options. At the G20 summit of world leaders MBS follows up on his SMS, quite visibly. The West cannot afford He has another message too. If his reforms fail, it could lead to chaos The messages get across. Any condemnation and his personal responsibility is never officially suggested. I saw it It certainly shocked me, although on a very limited basis, However, people at state, others, said: &quot;We've gotten &quot;and we sign off The West is obliged to deal the reformist and the tyrant. Mohammed bin Salman and of their loss of influence One that reveals their own flaws, their cynicism, As for the prince, To survive, he has to make it all work. However, in his own kingdom, princes, opposition, or Islamists, Outside it, as well. In September 2019, his rival Iran strikes and all his expensive armaments In the face of Iran, increasingly bogged down in Yemen, and unable to push back There lies the paradox He attracts missiles to his land, as well as pop stars. He wants to embody modernity, but he's forced to live a cloistered life, He's worried about his own safety. Someone like him is quite vulnerable The system that he has around him, including people and all the rest of it, cooks, double cooks, is fairly elaborate. His security is strong. Unless he's assassinated he is going to succeed. He'll become the next king, On the death of his father, and will become, for decades maybe, Saudi Arabia has made a leap forward and it will continue to do so. I'm convinced That's the Saudis' fight,