So, as we all know, there's a lot of and at the same time, there's a lot of content Tokyo. Well, I'm going to blow your mind I descend further into darkness. It's no secret moment, but for the people who are living, how affordable is it really? Cuz I just moved I thought they'd be. In this video, I'm going to I'll take you through the exact amount it cost us the cost of an apartment per square meter, world. I'll also share every rental secret I've learned so much just moving to Tokyo, so If you've had a look at any rental sites online, The photos will be terrible, the kitchen This apartment is in Meguro. It's an area that I but I just couldn't find the right place in our the fifth floor, it's close to the station, average apartment in Meguro for a 1 LDK (a said to cost around 205,000 yen a month, but not telling us? We have a monthly management fee, then parking is 35,000 yen. There's also an nearly $600 for a cleaner, a guarantor fee, of course, the one and only &quot;reikin.&quot; Reikin is it's a lump sum, usually one month's rent, that like a &quot;thank you so much for having it's [ __ ]. There are a few theories about where is from the Great Kanto Earthquake in 1923. A lot so there were very few places available to rent. people, in order to skip the queue--sorry about the a kind of &quot;thank you so much for having me,&quot; and a lot like bribery to me, but pretty much, this in Japan. Back then, the key money was about one to three months' rent. Lucky us! You won't nearly every single apartment that we looked unoccupied for a while because it had zero natural If you see some apartments with higher key one is that these apartments are very, very is that part of the higher key money will be given agent to bring more customers or tenants. Really? This is my real estate agent by the way, his name is Yoh, and I went round to his place to meet his cats... I mean, to talk real estate. his cats... I mean, to talk real estate. Oh, you go ahead. Until recently, Yoh was only really but he's just started doing it more chill, multilingual real estate agent who's check out the link in the description. He's got the code "Hannah" for 5% off your real estate discount by any means. That's a great deal--jump So, back to our average rental. the amount just to move in will cost you these non-refundable move-in fees across the without parking. 281,619 yen with parking. Either way. A lot higher than the asking price. Now I know that Japan isn't the only country that but I'm saying that they're not exempt move to Tokyo, then I think it's really helpful I gotta do it, man. More and more these days, destination, but it's not just the weak yen that's salary in New York City sits at just under $74,000 median salary in Tokyo, which is around $26,800 much as possible because when it comes to stats skew the stats a lot. If Bill Gates walks into a a billion dollars. Salaries in Japan have been usually only a 0.something percent increase --sometimes about this in the media recently. People have been necessary, especially because Japan is starting to Japan just raised the interest rates for the first myself there because I'm probably going to lose basically, wages have been low for a very, very Hi, uh, I would just like to quickly point obviously, I am fortunate enough to be earning my opinion on affordability is that, yeah, a lot cheaper--in many ways than, like, most I'm not the average person here. I'm mostly which is that you shouldn't move to Japan with the country you're from, obviously, there are just and then there's quality of life, which is a an economic topic ever again, but had to Now, on top of all of the hoop-jumping available to you will decrease drastically if knew about already--obviously, I've lived here for foreigner knows. But there's something about very surprising to me. First, we have to think like risks. There was a survey in 2022, and more problems with foreigners before. Really? Yeah. I the garbage disposal rules, and the second, so sometimes, you can hear everything. Has leave the country. Yes. Is it common? Does but it does happen to more foreigners than the same thing, right? Yes, yes, of course. which means &quot;run away in the middle of the night&quot;. doing well, so it's not very common recently, experience, what percentage of landlords would say for this, for sure. But in my personal experience, against foreigners in this kind of way? It is to a restaurant or service. Housing discrimination very nice to say that. I think a lot of people so they don't put it in the advertisement. But they tell them on the phone--not even in an in writing. They don't put it in writing. Right. on race or nationality--it's also based on your doing. So it's much deeper than just nationality Another thing that will drastically reduce you have a pet. Even if the apartment says &quot;pet like that, you still have to tell them what kind they don't allow cats. Sometimes they only can only have one cat. They do this because your neighbors. It's really tough. It's really I have pet-friendly wallpapers. This is very, for the material, but also for the people who well, it's a business, right? They add the cost as much as possible, If you own a car in Tokyo, I hate to say it, by law, every car has to have its own and the parking space has to be within certain I don't know, a Jeep Wrangler with a rooftop many parking lots in Japan have a if you're going to get a car, make sure lucky and we were only paying 15,000 yen we're paying more than double that. And yes, Every 30 years or so, in Japan, there is a damage. Since around 1880, after every really smart people go out and they analyze the I was wrong here--they don't study the buildings the seismic activity, and then they test that over and which ones won't. Kind of wrong, kind video about it. It's really informative. Based so that any house built after that year has to that if you are living in a really, really old and rebuilt to bring it up to standard. Now, this not a great investment in Japan, because the I know. But it's also one of the main reasons, rent out an older apartment. Personally, when I place that was built within the last 40 years, buildings was in 1981. That will also decrease The reason that landlords are so strict and picky about who they choose to live favor renters. It's a very big risk for it may cause tremendous trouble for them. the landlord cannot kick them out. Now, of course, but there are a number of things that we as landlord wants to raise the rent, do you have to can just refuse. Okay, first, it's legal to raise The worst thing the landlord can do is take you raising the rent is legitimate, then you have to that happen very often? It's very rare. Taking a lot of money. But my advice for people who don't say no too quickly, because you still want why the rent is going up. They have to show then you can say, "Okay, I agree," or you can lower the price?" If you disagree, just say, I'm not going to agree to this." Wow, it's so from other countries. Sorry, we got another There's also one more thing I forgot to mention, pinholes in the wall. If you've got like a tack the wall to hang up a picture or a clock, you're my life, I've been thinking, "I can only use 3M I'm going to get charged." Anyway, that's how much am I paying? Since Chris is a Japanese I'm a foreigner, as long as his name is the one places were available to us. Very, very nice of and none of them really stood out. They were like, I just fell in love. I love this apartment a little over 45 square meters. It's close to you about. It has a really amazing view that I [redacted] It's 179,000 yen in rent, plus a 6,000 yen or something like that. And also, one month's key which is an absolute steal as far as I'm people to include the key money in the cost of the away with it: you just pay it, and then you a parking space, which is not a steal at all. It's slab of gravel, and it's not even flat ground. for the first time, an office! I'm so excited! mess right now--it's nowhere near ready to be on My home can just be my home. What is this life? tour in a later video, once it's all properly set It's still a bit bland and grey at the moment, Ooh, that's kind of small. Yikes! So, in Instagram and all of that, I got so many it's so cheap compared to my city,&quot; when I think about renting in LA versus as we discussed earlier, if you're living in LA, But there's one other thing that I think a lot of is notorious for small apartments. So, while you might also be living in a shoebox. With per square kilometer, space definitely comes at a how much of a premium? And how does that compare this is just a personal theory, but I think if you reality, right?--you take the exact same apartment I don't think that Tokyo would fare as well as know. But I did some math. Anytime I see articles they usually talk about Tokyo Prefecture, which is little experiment, I've gone with the special to be &quot;the city&quot; of Tokyo. Fun fact: Tokyo is it's not a city. Crazy, right? So, I calculated of Tokyo's 23 wards, then found the median, out to 2,810 yen per square meter. I then apartment and added an extra column for which brings the median cost of a 50 square A lot of financial experts, you know, all always say that your rent shouldn't be more than this is a requirement for a lot of apartments. afford the apartment. And since I don't work show them my tax return, which is actually crazy. Googled (because it's really confusing), I found And then, here's the important bit: I found the median salary in that area, which in Tokyo came other big cities around the world. And here is &quot;I wish I could afford that!&quot; &quot;That's not true!&quot; that my city is affordable?&quot; And let me just hard to find reputable websites to get this very difficult to do, especially when it comes to London. They really don't like to tell you how big that mean? I don't know! Sometimes I couldn't And remember, this is an alternate universe where apartment. Also, traditional norms, cultures, of the way, let's get to the stats. The city with and median salary is Los Angeles, at 11.21%--quite I think my stats are wrong), at 23.41%. Then we three--not bad! Followed closely by Sydney at the clear winner by an absolute landslide: 107.6%, a fake number, but I had to do a triple check something else right now in terms of housing and documentaries about apartments that have and you can rent out a 2 square meter apartment. than Hong Kong right now. But again, I don't he's a math professor, and he said that the We'll never know. I think this is why, like, every world&quot; articles comes out, everyone always gets What about this and this and this?&quot; There affordability in a city--culture, traditions, much more acceptable to live with your parents probably going to live with roommates. In Japan, I think when people look at Tokyo, they just see a of things figured out already. I think it's kind similar salary to my big city.&quot; Well, that's this apartment's really cheap in the Philippines,&quot; because it's in the Philippines; they don't make like, &quot;Well, that's crazy! What's the catch?&quot; And But there is one thing that I love about apartments do actually exist. So, you don't to. You can just rent a place for yourself in willing to sacrifice a lot of other things. you can do it. You can live in an amazing part and that's certainly not the case in other cities, expensive apartments that you have to Now, at this point in the video, I can hear the comments like, &quot;Why don't you just buy the Aren't they giving them away?&quot; And the answer so many reasons to *not* buy a house in Japan, of not the right time, or it's not the right way better spent--invested in other things. it's not a good idea for a lot of reasons. If why buying a real estate investment in Japan is a My point isn't to downplay how unaffordable because holy moly, I know a lot of people the moment. Rent is only one very small like, &quot;Oh, it's cheaper to live in San all. I think I'm just getting a little it there. I'm just annoyed by TikToks. You you can rent this apartment for $300 a month in the staircase. It can sometimes just feel a bit who's not earning anywhere near the salary Also, I'd like to add that living in a in the world. Nearly 9 years that I've years have been spent in an apartment that's 25 square meter apartments. Because of that, I'm think I've become a lot more minimalist over you know, sometimes I really do just wish that I So, what do you feel about all this? Are you do you feel enlightened by my Google sheet? If hear from you in the comments, especially if you then the affordability of Tokyo to you based please make sure to check out my travel Trail*. It's available now on my website. It over 120 hidden gems and unconventional locations or Tokyo area. Every hidden gem in the guide has by Chris, so you know that none of it is like the internet is full of at the moment--especially deep recommendation, and I fully back up you're interested in that, go and check out my or you can go to currentlyhannah.com/ebook? I'll put it on the screen. You know what? I'll If you liked this video, please like it, share about &quot;Let's move to Tokyo, it's so cheap,&quot; and that a lot of people who watch my videos are not you want to see more stuff like this. Thank next time. Goodbye! Oh, it's a way longer