(relaxed electronic music) (birds chirping) (electronic chime) - This might be the best look into the future of tech (upbeat electronic music) So I am one of a very, who now has tried both of the new and very rare real augmented The Meta Orion Smartglasses and the Snapchat AR Spectacles. Neither of them is available to the public and you'll see why in a second. But also they're both pretty incredible in very different ways. I made a whole video a few but in case you missed that, smartglasses are over here towards this Goldilocks which would would be AR glasses. Like virtual reality They have tons of tech, amazing immersion, super wide field of view but and you don't really in public with them, at least But then smartglasses They look like something you might just wear out in regular everyday life but they can't really fit So you're limited to maybe a camera and some batteries and speakers and a little computer So VR headsets want to shrink down more and more until they and actually look like regular glasses, while smart glasses want to add more and more tech as much while still looking like regular glasses and so somewhere in the called augmented reality glasses. But what if we could pull and see what that looks That is what these are. So Meta and Snapchat different approaches to and neither of these will and I think that's probably a good thing. Neither of them is exactly ready yet but I still think they're both super cool and now that I've used them both, I kinda can't help but So let's start with Meta's Orion project. So they unveiled these on stage weeks ago and they've let a and they're actually a three-part system. It is the glasses that and there's also a wireless computer puck that must be within about at all times and there's that's measuring electrical and that's used as an input device. Yes, you heard that correctly. So combined, these three things experience unlike anything Now yes, there was Magic Leap and yes, there was HoloLens and things like that but now just wearing a pair of what feels like just transparent glasses that's actually overlaying onto the real world in front of me kind of feels like something The main challenge actually these things is there isn't 'Cause like I said, it's literally and seeing things overlayed Which is crazy but the best we can do is take a first person video and then overlay the on top of the video to sort of give you an idea of what it looks like to my eye. But it's really hard to do it justice. But either way, with I got to walk through So the first one was So just imagine sitting down in some coffee shop or and just scrolling through Instagram, which was a window floating in the middle of the room and then I did a little bit of So I had a video call going in one spot, some other floating windows with messaging and Instagram floating around me. Pretty basic but still pretty cool. The glasses, they're They weigh around 100 grams. The audio from Instagram, it was playing through that were right above my ears by making this gesture with my thumb and swiping on my own hand. So now seeing that, you might and the sensors on the front my hand doing this gesture and then doing the scroll in sync with it. There is hand tracking This gesture would be picked up anywhere if it was in my sweatshirt because I'm wearing that wristband and this thing may be the coolest piece of tech This is the EMG wristband EMG stands for electromyography. It's about the size of It has electronics built It has an onboard that connects via Bluetooth to the puck and is able to measure being sent from your brain to your fingers and it's pretty great actually. If you think about it, I mean your tendons sort of run through your all the way through your and so the set of electrical impulses that go through your is very distinct and different from the set of impulses and also different from and so the wristband can measure and pick them up on the way to your hand and map that to the controls. So even in this prototype it felt like it's getting and it also had haptic feedback as well to confirm when it was The people I talked to at Meta, including CTO Boz, say things like they love this as a really and they could see it potentially even getting to the point where they say they could measure you draw letters in midair with an imaginary pen and it uses those electrical to real letters as text It's crazy. So either way, it's working for scrolling through Instagram here as I'm I'm also looking at the to make sure that's what I'm controlling because there is eye control and scrolling with the That by itself is pretty The second demo was walking of ingredients on it, looking and then asking the built-in AI, what type of smoothie could And of course, there's and Meta's AI looks at the camera feed, sees a bunch of and then the most recognizable sitting on a contrasty you could make a pineapple But that's not what the most impressive part of that was to me. What was impressive was which was these little and then tracked onto the labeling each thing and as I moved around and It's such a little thing but Again, you have to realize through this video but in real life, just picture yourself looking at objects through your glasses and That was like sci-fi, it was amazing. So then the third and the coolest because it was So there's two people with glasses on. So both people walk up to this QR code in the middle of the room, and then that becomes the anchor point for a shared experience in 3D space, which in this case was a game of 3D Pong. So with the sensors at the front, now it's just shifted to through the air and and it let me hit this So I started getting kinda Sorry Ellis, competition is competition. Going hard in the paint. But yeah, this is just Pong in real life that only the people It's also funny because we felt kinda cool playing this game. But yeah, this is how it looks to people not wearing the glasses. Not so fun. There's a lot of complicated that goes into making these glasses work. Just from the sensors at the front and at the back pointing at your eyes, pointing at the real world to the micro-LED projectors inside to the wave guides, the that's allowing us to refract the light at an extreme angle without distortion. I went way into the weeds with this with the CTO of Meta, Boz, and I'm gonna put that whole segment on the Waveform podcast. It should be out by but I'll leave a link below to subscribe to Waveform so you can get into the weeds with us this week on that stuff. But I think what you this thing is packed to the gills. They have seven small sensors and cameras that are custom-designed to do the eye tracking and environment tracking. There's custom silicon in here to bring all of the data together. There's batteries split up to weight them evenly across your face. There's speakers. The frames themselves both because it had to be rigid enough to keep the lenses in alignment but also because that made as the literal heat sink to They actually made a working see-through version to help get us a better idea of how squashed and it overheats faster is not as good of a heat sink. So yeah, these glasses are absolutely thermally constrained and they have a battery life and that's not even to mention the completely separate compute where they're offloading the app logic. That is truly a technical marvel. But all of that adds that was mostly pretty transparent, pretty lightweight, comfortable enough to before they started to get a little warm and a little bit heavy on my ears and then the graphics themselves that it's overlaying Not the highest resolution I've ever seen but pretty respectable and which meant I could look around a bit and the graphics would mostly You can see 'em start to a little bit and that's actually But in total, it felt like slightly heavier than normal glasses with a little tint and But delivering the most convincing augmented reality future Of course, none of that matters right now because Meta is not shipping this, ever. It's kind of a weird to announce and show off but then never actually plan But think of it as PR. Again, you can watch but basically what I got was that they believe on this thing that they've without all of the extra and marketing and selling the to make something even better that may be good enough to actually sell. Ideally it can be brighter and can have better battery life of course and have a higher resolution potentially and still work towards all shippable, deliverable Especially those wave guides and the price, there's just for this low volume But that's the idea and I think So these, these are the Snapchat AR Spectacles and right off the bat, they look dramatically more like a piece But fundamentally, the same I am looking through these I can open this up. In front of you, the lens, there is a menu right and it's stuff overlaid over and it's actually But there are a few fundamental and Meta's that I think So difference number one, there is no separate computer puck. Everything is in these glasses. So I think we can safely assume that that's why there's so Meta's glasses looked much but had an entire separate paired to it the entire time, These you can connect to they do operate without any Everything's in the glasses. So that's definitely way But then difference number Most of which you're looking is just it's black and that's actually kinda interesting. That's not to say that they're They're still actually think this is more of a But then they still needed which is why there's this So you can still dissipate heat using the cooler air But in total, these still weigh 228 grams and when you put them on, they are, I mean they're huge, they are massive. You can see the arm extends There's a lot of mass They're trying to be more balanced. I mean, there's some level that there is no separate but like yeah, this is today's So there's a lot going on here. But then that brings us to number three, which is when you actually turn them on and there's two immediate Again, I'm not looking I'm looking at a menu in front of the lens but it's the resolution Now this is obviously and show on video and No eye tracking, it's just gonna be But on the Snapchat glasses, the resolution of the menus Everything is much sharper than the very honestly close to like what a Vision Pro looks like when I'm wearing those. But the field of view I think the number is 46 and candidly, you notice that a lot. Now field of view is normally not so bad that there's any interruption of the thing that you're looking at but it's actually close and this is one of the biggest differences between them as someone who happens to have used these and the Meta glasses back-to-back. Now I don't know if immersion but my main way of describing using the glasses, you're whatever software, whatever you're not really thinking You're just immersed in the thing, using the app, looking forward. But the second you start poking around or moving your head a of what's around right in front of you, then things get cut off. You can actually see this of some apps with the Meta Right here, right there. At the edge, you saw the UI and that's how it looked to me too. My eye sees that and that was with Meta's, which have the 70-degree field of view. This is even more restrictive. It's really only going to overlay things directly in front of you and it gets clipped. There's a golf game in here which I was playing for but you have your phone which and you look down and but you can't see anything else. And in golf, your peripheral So you look up to see the hole and then look down to see the club and you keep having to look back and forth and you hit it and you have just right so it doesn't There's just, yeah, it's much more noticeable with these. But probably my favorite with the display or whatever is the electrochromic tint. Because the Snapchat AR made from the same tech of the new Rivians from It's actually built into and so that helps them and that helps dramatically and contrast of the things that aren't supposed to be So I guess immersion is Maybe it's just a or a social media feed or and just want to watch a couple of videos. You can add the tint and then it kinda feels a little closer to a VR headset where the background is looking at something in It is crazy how much tech And then probably the last is on the subject of developers, See, both of these glasses that are gonna ship and be in stores ever. But one of them, the a super high-end tech that it works but the other one, these, these are actually a developer kit. You could theoretically get and start making apps for them. I mean, you'd have to and be locked into the developer program with a minimum one-year commitment. But then you get these and you're off to the races building lenses for Snap OS and there's a bunch of them There's that golf app I told you about. There's also a browser app and a &quot;Beat Saber&quot; and dozens more that I and there's even more really impressive shared space experiences. Like Snap's glasses, they don't even require They will actually just map as long as you're looking and it immediately matches you and manipulate the same It's kind of awesome. So if the golden question with AR glasses, at least for now is what can Then I do like Snap's strategy of just getting these out to and then just seeing what they make. Now me personally, I actually have two dream use cases for AR glasses. Here, the first one is I just being able to learn any Like the &quot;Guitar Hero&quot; overlay. Piano, that's the one where the piano notes come down and you can just sort of Any instrument, I think But my other one is so you know how when you're on an and you see like a cool monument that you recognize, What if, hear me out, it's like glasses AR You look out the airplane window and it outlines like or the state outlines or whatever and you can see the scale of things and it pops up little and things that you may recognize just by looking out the airplane window. That I think, I would So clearly more development is needed for both of these glasses. The Meta glasses, they have a separate computer They only have a two-hour battery life and an estimated $25,000 retail and the Snapchat glasses, they have a 45-minute battery So yeah, the tech is clearly not ready to start selling this to real people yet. But you almost can't help but picture the future that we might have, that we could have maybe even if we have this AR glasses Maybe. Someday. It could be cool. Thanks for watching. Catch you guys in the next one, peace. (upbeat electronic music)