Welcome to another Mathologer video. Have a look at this. First squish this square down by a factor horizontally, also by a factor of 2. Is this rectangle larger or smaller than the Easy, right? The answer is "neither". They have the same area. First, squishing by a factor of 2 gives a Then stretching by the same factor doubles we started from. Of course, the same is true for any shape For example, take this cute cat shape and Then squishing by a factor of 3 followed by different looking cat monster that has exactly Here's an interesting question for you: Is there a shape that is immune to these squish-and-stretch Immune in the sense that the shape is exactly the same before and after Is there such a shape? And I don't mean trivial stuff like a point Obviously those are immune. No, a shape that actually has a non-zero area. Believe it or not, anti-shapeshifters do exist. AND these anti-shapeshifters form the natural, the theory of relativity and much more. And now that I've got you hooked, I am sure with all the amazing anti-shapeshifter maths :) Happy to oblige. Okay, so prepare for the grand entrance of For this I need a Rubik's cube and a drill Looks familiar? Yes, that's our good old friend 1/x. Nice grand entrance, hmm. I bet you didn't know that 1/x was hiding I also bet you didn't know that 1/x leads see 1/x in action in anti-shapeshifter land I claim that this orange that this shape is immune transformation. Let's do a quick spot check. Let's squish and then stretch by a factor But first let's checkerboard the shape to as it transforms. Okay, squish down.. and stretch to the right. Very satisfying, isn't it. That our 1/x shape stays transformations, no matter what factor we use is easy to check algebraically. Really just a one-liner. Maybe one of you year 10 students watching So both the overall shape and the area of this figure stay unchanged But what IS the area of this shape. Well there is a really nifty way to figure Let me show you. Focus on this spike here. There the blue spike spiking off to infinity Okay squish-and-stretch by a factor of 2. Squish ... Stretch. As always, the new blue spike has the same But, at the same time, the new spike is contained There. Curious :) Can you already see where this Well, we can express the fact that one spike blue area equals the second blue area plus green + blue equals blue. Cancel the blue on both sides and you get. Hmm, we conclude that the green shape has Of course this is nonsense. How can we avoid this nonsense? Well, let's have another look at our equation. Now, IF the blue is an ordinary number, then nonsense. So the blue must be an extraordinary number, Extraordinary number? Hmm, what comes to mind there? Yes, INFINITY. Right? The only way the nonsense can be avoided is Of course this implies that the area of the And now one of the most is lurking just around the corner. And so let's quickly chase down that iconic of today's story. Okay so our spike has infinite area. Zoom in. Now, have a look at this infinite staircase. What is ITS area? Obvious, right? Infinite, too, since the staircase contains On the other hand, the area of the staircase many rectangular steps. And what are those areas? Also easy. Base times height. All the steps are one unit wide and so their And what are those heights? Well, our staircase is constructed to align And so the heights are 1, 1/2, 1/3, and so Now, as we already figured out, the areas And so this shows that the super-famous infinite infinity. As I said, one of the most iconic truths in Super neat proof don't you think? Those of you who know a bit of calculus may But I hope you all appreciate that what's this proof is that it skips all the calculus Let's focus on the area under the curve Let's call this area A(x). Guess what the A stands for? Anti-shapeshifter? Of course not :) "A" stands for area :) Oookay. So this is A(3) and this is A(2). Now, prepare yourself for something super I am going to calculate A(2) plus A(3) a la What does that mean? Okay, here we go. First A(2). At x=2 our 1/x is equal to 1/2. Move in the green shape. We adjust the height of the green shape by There. And we compensate areawise by also stretching Now shift the green like this. A perfect fit because of the anti-shapeshifter Let's do a couple more experiments with First off, let's switch the order, so we So at 3 our 1/x is equal to 1/3. Squish-and-stretch by 3. Squish and stretch. And shift to align. And, as expected, we get A(6) again. Although we know why this works it still looks Next, A(2) plus A(2). Let's do this on autopilot. A(2)+A(2) is A(4). One more A(3) plus A(3). A(3) plus A(3) is A(9). Great. So, what's the general rule? Can you guess? Pretty obvious, right? A of x + A of y = A of x times y. Sums somehow turn into products. I leave it to the keen among you to check Again, very easy and again, to make sure that up your proof in the comments. Anyway, sums turning into products, that sounds Where have you encountered something like Yes, logarithms. And of course it's exactly this so-called product formula for logarithms so so important in the old days, since, reading to translate the painful task of multiplying adding the logarithms of the two numbers. Anyway looks like our mystery area function done so far amounts to a very beautiful visual And, so, is our area function a logarithm? Well, let's see, apart from this product for logs, that one here. And it's also easy to visually see that function as well. Looking good. What about the power formula for logs? That one there. Well that also works for our area function. Let me just show you quickly WHY this works There 2 times A(x) equals A of x squared. Here is the simple proof. 2 times A(x) that's just A(x) + A(x). But then our product formula tells us that And since X times X equal X squared we are We can now iterate this argument to show that integers. 3, 4, 5, and so on. But now challenge for the keen among you: for ALL integers not just the positive ones? And then what about all the rational numbers? And all the real numbers? Leave your thoughts in the comments. Anyway, with enough work we can convince ourselves and quacks like a logarithm. So, presumably it is a logarithm. But then we have a puzzle. What puzzle? Well, there is not just one logarithm, there by their base. So if our area function is a logarithm what Let me show you a super nice way of answering Okay, so apart from the product, quotient and do logarithms have? Well there are some special values. Okay let's see how rusty your logs are :) Log Well, any log at 1 is equal to 0 no matter How about A(1)? Well, that's also 0. Pretty obvious. No area and so A(1)=0. Great. Now what's that other special value? Remember? Almost? Ok, I'll help you. The log to the base of b at b is always 1. Confused? Take my word for it, you once knew this :) Anyway, that should give us a way to figure out what Right, we simply have to figure out for which Okay, let's first convince ourselves that That's easy. We know that A(x) is 0 when x = 1. Now as we push x to infinity there is more larger. In fact because the blue spike has infinite But then, on the way from 0 to infinity our x where A(x) = 1. Cool. Again, it's that special value that we are Okay we want area 1. Well here then, for easy reference, is a unit Now let's have a look at A(x) for different Let's start with x=2. Is 2 our special number? Well, obviously not since A(2) is smaller There. The orange A(2) fits into the unit square than 1. This means that 2 is smaller than the special Okay, so what about A(3)? There. Well let's see. Aha, we get an overlap and so A(3) is too So what that means is that our special value Nice visual argument, don't you think? And now comes an even prettier argument that among you will like, guaranteed. Okay, let's step back and put x halfways There x is equal to 1+1/2. Shift the orange into the unit square. Here comes the first niftiness. Fit a second copy of the orange into the square. Like this. There, now the total orange area is 2 times But now, remember the power rule? 2 times A of stuff equals A of stuff squared. And what's stuff squared in this case? Well 1+1/2 squared that's 2.25.What does Well together the orange bits don't fill than the special value we are looking for. But we've definitely made some progress, We now know that the special value is between What's next? Can you guess? Well, instead of 1+1/2 we are now going to Then we can snugly fit three copies of the And in the formula all 2s turns into 3s. Evaluate (1+1/3)^3. That's 2.37 and a bit. Progress again :) Neat. What comes after 3? Well 4 of course, then 5, 6, 7, etc. And hopefully we'll get closer and closer Let me just show you what things look like There, As you can see most of the unit square as we go 10, 11, 12 to infinity we'll completely And so what's that special number that we Well, after calculating 1+1/N to the power special number is approximately ... 2.71828. And a lot of you will recognise this number, of the natural logarithm. Of course, for those of you who know some quite a while now. Right? Up there, that's how e is commonly defined And on closer inspection our area function the logarithm to the base e. And all you calculus demons will know that function is expressed in terms of this basic One natural question :) pun intended-natural about all the other logarithms? Where are they hiding? The answer to this natural :) question highlights another must-know property So, let's also quickly chase down those some really crazy stuff like hyperbolic rotations in with what we've been talking about today. Okay, so where are all those other logarithms Well, remember, it all started with the 1/x What was the first thing we did? We first checkerboarded and then squished Let's do that again but this time without Here we go, squiiiiish. Hmm, that somehow didn't look right, did But what exactly seemed off here? Let's watch this squishing down action one Squiiish. Although I definitely squished down, that's It looked like I was contracting the whole left corner of the shape. There, again. And that's it, that's that other remarkable As far as the overall shape is concerned, as overall scaling down by a factor of, well As you can easily check the factor is root And then stretching horizontally by a factor by the same factor of root 2. Aha, so what this means for our shapeshifter :) Nice. Again easy to check with just one line of What this also means is that the intermediate are just scaled versions of But since squishing and stretching just moves clear that these scaled shapes are themselves Interesting :) That means that we could have and derived things in exactly the same way And that works all the way up to the point For example, let's have another look at squish by a factor of 2. Factor 2 squishing means that our new area And now, since this function is a logarithm The base is the number x for which this function And so solving for x, we get this. And so our anti-shapeshifter corresponds to And, in general the different scaled shapes Great stuff, don't you think? And, in fact, following the path that we tracked create all the incredibly important number from scratch. Right, just to really drive home this very Let's pretend we don't know any e-related Start with our 1/x anti-shapeshifter, show function satisfies the product, quotient and Now, remember, we are pretending that we don't all things logarithm and e from scratch. And so, at this point, we give the area function We call it the natural logarithm which is Latin logarithmus naturalis. Now we find the special number that makes We define e^x to be the inverse function of all the other logarithms and exponential functions Now, from the way we defined the natural logarithm From this it follows, give or take the fundamental the natural logarithm is 1/x. From this it follows, give or take the fundamental the natural logarithm is 1/x. And then also that the derivative of e^x is At which point we've got pretty much all under control. I hope you all agree with me that this visual a lot of other beautiful e-related stuff lurking In regular calculus courses this extra material to motivate within the standard framework And so, let me finish off by also by chasing beauties. Have a look at this. I've arranged for all those wedges over Okay. Now, any squish-and-stretch combo will transform exactly the same area. Right? If we do this continuously we get this. So at all times all these wedges have the Does this remind you of something? No? How about a circle turning? There all those circle wedges also have the Very similar, right? Now the observation that the the graph of the 18th-century mathematicians Vincenzo Riccati hyperbolic counterparts of And so let me finish off by showing you a to go from the familiar trigonometric functions hyperbolic sine and hyperbolic cosine. Okay, for the trigonometric functions, also with the unit circle and an angle alpha. There. Then the sine and cosine of this angle are In calculus the angle is usually captured Of course that length is just the angle in Now expressing an angle by the length of the in itself. But you are all familiar with that, right? BUT what you may not be familiar with is the sector's AREA. When you think about that for a moment you'll via the arc length. Right? Different angles correspond to different areas of areas. What's also nice is that there is a simple the area angle. And here it is. Scale the circle and everything attached to There, everything got "timesed" by root at a point. Now you can easily check that the value of the original arc length. Again, the green area of this expanded sector of the original arc. Now, with the circle and the hyperbola touching Okay, the point where the two curves touch, hyperbola. And so what we want to do now is to align And we do this by rotating everything through Now extend the circular sector to a hyperbolic functions as lengths just like the trig functions The names of these functions are obvious, But how should we SAY these hyperbolic functions. Well spelling it out, how about cosh and sin-huh. Hmm. cosh is pretty good, but sin-huh doesn't And so the hyperbolic sin function is often we cheat by putting the h with the s. Shine, I like it! :) Anyway, names aside, all pretty natural, Again, here the angle alpha is the area of And now pretty much any property of sine or trigonometric functions. For example, take Euler's formula. The hyperbolic counterpart of Euler's formula Just get rid of the i s. Whoa! The exponential function is just the sum of And so the exponential function itself also of the sum of those two lengths in our diagram. I'll give an animated proof for this fact Actually, for all this to make sense we have other side both the angle and shine are to But that doesn't come as a surprise, right? After all, we do the same sort of thing with Anyway with this convention in place, let's On the right side things simplify. Since cosh(-alpha) equals cosh(alpha). And shine(-alpha) is equal to minus shine(alpha) Now if we add the two identities the plus get the famous way of expressing cosh in terms On the other hand, when we subtract the two A minus instead of a plus on the left. Very nice. And also, with what I've shown you it's counterparts of all the other basic trigonometric of the famous sine squared plus cosine squared This one here. Great stuff, right? And why is all this important? Well, hyperbolic functions pop up all over it comes to describing natural phenomena. For example, the graph of cosh describes the And those squish and stretch hyperbolic rotations in the theory of special relativity. To see this in action check out the super mechanical Lorentz transformation simulator A couple more hours worth of amazing stuff But let's stop here for today. I hope you enjoyed this Mathologer video. Please let me know what worked and what did in the comments. Until next time :)