We've lost so many good words. Old English could describe a whole host of That joy you only get from listening to music. That feeling of fun from drinking with friends. Or even that sense of dread you We had words for all of these So let's right this linguistic Here are 10 Old English words rated and updated for the modern world. Make yourself nice and earthfast because it's So we're going way back with this one. Old English - capital O, capital E - is the language being spoken well before Shakespeare and even before Chaucer, who were technically speaking Early Old English is the language of Beowulf: the It tells us so much about what made those guys We still need these words. So let's get cracking. Well to begin with dear friend: you who you feel you could tell absolutely anything. People outside of your family Well, the Anglo-Saxons had them variety of understanding between Yes, in Anglo-Saxon times, wine was Wine was "win". But in Old English, you could have a guthwine. You could have a "sundorwine". Or you could even have an "unwine". And if a sundorwine were to suddenly become an which was friend-sorrow: the sadness Aw Friendship was a big deal back then, as it is now. But as well as friendship - also had feondscipe, which was the opposite. A feond was your foe, your nemesis, your The treow at the end of winetreow becomes our word and I think it's a truly excellent word that we I was thinking "friendfaith". What do you reckon? "I love my mates, there's so I like it. Is it better than just saying "trust"? Yeah. Four out of five for this I mentioned I'm rating all of these, right? Now, friends come in all shapes and sizes got that one friend who occasionally fails Well, Old English had a word for those who don't think before they speak It means "hasty with words". The word pops up in an Old where the speaker is listing saying they should be "ne to There are some more wonderful How about "hatheort" meaning He also says a wise man shall be for "patient" before the French gave us patient. German-speakers take note: it is remarkably Another great word in there is "wanhydig", You could also be "lytelhygdig", which was small-minded. Or you could Or even deophydig, which was deep-thinking. Pretty much the opposite of the hraedwyrde, or I'm going to say "wordhasty". In Old English you could also be an overspeaker, someone who says one thing to one Someone who is two-faced. Although, it could also just mean bilingual. Frankly, I think we could bring But let's focus our efforts on hraedwyrde - because goodness knows there are still Okay, next: Sherlock Holmes. Miss Marple, Monk, That's right. They're all runcraeftig. That is to say, they're all Why on earth don't we have a word for Well luckily, we can just dredge this The craeftig bit is to be skilled at something: to be crafty, but not in the For example, a well-read Anglo-Saxon book crafty or "book-smart". Another Actually, a further one is or a song, so to be leothcraeftig And if you were really good, you could even call yourself a leoth-wyrhta - a How lovely is that? Anyway, I want us to bring back runcraeftig: Run meant mystery. But is it related As in the old alphabet we used fit the Latin alphabet - a Well maybe. The words in Old English for And depending on the context the word a, I suppose, quiet expression, a But the link is not definite. I Runes and mystery: can it really I love this word, runcraefty. We don't have an equivalent to it now, so so far as I'm concerned it Don't keep it a secret. Start using it today. Now, someone who is particularly crafty with Someone who's handy with heavy And you've probably heard of a goldsmith, But have you ever heard of a wundorsmith? This is my next word and you can perhaps someone who makes wonderful things. How gorgeous is that? It's versatile too. A wundor can also be a Magical. Old English had many a smith and not all as in Anglo-Saxon times, you could be a You could also be a teonsmith. But on the upside you could that's a laughtersmith or a comedian. We lost the H at the start the word's still kind of recognisable isn't it? But I think we could use another so I'm recommending the wondrous wundorsmith And we barely need to even change it. I'm English letter at the end, thorn, a letter for But until we succeed in that, Three out of five for wondersmith doing a similar job in some contexts, all right. You know what the Anglo-Saxons would have But a time-travelling Ethelred or AEthelwuf wouldn't need a wundorsmith they'd just need NordVPN. NordVPN puts up a kind of that protects you from all With a single click you and browse the internet safe in the Plus you can use the net like meaning you can access content I'm a British guy living in Germany and I use this all the time to keep up with what NordVPN's Threat Protection feature It'll identify malicious links before you click on them and weedle out dodgy-looking What's more, its Dark Web Monitor can alert you if ...unfriendly websites. So secure yourself online with NordVPN. Viewers of this video can get the 2-year plan to nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn or clicking There's a 30-day moneyback Be modcraeftig. Give it a go. Modcraeftig means smart. Okay, this next one is a word for which we but I think we should bring it back because it You see, Old English formed on an mix of dialects spoken by Germanic and they had an epic word They called the sea the whale-way. The word appears in an Old English poem called a controversial one, because some versions in a way that would actually mean "death road". Ooh heck. But let's give the whales the benefit seem to have been mildly obsessed with them. For example the Old English word for a Plus bringing back whaleways, would whaleway stations, and fishing nets whaleway lines and I really, really want that. You can also translate it as whale-road too, so American viewers can also Another tempting Old English term for the Pretty cool, but not better than whaleway. I also like the way it defers to It's an easy four out of five for me. We're staying on dry land for because next I want us to bring back "eardfaest". A modern way to say this would meaning "firm" or "fixed" like in Or also in the word fasten. And eardfaest meant to be firmly in the ground, Literally, you could describe a rock that but if you're feeling like you've or you've made yourself at home, you It's like, "settled". The idea of fastness crops Someone who was tight with their money A well protected area was a "faestland" who was resolute, was "faestraed". This word eardfaest stuck around for a fair while. It lingered in certain Scottish usually to specifically describe a But if we're to start using earthfast, I that of feeling "grounded" and "settled". Just a two out of five for bringbackability for but none of them create Now once you've got yourself nicely settled in, Perhaps pop down to the local pub? There's just a special joy that comes with having a I don't know how to describe it... But the Anglo-Saxons did and they called The word crops up in Beowulf where Mead is the lovely, sweet fermented choice of our forebears. If you've never Go watch one of Max Miller from Tasting In fact, watch all his videos. They're great. Anyway the Anglo-Saxons appreciated the sitting in a mead hall, perhaps astride a And they'd call it meadjoy, or perhaps I like the assonance, the repeated vowel sound. The second part of the word is a bit of an becomes our word "dream" - it certainly looks It's still a bit of a leap from that meaning But anyway, it pops up in For example, in this word, which is taking joy It also had a second meaning, which was "music". For example, a skilled musician And another glorious Old English and describes the pleasure Gorgeous. We should definitely bring that one back too. But I'm sticking with medudream - mead-glee - I could have gone higher, but I worry that might inadvertently encourage Now, a little overindulgence with and that's where we're heading with our next word. It is aersling, which means "backwards". You know how you can go headlong into something? Well aersling is the opposite. It is arselong i.e. in the direction of your bottom. That bit at the start does And just FYI: in the 17th century a fashion for dropping R sounds in some dialects. The same period produces, bust as a variation Anyway, back to Anglo-Saxon arses. Your bumhole was your earsgang, Your bum - buttocks an' all - could be and its even more unfortunate-looking fruit was An open arse. I can't for the life of me work out why. Anyway, I want us to bring back earsling I think it has a bit more urgency to it, like But because we do already have an alternative, Still, better than a smack on the arse. Right, let's move forward onto our next word, which is probably my favourite And I bet it'll speak to you too, because we've Our next extinct Old English word that I think we It's literally "dawn care" or "dawn sorrow" are lying in bed before the sun comes up, and Isn't that word relatable? If you've never felt the dawn-sorrow, lucky you. Or perhaps we could invoke an old word for Yeah, I like that. This word appears in the Old where a woman describes lying in He was exiled across the sea, and she went This is bleak Anglo-Saxon She also speaks of sinsorg Sorg actually very much like the German Anyway, we're talking about and Old English had all kinds of words for dawn activity. It had a word for a It's used to describe the sound of the It also had a word for a Plus there's this epic word for a dragon Pretty cool. But I want us to bring back being able to describe this specific type of I think the idea that people have at least a millennium is sort of comforting. It's satisfying to say, we don't have an alternative and it has That's why uhtceare is getting To my mind, that last word And in fact, Old English had an elegant word for something that was complete to the It quite literally means fully developed, and I think it is the perfect word with English words that I think we should use Although, let's face it, we've If this video's left you feeling fullthungen, And also, you should check out my free newsletter It's full of word facts and language fun Plus I have a Patreon where there's lots of Check it out and I'll see you in the next thing. Cheerio