This episode is sponsored by Squarespace. Getting a rocket safely into orbit is not Sometimes just getting it off the launch pad The challenge is even greater when it's your Elon Musk recently stated in an interview reaching orbit during its upcoming flight Now Elon does have a tendency to undersell Especially when you consider the fact that on its Maiden flight. And look how that turned out! Falcon heavy was the first launch I ever experienced And as we sat on the beach for hours hoping help but to wonder about that other 50 percent. Is this just some arbitrary number that Elon they expect it to fail? Five years later, we're now just weeks away flight. But this time around we believe we know exactly A complete structural failure of the starship's This will be a very critical moment for Starship understanding of why that is. My name is Zack Golden and welcome to another Hey everyone! Thanks for joining us. Before we get started, I should probably point series investigating the complete historical for the Starship program. In Part 1 we discussed each of the 24 test 2019 through the first half of 2022. We learned about every success, and every We place a lot of focus on failures because new iterations in the design of Starship are If you haven't watched that yet, don't worry is intended to build upon what we learned having seen it. Today we will be focusing almost entirely So we can truly get to know these vehicles But first, I realized at the end of part one ship 20 and booster 4 that shouldn't have For a lot of folks, it was incredibly disappointing end up being the first pair to perform an But there is something that we should always These two vehicles were the Pathfinders for Ship 20 was the first ship with a full thermal The first to have six engines mounted onto at the same time, which was also the first was ever tested on a vehicle. Booster 4 was the first and only booster to The first to receive grid fins, aerocovers It was also the first to have a Starship stacked Both of these vehicles performed an extensive changes to the starship, but they were also as well. When it comes to certifying the ground support without having an actual vehicle to test it So for this reason, whether it was going to to test fit the hold down clamps on the launch They also used it to test fit the booster which are used to start up the outer 20 Raptor They used it to test the gas distribution the liquid oxygen and methane pre-pressurization pressure vessels. They tested propellant loading and the detanking as well. That one in particular could be a pretty dirty being used as a massive basket strainer for and debris left over in the cryo-pipe system Booster 4 was also used to test the igniter and methane to the igniters for the outer Moving back to Ship 20. It was the first vehicle to be lifted by the functionality of that design and dial in its 20 was the Pathfinder for testing out the And finally it was used to test out the propellant Tower just like the booster did for the launch There are tons of others that I have left Ship 20 and Booster 4 were straight up workhorses So now that we have the obituary for Ship on to discuss the current generation of Starship Once again we will need the assistance of we uploaded into the CSI Starbase artificial Glad to have you with us Jax... uhhh why, Well some of the folks in the comments from Yeah I saw that. I mean it is kind of creepy but don't worry you're a bot you probably could have done in the comments that a lot of folks feel like website to store all the information that It'll probably end up being one of the most Sounds pretty time consuming. Well it doesn't have to be thanks to Squarespace Uh what is Squarespace check this out Squarespace website Inception within minutes you can get wide variety of styles in their award-winning its own unique Personal Touch you can even thanks to their unlimited storage space which anyone who needs to create an online portfolio Squarespace even allows for easy management I mean look at this! You can design your own merch within the built-in external sources. Look how quickly I created these CSI Starbase I'm assuming this means you'll be making these I mean at this point I really have no excuse I didn't realize how easy it is to create upset that I didn't do this earlier. Anyways if you want to try it out for yourself get 10% off your first website or domain. You can find the link to that in the description. So, before we can explain why SpaceX is worried during Max Q, we need to understand how we So let's get to know ship 24 and booster 7 events that have occurred since flight Readiness It's been an incredibly long journey to get and there have been many complications along both of these vehicles. As we go through this keep in mind that Starship phase. Spacex's iterative design approach involves through multiple design iterations. While this approach has many benefits, such costs it can result in problems if not managed One potential problem with this approach is This problem gets amplified if design and process, which I think is exactly what's happening I don't think this is due to a lack of foresight has a ridiculously talented team of Engineers In this case, the early retirement of Ship timeline on the next generation of Starship are going to discuss today is a result of Alright take it away Jax. We'll start off with the one and only booster Love it or hate it, you can't deny that booster It was fully stacked on March 10th of 2022 month. It conducted a pretty uneventful cryogenic was the first time a super heavy booster had This is when SpaceX decided that it was time tests because B7 was in this new generation Raptor 2 engines and the first to sport 33 This meant a new thrust Puck and a wider hole If we pull up Booster 5's 9 engine thrust here. If you aren't sure what a Thrust Puck is, of this investigation but essentially it's cluster of gimbaling engines on both the booster But back to these booster pucks, not only but they also vary in size. The nine engine Puck is about 4.8 meters across meters across. This also meant that the can crusher test configuration from how we saw it used in part As you can see on the concrete pad in the arranged to test the center gimbaling engines. Without placing the cap on top of the booster on the top, there was no way that SpaceX was on the vehicle. So it looks like this test was primarily for booster. So SpaceX lifted booster 7 off from the launch and attached the 13 hydraulic Pistons to the They eventually conducted a test using these And it looks like B7 passed with flying colours. SpaceX started detanking Booster 7 with the for installation of its 33 Raptor engines. Unfortunately the next day we found out that believed after SpaceX Crews opened the hatch began inspecting the interior with a long I'm sure that many of you watching this video But what exactly happened during this test Oddly enough this is actually something I April 29th of 2022. this was a test when booster 7's downcomer As Jax mentioned, everything was going well But as they say, it's not over until it's So after the thrust Ram test was complete, liquid methane and oxygen tanks. When the detank was almost complete they started thing to see near the end of the process. The methane tank was vented in short bursts tank was vented continuously for nearly 20 When it reached the point where it seemed LOX tank, SpaceX opened a single vent on the for about 10 seconds. Five seconds after it stopped.... [LOUD BANG] Labpadre's Rover 2 camera picked up the sound inside of the header tank and the effect of of the booster as you could see a line of Using this animation from 3D forensics agent looks like as it's passing through the LOX Keep in mind this part of speculation, but the final deep press event of the methane close to it. The LOX header tank was more than likely still higher pressure than the void space on the When the vent on the methane tank opened up pressure differential between the header tank the downcomer to collapse in on itself like It's a really good thing that this test was because had this happen under different circumstances even though the tanks were near empty. This procedural failure ended up functioning test for the methane downcomer tube. SpaceX was able to remove it and install another they welded extra hoop stiffeners around the We have seen the methane transfer tube on upgrades. Not only did they increase the number of ribs strip of Steel that could easily crinkle up In the newer design they now have thicker welded together, which is only noticeable On top of this there is a flat strip that function as a slosh baffle to some degree. Returning to booster 7, the downcomer replacement May 11th of 2022 it performed another cryo So once booster 7 had completed this re-verification downcomers section was structurally verified be prepared for static fires. During this downtime SpaceX rolled out their produced like booster 7 ship 24 Sports numerous many of which changed the structure of the the aft section of the Starship. With the switch to Raptor 2, the Dome was engines. However it's important to note that the general similar to sn15s which we discussed in Part There are a lot of other changes but we'll relevant. So on May 26th, 2022 SpaceX rolled it out the tank farm. If you aren't aware that Cryo Station is a tests right on its transport stand. The reason the ship was tested here was because Test Stand A to support the new changes to of Starship. When it arrived, SpaceX set up for the first using gaseous nitrogen to bring it up to pressure. How did that go Zack? Well this is another topic I've covered in review. Unlike the downcomer collapse on booster 7 until the following day, it didn't take much this occurred. You could very clearly hear the sound of the protection tiles falling off of the ship. in contrast with a lot of the events that Elon hasn't been as forthcoming with details So we're forced to do the detective work ourselves. Thankfully SpaceX decided to repair the damage we know what occurred during this test. So let's take a look at the inside of the At the top of the nose cone there are two One for liquid oxygen and the other for liquid Each of these tanks require a pipe for filling The ones for pressurizing the tank are the In ship 24 these were originally designed way from the top of the forward Dome, to the Unfortunately this design didn't account for of the stainless steel piping. So as SpaceX went to pressurize the header increase causing significant thermal expansion This thermal expansion caused the pipe to we heard. A few days later Starship gazer live streamed of pipe allowing us to see the bent section It was replaced with a new section of pipe would allow it to have more freedom to expand This was a great thing to figure out on the since any issue involving the header tank in to perform its Landing maneuver. So once this repair was completed, SpaceX test of Ship 24 on June 2nd of 2022. With the first cryo proof test successfully quick disconnect now completed, ship 24 moved two additional cryogenic proofing's using like ship 20 used in 2021. On ship 24's aft dome, the stiffening structures which is why we saw the thrust rams get used On ship 20's generation, these were mounted Ship 24 plus has them on the interior. The first test on Pad A was on June 6th followed From here with the cryoproofings out of the pad and returned to the production site to finishing Touches. But now it was time to start doing some quick both already receiving engines and there still designs. So SpaceX constructed booster 7.1 to verify B 7.1 is a test article made out of a 33 engine crusher in the 13 engine configuration. It's sort of the same concept as B 2.1's test of Booster 4's generation aft section as we This test tank featured long stringers on something that they added to every booster So part of the goal was to not have the AFT in the previous test. The last thing to mention about B 7.1 is that in order to allow the can Crasher cap to be But this wasn't an actual booster forward It was just a leftover Starship forward Dome This is how we know they were only focused with this test article. HOLD ON Jax I'm going to cut in here for a idea that we briefly explain what a Thrust So let's start off with the center 13 engines. The largest of the thrust bearing structures area is the aft dome. While the center 13 engines are firing there puck. That Force must be transferred from the thrust walls of the liquid oxygen tank. This happens along the point where the AFT This is part of the reason why it's important line. So next we can consider the outer 20 Raptor This is pretty straightforward literally because the aft skirt to the walls of the LOX tank That's why the additional stringers on the as well. Anyways B 7.1 first rolled out to the pad Crasher stand three days later one interesting Puck did have 13 engine mounts but it was SpaceX had already verified b7s during its booster 9's revised thrust Puck on 7.1 which have to go on the can crusher. This was pretty cool as it would ideally speed There were some important changes with how that I will allow Zack to explain here. Allow? Anyways this is honestly one of the most peculiar arranged in thus far. What was unique about this test that we hadn't to add additional Pistons to test the mounting This was difficult to notice if not for the probably wouldn't have caught it. But you can see that tucked way back there After we noticed this, we were able to go when the can crusher was rolled out. You can see them sandwiched between the columns Looking at it again a few days later. After it arrived at the launch complex we Ram added before Booster 7.1 was placed on The reason I find this interesting, is because from a localized test of just three engine on all 20 to verify the structural Integrity the vehicle. Now this isn't to say there's anything wrong It's just an interesting observation. B7.1 started off its four cryogenic tests was one of the more interesting ones to watch on the can crusher being pulled down repeatedly. Each time the Pistons pull down is considered This is similar to the testing that Zack mentioned Falcon 9 performed more than 150 cycle tests how many were conducted on the B7.1 test tank. This structural test was followed by three During the July 27th test on the NASA space partially crushed B 7.1. The audio you're hearing from this test is and it really gives you a sense of how much buckled. This was just the top of the tank which is The bottom was the main area of focus for to press down on. But this was still pretty rough, so B 7.1 In the meantime SpaceX got to work on the site about a month before and was preparing The goal here was to quickly move to static section had been structurally verified. Booster 7 now had all 33 Raptor 2 engines Once on the pad booster 7 performed an igniter engines. July 11 2022 the day of the first 33 inch the mixture of methane and oxygen beneath Zack put out an episode after this happened caused this event, so I recommend checking be new to the channel. Booster 7 then rolled back to the Megabay Ship 24 was the next to return to the launch It was mounted on suborbital pad B and conducted On August 9th Ship 24 conducted a two-engine engine Booster 7 was also back out of the pad by 20 outer Raptor boost engines. Two spin primes were conducted on August 8th first single engine static fire on the Orbital Another static fire happened 2 days later, seconds to test after 7's autogenous pressurization Autogenous pressurization, that's a term we But what exactly is it? Well I've explained this on many past episodes point of view instead of going in depth on Autogenous pressurization is a method of pressurizing themselves. In this method the liquid repellents are vaporized the resulting gas is used to build up pressure The pressure generated by the vaporization propellant out of the tank and into the engine. It's important to note that as the engines consumed will increase and therefore the amount have to increase as well. As more engines are firing, the system must of the tank to prevent them from exceeding tank once it falls below its minimum operating So this test would have to be conducted again that it's performing as expected. Well after this static fire Booster 7 returned When it returned, it conducted a couple more fire. However it seems that during this test only aborted during the spin up. Either way it looked like a good burn. After this, SpaceX conducted the first 33-inch back in July. Taking a step away from booster 7 momentarily, and it was back out at the pad. During B7.1's stay in the Midbay SpaceX had added a new interface piece for the Can Crasher At the pad it conducted two more structural doing their job once again pulling down in And it looks like B7.1 successfully passed Following this test we saw B7.1 and the e-dome a little bit - move over to the new Massey's Massey's is an old gun range that SpaceX now site. Today cryogenic testing can be conducted on In the future we expect that boosters will as well. Stepping away from Massey's ship 24 was undergoing a six engine static fire. Some unexpected work followed this, but in Booster 7. Back on the orbital launch mount, it conducted Yo I hate to interrupt but do you think we no Spin Prime Tests are important for verifying expected before firing them. These tests essentially take the engine all with the igniters disabled. It's essentially an aborted static fire in By performing these tests SpaceX games a lot that they won't expected failures that could engines on Startup. So this series of tests were followed by a SpaceX was cautiously working their way up After this, booster 7 once again rolled back to as &quot;robustness upgrades&quot;. When it returned, Ship 24 and Booster 7 were for the very first time. Which was pretty exciting, there's no doubt compared to Ship 20 and Booster 4. Together they conducted multiple cryogenic Likely the single species propellant loading to. Around this time over at the Massey's testing up. Timeout. Why do they call this an e-dome? Is there something significant about it that nomenclature? Well this is actually how it was labeled by We've been assuming that the E probably stands This test tank uses brand new flatter domes stacked all the way back on June 3rd of 2022. So what is the reason that they would want Well to answer that, let's look at the current These domes are made out of a total of 38 are also believed to still be stamped panels These newer domes are only made of 19. The long panels that make up the dome are Here is an example of how some stretch formed This is a change that was also implemented These changes allow production of the domes of welds that make the dome, reducing the If you shift the domes just right, you should while also slightly increasing your usable Alternatively, you should be able to slightly the tanks while keeping a similar usable payload Overall, these domes are easier to make, simpler, Edom rolled out to the launch site after it its stay. It appears that SpaceX didn't want to interrupt that didn't directly relate to Ship 24 and In August it moved back to the Sanchez Site facility. We didn't even know that testing had begun, Photography saw EDOME all frosty, so he contacted just in time to catch this. The dome cap in the center of the forward A later flyover showed that whatever remained Over the next few weeks, crews repaired the Sometime between October 20th and 29th, EDOME would have been a very large pop. In this aerial photo, we can see that the goes to show that this must have been under We haven't heard anything official about this being implemented as Booster common domes well enough. SpaceX's next Starship made it out to the ready to conduct some cryo testing on Pad So, on November 1st, it conducted its first on November 2nd, and a 3rd cryo on November Ship 25 then returned to the production site didn't go exactly how we expected. We'll discuss that in a little bit. Back to B7, with whatever the &quot;robustness to the pad and conducted a spin prime. This was the first time SpaceX used the new would now be active during all engine tests Zack has a video on that as well if you would This spin prime was followed by a static fire About 2 weeks later, on the 29th of November, a full LOX tank, once again testing out the This static fire lasted for about 13 seconds. An interesting thing about this test is that being purged from the LOX tank. I think this may be a sign that the autogen this test, causing the booster to automatically Great observation! Following this test, as seems to be typical Site for finishing work ahead of its launch We're now going to talk about Ship 24 for In the latter half of 2022, SpaceX appeared Most notably, the Payload Bay and the aft Both of these, if left unchecked, may have Let's check it out. After Ship 24's 6 engine static fire on September directly beneath the sliding payload bay door. Ship 24 is... well, was... equipped with a An internal racking system allowed 2 stacks There is a built in lifting mechanism that then lifts the entire rack so another pair The Starlinks are loaded onto the ship using bridge crane and gets mated with the ship from the loader, to the ship with relative This is a convenient way for SpaceX to avoid this early in the development process even a facility constructed for this purpose in Once in orbit, the Starship will deploy its door like a PEZ candy dispenser. But, Ship 24 didn't get to keep this system With this new scaffolding set up beneath the What exactly did they do here Zack? By now, a lot of you are probably already Ship 25 have both been welded shut and have We haven't received any official explanation the available evidence as closely as possible So let's take a step back and start by examining of the Starship payload section. The first step in creating this payload bay of the internal Stringers. On ship 24 there are 88 stringers and on ship You can see these stringers from the outside the skin of the vehicle. You will notice that below the weld line for stringers. The reason for this is because both the liquid get most of their strength as a result of 6 and 8 bar. This is equivalent to a range of roughly 87 Pressurizing the propellant tanks to this tank walls and the entire rocket structure. This is because the pressure inside the tank which helps resist deformation. Essentially, by counteracting external stresses buckling. The payload section on the other hand, will when its closed should only hold about 1 or This is why the stringers are necessary in in wall strength due to it being a non-pressurized I believe that these stringers primarily increase These forces will be the greatest during Max re-entry After the stringers are installed, additional These hoop stiffeners have teeth that allow and contact the inner wall of the ring section. They are welded both to the stringers, and see them from the outside. Any time we see these dotted weld marks in-between there are hoop stiffeners present. These hoop stiffeners compliment the stringers, in the radial direction. I think these forces come into play primarily not an expert in aerospace structures, so with a pinch of salt. Anyways, with the internal reinforcements into the barrel section of the ship in order I think that the height of this door makes a deal when it comes to how it affects the But, when you take a moment to consider the This opening is just over 7.2 meters wide, of the starship have a diameter of 9 meters. If you look at a cross sectional view from opening is about 108 degrees which represents Because this doorway is located at the bottom support everything above it. This includes more than 80% of the nose cone the COPV's that are mounted in the top of This also includes the header tanks which the top of the structure once they are filled Oh, there are also a few thousand TPS tiles Not only must it support all of that weight, the dynamic drag forces that will be exerted Without the gigantic hole in the barrel section, uniform throughout the entire 5 ring stack, towards the forward dome of the methane tank. These forces increase during flight as the pressure. Now let's take a look at how that changes Keep in mind that this is just a conceptual data but you can see that with this large forces will now have to be redirected around This will create an area of significantly left and right edges of the door way. Something has to be done to compensate for in these areas. Now, if this was an observation window that be solved by placing structural supports over see in conceptual renders of the Starship. These supports could be made as large as necessary Not only this, but the windows themselves walls of the ship so that they will become the strength of the hull. Unfortunately the sliding door for the current not integrated into the walls but is instead, I wish I could show you what these look like, sneaky when they install these doors. But what we do know, is that this door is being suspended from inner walls of the ring So what did SpaceX Engineers do in order to supports holding up the payload section had Well after Ship 24 was fully stacked in the on either side of the door which extend from below it. Initially, they believed that this would be was created by designing the door in this But shortly after Ship 24's six engine static not going to work. On the morning of September 15th SpaceX workers vertical stringers at the edges of the doorway. Over the following eight days they added an of the doorway as well. This strip of steel creates a four inch, or should help increase the stiffness of the It might not look like much, but it's important of 4 mm stainless steel, so this little strip After this frame was welded around its entire cover to completely seal the opening. Before they did this, several holes were drilled space between the door and the cover, to equalize cone. After the cover was lifted into place and it using small tack welds spaced out along When we zoom in you can see that there are of the stainless steel cover. Each of these received two spot welds on the Once it was supported enough by the tack welds then complete the final weld around the entire around the perimeter of all 220 cutouts. So yeah, this was a lot of hand welding that a week. A few weeks later, we also noticed some new is a sign that some additional reinforcements These were most likely some sort of bracket it from moving. On ship 25 they they took a similar approach SpaceX may have welded the door to the edges to be certain. This would effectively make it so the door integrity of the payload section by bridging forces to pass through. But, like I said, we have no proof of this. Anyways, after ship 25's door was welded they initially on either side of the door and then frame to go around the perimeter of the opening. These are also referred to as super stringers serve the same purpose. You can see there is additional material used early So when it's all said and done there are now the frame of the opening which means there now in those areas instead of 4. There is 8 millimeters of material in the the two sheets or the structural supports So, Ship 24 and 25 now had their doors sealed But the question remained for many: why do We definitely don't know for certain, but This is what we can say with a fair amount This now seemed to be a design flaw. Both Ship 24 and 25 had their doors sealed. With Ship 25, this seemed totally unprompted. It had only completed basic cryogenic tests, system unless something occured during transportation There was a LOT of internal work on these possible that some measures were taken to gap. It's impossible to say, but it's something SpaceX had not conducted any structural verification time either, so it seems like they either happened to the real vehicles themselves. SpaceX sealed Ship 24's door right after the violent. It's possible that the vibrations from the to the dispenser system as a result of an no way to really prove that. If computer simulations found that the PEZ us to know that as well. But, sometimes to find what the issue was, at what SpaceX did with the PEZ dispenser This oddly takes us to one of the first payload Ship 24's. It was originally designed with a door that Ryan Hansen Space. This design used a large door that took up were some issues with it. After it sat outside for quite some time, stable, and you can see that the top portion sagging and was being held up with chains. Anyways, on the opposite side of its large for some more pathfinding. On the right-hand side of this barrel, we doubler plates stacked on top of each other. So they were pathfinding reinforcements, and was on the horizon. Now it seems weird that they gave it 2 smaller that this barrel was so structurally compromised to cut around the internal reinforcements. Many people have been wondering if it would Starlink satellites, but the way I see it so even ignoring any fitment issues that may it might be worthwhile to figure out how to But regardless of that, with all of these changes to be implemented. Ship 27 and onwards implemented these changes, these doubler plates had been added on each of about 16mm of steel in those areas, assuming Additional doublers continued around the perimeter Another addition was 9 remove before flight Now this could be as simple as a safety feature, ground, but maybe it's to keep the door secured Either way, we know that SpaceX had suddenly the side of the Ship, which may suggest that opening. But it's not for certain. If this was the case, during the ascent or have tried to deform and even begin to fold. If this happened, the vehicle would likely The aerodynamic forces would likely try to the Methane and Oxygen pipes that run up the If this happened and they possibly ruptured, may have an explosion occur. Overall, you don't want a compromised payload As a sidenote, one of the things that many on the Payload Bays during production. These have been used since Ship 25, and may during the production process to prevent it Once stacking of the vehicle is completed, are mounted get cut off. So, these new modifications are yet to be things that we believe should eventually go testing. We'll need to keep an eye out for a potential would undergo testing. This more than likely won't happen before Well I guess it doesn't really need to especially so these changes won't really come into play Yeah, exactly. Now, this is only when some of Ship 24's issues Another section of the Ship that SpaceX did it with the vehicle was the aft section. Now, I'm not taking about thrust ramming the The unpressurized skirt area is a key area of what would be considered the Starship's I'm not sure if I need to explain why it's 1 minute into flight during MaxQ out both the skirt's structure and the aft A 4 ring aft sleeve that matched Ship 24's the Can Crusher at the end of September in And with this test came yet another new configuration Gotta love how versatile this testing structure In order to test a Starship aft section on in order to interface with the 20 hold down booster testing. This black ring was delivered several months It would later have adapters for the 20 clamp of the can crusher mounts. The cap was modified as well. They added an appendage that would allow it the aft flaps of the Starship similar to what This allows realistic flight loads to be placed cap is being pulled down by the hydraulic So, with it on the Can Crusher, we believe when Remedios Avenue was closed for testing set up with a camera to watch the article. After the test, many people noticed that some This was a structural failure technically, next steps would be. What most people didn't notice is this photo the article returned to the Dome Yard. Not only had the aforementioned ring weld the Quick Disconnect panel. The Quick Disconnect, or QD, is used to supply other consumables. There's a lot of very delicate pipework behind bad. yeah I mean that's one way to put it. SpaceX had to get to work right away to find 24 and therefore, the first Orbital Flight So this test article went into Tent 2, and later to see that stringers were being added to bang out the dents. The actual QD panel appeared to have been When it went back to the Can Crusher, it looked Now, if you've been watching this program look like this. So my best guess would be that SpaceX did continue. And it seems that testing went well! This article was removed from the Crusher 2023. But there was still an issue to address, the resolved, and if the quick disconnect was was to get damaged, well I don't think I need likes to do in an enclosed area, because the inside of the skirt where many electrical You would also likely lose pressure in much connected to the engine feed pipes. Over at the Suborbital Launch Site, a tower 24, and tiles were being removed around the By doing this workers able to access to the Once the tiles were removed they welded a the only real alternative to placing stringers protected side of the ship without some major So this was at least part of the solution. For these top 2 rows of removed tiles, we presumably some kind of reinforcements were We then saw the tiles get replaced and the After this, the work on Ship 24 went silent these changes before anything more happened. So of course, yet another test tank was produced. Ship 26.1 is a test tank made out of a Starship used as a testing interface, like B7.1. Our first sign of impending design changes into the Megabay. Crews were measuring out areas around the doubler plates were added around all 4 corners, to around 8mm. S26.1 also had doubler plates, like we saw lower 3 ring welds. I don't think many people realized this at to confirm that Ship 24 would be able to stay We have previously discussed how strain gauges and the placement of these definitely tells We can see 2 strain gauges by the Quick Disconnect, some on the stringers that reinforce the aft that were put over the ring welds. S26.1 was moved to the Masseys testing site 21st, 2022. It might have been tested more, but due to time, we can't be sure when that would have The good news is that S26.1 seems to have with adding these modifications to S24. Well if this test article had of failed, they went to ship 25 next right? Well It's not that simple. And this is one of the things that we hadn't at the 26.1 test article a few months back. Here is a photo of Ship 24's aft section, We can see the dashed vertical welds which on this section. Alongside these stringers, we can count 8 Together, these form the primary reinforcements There are others around the aft flaps like the hardware to support the aft flaps makes Anyways, 96 internal stringers and 8 hoop Remember that. Looking at Ship 25's aft section, we can see the same 96 internal stringers in addition At this point in time the 2 located in the but looking at Ship 25 later on, which is present. They are just added later on. Onto Ship 26 then. We can see the same stiffeners like previous, later after the point this photo was taken. Ship 27 is next. It's the same too. Over to Ship 28, in this photo it's upside Ship 25 when we talked about it, but these same too. I think you can see where I'm going with this. All of the aft sections had the same general structural testing, how would SpaceX know So now, every single aft section that had same modifications S26.1 had, which at the To review, that meant 4 doubler plates would panel, a frame piece would be added to the the lower 3 ring welds on the vehicle would Ship 24 is now visible with the doublers around Ship 25 is visible with the doublers around the ring welds. Ship 26 has them on the QD and ring welds, Ship 27 has them in those spots too. Looking into Tent 2, we can see them on Ship In tent 2 once again, we can see them on Ship If we brighten up this photo inside the Starfactory 30. Lets be clear this wasn't an issue with Ship This wasn't an issue with Ship 24's generation. This was an issue with Starship as a whole, Okay hold on a second you said that they've on all of the ships but you also said that Well, that's true. Most people haven't quite noticed it, but its 6 Raptor 2 engines, SpaceX did start adding they were sealing the payload bay door shut. But, they don't actually seem to have finished. Looking at Ship 25, you can see that they in addition to the doublers around the QD Up at the PEZ dispenser door, the cover was It looks like crews started doing the final parts that weren't welded. This was weird at the time, and honestly, Maybe it's suggesting that SpaceX hasn't intended it's looking too deep into this. Either way, it's quite strange. Overall, SpaceX dodged quite a few bullets these design flaws didn't force them to abandon That's one of the benefits of stainless steel. What is a bit concerning here is that such was allowed to happen. And, as Zack mentioned at the beginning of of Ship 20 and Booster 4 being scrapped. If we look back to March of 2022, the retirement wanted to rush out the new ship and booster major upgrades. In doing so, the vehicle manufacturing seems and design qualification testing, which I these issues with Ship 24. Instead of verifying these new designs to were implemented into the vehicles right away. To me it seems that SpaceX had at least some be fine, and their simulations and math may And by no means do I think I know better than with Ship 24 and Booster 7 put a lot of crucial We are in March 2023, and SpaceX still hasn't components of Ship 24. And the reality is that with rapid iteration, has really done anything like this before. The solution to this, is that SpaceX will qualification, which will ultimately save modify 7 aft sections at the Production Site. But with this aside, they have to finish up at the last couple test articles on the agenda. One of the test articles that SpaceX tested Booster 6 was skipped in favour of Booster a test tank in December of that year. It's made out of a Booster forward dome and dome was capped off to create an enclosed B6's counterpart, which we've heard referred believed to be assigned to Ship 22. Ship 22 is believed to have stolen Ship 23's this one was left roaming around. These parts sat around for about a year until The skirt received reinforcements to make because it was an old and irrelevant design, But, the integration with B6.1 would be structurally and the Booster, in addition to the Booster changed all too much from B6's design. It was assembled on the Can Crusher and the November 14th and 15th are believed to be tell, it passed perfectly fine. There have been a few more trials with various of this video and the uncertainty of what to talk about just one of the other tests launch. Ship 24 implemented a new design of nosecones, of many stamped panels like was on Ship 22 The old design was tested in the nosecone So, SpaceX waited quite some time to actually and truthfully for a while we were a bit worried Nosecone 31 first deviated from the standard SpaceX suddenly stopped putting heatshield In the coming months, the flap hardware was removed, just like NC12 a couple years back. It would roll over to the Sanchez site on nosecone cage base. I'll let Zack discuss how this testing structure Well its important to note the obvious fact section. So since SpaceX is only trying to verify the had to shorten the testing structure to about The nosecone has a single 9 meter ring added This ring has an access hatch on it to allow of the structure to service the hydraulic This ring section is welded down to the base outside, and stringers on the inside to ensure pressure, it won't fail due to this ring which Inside of the structure, there are 3 small used to pull down on cap from the inside. Up, top they again have two pistons to pull re-entry forces so other than the changes and the lack of a 5 ring stack, this is relatively cone. We likely won't see this test when its performed it from a distance. It will be very hard to determine when it occur before the first launch, if it hasn't And that's good news because once that's completed verified every section of the booster and but hopefully that won't matter for this first On January 23 of this year, SpaceX completed Successfully filling the Starship first and them through a complete launch count down This included everything that will happen retracting both quick disconnects, and igniting It was incredible how smooth this went and attempt really got the team fired up. And if that some how that wasn't enough excitement, finally performed a not quite 33 engine Static This was a relatively low throttle test, peaking I say available thrust because SpaceX manually for unknown reasons. Overall, everything went incredibly well and occur sometime in April and I want to personally So where does that leave us? Well if you get one thing out of this episode, of how Structural Qualification Testing plays Its very critical for this to be performed And every time SpaceX makes a major change we should expect to see them begin the qualification I can guarantee there will be A LOT more of This is a pretty monumental task that SpaceX Keep in mind there are at least 5 different do everything from placing payloads into orbit, and hopefully send them to Mars as well which This is something of far greater ambition V. And that's kind of crazy because at its 400,000 people and required the support of The last time we heard, SpaceX has less than So if this kind of stuff interests you, than they need your help...like, yesterday. Anyways, I look forward to keeping you updated hopefully Jax and the Ring Watchers will continue we really wouldn't be able to cover this topic So Thank You Jax. In the meantime be sure to follow the Ring If you enjoyed this episode, then do us a to the channel if you haven't already. I've decided to go full time with the CSI likely see a significant increase in content months. If you would like to help support the channel do so by becoming a monthly supporter on Patreon, Before I go, I also want to thank Chameleon the detailed renders and animations used in and also to Geoff for consistently improving these episodes every time we release a new Hopefully all of you returning viewers can each time as well. And speaking of hard work, huge shoutout to Starship Gazer, Cosmic Perspective, and all who's content was used in this episode. Thank you for doing what you do to document You can find links to all of their various Last but not least, thank you to Squarespace Alright everyone I'll see you all next time. For now, this is Stage Zero Zack - Signing