Fermilab physicists really care about the decade recording collisions in the Tevatron This culminated in the April 7 announcement heavier than expected. So why do we care? Because was one of the most important breakthroughs in our understanding of the subatomic world. And because measuring its precise mass either doubles down to an even deeper knowledge. The FermiLab --- This timing of FermiLab's Over several previous episodes we've of how the forces of nature are unified. The of the weak force - in particular the particles property that we once thought no force-carrying The W bosons are especially weird in This allows the weak force to trespass suggesting a connection between the two. This connection hints at a The path to that unification leads to explains the mass of the weak bosons, but To get to all that good stuff we need that led to this - fields and forces and the fabric of a drum has vibrational Every point in space can wiggle, A quantum field just represents one of these come in discrete packets of energy that can move One special type of field is the the fact that physics often doesn't The laws of physics are symmetric For example, physics works the same no matter or where you put the zero point of We saw in our episode on Noether's theorem that In quantum mechanics, such a "redundant degree example of this. The exact phase of the quantum next - local phase - doesn't affect measurable When we enforce this requirement, we find the Schrodinger equation that lets the That gauge field turns out to be this field are the photon - our first gauge So one of the fundamental forces arises from that the laws of physics are invariant transformations that can change local phase are "unitary group 1", or U(1). These "one" number in this case rotation of See this episode for the nitty gritty of all the next episode we tried the same as arising from symmetries. We saw that we could freedom and demand that the universe be We call this symmetry group SU(2) for ... gauge field that has 3 force carriers that So far so good except that the predicted particles are, as I mentioned, pretty hefty. That's a huge symmetries. According to something called massless. So... so far so bad, but we're gonna Another problem with this first pass at the weak electromagnetism. Its bosons do have properties but no electric charge. In our universe locked together, only taking on To see if we can duplicate that in our theory so that they apply at the same time. We call this gauge field still has bosons that look a bit like the latter are still massless, and the resulting They're all free to be whatever they isospin and hypercharge are tightly coupled, Is it time to give up on this symmetry stuff yet? There's one more long-shot clue. I said symmetry. But what if that's okay? We've also using this example of a bunch of bar magnets. them move randomly, but as the system cools down magnetic interaction and they end up all aligning. preferred orientation, but in certain conditions - direction. This is an example of spontaneous in a state that violates the symmetries of their Here's another analogy. Consider a ball rolling describing its motion are symmetric between Now imagine it wasn't one valley but The system is still symmetric, but if the randomly roll down into one valley. has a broken symmetry, even if the So let's just see if we can break in a similar way. The equivalent of the can oscillate around some "zero-point" value The "walls" of the valley are just the field value moves away from the zero point, trying the vertical represents potential energy and Particles of this field are just oscillations where the field strength is zero. then the field just sits at the lowest Easy stuff, right? In that case OK, don't freak out. It's not on the test. This It's really just the difference between in the field. Our plot was This particular Lagrangian describes a simple interact with each other. Let me talk you through field itself - it just means there's a numerical The potential energy part is the "shape" of the strength that represent ways the field's particles the particles of the field interact with particles phi^2 term represents the field interacting with property of mass. Gauge fields shouldn't interact And that means this isn't a gauge field. The gauge field is a new thing that comes from particular Lagrangian has the simple symmetry that If we complicate things by adding a second field compone nt - phi 1 and phi If the current state of the field is at continuous degree of freedom, in that you can rotate this thing and nothing changes. That would be a global U(1) symmetry. Repeating U(1) invariance. We need the laws of physics one point in space to the next. That means that allows the angle of this rotational degree Oscillations in that field would be a gauge the theta angle twirling around freely, and it so the gauge boson is massless. On the other hand, the particle of energy to be able to oscillate So this potential doesn't give us massive gauge to switch the sign in front of the mass term. just like the two valleys we saw earlier, but now shape. It's called a mexican hat potential. This It's still a symmetric potential - it has the But if the universe suddenly transitions from the The field strength would find itself on top of a random direction. The new state of the field because different points around this valley We say that the symmetry is spontaneously a state of broken symmetry, even if the This is just like how the field of magnets even though the overall equations The transition from the central bump to and we saw how this can lead to the creation But cosmic strings are the perhaps least Once the field has reached the base of this But this state is very different from the original energy state - the vacuum state - isn't where the vacuum expectation value. The original massive radial direction, but no longer centered on the Second weird thing: there's not just a single The universe will just have But the field can also oscillate along the base of The resulting particle is called a because the valley is flat - there's no energy because location around that valley represents OK, let's try to bring all of this together. interactions, so we need simultaneous local because that gives us the basic picture. Because it shouldn't be possible to tell where in the patches of the universe are in different parts of theta matters, but exact values don't. So we're up with a gauge field that shakes out shifts in But now this gauge field finds itself in a much potential. Weird stuff happens when the gauge First of all, we see that the Goldstone bosons, can be absorbed into this U(1) gauge the valley. In the Lagrangian they get that still looks like a gauge field with a single gauge boson. The gauge field eats the the new combined field has field-squared because those are mass terms - except Goldstone boson that it just ate had any It's because the gauge boson is now coupled to the of the gauge boson is coupled to the Higgs field, Ultimately this happens because of the non-zero bit of Higgsiness everywhere refuses to cancel All of this was a simplified explanation. I know horrifying, right? Imposing the full electroweak U(1)xSU(2) invariance on the true Higgs potential 3 of the 4 electroweak gauge bosons. Those gain weak interaction. The fourth boson manages to escape unscathed and massless, becoming the photon that we know and love. It flew free of its a part of the old electroweak field - what we now slog on through the mire of their coupling their lifespans, and so enormously reduces their So that's where we are today. This is the Higgs mechanism. The Higgs field also gives mass to the matter particles - the fermions - this new measurement of the W boson mass? Mass but also all of the other subtle interactions that W boson takes into account all standard model as virtual particles in the energy field of a larger mass that was predicted suggests around the W boson. The discovery of the Higgs underlying symmetries of nature explain and new particles will lead us to new clues about Hey Everyone. Comments will return next week, but before we go I wanted to say thank you to and if you haven't yet, there's still time. It's just a short 8 question survey that you can use to share your episode ideas, tell us what topics you'd like us to explore, and in general tell us a little bit about you and what you'd like to see happen in the Space Time universe.