it is estimated that only 3% of the case you don't know, stands for 'received in the UK including the Oxford English Dictionary the Collins dictionary give a using RP. If you're learning English, then your textbooks will be written in home sets of British English then it's recording anyway. hello what can I do for you? There you are that's RP English. Google sometimes called 'Standard British or the Queen's English though this last Queen doesn't speak RP I'll explain that Have you ever wondered where this accent who speaks it where it's spoken and the help from my cousin Tarquin, say hello Tarquin Well hello We're going to look at the standard RP that I speak more or Boris Johnson and maybe Hugh Grant speak. Hello and welcome to LetThemTalkTV so it's the look up a word in an English dictionary script that tells you how to pronounce of people speak RP right? Wrong actually, spectrum on the one side you have RP and accent or maybe some people say a or Geordie from Newcastle or Glaswegian from Glasgow or cockney from London. Very few people will have a pure somewhere along the spectrum what about accent which is not far from RP but like accent it's a London accent in my case as example people tell me that I say 'mumfs' but instead of but so my accent it's not this RP accent? Well it's the accent of and the South of England it's kind of an true to an extent it doesn't tell the people in The South don't speak a pure accent secondly, and depending on the find RP speakers throughout the UK so little bit here but although generally and generally it's more middle-class the you cannot determine where the speaker is from regionally nonspecific and class neutral. generalization but it is generally more middle-class accent but there are many but that's why The Queen, Boris Johnson all rather it's a posh accent because we from listening to them. Boris Johnson well, she's the queen, so that classes I would say. It's strange isn't which, along with standard American pronunciation in the world and yet very let's have a look at the history how accents became the standard the phrase 1869 by the linguist AJ Ellis received, or approved. The term only became widely English Pronouncing Dictionary in 1917 'Public School Pronunciation'. If you're system public schools are elite private send their kids. the way don't confuse public schools went to. Jones use that accent public schools such as Eton before Oh it's Boris Johnson went to Eton prime minister, Eton and Oxford. Theresa much has changed. Anyway when making a reference point as a standard and for which was loosely based on an elite Oxford and Cambridge and London to some the East Midlands had become not only wealthiest part of England and for that The BBC adopted this as its standard if they chose a regional accent it would regional accent might The BBC had and still has a large during the Second World War one of the Pickles who had a broad Yorkshire accent were broadcasting propaganda in English could copy the RP English the BBC regional accent so people would know BBC newsreader. A regional accent gave Queen and the royal family speak RP? No call a posh or an upper-class accent or kind of revolution over the last sixty middle-class accent and the something different entirely. The Queen, Johnson, Jacob Rees Mogg, David Cameron and school accent or an upper-class accent So let me give you an example to show often. That's how I was brought up to say of-ten that's okay. that's okay you may be language is not a static thing and a lot how does the Queen say this word? Do you 'orfen' listen to this: it's a reminder of with small steps. In Fowler's modern English usage, that there are two ways to pronounce not the case today. correct pronunciation in British and often and in American English - okay no the way the Queen also says &quot;orff&quot; &quot;I'm orff so that was RP in the 1920s but it's not RP' but it's not it's a historical RP the way looking for a good book about English Usage is wonderful if you're English language about usage and there is an updated version written in version. I'm using this one is probably I'll put a link to both editions in common misconception is that the Queen's isn't. Accents constantly change over wanted to work in a in a so-called good you might take what they called since the, may be the 1960s, as a result RP has become less important in Nowadays you'll hear regional accents in professors and the civil service. So lose their regional background and for rare and sounds rather old fashioned. when you do meet people speaking perfect English-speaking schools outside the UK still has a prestige. So just to give you like that. isn't it? He had his own idiosyncrasies of a regional accent he speaks with a where'd he grow up? In Zanzibar and he very, very well know because I think it's a it's a new every show So listen how he says TOUR with two syllables tou-er that's RP bites somewhat old-fashioned 'tour' then he says 'better every day' of words without a linking R today we you hear the intrusive R &quot;better-r-every rounded O show show, while I'd say 'show' and a hint of posh English. Listen again He moved to London when he was 18 of London in his accent whatsoever and Grant someone else who speaks with this where did he grew up? Why in Swaziland. make ends meet vehicles to broken-down cars around name was Benjamin that had this a BBC presenter from the nineteen madam let me reassure you that you vehicles will be with you presently.&quot; One accent is so perfect and that wonderful where did you learn the accent?! &quot;oh yes Obviously went to a fancy school in irony is that if you meet someone who she might well have been educated abroad. regional accent. So be careful if you are if you are too good you'll sound so your British and that's pretty ironic So now let's compare RP with posh remember that even among upper-class differences want to keep this linguistic part speaks posh English he was educated at hear his poshness but he doesn't sound some sweeping generalizations but I long in standard RP we have an [AA] sound in posh English it's kind of pronounced &quot;merried&quot;, &quot;heve&quot;, &quot;Ket&quot; okay becomes OR. 'gone' becomes 'gorne' seen becomes 'Or' 'often' is a homonym of 'orphan' okay 'off' - 'north' in RP. The O sound becomes much RP go, show, low, in posh English the Y standard RP but in posh English it's silly becomes sill-e. In standard RP the middle of the word with a consonant not many people say ChrisTmas but in in Standard RP you often drop unstressed comfortable which becomes comfortable becomes medicine but in posh English vegetable medicine. With words ending in standard RP they have only one in posh fire in standard English and 'far' in posh 'higher' ;highr' in standard RP you might put that ends with an OR sounds and the next English you don't. So for example &quot;law and here be intrusive are there. There's an R -and order&quot; but if you're speaking posh separate words &quot;law and order&quot; posh English you might hear them say let's get a few sentences with my better Tarquin. So Tarquin are you ready to posh English? I'm ready old bean. After the party we went onto the veranda where I shot a lion in my dinner jacket. After the party we went on to the veranda where I shot a lion in my dinner how do he get into your dinner jacket? That's story for another day, old My housemaid has gone off with my valet how the blazes am I going to My housemaid has gone off with my valet how the blazes The Bentley broke down on the way to the with the Oiks. The Bentley broke down on the way to the Opera so I oiks! Never again. Now that we've had Brexit we won't need to talk with those horrible people in Now that we've had Brexit we won't need to talk with those Where the f**k is 'Yerp'? chill the Chardonnay I fired my Butler because he forgot to chill the Chardonnay I say young lady spin in my Aston Martin? I say young lady fancy going for a spin in my Aston For my birthday Papa bought me a racehorse For my birthday Papa bought me We had a splendid game of elephants Polo. We had a splendid game of The girl by the whirlpool is looking for a new fool The girl by I was late for the debutantes ball by lightning I was late for the had been struck by lightning. What the who wrote this stuff? What type of life Don't forget to listen to our podcasts youtube channel called Zeitgeist on all those places where you find Spotify iTunes and the other ones that I