Once upon a time, a novice farmer indulged He became familiar with ideas like the importance and 'work hard, play hard.' After binge-watching for days, he walked onto it a great success. He started with pulling one of the crops as But this didn't work. Then he began to water the plants twice as he drowned them instead. After trying to force his success, the farmer puts in, acting in opposition to nature is Despite humanity's technological developments dependent on nature. Human effort has its limitations and is always We cannot grow a plant, for example, completely we can influence and manipulate it. The reputed author of the Tao Te Ching, Lao It doesn't need our intervention. As Lao Tzu wrote: "When you arrive at non-action, End quote. This idea resembles the basic understanding But when we look for a definition of wu-wei, fixed meaning. Some translate wu-wei as "non-action," action," and others as "effortless action." We find out that Taoism offers several layers, our relationship with the world. And how this ancient art of "letting things ignorant bystanders but can actually improve This video serves as a humble attempt to make and practical. Probably the most common interpretation of with nature, and not forcing anything, and Lao Tzu stated that using force always leads With force, he doesn't seem to point to to "forcing the flow of nature." Nature has its course. It's always working in the background. It lies at the root of our humanity's existence the Taoists call the 10,000 things: everything But despite the immense propulsion of the of conscious human effort above all. We celebrate effort, regardless of its actual for the sake of being busy. As modern Sisyphuses, we push rocks uphill, Making an effort is one thing, but intelligently Yes, sometimes hard work is necessary, and it isn't. It depends on the rhythm of the game, on the your turn. Acting out of turn means going against the Hence, we often experience that "forcing that pushing our luck beyond nature's constraints On the other hand, situations often solve By letting things happen, things get done The novice farmer, for example, simply needed nature would do the rest. But when it's time to reap the farmer should "The Tao never acts with force, yet there stated. If we'd just go along with nature, then The farmer's task is to sow the seeds, the the farmer's task is to reap the harvests This is how nature works optimally. Lao Tzu believed that the world cannot be It's entirely out of control. Trying to control it is always a losing battle. And spending our lives fighting against nature celebrate us for engaging in such a heroic Instead of spending our life energy trying course of things, we're better off accepting flowing through a rocky surface towards the I quote: Some are meant to lead, Some must always strain, Some are naturally big and strong, Some will be protected and nurtured, The Master accepts things as they are, excess and the extremes. When we go deeper into the meaning of wu-wei, Let's assume its most accurate definition As opposed to the conventional translations it points to being active and on the move, firm, namely: "letting things happen." With effortless action, we could say that "going." We embark on a river stream without considering uncharted territory, but don't let the great We swim along with the current, not against and hiccups. Swimming against the current takes effort; When we force things, problems arise. An example is going on a date. The person you're going to meet is interested you are, at that moment. But many people overprepare, overanalyze, And so, the nerves come in; people overcompensate, Why is this the case? Most likely because we focus too much on the Zhuangzi talks about how different prospects if we attach ourselves to them. A previous video named 'Win Without Trying' parable of the archer. In the context of a date, most of us want other person to like us. So, there's pressure involved; there's we feel miserable. And thus, what could have been a fun, joyful event, with lots of discursive thoughts and We are standing in our own way, blocking the possibly control, no matter how much thought But imagine that you enter a date utterly Now you're acting natural, and in the moment, opportunity to overthink. There has been no time for planning, plotting, you: present and one with the moment. And most people love that. So, if we manage to let go of the results, just for the act itself. If we go even deeper, we arrive at the ego Because of past experiences, social conditioning, knowledgeable, cultured human beings that This context could be a religious community, We generally see this as a good thing. But there's a downside. And this downside has to do with the ego. The ego often distorts how we perceive the When we approach a situation, for example, to fill in the unknown gaps, with all kinds The larger the ego, the more it will dominate from what's truly going on. Therefore, people with strong convictions in another light - or outside the confines Hence, Lao Tzu urges us to return to a more block." We could see the uncarved block as a person baggage, so his vision of the world becomes Dr. Woei-Lien Chong, a Dutch philosopher, of wu-wei in a Dutch book about Taoist philosophy, She describes the essence of practicing wu-wei "And so the whole practitioner is able to, all relevant forces in a certain situation to them flawlessly." End quote. So, if we look at wu-wei this way, it's flow of nature, allowing the universe to do we need a lot of courage. We have to be brave enough to let go of what in the trash, and flush our assumptions through Or how Lao Tzu put it, and I quote: Renounce knowledge and your problems will What is the difference between yes and no? What is the difference between good and evil? Must you fear what others fear? Nonsense, look how far you have missed the End quote. Zhuangzi tells us a story about a conversation hui. Yen Hui wanted to travel to the kingdom of and tyrannical ruler. So, he planned to use his knowledge and wisdom in the right direction. Confucius persuaded Yen Hui not to do it, and wouldn't work. After all, no one is waiting for a know-it-all take care of your business, let alone a self-absorbed But still, Confucius offered an alternative, Confucius described the 'fasting of the to letting our preconceptions go and making With an open and receptive attitude, Yen Hui customs and beliefs, the situation as it plays lending a helping hand. In this understanding of wu-wei, we let go situation at hand, as it is. We let things happen and act responsively, ideas. Or, as Lao Tzu put it: we return to being Chong stated, and I quote: No matter if it's about politics, governance, calls wu-wei is this ultimate receptive and openness in yourself, one with the breathing Thank you for watching.