Louis Vuitton, Dior, Saint Laurent, Gucci. These are just some of the brands belonging Positioned at the forefront of the global responsible for the industry's staggering From clothing and handbags to jewellery and few independent houses, stand as the driving products. This industry is a powerhouse. Just to provide you with further insight, net worth is 200-billion-dollars, made his list in 1997. The conglomerateur briefly even claimed the surpassing tech giant Elon Musk. But who exactly makes up the clientele of Who shoulders the weight of that giant 397-billion-dollar Is it the elite? The upper class? Surprisingly, no. It's predominantly the upper-middle class Jean-Jacques Guiony, the Chief Financial Officer July, "We don't sell most Louis Vuitton have money and want to indulge themselves." So, the question becomes: why aren't the mega-rich, industry as enthusiastically as their middle-class Why are they denying themselves of those sweet, Laurent? Why are the 1% not buying luxury? But before we answer those questions, let's I always wonder, what the process is creating It almost looks like the universe. There is a life inside. Absolutely. While there are a lot, and I mean a lot, of be considered luxury, the most common criteria price point that creates a high barrier to attention to detail, and a distinct capability more specifically distinction. All successful brands within the realm of one way or another. That being said, there is still a complex So, let's begin at the basic level by categorizing The biggest luxury houses, the ones that come into the category we'll refer to as the &quot;Major Examples in this league include Louis Vuitton, All of these brands either already have, or 10-billion-dollars. The standout in this group is undoubtedly history as the first luxury fashion brand These brands, as heads of their industry, on the runway and on the streets. Their mission goes beyond merely creating of creativity itself. The next group of luxury houses is what we'll Most luxury brands find their place in this a spectrum - both financial and creative. Some brands are well known to the general to fashion enthusiasts and people with enough Can you please spell Gabbana? Hello? The more well-known and financially successful 5-billion-dollars in annual revenue. A few brands under this section are Celine, This subdivision in the Minor League mirrors Major League brands, some are very much interested vision of fashion. But it differs in that certain brands focus aiming to conserve specific codes of dress. The other half of the Minor League is made general public but still hold prominence within These brands cultivate their own niche of revenues under 2-billion-dollars. Examples in this group include Loro Piana, Most of these brands fall under the category - but some brands like Bottega Veneta and rather than traditional houses. Despite this, both brands are still associated they offer products that align with the style's Both brands seem to have ambitions of transitioning to generate over 2-billion-dollars in revenue beyond their niche. An example of a transformation of this type Under Hedi Slimane's stewardship, the French brand to a global powerhouse raking in over Okay, now that we've outlined a general our initial question: why aren't the 1% Well, they are, but they aren't. Remember when I said luxury categorisation This is where that idea comes into play: most I say "rich" I mean the top upper-class, shopping for luxury goods. Instead, they spend their money on select that we'll touch on later, that all fall luxury. Quiet luxury is a fashion aesthetic coined to wealthy groups of people. It's completely understated and subdued. See, there are multiple &quot;variations&quot; of quiet all include: subtle usage of or no logos, no flamboyant designs. Of course, there are ways to experiment and embody the aesthetic - especially when it colourways such as gold and silver. But essentially, the aesthetic is about elevating you know&quot; type of distinction. And why is this distinction important to the See, sign value, a term French sociologist of a luxury product. It delves into what an item symbolises in In the realm of luxury, sign value stands It's the literal reason for its existence Sign value also reveals why brands situated lower annual revenue than their Major League equivalent to or even surpassing that of a This phenomenon can be attributed to factors and craftsmanship, that become intertwined So by choosing to dress in a more understated that signals to others that they aren't new their wealth. The idea is that new money tends to showcase by ostentation and conspicuous consumption. In contrast, the 1% tend to prefer a subtler Embodying a more restrained sense of style generational wealth. This distinction reflects a cultural narrative refinement, and social standing. While new money is associated with a more That said, despite being considered new money members of the LVMH family, who are literally in the world, also embrace a simplistic approach This underscores two points. First, that Old Money-New Money dynamics are and second, that these rigid distinctions Increasingly, uber-rich families and individuals characteristics traditionally associated with But back to the topic at hand, the 1% don't handbags, and they really don't want Gucci They intentionally avoid being plastered in that they themselves personify wealth. I hinted at this before, but the brands that find themselves in the Minor League. Brunello Cucinelli, Loro Piana, Ralph Lauren, All these brands fit neatly into the realm See, It's not the uber-rich carrying the heavyweights ignore the big designers and brands in fashion. it's the upper-middle class doing all that And how do we know this? During the pandemic, while most businesses and the very real possibility of permanent LVMH's fashion and leather goods units saw the fourth quarter of 2020. Gucci, Kering's crown jewel, delivered revenues exceeding pre-pandemic levels in 2021. Another luxury conglomerate, Richemont, reported third quarter of 2021, a performance 38% better pandemic. The industry was experiencing an unprecedented Any guess who was leading this boom? The upper-middle class of course. You see, during the pandemic a significant in luxury treats with the additional savings There was this sense that the world could And this uncertainty about the future led was imperative. That even when quarantining with only a few like it's our last. And what was the result of this YOLO attitude? People started splurging out. You need to keep in mind what our good friend Most luxury items from Major League brands classes, but instead at the upper middle classes. While I should note that Major League brands designed for the 1% to request and purchase, the majority of their offerings cater to and and "nouveau riche". Are they expensive? I mean, yeah. But are they within reach? Absolutely. Relying solely on selling to the 1% wouldn't It's important to know that when people say for the 0.1%. A very, very, small demographic of people And do you think ambitious brands and conglomerates on this demographic to achieve 10-billion-dollar No way. It's too risky. But the middle classes on the other hand? They're the perfect group to rely on. Estimates indicate that the middle class demographic More than the entire population of the US. Men and women from the middle class are the Men and women from the middle class are the week collections. They have the financial flexibility to occasionally overall financial health. They are the literal lifeline of the modern-day And where do the middle class shop when they The Major League of course. And when you think about it, it makes sense. Most people, even if they don't openly acknowledge Only a small percentage of people make luxury value attached to that particular luxury item. Imagine you don't have the financial means Instead, you opt to invest in a select few months or so. In this scenario, are you more likely to choose price point, or would you rather something only recognizable to a specific niche that Chances are, you would lean towards the more to rationalise - and you've probably been How with this product which people want, can Our business - you asked a question about create desire. This is why most Major League luxury brands classes who seek exclusivity. They instead gravitate towards more understated Still, for conglomerates, it's all the same. Their market value and revenue increase regardless, portfolio that cater to the needs of both But remember, that was life during the pandemic. During that epic boom with constant, record-breaking But what about now? Yeah, now, it's not looking so good. The fashion industry, across nearly every the post-pandemic world. Although still generating billions, the industry with LVMH experiencing a below-estimated 9% by drugmaker Novo Nordisk as the most valuable Major League brands like Gucci are going through sales falling 7% in the third quarter of 2023 The brand even appointed new creative director, taken a considerably less daring approach Creative brands in the Minor League, such had to grapple with the new reality, with underperformance in sales this year. But why is this? Why did an industry experiencing so much growth to slow down once we emerged from the crisis? Simple. The 1% are still spending, and the middle Middle-class populations have begun to cut save more and uniformly limit expenditures They're also delaying major purchases such into savings amid rising levels of inflation Bloomberg reports that this shift in behaviour China, America, and Europe - all massive This trend explains the declines and underperformances on middle-class spending. But, as you've probably already guessed, are predominantly from that latter category Brunello Cucinelli, Ermenegildo Zegna, Loro None of these brands have faltered in the In fact, some of them even reported record Brunello Cucinelli for example not only jumped quarter of 2023 but also upgraded their revenue of this immense growth. Because these brands are attractive to the concerns of inflation or costs of living, their big-brother brands struggle to navigate In addition to the Minor League brands appealing anomalies thriving in the post-pandemic landscape. One of these anomalies is French luxury brand Despite undoubtedly being a Major League player, raking in 12-billion-dollars in annual revenue Their ability to preserve a level of selectiveness in most Major League fashion brands. Sign value that's usually only reserved With all that being said, quiet luxury doesn't TikTok videos, Instagram posts, and general &quot;stealth wealth,&quot; and other variations of now. This surge has prompted people from all demographics Whether that's the small minority of the indulge in luxury switching to more niche fast-fashion dupes in an attempt to mirror Remember when I mentioned that Brunello Cucinelli record sales? This is undoubtedly because some in the middle splurge, may be shifting their preferences You just can't help but wonder: Is it just of this style among the uber-rich? Could they abandon minimalism for something style no longer maintaining its hushed demeanour? Only time will tell.