A playground classic, a wartime breakfast These budget buys might be easy on your wallet, Frozen produce has long suffered under the to fresh produce. This is, however, a very inaccurate judgment While it is true that frozen produce may lose the case when cooking fresh fruits and vegetables. In fact, studies reportedly show that when the nutritional value of frozen produce can The Eat Right Organization also really sings According to them, produce is often picked frozen, which not only preserves the flavor, Of course, a major advantage to frozen produce But there are even more benefits to reaching When stored correctly, the fruits and vegetables counterparts, which means less money wasted and greens at their peak performance. One thing to note -- make sure to always fruits and vegetables contain added sugars, healthy properties of the veggies themselves. Sorry, grilled cheese lovers... and honestly, of the pan? Or, you know, whatever you happen to have A comfort food classic, the grilled cheese With its buttered bread slices and the melted sandwich has a special place in our hearts Grilled cheese often begs us to sit down and it be a healthy indulgence as well? As SFGate ruefully notes, unfortunately not. It's pointing out the obvious to say that or healthy meal. Grilled cheese is also nutritionally poor, with preservatives and sugar. The good news is that grilled cheese made healthier, but still yummy, alternatives, Still, those ingredients can put you above &quot;Some cultures are defined by their relationship The first thought that may come with popcorn but this snack has a lot of potential to be Making popcorn at home is the best way to By preparing the snack by yourself -- particularly the ingredients and thus the ratio of fat to the stuff in the bag. &quot;All the poppin'-the-corn, stick it in the WebMD even claims that popcorn may even have Corn is a whole grain, so technically popcorn to a lower risk of heart disease, diabetes, According to the American Heart Association, boost to your diet. Popcorn is also a low-density snack, which budget, leaving the snacker feeling all the Frozen pizza may beckon seductively from the the urge as much as you can. They never look as good as the picture on Like most frozen foods, frozen pizza was made Originally concocted in the period following to provide an easy meal for a busy society in the grocery store. But contemporary frozen pizza is something The price and convenience may not outweigh Frozen pizzas are more often than not calorie They are also routinely packed with too much says, too much salt can contribute to high of other health complications. &quot;Harry, I don't have time to make pizza.&quot; &quot;Did I say anything about making pizza? It's frozen. See?&quot; Oh, sweet oatmeal -- pioneer food, breakfast While oatmeal may be a no-thrills meal option, back on whatever budget. Although oatmeal might be well situated in traces its roots back to China, and was first Oatmeal can be served hot or cold, with milled, Water or milk can both be used to whip up topping possibilities, both sweet and savory, In other words, there are a lot of ways to Time credits oatmeal's popularity throughout insanely low price point and its health benefits. Oatmeal in any form makes for a well-balanced potentially anti-inflammatory, and very filling. Really, the only challenge with oatmeal is sugar and unhealthy toppings when adding much Don't buy: Instant ramen Cheap eating and instant ramen simply go hand noodles been the crown jewel in a low-budget What college student hasn't opted for some they're serving in the cafeteria? It's hard not to love these flavorful noodles. They're dirt cheap and have a seemingly endless Instant ramen was first developed in Japan and nuclear fallout. The noodles quickly grew in popularity as and circulated around, eventually spreading However, while instant ramen is prized for craveable flavors, its nutritional content Instant ramen noodles are often completely with an ungodly amount of sodium, and full Simply put, the price doesn't justify the Though convenient and tasty, it's best to Not just a playground classic, the peanut that could do well in the grown-up world. However, the health value of the peanut butter and the traditional sammies have a few major Processed white bread, preservative-laden harm than good -- those sorts of PB&amp;Js are anything else. But elevating the PB&amp;J with a few modifications and healthful dish. With whole grain bread, natural peanut butter, feed -- it will nourish. White bread is -- surprise, surprise -- an It was first born in the 1800s out of concern concerns surrounding food safety. White bread, an extremely processed food, bread option. It has since become a cornerstone of the American &quot;You want chicken wings or chicken legs?&quot; &quot;Four fried chickens, and a Coke.&quot; &quot;And some dry white toast, please.&quot; There's a reason it endures: It's affordable, So what really is the damage when it comes LiveStrong takes a hard stance against white It says that the aforementioned factors just &quot;good&quot; food healthwise. In fact, there's a whole slew of strikes against specifically around the belly regions, cause liver negatively. That's certainly a lot of damage from a slice Is the cheap bread really worth the momentary On the meatier side of American cuisine, pork or beef. But in post-Recession America, pork has seen food, growth in specific Asian food sectors meats -- including favorites like pulled You don't need to invest the time, effort, a good reason to think of bringing home the to beef. WebMD dismisses criticisms of pork chops being For budget-oriented diets, pork can be a good iron, and vitamins B12 and B6. Of course, there are a few things to keep Look for minimally processed and leaner cuts and fat content that slices of pork may have. Orange juice may seem like a given at the Time ties the rise of orange juice, like many surrounding World War II. Scientists trying to figure out how to deliver vitamin C developed orange juice concentrate, The resulting product could be shipped all fresh when prepared. Today, orange juice concentrate remains a But these days, it really is worth it to spring For one, as noted by LiveStrong, juice concentrates This not only means a heavy carbon footprint, And the point of juice is kind of the freshness, Research has shown that a considerable amount level of heavy metals. If that wasn't concerning enough, juice concentrate of the beneficial pulp. There are better ways to get a sweet cup of Lentils can be a very important and very affordable Planet, a single cup of lentils also contains Lentils not only exist in a wide spectrum as versatile in the kitchen. Lentils can be made into soups, pressed into and so much more. And Tasting Table notes that once cooked, a broth. Who says budget meals have to be boring? Lentils are a healthy, economical choice for But there are a few things to keep in mind For one, it's advisable to buy lentils in be fresher and cook better; packaged lentils so they may be a bit older and take longer And be sure to always rinse your lentils before of dust and dirt leftover from being harvested. Who said budget meals have to be boring or With a little creativity, you can find some serve your family. And better? That they'll be happy to eat.