Transcriber: Alina Siluyanova Scot Young: We want to start off By a show of hands, how many of you into learning another language? Maybe you took or maybe you took but you can't confidently speak Vat Jaiswal: OK. That's most of you here. Some of you are raising So, we've tried learning we're going to talk about it in a minute. But let's talk about what is the problem, what is the main issue from learning languages. Could it be that you're using and if you were to use then you'd be able to learn the language? SY: Well, here the track record Out of the 1,000 Americans who responded only 7 claimed that they could speak and had actually learned it in school. And if you consider self-study programs, well, they can work some of the time, huge drop out rates. [NFLC], at the University of Maryland did a study that took and found that only 6% put in which is far less than to become fluent in any language. VJ: OK, well, maybe then the problem is that you don't live in the country and if you were to move there, SY: Here I have to agree with you, Vat. Living in the country that speaks It provides motivation But it's not the answer If you go to the country what are you going to do? Are you going to rely on other expats to help you to get by? And that's going it is going to isolate you So, we know an extreme example. We know of an American businessman married a Korean woman, lived in Korea for 20 years, still couldn't have So, living in the other country helps, that will answer VJ: OK, well, finally maybe the problem and you should've tried because kids learn SY:This is actually a pervasive myth. Steven Brown of Einstein University and Jennifer Larson-Hall reviewed the literature and found adults actually learn languages faster It's only when we talk about reaching native-like levels where children start to show So, definitely, if you want to just have conversations, there is no reason you can't learn VJ: If those are not the core issues, We have a completely different hypothesis, and to explain this concept I want you to look Now, if you look at the water, zone at the bottom an the zone at the top Now, I want you to imagine and you want to swim out into the ocean. When you first start you ARE going to be in this first zone And swimming in this zone you feel this incredible resistance, the waves come crushing down on you, and they constantly try However, if you were to push through suddenly, swimming becomes a lot easier and more importantly, you're no longer feel So, we believe that language learning When you first start learning a language, you're going to be in this first zone which we call 'the zone of fear' because this is where you fear this is where you fear making mistakes, this is where you fear And learning a language the waves represent this negative feedback and this constantly tries However, if you were and get to the second zone suddenly language learning Mind you, I'm not saying when you reach the second zone, or maybe you only know a few words, maybe you're able to have And language only goes to now being rewarding, So, the core issue, we believe, is that people get stuck for longer than they have to, and for some people, forever. And if all you see is negative feedback, it's very hard to motivate yourself and learn the language So, ideally, you'd use a different method, a method that allows you and very efficiently, so you can get to the part is fun and easy as quickly as you can. SY: We believe we have this method, and gets you to the easier part as quickly and efficiently as possible. It's very simple. Don't speak in English. And, that might sound but it's actually really powerful. When you force yourself to speak and you learn words not the order it comes up in the textbook That means you automatically learn and the most important words Next, because you don't know you're going to overuse what you do know. This results in effects which allows you to access You don't need to get when you're using And finally, because you're you're going to easily develop to handle situations That is going to be &quot;What does this mean?&quot; in the language, relatively early on, to being able to efficiently use things to integrate new words and phrases while you're having them. VJ: So how do we know Well, we know that this method works So, last year Scott and I But we tried to learn and we went to four different countries to learn these languages over a year. And we used the same no-English rule So, first we went to Spain then we went to Brazil then over to mainland China and finally over to Korea And we found that this As a matter of fact, near the end we were confidently able pretty much about any subject, and going by our daily lives, using the language So we actually have a short video that captures the kind of progress using this no English rule So, take a look. (Video) SY: This might seem a little bit extreme. After all, wouldn't it be a lot easier when you're trying to learn the language even if it is not quite as fast We actually believe And to argue that why I'd like to reference You see, years before I had a different opportunity I was in the university to study abroad for a year in France. And like this trip, I was very eager I bought books, I downloaded podcasts, I really wanted The only difference against speaking in English. I figured, &quot;I'll go there and I'll speak and I'll just try And after a year of living in France, and pushing myself I did get to a point where but it was never easy, it always felt like I was And contrast that to that Once again, we have but this time From the very first day we came to Spain, we decided we were only And, as you can probably imagine, with limited Spanish skills We had to communicate to each other almost exclusively through But after 2 weeks something changed, it started to get a bit easier. After a month even easier. And by the third month that living our lives We didn't have to think it was completely invisible in our lives. And what's more, our Spanish, both of our Spanish, after a year of living in France And so, when you're evaluating particularly in learning languages, it's not really fair to look at that because you have to look you're going to be putting in but day after day, month after month in order to finally being able And what we found is not even just but that when you take it it is actually easier for learning a language. VJ: And I'd like to speak about that a lot of people have is that you'd somehow be able when you first start learning a language. And that's simply not true. Actually making mistakes is very good and eventually it helps you that you need to speak the language. When Scott and I we made mistakes every day everything we said And in China and in Korea, because Chinese and Korean than the European languages we slipped up and broke a couple of times as well, because it is not about making mistakes, how many mistakes you're making, it is more about that each time So, remember that the whole goal is to push past this zone so you can get to the part where language learning Ideally, the way you'd do this is you'd move to the country and go 100% immersion from the first day and commit to the no English rule. But obviously, that's a bit extreme and a lot of you here But I'd like to point out is that it doesn't have to be 100% It can also work in a limited context. So let me give you an example. If you're trying to learn Spanish and you have a co-worker maybe you commit to the no English rule So, every time you're going to see them So if you were to bump in them and you want to make small talk, and you want to say and you want to say: it is OK to pull out your dictionary, You don't have to feel ready to say this, the goal is to just try and attempt. And what this really helps you to do is that it helps you out The first one: it helps you to remove the ambiguity because if with this co-worker, and you can speak in English, to speaking in English But by committing &quot;Every time I see this person there is no doubt in my mind even if I have to pull out my dictionary.&quot; And the second thing it helps you out with is it helps you develop a habit even at the very low level of ability. This really helps you out to build are going to need to the higher level of ability. SY: So you've heard about our challenge. Now we'd like to issue you one. And no, we're not asking you and go to live in a far away country. We're going to ask you but if you follow through on it, if you want to finally start having you'd been learning all your life. Just 3 steps. Step 1: Find one person. It could be a native speaker or it could be another language learner, it could be someone you already know, a friend, a colleague, a spouse, or it could be someone you find online. There are services like to find conversation partners online. So if you can't find there are easy tools Step 2: Commit to Every time you see them that you're trying to learn. Tell them that, you know, at the language yet, Google Translator and dictionary Step 3: Start speaking. Once again, it is not something You might slip up and break Pull out your phone, you can type in the whole sentences speaking the language. The goal is to get you to start speaking, to start building and start practicing those core phrases. What we're hoping is we're encouraging you not to be perfect, to find that one person and finally start speaking that language. Chinese have an expression: (Chinese) &quot;A good start which means: (Applause)