What is a port? So that is the topic of this it's a logical connection that is used by It specifically determines which program or service Whether that is pulling up a web page, using And ports have a unique number that identifies For example some common ports are port 80 and is used for FTP. And port number 25 is used for IP address. An IP address is a numeric address. a network. Every device has to have an And an IP address and a port number work So for example if you want to connect to a used to determine the geographical location city, and so on. And a port number determines which Whether that service or program is a Now in simple terms, what does this all mean? So just about everyone uses every day and that is which is web pages. Whenever you visit a web whether you know it or not. So let's say you're Google's web page. So you would open up a web in the address bar. But before your computer can of things first. It has to convert the domain and in addition since you're using a web browser port 80 to the IP address. So now the IP address Then once the server is found, the IP address has And Google's web server will see the incoming that request to its built-in web service. So Now all of this is happening behind the scenes. that's being used. However there is a way that utility. Netstat is short for network statistics display the current network connections and port various operating systems, but in my example I'm a command prompt you type in netstat and then we can see the actual port number and then we'll connection to google.com. The local address is our is the port number that our computer has assigned google.com. So here we can see the IP address of that's being used for this connection because Now let's say on the same exact server Google is files. FTP is a standard protocol that is used over a network and it uses port number 21. So and as an example, we'll type in ftp.google.com. The domain name of google.com will be converted our computer will add port 21 to the IP address. with port number 21, it'll forward that request netstat command again, it'll show a connection So as I stated in the beginning of this video, are assigned by an organization called the 65,000 port numbers are broken down into three system or well-known ports. These are common ports that most people use every day. And I've mentioned a few of these ports already, such as port 80, 443, called user or registered ports. These are ports for a particular service and you can see some 49152 - 65535 these are called dynamic or private ports. These are client-side ports that are free computer assigns temporarily to itself during So of these three categories, the and registered port numbers, these two words, these are used on a server that our which is the dynamic or private port numbers, It's what our computer assigns itself during use a service or program on another computer or Now sometimes on your computer you might see 21 and port 80. So for example if we do a netstat and port 80 that are either listening or have these port numbers are used on a server and not powerful computers. Your computer can also act For example if you happen to be running an FTP you're going to see port 21 and port 80 that are because you can configure your computer to act So let's put this all together and do another connect to a couple of websites such as also connect to a separate FTP server. So now if we'll examine the output. And here we see the the dynamic or private client-side port numbers And then we see the two IP addresses of the along with the port number because And we also see the one FTP site that we Now just to clear things up, if you use this port 443 instead of port 80 during a connection to numbers are used for web pages. But the difference unsecured websites. But port 443 uses HTTPS and that have a security feature. And a lot of websites Hey guys I just want to mention that if you want field or in life in general, I have some audio And you can get them by signing up for a free But even if you cancel your audible membership at your choice is yours to keep forever without book if I just want to learn something as I'm And also if you want to know more about the and you can find it on my channel. And I want to Please subscribe, leave a comment,