My name is Chris Shore, down there, I'm not hear marketing at ARM, I've been there for 20 years ARM capacity I'm here in my personal capacity as stuff and I'm sure I have that in common with me I've been in Cambridge for the last 37 years all physics I stuck that for two years which was science, so by that reckoning I think I've done conversations at parties. The number one I believe Anyway tonight, Colossus. I've always had this 70th anniversary of Colossus came round, in, together and wrote a presentation about it which Sao Paulo Brazil believe it or not, and I think else in the world so I'm not quite sure what they you like has given us this accepted history but the emergence of an increased knowledge of and it changes it significantly. So I started to Colossus, I'm sure you've heard of it and I'm it was it was kept on an almost total secret. to late 1970s that there was this &quot;thing&quot; called really nobody knew what it did, nobody knew what gave presentations about it were very carefully say that it was anything to do with cryptography, there was this &quot;big thing&quot;, this big valve thing With the publication I think it was in 2000 of was the codename that Bletchley gave to the code people suddenly started to realize ah, that's what rebuilding one at Bletchley so the government So maybe you've been to Bletchley, maybe you've So maybe you know something about the origins of but as I started to dig into that you the biggest there was very little available, even now. Teasing problem that it solved and how it solved it so I frustrating process and I've tried to build it and I hope by the time you come out of the other I do - hopefully a little bit more. A lot of the the National Archives, and is still classified as if any of it ever becomes declassified and and historical context, a bit of a technical context, who designed it and built it. So - Two, Colossus. you're gonna work it out what's the connection Cambridge and Oxford on a railway line that Battle of the Atlantic, a Cambridge mathematician, encrypting teleprinter, believe it or not, and a of those is Colossus, designed built roughly in was by far the largest and most complex electronic secrecy, and deliberately destroyed immediately no denying it, that these people and those places of all, it's estimated and widely accepted now around Enigma and Colossus shortened the war imagine how many lives and and pain that saved. it represents the the birth of an industry in work too. And that industry is is very exciting take you back to July 1st 1943 and that's a map of the domination of the Nazi regime, and you can African coast in the South, and from Asia Minor at the Atlantic coast in the West. And you can that we are proud to be part of, sort of stands of Britain's already happened, Hitler's already that he might have had of invading England, and kind of standing there, is vital. Strategically or will be the stepping stone for the inevitable the UK, is kept alive if you like by convoys and dodging the U-boat wolfpacks of the German like at this time this, part of the war, is on German navy, communicates with U-boats by radio, I'm sure you all know about Eningma, Enigma is the mid-70s when that particular secret came out. comprehensively broke Enigma using work originally lovely machine, it's beautifully simple to use, you set the rotors, you press a key, one of and you just write down what comes out, it's very opposite, it's a reversible machine so you type and bingo, out comes the plain text again. And as standard Morse and the listening stations transcribe it, send them off to Bletchley and relies on the fact that there are 17,576 unique rotors. And there are lots of other complications, choose three particular rotors from a set of up like a plug board at the front which you can see of letter substitutions to over a hundred billion. simple and used properly - it should have been at Bletchley Park, the government code and London to Bletchley Park, and they assembled crossword solvers and linguists and goodness intercept, and break German codes. I think it's and all the stuff that happened there, when a band of complete amateurs essentially completely not expected to do. And that I find the first of our Cambridge mathematicians is the best associated with Enigma. He was he just published or very recently published famous paper, was it on computable numbers with and they published that in 1936 and in that the Universal Computing Machine - we now call acknowledged as part of the birth of modern many, hundreds and thousands that worked with they essentially destroyed it as a communications that's a Bombe, which Turing and his crew devised, a single chassis, and it chunters round making an can see at Bletchley, and it's capable of trying essentially turned Enigma codebreaking into an set up properly, took about 20 minutes to try machine. You needed some hand analysis to set the decryption, but almost any Enigma message hours and that and the the common saying is were reading Enigma messages decrypted on our side reading them on the other side, because we could piece of machinery, you can't get an idea of the is six feet high, and it's about two feet deep, things by the end of the war. Now at the peak, at at Bletchley, building, say, 200 machines like for the naval Enigma. So it's a huge commitment was it worth it? Well, yes. Being able to read or at least surviving, the Battle of the getting through. And just to show you the value, being sunk month-by-month through the war, and through the war. And if I tell you that there was German Navy decided to upgrade to their Enigma And that shut out Bletchley from naval Enigma for and rebuilt their processes. If you look at that was, and it's right there. That is the value of and being able to decrypt them. Because convoys to 700,000 a month almost overnight, and if losses certainly in the Atlantic, have been lost. the cryptography game of Bletchley. So now let's to introduce some terminology about cryptography, complex later on. So we have a plain text, we're some process that munches it all up and ciphers it and we call that Z. So P becomes Z. The simplest all do this children at school, is called an just got two alphabets: an input alphabet and just by translating from one to the other. Very by Julius Caesar, and we often refer to it as a it is very easy to break using simple frequency language occur with different frequencies, you can cipher letter corresponds to which plain letter things fairly easily. Now to make it a bit more called a polyalphabetic substitution cipher. that example there has three, and you just use cipher using the first alphabet, the second with then you go back to the first one, and so on. you know how many alphabets there, are you don't subsets, and then carry out frequency analysis the individual alphabets are. Now, it's possible, does. Enigma generates essentially a non-repeating Now the average message sent with Enigma was only repeat in an Enigma message. That's what makes analysis is essentially impossible. And an Enigma that, that's a photograph of a real one, and you of the listening stations. Up here tells you when and what frequency it was received on and codebreaking industry at Bletchley and broken. completely different kind of transmission. And it transmission. So it's not standard Morse with a built little ticker tape machines that would printed out on a little ticker tape and then it it turns out, it's a standard international at the network on which this traffic appeared, you work out where that network is and who's connected is it's not used very much. This is quite a, distance and it's centres on Berlin. So the kind it goes direct to Nazi High Command in Berlin, very useful indeed. So, they started looking at called John Tiltman and he established that it was analyse it far enough to do anything with it, So you take your message and you convert your into 5-bit binary representation. And that's the two. It's perfectly standard, nothing unusual string using what they called &quot;carry-less binary exclusive or that, bit-wise, with some kind of call K, and the result is your cipher text: Z. which now we call exclusive or. And this process so you take this and you add it back to the it's it's a reversible process. That's one of the as I'm sure you have. That if you add something So very, very simple. So, the receiving operator it into the machine set up exactly the same way the plain text. Very, very simple. So Tiltman got stroke of luck. 31st of August 1941, an operator So the recipient asked him &quot;could you send that all the rules, he reset his machine to the same again. But he didn't quite send it exactly the a bit tired, maybe it was the end of the day, he it wasn't quite exactly the same, it was a little there are the two messages, and you can see that first 12 characters are the same and it starts the So, Tiltman guessed, that standard operating 12 characters basically told the receiving so we can ignore those because we don't know what and he noticed the second message started the being a Vernam cipher, which we know how that using the same key stream, and if you add the two key disappears. Okay? Because they're both added the key actually disappears so what he ended up cipher text 1 cipher text 2. Add them together carefully guessing at what the first character if that made sense, and then letter by letter, backwards constantly subtracting each one from the eventually, after ten days, managed to break characters long. Now that in intelligence terms old by now. So the content of it is useless, but texts and we add them back together, what you 4,000 characters of the keystream, which doesn't be worth its weight in gold. They looked at it for couldn't come up with with any deductions from it Tutte - another Cambridge mathematician. Cambridge in his room, and by writing the keystream out of different sizes and different repeats - huge paper, he managed to work out the entire structure the keystream. Now just remember that I showed at the beginning of the presentation. No-one and no-one did until after the war ended. But entire internal structure of the machine what he like enigma does it had twelve quite a complex bit positions the number of steps on each wheel of wheels the first set he called these the Chi for every character that went through the machine five bits. The second set, he called those the moved approximately 50% of the time, so roughly And they generated another pseudo-random sequence the middle, he called those the motor wheels or movement of the Psi wheels on the end. Tutte, the Officer of the Order of Canada I guess that's I don't know. And in the citation for that, of the greatest intellectual feats of World War now we can work out exactly how the Lorenz machine plain text which is on the left over there, and the Psi stream, and what you end up with is your you feed it through the machine, it automatically back in his machine as it's the Psi stream and simple because it's a reversible process. Now lengths of the Chi stream, Psi stream are huge. Psi stream after 322 million steps. So the huge and you factor in this this stuttering movement every character, they move roughly every other, possible setting or every possible combination 19 combinations. Even with modern computing probably one of the definitions of impossible. gonna work out. Even to identify 1 bit position in we're going to notice something interesting, doesn't change for every character, so they move probably thought that was clever. He probably not advancing the Psi dream with every character. tiny flaw in the machine, which the codebreakers what they realized, say, is there's the Karnaugh does nothing. Adding something to itself always it undoes the first addition and you get the and noticed that because of the way Boolean results in zero and using that, you can magnify keystream or in the plain text. Because repeats, generate zeroes. So you can you can exploit that, attention, bear with me, and I'll see if I can get contains roughly 20% of repeated letters, in a lot of double letters: mm, ee, tt, ss - are very the teleprinter alphabet works, it's a 5-bit code in order to get access to punctuation and numbers, a shift technique so to encode a full stop for we sent a shift character and you then press full to letters again. Now it turns out that operators figure shift character the rest of the message was be in the shifted alphabet. So they would send the very often type full stop twice, and they type the three repeats in six characters. So on a good day, repeats. You also notice the Psi stream contains in a repeated bit position. So, Psi is about how can you use that to - what can you do to they realized is that if you add each character to in those characters are the same. Right, that's itself results in zero. So they generated what the cipher text and add each character to the next position, a zero indicated a repeat in the cipher text is about 60% zero. For an entirely random out actually to be 60% zero approximately for an and using this, it gives you a tiny little window remember that Z is P + Chi + Psi, it turns out so the Delta stream that you generate from the Chi added to Delta Psi. So you rearrange that a the Delta cipher stream, added to the Delta P + Delta Psi is zero approximately 55% of the it would be 50% zero. Turns out it's 55%, on a it's a lot smaller than that. So if you could add it to the Delta of the cipher stream, and of the Chi stream correct, you'd see slightly expecting. Now that means you've got to generate Chi stream is it's 22 million characters long. So start positions in order to get a possibly that's not gonna work. So what about if you try yes, that works - if you try a Chi 0 and Chi 1 ok, Delta'd, you can get a significant result, just is only 1271 characters long. So you've got to try right start position. So what that does is reduces times 10 to the 15 tests - to 1.6 million. Right, number of tests you've got to do by doing this would take about 18 days. They tried it, believe six weeks for one message - but it worked. And a course is useless, but if you can do it a little it's fast enough it would be useful. What if you it would take about 14 minutes. This is useful. Max Newman. St John's College mathematician, and built quite a clever machine that could do just a second, and basically you punch your message another tape, and you run the two tapes through logic in the middle that does the Delta-ing, if you glue those tapes into loops and you make then you can just run the loop continuously through the machine, you will have tried all the of it. And they called it Heath Robinson after the weird machines - and it worked. And it made it two bits at a time, and then you could break that wasn't too difficult. And it ran the tapes frame there. Two tapes, it ran those through at single candidate run in a roughly 15 minutes. to break a Lorenz message from four to six weeks and it works, and it's useful. But Heath Robinson problems. Synchronizing to tapes like that a very had to be prepared by hand every single time, and and they broke so you had to keep remaking them. the Chi stream, it couldn't do anything else, that bits at a time. And it couldn't help me say with Now okay enter our final player Tommy Flowers, that combining unit for Max Newman. He was a and there he worked on telephone exchanges, and he all those telephone exchanges were mechanical University College London in electronics. And build an entirely electronic exchange using valve and they wouldn't let him try it. So he built this from a combination of valves and relays. And when use it was being put to, and the problems they had much, much better way of doing this and he pitched can build you a machine that will generate the electronically, and it will do all of that stream using a single tape and it will do all that he said &quot;I'll even connect it to a teleprinter for have to write them down by hand.&quot; Now Neumann but he wasn't convinced that Flowers could do back to his research lab, and he came back to with a big lorry, and on the back of the lorry dubbed Colossus just because it was so huge, and the first version was constructed from roughly Mark II which had 2400 valves, by far and away, to date. And it processed text at 5,000 characters was five times faster than that, 25,000 characters miles an hour - about 40 feet per second. Which read and consume characters at 10,000 characters physically disintegrate at 53 miles an hour, so it was capable because of the limitation of the a computer has been limited by the speed of its and it was capable of compressing say all five Boolean calculations simultaneously on all of year or so, the next year-and-a-half, Bletchley traffic using Colossus, successfully deciphered. a few more pictures of it which survived from the do a huge amount more as well. Being completely in the way we would understand it), it could help of the start at the Chi wheels but also the all at the same time. It could also do some other for instance would change the bit patterns on all basically had to go back and start regenerating out again. Colossus could do that for them every every month throughout the whole war, and towards a week.. So without something like Colossus on the wheels, it would have shut them out almost it did it at really quite astonishing speed. I've here which I think are absolutely fascinating not given to huge emotion. So you look at this: work. That's good, innit! Tuesday the 18th of And you look at the entry in the middle: Took you've got to take a break from work somewhere. 5th of February 1944 down here: &quot;Colossus did its only a few days to install and commission Colossus traffic, it really only took a few days right at the rest of that entry it's his car broke down radio car. Home at 1am. So he wasn't the first and all-nighter either. So they they built a total over sixty million characters. So, if we take there's a very basic block diagram but on and you can see all that parallelism through, it's One very clever touch, invented by Flowers, was piece of teleprinter tape you can see that down sprocket holes. And in a standard tape reader with those sprocket holes and pulled the tape did was he put an additional photocell underneath from the sprocket holes. So Colossus, you didn't machine synchronized itself to the tape, so it didn't matter whether the tape stretched a bit, tape which is a very, very clever innovation innovations that come out of it. It's the first for instance. And he used that to shift every a shift register so he could keep each pair difference in calculation. And Colossus moved deltas at two steps and three steps and four steps registers. Using a single clock to synchronize hugely parallel - it had what I reckon has got to the printer was already printing out a result looking for the next one - if it found the next the printer would just flip a little signal to the machine which is basically going to idle and and then we'd carry on from where it left off, you ask me. From a hardware peripheral. An optical second. When I first started computing in 1976 or And there was Flowers building a 10,000 character concept something called systolic arrays, which is ever come up with before, it's a data-driven starting to get interested again in the field of possibilities of using systolic arrays to speed They were independently - huh, &quot;discovered&quot; by paper on it and didn't realize at the time that it's clocks being 5 kilohertz which is basically hundred Boolean operations simultaneously on in the input stream. And by my rough calculation which comes out 2.5 megabops and I like megabops impact of Colossus, did it do what it was supposed and the team were put under huge pressure to have idea why. Now with hindsight, we do. We know that the re-invasion of the European mainland - they'd we now know as D-Day and it was planned or overestimate even, how much rests on that There's a heavily defended coastline on the other or later. that invasion is going to come. So the fake army groups, fictitious intelligence, false place to try and hoodwink the Nazi command that it would come in Calais. So the success of that know that they'd been successful in deceiving the command would be thinking - had they been fooled? reading the Nazi High Command transmissions. Now, season, tide, and the moon, meant that there month when all of those things coincided, and the delayed more than four or five days each month these things would come in sequence again. If, three months, winter would set in, and they'd have invasion in early June was absolutely crucial and originally set it for June 1st. It was delayed to then the 5th. June the 6th was the last delay until July. Now on June the 5th, Eisenhower June the 6th as they were meeting, so the story a courier arrived from Bletchley Park, walked piece of paper. Eisenhower opened that and read decrypted by Colossus at Bletchley Park just a few commander of the Nazi forces on the Atlantic belief that yes, there would be an evasion in the real invasion would happen 5 days later in Rommel permission to move his tank divisions from this was exactly the intelligence that Eisenhower command had been completely deceived as to Eisenhower was not, didn't reveal what he weren't allowed to know that we were reading the he looked around at the assembled group we go tomorrow.&quot; June the 6th, D-Day, the later. So Churchill credited Bletchley Park and the war, largely. Most historians agree that it and it saved I don't know how many hundreds and the way to a guy called Harry Hinsley, one of the made that remark at a conference in Newcastle in he worked at Bletchley Park during the war and of John's and Vice Chancellor of the University, Another story that came out just towards the luck, which Tommy Flowers reported many many years business a few days before hostilities broke by the British Embassy and told to return home three hours before the German frontier closed. there really possibly might not have been anyone mechanical technology, electronic technology, and with the knowledge to build what became Colossus, without knowing it. Lovely thing. At the end of as we know, desperate to preserve the secret, destroyed. All of them, be broken into in his own Tommy Flowers writing after the war recorded that I was instructed to destroy all the records which and all the information about Colossus on paper That must have been an absolutely heart-breaking to GCHQ at Eastcote in April 1946. They were moved dismantled in 1959, and the other in 1960. So but no documentation about them survived. The used Enigma-like machines and Lorenz-like and we promoted them and we sold them to lots of could read everything they wrote. So that's why But as we moved into the 60s and all digital essentially became obsolete. So to bring it up to in about 1973, and over the the few years after much much bigger secret at Bletchley without being Colossus kept coming up occasionally. The British something called Colossus - principally because who did more to reveal Colossus than anybody else. University and he was given a few pictures like Bletchley during the war, and he was allowed to 1976. He wasn't allowed to say that Colossus was roughly allowed to describe the scale and the was a witness in the audience that day in in June audience next to a guy called John Mauchly you may and ENIAC at the time was regarded as the birth operational shortly after the end of the war. witness says that's the first time I realized what dropped as he realized he'd been comprehensively the detail of what we've seen today about how didn't come out until 2000. That's 55 years later, it that was published simultaneously I think in total of what we know about Colossus these days. taken to Newman's Computing Machine Laboratory at and several historians have commented on the happened in England immediately after the war. the National Physical Laboratory, Max Newman at Cambridge. We'd say we know that Newman took some on June the 21st 1948 his Manchester Baby machine computer. Newman knew about Colossus, he'd he'd seen it work. Now, he knew such machines didn't take that knowledge with him to Manchester, the research that he did in winning the race was lots of other work going on separately from Telecommunications Research Establishment and high speed counting electronics and a lot of that a conventional history of competing runs something late great John von Neumann that had the greatest EDVAC wasn't delivered until 1949. It didn't begin or the small-scale experimental machine it was the first thing that we would recognize today as very shortly afterwards built here in Cambridge by the 6th 1949. There's another machine called ENIAC as being the first operational computer, but it and operational until February 1946, it wasn't And it was definitely later than Colossus. So, I which purports to show an entire family tree of So you can see it recognizes ENIAC, and EDVAC now Colossus might not have been Turing complete, see down there, completed in February 1944. Turing complete either. ENIAC, announced February pre-dates everything literally everything publication from 1957, and it would not appear in least, because it was kept secret for 40 years principally, and others like Newman, denied I'm concerned, in the development of electronic ended the war in debt because he'd used some build Colossus because he couldn't get it funded Office either. Others, like Newman say, went in the the official development of the history of And he remained in the shadows probably for never really recognized in his own lifetime. Even re-pitched his idea about building an entirely and his bosses said no, you can't build a machine could be done because he'd done it, but he wasn't to give the proof, so he was never allowed to thing about Colossus, its position in history, is a rebuild of it. Although as we've said all the or very shortly after the war, all the drawings when the existence of Colossus emerged, one man it turns out that some of the people involved had do you donate do you know who've got a garage keep just in case, because it was interesting. little bits of circuit diagrams, and they kept Tony Sale started to try and rebuild and recreate 2007. Took a huge amount of time to do it, mainly you go to Bletchley Park today, you can see engineering. If you haven't been to see it, please and if they let you over the barrier, actually history. Not only did it shorten the war and save but it gave birth to an industry as far as I'm starting to agree. And it gave birth to modern few more pictures there. So who do you dedicate known that a lot of people who worked at Bletchley the Official Secrets Act, they never talked quotes that I can find about that comes from lady the war. She said afterwards &quot;I was in fear of the my greatest sadness is my beloved husband died in That applied to a huge number of people who worked you're going to dedicate this to anyone there's and 12,000 people who kept a secret for as long feat of analysis, an entirely mental exercise incredibly complex machine from 4000 essentially Flowers sadly died in 1998 he never saw Colossus to do it and was never really recognized in his at Bletchley and if you like won the race after and then Tony Sale bless him, who devoted the back to life again. And doubtless the million the war. So, thank you. I hope you found that what Colossus did, and some of the incredible