This episode is See a car in a movie You can find it on Autotrader. Shop millions of new and Welcome to Ear We're two lifelong friends. Talk about life I'm Link. And I'm rut. This week at the round table celebrating and reminiscing 40 of friendship with each other. It's our friend Uh, Our friendiversary. This comes out two friendiversary, right? So, September 4th, 1984. That is, uh, first day. That's when it started. It was the first day I don't want to talk want to say what it was. So it's easy, it was pinpoint that date. And people on the internet Yeah. Because somebody, we always grade, elementary school I did some research and the was September 4th in 1984. So for whoever did That's how we know that That's how long Mythical beasts. So we're going, and little celebration on you can check that out. It, it did involve, um, a and it was a complete surprise say, maybe Stevie talked about I can't remember. It was great to have Elvis. Elvis was not It was not our first choice. We did talk about that. We had a couple of other We'll Um, so anyway, uh, we is we want to reminisce. We have each put together significant slash iconic This got really squirrelly Well, we got our wires assignment, I will say. Uh, yeah. Because this was This is me very happy that that you you know, come up with special our four years of friendship. And I should have clarified time not to make it a top 10 narrow it down to the top 10. We have to rank significance or whatever. So I just went from the tracking through our and tried to remember. The most significant moments quickly Well, all you said was sent me was we can each make can make lists and go through Yeah, i'm misleading So then pull that together like we about it Again, what what I I tried to narrow it down was going to rank as like, moments in our friendship? And then you're like, Well what I meant by that what the decision I was like, would You want to do it like this? Like let's let's And then we just didn't It's fine You do it your Is this the breakup? Is this the end of 40 Um, I mean, I don't have But you should have would be a nice theme. But I may not mention, I may And you want to do it Yeah. And I wanted to do it in now I'm not going to do, them once you told me that I didn't want to. Assign more or less moments, because once I them, that seemed like Uh, I'll do that. I'm up for the task. Yeah, so that, that's gonna have more than me and you order, I'm gonna let, I'm And, because there's so many, extensively about any of feel like, Moving along. You know what I'm saying? Like, for instance, number September 4th, 1984. Miss Locklear's class. We did a whole episode that and the specifics invented in our own minds. About writing curse words and Which we still remember, At least being held But we don't question We know that's the first day. We met less because we more because Didn't it just an argument to be made that week before a month before? Hmm what I so we're sitting is we're undermining today. We are undermining every one of friendship and calling I never thought about that. We moved that summer and then and we visited First Baptist. And I don't know if I would You didn't always Yeah, I did. Every Sunday? Yeah, well, yeah, I So there's a possibility that So let's mark cross that weeks before but we didn't a conversation because I I I hadn't taught anybody I don't think I would have I would have like waited you were you were the new we got to north carolina I don't know. That's that my that's Maybe like a week or two I don't know. So yeah, we met for the Let's not screw that one up. I would not, I, I am number one moment of our it's very important, the there's more important Okay, like the first time I What do you I don't remember at all. But you know it must This is why I surmise that Again, as we've discussed. Talked about many times. I had a propensity to other, uh, kids homes. Yeah. Boys homes. Not boys homes, like Orphanage? Like, not orphanages. Like other Homes of you know, other people's No, no, no, no, no. They didn't have to be friends, anybody at all. And what I will say is that like first grade class the course of a couple of over to everybody's house. Most people, I would go over the night, and I would say, I'm not coming back. Ah. You know what I'm saying? I've seen Well, we You could pretty much see stand in the middle of I've seen what's in I, you know, I know what Which usually was rented VCRs back then. Do they have a Nintendo? I specifically, there was a was like, I made the decision And yours was one There weren't many. There weren't many. There was a handful. So I would say that I don't remember the first and third and fourth time, point where I was able to night at my house, but it because you were scared to Well, it is interesting things that we know for very different at that age. This is a very, um, validatable point And a good example to then, You were unabashedly inviting and I was, you know, I, but you would certainly do I wouldn't do it now. It's like, yeah, We, we've had a role reversal, in that way, which I think in a lot of different ways. But when we hung out, And I think it has to laughing together. That's what, that's And, and when we, when we of mythicality, I think together, stay together. Okay. That, that, that slogan is really is the backbone of, the same sense of humor. And, We also saw each other the church thing like a couple the week We would be in the school there were other kids Right in the class and in going back to their house. Yeah, and it wasn't We early age We were seen best friends constantly Um, first or second grade. I think it was first grade and then became a t shirt. It was like, Ms. Locklear gave us this thing draw your family, your pets, your best friend or friends. And I put Link and Matt. Link, Neil, Matthew Ensor. Yeah. And, uh, Okay, I never spend That's a data point, but friend in first grade Okay. Well, there you go. Okay, that's that's hair full blue suit. It's a t shirt. Okay. I don't know get it anymore. There you go I you know what because you mentioned miss moments in our friendship for looking for Miss Lockley, It technically didn't You can still rent you want to watch it. Yeah, um, that was an in our friendship because. It was the first time. I mean, we made a movie of working for, you know, crew we somehow like altered our the strategy of what we were film, which was extremely And. Just a really long project. It was like this passion one summer, but then over the just edit it when we had time that, the origin story of our was a big creative risk and That we found a way And I think that was just, a super sweet thing that memorialized our friendship. We felt like this is something And even now we're really wonder hole, you know? So it's, I think that was for us because it was and it was making a movie friendship in the past. It was also about, you Indian tribe, uh, seeking It ended up, I would say emblematic of what we've these years and are, and are which we'll talk about more. Later on because I'm I remember spending the Much more than I the night at my house. On the U. S. Yes. Yeah. Which was like, you would, it But then you would take the floor, wouldn't you? I had a fold up bed underneath my bed? No, I just had a mattress We would usually sleep in that's where the Nintendo was. Right, but before that, in my parents would take that U. S. Which I also had one, and I later in, when I was going experimenting with my couch, D. Vance, my bed, um, uh, mattress at the time. Okay, good. Okay? And I no longer Well, maybe I was. Was I sleeping on that one? No, no, I'm saying that that you've never slept on a Are you sure because I spent we were 15 Yeah, you changed the US history mattress was Oh, okay. Okay. Okay I remember your We're moving on. I'm just, uh, let me just say president and I know that JD with a, with a, with a couch. Somebody made a joke but here's the thing. I am not running for have sex with furniture. So it's the exact opposite. He is running and I'm openly not running openly admit that I did But you don't have running for anything. There's no reason to admit. But I'm saying that if I ever God forbid, I really don't to have to embrace that. It's going to be It's going to be like, yes, I Well, you know, that's what No, people who have No, people who don't I don't want it, Link. Don't, don't twist my arm I've had sex with furniture. Do not vote for me. I don't want it. Oh, he's perfect. He's perfect. He's the total package. There's a small group to be very happy you Oh, which part of it? The, the, when the JD out, there was a number I was like, Jesse told something about it. You know, my social media she told me I should engage. I was like, I'm just not I remember your television not, it was corded. Yeah, it was a Zenith. It was a Zenith and it had a. Cord, Xena, the Okay. What else you got? Let's not get off on the best television. Um, you may have 40 You may disagree with this, some, some of the things things that I were like, about our lives, this And then some things are is a circumstantial thing has a lot of significance. Okay. This is the latter. Uh, Pastor Tim, Youth Pastor Creek First Baptist Church. Yeah. And I would say Okay, well I know that he and excited to teach us as and excited as he was. To like, take a Passion. Passion. About your relationship Yes. Which ended up So share it with people. It, well, and just Like, it being, hey, if saying that this wouldn't Because I, my personality But, I think this was, if it less passionate, less good, Yeah. I think that I may more, Lukewarm, right? But I think it connected that it ended up being a It's, you know, there were other girls that we passionate or whatever, but who are like, unabashedly Yeah. We had that in common in a connect with other people. I would, then I would, be that mission trip. Well, we went to Trinidad. But we went to Trinidad, why? Because of Tim. Right, and we were 14, 15? Uh, that was Yeah. Right before high school Yeah, which at the same time without getting into the why there was a church Baptist Church that year. It had it squarely Tim, right, which led to should be a pastor, right? And so and we had relationship with him. So we were very invested. It wasn't something that It was something that we were And then my family being a then led to the establishment So, I, I see, like, you know, infinite regress, and, and where we decided to start which was very instrumental. Right. But I've got some A friendship. I've got more moments between Alright, keep going, since I'll make sure you don't Uh, 7th grade talent show. Hell yeah, 7th That's where It was, we, Tribe Called Quest, so it was me, you, uh, Ben Cause what did And then, we added another just me, you, and Ben, right into another song. We got two for one. And what was the song Uh, Or did I have I thought Scenario That was 8th grade. We did the same song, which One of the first songs Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And, um, yeah, and that's So that was Me, You, Ben. And we brought the house down. We lived for that. It was like, oh my god. And I remember being And watching the talent and thinking in 1st grade, And uh, and then in And I, and again, that was We which was That was great. And again, there's a of meld like, is this a a friendship moment? Which I think is very friendship, which is, things has been, well, we source of our friendship Um, yeah, that was Yeah. I mean, so you, you missed fall of eighth grade year, Mm-Hmm. was after that. Where we performed you down the tune of you down with was because what we had done from getting up there for the we're like we can get up there It's not even a talent written a rap and do it. Yeah, and Again This is one that was very friendship moment The full that rap on the Tonight Show I've brought it up I think it's like one as one of like, the most in our, our friendship. Because it was that full I, I, I remembered it as being show, but it was an original lyrics, I dug them up, I still written, it was like, I knew I don't think I would to do it without having You can see it in the but that's a good point. But yeah, to be able to I was also like, is the Tonight Show, that was for us, because we grew up It was just, it So to be on it, and to be to be doing a will it from built the set, you know, within The Tonight Show. It's like It was such a, uh, And it was extremely special. That was like a highlight highlight of our career. But, to me, both of those, on there, is a highlight And, I, it's definitely In the top five There's a lot, there's then in this time period. So I'm going to stay And it stay, you can stay for an audience. Well, I'm, so I'll, The every year there school dance, the middle Enzor, who was Matt's dad, of our band, he was the a lip sync competition. Yeah. So it was another time for, in the dance, everybody's and then if you've entered to, you get to, you get to And we performed a DJ Jazzy song called Jazzy's Groove, Will Smith, is just rapping is and I was Jeff and I was the the DJ stuff and he made and and perform arithmetic. One plus one is two. Which is extremely hard what he was doing and all I am taking a course. Now you're a DJ. From him and learning That was it, that We didn't win though I think Linwood Campbell. I think maybe outdid us Yeah, have more, a It was, it was a hit. The song we chose No one, it was a, it was Right. It was an iconic moment. A lot of people are bread intake, right? Bread can be high calorie, Mm hmm. But then there are just so It's just part of my to have some bread. The bread. Bread. You know what I mean? You got a hamburger, you got you got some tortillas, You a bread for a taco. Oh, tortillas. Okay. All right. Yeah, that's right. Well, hero bread reinvented that make everything And now you can try their Hawaiian rolls for guilt Let me tell ya, even if wanna keep these Hawaiian taste just as good as any Yeah, there's nothing taste or texture. We tried these yesterday We had all of them in there. We had the tortillas. We had the seed bread. We had the, the buns. And you, I would have eating regular bread. I know, totally. Soft and fluffy. Make a sandwich. But it has zero grams grams of net carbs and I love fiber. I don't know if that I freaking love fiber. We're fiber fans. And I love bread. Keep the carbs out of your flavor with Hero Bread. Get 10 percent off co and use code That's EAR at H E R O dot C O. You know, there's so many television shows that And you can turn Or, you can learn Oh, okay. Like Lando is doing. Mm hmm. He is? Yep. Yep. To, to watch his anime. Well, if you would like that. Mm hmm. In comes Rosetta Stone, learning program available truly immerses you in the They've used trusted experts of users and 25 languages include Spanish, French, Japanese, and Arabic. Rosetta Stone immerses The lessons help you pick first with words, then And it's designed for Plus, their built in you feedback on your up sounding like a pro. A lifetime membership has language needs in your life. That's lifetime access to Rosetta Stone offers That's a steal. Don't put off learning There's no better time than You can get Rosetta for 50 percent off. Visit rosettastone. com slash ear. That's 50 percent off language courses for Redeem your 50 percent com slash ear today. Non performative moments. Uh, I think that Ben time was actually a really Seventh grade. So Right. And this is, you know, chronic fatigue syndrome. We've talked quite Which kind of took a lot of ways, right? He had to leave school, uh, know, the three of us spent also spent a lot of individual um, and then Ben getting sick schooler, not knowing, who that, but also just literally do things, you know, uh, You like high school journey doing and I think it kind of had for us sort of teaming up In a way that we had solidified until that moment. Yeah, um, I'll add The, let's see, 8th grade turned into video projects. Like Oedipus. Which we dug up and Morning, like, in some Like super grainy VHS bad bad, think we shot it and we we tape in order So it's like you might have done something ability to do that Again was something that we did making Videos for school. It was together. There were other people and they were comedy. They were dumb and people do what we wanted to do. Yeah. Okay. They seem to really have an It seems really bad and dumb, about it that I guess I right around that same time. Um, this is in the category eighth grade, Betsy's house, So you think this I think it's so funny now for This is like, this is Number one, that we're They just love this stuff. Right. Okay. And, um, yeah. And as we have proven, into your theories. Um, Us individually making in the make out room, and making eye contact while making out Now, it wasn't If you want it to believe eye contact, then fine. And maybe in the It was more of a confirmation yeah, we're doing this. Of parallel experiences. Alright, yeah, yeah, yeah. We're both on We're It's an iconic thing something at some point. Because it's just so funny for out with their girlfriends. And like, they've Like they've talked about how this is what life's all about at each other part, but like make out what our girlfriends talking about how great it was how great it was gonna be and how great this is And I'm like I'm real. I feel like I might shit I'm so nervous, but okay. Am I doing this right? It's probably what Like, uh, I wasn't We were both reclined. Yeah, we were reclined. There's quite a room, that I mean there was somebody There was another couple. Oh, at least a couple. Might have been at that happen anymore. I hope so. Um, I've still I've got, by from that era before I move but I don't know if you've I think. 7th, 8th, 9th grade. The sheer amount of time that over the summer, but like, Just doing stuff outside. Like, all the stories We're going to chase cows, river, we're going across other cows, we're going to, A lot of these things And then at that same less able to be there, and You know, even when we were would, we would go hang out. Even after, in the woods. Even after we got our We year in high school, we the woods and swimming in super, like, just this, talking and adventuring was, uh, what, well, it may tie in our friendship in terms of There was this, Connection, but it, but and, um, we really began see us as a duo and we saw weren't self conscious about fun of us, like we didn't I don't, I didn't, I that much about it. Cause there were the, there Yeah. I forgot all about year in high school. Well, we talked about it I forgot about it again. There was a guy, Daniel, he would like started the Of course, that was That was like, Oh, gosh, this could make up about somebody. And in our little conservative a lasting memory of having negative impact on me. No, you know, like. We had a big group of always seen as a duo and everything together, you really coalesced and then I in a specific memory. Well, I have, um, a specific related to that and that 9th grade, getting ready And us going to the river we were about to experience. And it was one of those Like you were very It was Very like a, it was like a go into where I was trying Yeah. For, like, this is what to be, you realize. Yeah, this, like, still have to this day. We've had, like, fantasy type. We've been going Visualization. With this limited Right. We're gonna have girls from uh, girls from Lafayette. Yeah. And girls from Boobies Creek. And suddenly, it like, what is in store for you. And I certainly didn't. I certainly didn't. And I just remember sitting And just thinking about our Yeah, these are the nature It was like very involved. It wasn't, it was deep. And it was fantastical. And there was a lot of it. You know, I think it was we're just kind of just things and then you know I around a bit to know exactly obviously a top moment in our Yeah, I Would argue since We're basically we're to Yeah. I think it's number one. Oh yeah. Because it was the first con It was Again, it's like about like going into high into the rest of our lives. This was a huge open ended when you admit that to the where it's like, yeah, let's make this a promise to do It's not something, it conversations we had, but We didn't have to go there. We didn't have to ritualize doing that meant a whole you it was, we were probably We used to say 14, but that we were actually thinking I remember when you were what are we going to do? Are we going to major in Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I think we were probably 16 it had gotten to this point like, consider things like time I thought I was gonna And so I think maybe, like, can play college basketball, Yeah, you know, like scenario where we got to pursue this thing together, where we were going. Um, yeah, and I think that, it comes up so much in of the, it's the, it's the that like, not only have we but we've been committed to In like a weirdly In a way that when people really unusual that you long, and that you've done that your, your lives have way and that your careers Like that's where the sort because people are like, oh somebody I went to middle on a regular basis But I don't and stay in that room with well, we weren't thinking business partnership together. No but that's only because those dots if we If we really enough about how the world have known that that's part We're going to go into know, it's just that being businessmen or And they still aren't. No, no, they're not. It's a means to an end. The business has always And it wasn't about making talked about being rich. Right. You know, we're going to It's like we were going We're going to do I mean, it was very, it to what has happened. It's crazy. Right. Um, and I kept it in my wallet And then you lost it. But then. But I didn't even So I probably put it in probably cleaned out Do you recall anyone the oath back then? I don't think we talked I don't think anybody Yeah, I don't think there was And I don't think it's the have told a girlfriend. Mmm, probably not. I don't think so. Our relationships laughs Why am I still laughing? Uh, it's funny. I don't know. laughs I was thinking of play on being shallow, but them because they seem cruel. Okay, yeah. So, okay. Shortly after that, the of that doing something the band, Wax Paper Dogs. Which we've talked about that to go into the details, but Junior year is what I'm Yeah, because I was, I was, up a guitar for the first teach myself so we could. Well actually, we started were dual lead singers, weird, we're not in sync. And so we decided to, I It was just, it You know, we were other people along. Like we had, we We brought them along trips and stuff like that. And when we started the exclusively been our idea, we're bringing you guys We're obviously a duo. We do everything together. We're going to We had no clue how a personal, spiritual, um, Because I think the thing that is not that the band was good. We weren't. Not that we were making We weren't. Um, I think the thing that is is the level of seriousness Like, it's, it is a I don't what we have created, I'm things that we've created. But I don't think the is that whatever we There's lots of people who stuff than we do. We make the stuff We make stuff that only That's what makes it unique. But one of the things is potentially, maniacal level we both share that ends up on a situation sometimes. Um, I'm not saying it's we're both aligned in that way That's one of the things working for us. I would put it this way it is very healthy. We fostered an unapologetic Like we had these big were extremely serious. about following through we always thought that we Had so much more potential Oh, yeah when we started that stars in our minds It was important thing which is to from point A to point B and And it was just a foregone was going to happen. You know, it was stupid And everybody in the That was the cool thing. We all just believed it. Right. And it was a lot of fun. Oh, yeah, it's fun And the amount, again, you Like, the amount of We would practice. Chasing. We didn't just dream. We'd be like. We gotta practice, guys. We gotta get this shit down. We wouldn't say shit, though. No. But, like, we gotta We, this is serious. We can't be messing things up. Right. We gotta get these Yeah. I mean. That's it. It was such a, it The time, the commitment, the much was encapsulated in the And it was because it We had this sense of other, but also with the doing was sacred, right? There was a sacred nature Um, and it was important and And that's what Hey, this is a movie drunk at Trent's house. Yeah, on my deconstruction, episode, like spiritual, uh, That just really demonstrates we had to each other to I mean, we called it holding I think in retrospect, there like we knew the real person each other, or we had made context of our friendship. Right. And at this point, yes, band to it's like, Hey, You don't want to. Um, uh, sabotage it with going and getting drunk when their parents are the first and only time. So, yeah, that iconic moment the conversation in the car you kicked me out of the car invited me to reflect on what Yes. And then. Uh, you drove off and I'm tears rolling down my face, in the middle of tobacco I look up and, um, you know, you walking back, you know, the horizon, you're not in sight, you're walking back. And you met me on the road, and we walked back together. Said nothing. Said nothing. And we, and, uh, we got back and we kept moving forward. We didn't talk about it again. Kept moving forward This is like you can't You've never had I've never had a drop got drunk again. That's not true I'm, but you that time in your bathtub rum when I was married We don't like to get like to get drunk. Um, okay. That was a big moment. It was big. That was a big moment. I'm interested. What about, what about the you had really screwed up? You shouldn't have done that I mean, it was never as lot more infractions in me. You never told me, you never You never challenged me on it. Oh, well, yes we did. I was a good boy once Yeah. It wasn't easy for you. Right. It wasn't that Wasn't easy to just, dating relationships. Um, so I don't remember. So I, what I wrote down college because it's, it's, set of very concentrated, And I would say that, um, Our decision to join like go all in there Um, but I also we may, we could have gone ministry or we could have else, but that ended up important for our friendship around this like mission. It was very mission driven. Our lives were mission other as very important. But it also led to all of We entered into You know, everybody who the vast majority, met us as a duo. You know, for our freshman about the band we were in and of concerts and when we would to the concerts that we would was still within an hour's Or somewhere in between that we can now invite like and we both bleached really weird and different We were hanging out with we Yeah, it may have been a thing elsewhere, but in It was on you it was a more It was like, okay these Even I can tell that these, these if they're not, if no, if But yeah, everybody met I don't recall being at all at that point. For me, going off to college that dorm room, and that, I the first week and that we had we were completely on our own. And I remember being scared after that first week. It's like, wow, this is a I feel like the net's gone had each other and we had else of having each other. And people liked it. I think it, it didn't I think it drew people that we conducted our It was that like, Hey, Be a part of it. Kind of a, kind of a thing, Greg and like he became like was like the friends that we Like we're going on this this year, Greg, Tim and harm. And it's like, This identity exclusive is something that, were proud of it, you know? And because of, you might be do some stuff apart, you know? It's like, is this Like, we never, we And that doesn't I don't, I think there's considering that once you your lives and your families And that kind of thing But when you're in high think that the lack of self it's like, in many ways, it's You know, twins, well, earlier with twins because whole lives, but there's the going to the same college. We're going to continue And they have to individuate at some point. But we were, yeah, there was no Now we were doing slightly wasn't like every time, you Cause I was like, I'm lead this Bible study, This summer project We'll spend the summer apart. MC the MC the meeting like we had to do every Yeah, there was a level of know that we didn't have to it was still the vast majority I think that the first time a song Together that was point you moved You To conference, the Christmas There was a, I mean, this was also a big friendship moment was a little bit of divergence meetings and on stage, and it so publicly you started to and become known, not just campuses when you did this. And then, you know, I behind the scenes producer, like to be on stage and to we had done it, we had done and Tim singing with you. But then that was a big moment uh, our career, definitely. But I think our friendship. When we were both performing the start of us being seen as right along that same time conference I'm seeing gig the second one was basically in this december Um, you In june that following up getting married six and We performed at his and we took that same song had performed, that Unibrow you know, the, we've seen will too, hope you enjoy And that was, it went so Jesse and Christy, on the y'all need to do something to, like, you, this doesn't Yeah, like what are You know, in this interesting We never referred It, when we're making all starting to become known then also publicly once we and started writing songs, We didn't hearken to the oath. It was kind of like, well, We never told And then we never It wasn't like once we made like, it was different than permission to just dream and it, we were, we were, I commitment from the oath, that way, at least I didn't. And I think I would do that than you, but So I do find that I think the oath for us was. There was a film school that didn't pan out, and engineering at NC State, and was still this like, okay, it's, it's a little too point, I really want to with the two of us. You know, it just kind of, this track of like, well, What were the opportunities? We're going to open an Exactly. There were two different convinced, even while I was to be an engineer, right? So I tried, I proposed about changing my major different generation. Our kids would just I'm changing my major. Yeah, we had to go to permission to change our or worse it's just a different like, I want to change the i'm just going to go into the summer two summer projects going to go on stent which is It's where you go to another longer and you, you know, you And so I was kind of And I was already going to marry Jesse. And so I was like, well, from college yet. So my mind was in like, I don't know. I'm going to do something And I was thinking I'm responsible because I'm And. My family would kill me if probably what I was thinking. But really, but Campus Christmas Conference? Was we had no intentions on think in my mind, I wouldn't But if you had asked me what did together at that point? I'd be like Yeah, and then maybe one break the national which we conference in Panama City was thinking about it in that for entertainment's sake, interested in or even Right. So I think, to me, it was calling, it's ministry, comedic gifts or whatever in thing we're doing together. But, I didn't know, I like, path in mind. And, And there was this more opportunities because as basically a comedian. And I felt like it was more or not and I wasn't gonna So for the, so the fact that You know, there was a in my through my lens. It was like you kind of I don't know if you thought there might have been a that it wasn't like people They were saying, Hey, you to keep him seeing stuff. And so, um, to me, when show that was, you Like that was the next trying something again. Now we're in this point of these career pivotal they friendship moments? Well, they're completely acknowledgement that like, going for this together. We're taking this big risk. We're taking, we're following through with it. And yeah, it was when giving us an opportunity So let. Let's make a comedy context of a crew meeting. He was like, can you create That's evangelistic in And that was when we were working as engineers a reason to get together. Like would we get together Yes. But like we live probably Once we were both married. And so, it's hard to get newlyweds, you're trying different communities, all of overlap, yet we were still, this thing that brought us we were writing, we were were writing songs, we were making plans, and we were will come into play a little This will come into play you know, another pivotal the reasons that I've always in hand is like our career we talked about previously, a, there's a, there's an is just like, Oh, well, if we wouldn't be friends. Which we can talk about how talked about that years later. But, to me, how do you You spend time together you're passionate about. So some people might be like, I play golf with this guy. Or this is my, the guy that I, and doing this activity. Like, we love archery. You know, we get together club and you know, we talk Our hobby is our career now. We have other hobbies, about the one thing that than any other thing is If I was an engineer, creative Hobby on the side. I would be like, yeah, I do I I have a youtube channel so so and so but my full I have no doubt that that's so That was always a point never saw it as a cheapening. I saw it as a I and it's also his hobby over the course of that, like that comedy show, then Shane this into an actual ministry again, we've talked about saying that, but we've talked moving quickly, but we became Campus Crusade for Christ, And that's when, I think period of time for our ended up traveling around Sometimes just me and you, the wives and the kids. Yeah. More often we didn't because So we would just be, we would car or we would drive there. And so we were on the road same hotel room because Right. And so it was like the idea Like what, who do And so. We spent so much time car together, we would be travel around and then we room, and we would share a Like, it was, those we do not do that now. We, like, we get Yeah, we don't, we don't. We don't need that. Forty years of friendship, you need separate bathrooms. Right. But at the time, it was like, doing life together. And I keep going back to like, They kept getting bigger, And so it was extremely And it, it required a lot, was fun and it was, I mean, spent adventuring, you know, out and chasing cows, you dream and objectives to aligned on, it just, it It just solidifies it. I, I think, you know, And it wasn't like us doing together was causing us to should, uh, I don't want to, I It was very much like, We this and we like, we got We got to, we got to see And again, it wasn't at the professional entertainers. It was still within the but we had an idea that You know, the thing that makes If you just clip out I'll be like, Oh, he's He's talking about what we're I think that's the thing That's the last thing But don't get Okay, but it is Okay. Oh, yeah. All right. So we'll get back to it. Let me look at my list here. Damn. First comedy show did that. Um, there's, there's so Unless you've got a specific my mind goes is the road Well, I think before, the online nation trips It was, it was the same thing Like you and I traveling out shooting a television show. That we started to Yeah, and like that whole we left staff Because we And again, oh, yeah at Rationalization was oh, much More opportunity for into the belly of the beast. And again, we'll get into what happened, but I, well, I think I can contextualize in the road trip. I definitely put The, what we called, we filmed it ourselves. There was nobody else there. The mythical road trip us moving out to LA. Like driving a U Haul with One U Haul, half full of your pulling my minivan behind, the country and announcing. Where we were at what rest over at so fans can line up think yeah, that was A big I mean it was it's iconic and You know, we left our we're doing them a favor Yeah, put them on a plane once And then we had this, you know, that we were I think we were, I still saying in the same Probably. Yeah. Yeah. Why not? We, I mean, I don't know if Um, and again, we've whole podcasts about the the, how we got from being Christian, um, no matter how the story for a lot of people you came in or it's because That's what happened. Right. Um, even though it was When we were in North road trip, I remember, it some of the most memorable telling you that I thought happened on that road trip. Really? Because I, I, I have being in this U Haul. You driving sometimes, me basically just being like, all the things that I can't the little sliver that I'm just the concept of, the That was what I had. Yeah. Right? But I had let go of a lot the Bible being true and I into like, you know, the that stuff, but I was kind of you a bunch of things during out that I was like, I just, exactly, I still felt like I know, Evangelistic mindset like going out to California to use us for something. But because I was so my beliefs before we I remember that road in that sense too. I think I talked to you more Definitely. Then than any other. Yeah, because. I was, you know, the allowed me to skirt having was, you know, On the verge much there on my own journey trip and that those particular like our friendship and it I think it's that a secret and sacred. Uh, exchange. We were filming, We would film, anytime to film something, we in the U Haul as we were Cause we, we had our minds, of videos we wanted to make, just, we're gonna capture just the experience and You can see in one of the about our hopes and dreams it was like, very real. Um, but you know We never rolled on the these like, Deep soul And I'm so glad we It would take 10 years before to those conversations. But the amount of time conversations, it wasn't, the is because there were so many. Again, if you add up the the depths of our soul how scary that was, I think the, the spiritual evolutions very scary and disconcerting. And. Um, uh, it's just throws your that we had a completely safe All the time, all the time, here and we, I remember we, you know, around studio city times walking up and down the back then we could, we could Now we're too busy to That would be our time we couldn't help it. We would just talk about it. Hours and hours adding up of. Just processing. It's like, and what What does this mean for? Like our salvation for our our, uh, marriages, for our like, it, it, it could have certainly we weren't exactly you know, so it was like, Oh that's a, that's a really It was huge to have that. There's a really interesting unequivocally the most And it was being And the funny thing is that Because that's so foundation goes away, a built on that, whether marriage, a career, those But to me, and I've only, talked about this explicitly, because it's a little relatable story that people Christians and became and got and on that foundation, one their worldview and then they story that didn't happen with when you and Christie and said that like, wow, uh, We for each other was actually That worldview was just a It wasn't the way It was a way to see the world. Now we see the world We could be wrong. I don't think you can be But our love kind of it wasn't based in that. And as we talk about this, wasn't based in that. It was enhanced by that. It was, having that common strategic for a lot of ways. And it, and it also, existed without it. At a certain point, as but it never crossed our not Christians anymore. So we're not going And at the same time, it Oh, we're not So we're going to stop unrealistic dreams that going to come true. Oh, I think it crossed my you were ahead of me and I not going to be a Christian. I'm going to be a Christian. And I think, I think we because I just don't think So I think I can just, When he, when he if, if we stay in that realm aligned on what we believe, so many other things. Thanks. And he'll come back around. There was a, there was it was just like, okay. He's going off. It's just a phase. It's going off. It's been plenty That's what parents And that's what I And it might've been one, two, three months. I can't remember. But I do remember Yeah. And saying, I'm just be a sounding board. And, you know, I keep the conversation You know, I wasn't, you know, So. There was a strategy It was like, okay, I felt, a threat to our bond here. I'm just going to ride it out. And then I might be saving his That's not how it went. Um, yeah, and I never, really crossed my mind. That's because I'm I mean, it crossed, it crossed Sure. And the only reason it had been told Right, right. By everyone that I knew. Me too. That the only way you can both rooted in Jesus and so not and you're like, okay, I think it was such, but, was such, it was so formative something that was just for. Us, like the, I mean, and It was also for It was also for you and Jesse. And then the four of us The way that we talked so, going through that spiritual deconstruction because it was, there was being a public component It was, it was a personal for us, it was very, it and very deep in that way. So it was nice the, the career and directly wound up in it. So it's, I mean, it's it's probably top three. It's not an actual It's a big phase. So where you at next? Well, so there's a bit of a and everything starts growing Yeah. Um, and we basically have of relentlessly pursuing this still sharing an office. And just these things keep of just there for them. And it's the career But I think that that to I don't know what you, exactly what year it was me that we've talked about. We talked about, I don't about it, we talked about more so than we talked Um, but it seems like it was I don't know. There was the letter that I about if our friendship we're doing publicly. If it's just about the work, It was basically It got, the balance got Like, the, the work got And it, um, I felt like our I would say around 2016, 2017. So 2017 is sort of the Of us. Overcommitting, right? Cause that's GMM 22 where five videos a day, buddy Christie's head injury was Uh, and so those created a sense where. It may have been true and been true that I'm still doing and I'm seeing you as much as as much time with you as I've both really stressed out. It's work. We're just working together. And not necessarily And that was your, that was And I don't think it was My response to you at the a second ago, which is, Oh, it this way because I feel I love with my best friend. And so us going after bigger and bigger and And you were kind of like, not work related, right? Because that's, that's the, of it becoming a, your And your friendship in a lot of ways. And, and also doing That led to me That's when I started When I had my physical but there was, so there's there was a time period after then that email came back up ago, like maybe last year. Okay. So it was what was coming out coming outta the pandemic? I don't know. I just remember I don't know what, I up and I was like. I think this is me going having gone to therapy for more in touch with my own of like, Making a concerted my emotional intelligence. Um, where I was like, letter to me, that email. Let me see if I can dig it up. Right. And I like, dug it And then I read my response, is ni This is not how I would the way I responded was like like I actually think that together and our friendship don't see a dichotomy between That isn't work related and then let's make videos seem the same thing, but I insensitive response to that validate your actual concern what you mean by that. And like, we didn't, if we never, we didn't, this meet eye to eye on that. We didn't see eye And I don't recall how much of completely from your response. Like, okay, I give up. This is it we're Cause that didn't happen. It was somewhere It was like, this is. I don't, it wasn't the which you recognized I don't think I, I can't landed on it, but it was kind you know, at least I got it an, an effort to like, Put separate from our work But it it because like you said when oh shit That's I I missed him It was in the context of um your james and the shame that like We had some We had us That made it hard to drew, I drew, I, you know, if, that you weren't doing that we, um, the way that And see each other for our relationship. So I think within that remember, it was, or at time, you revisited that And I think that, well, you apologizing about And, uh, like some regrets responded was a pivotal part walls in our communication so could see each other again, it was in, you know, it was, it was kind of a part, there it, you know, would, and it Right? Oh, yeah. Right. So at least, at least, but part a back into the part B like post pandemic issues. Kind of like And yeah, it was like a about the friendship and wanted and what, what being And, um, I know that was is to say, well, uh, if, met in this friendship, bring up instead of just. If I harbor resentment, that's a wall, you know, we're not have the exact same needs, don't love each other, and other, you know, but, um, we've always, when people key to having such a long you know, We say it in a lot boils down to communication, and like hard work to Everything that we've to make those work, those own way in our friendship. And we talk about that. You never know what together to make that And I think that's And, but then we discovered To say, to like be completely out there and get through it. And so, it's, it's funny to me it was so pivotal in And. As as a friendship duo, certainly a Again, I I mean a top three, you know going It was it was like I would Test of our friendship, like another ironically became the friendship, you know, uh, and it could have gone a sad way. Like it ne it never Like the, I have no story. You know? I guess when I was writing the I remember I wrote it on a I mean, that felt very on kinda like a breakup letter? It could be, it could be be our friendship as we know it, but because I don't know, moments in there and I through it and we like. You showed up in a way that capable of and then you became up and that meant the world I, I'm sure I was I wasn't, you know, I was writing the email from And I think that a big part is important is like, when weight that you attach to that you know, there's a negative that I didn't attach to it, see you and I didn't hear you. The positive, uh, Like it never it crossed was ever a breakup that would I would have been like That's ridiculous, right? and I think that that leads this extensively but like the like right for me it was never gonna be my thing and Links become something big like it Our friendship is solid. Our working Our career path Our career goals I've got this thing that and so, isn't perceived but that doesn't mean that threat is insignificant. But, because it wasn't see it like I was doing didn't appreciate that. The way that you saw it and it So I think the biggest all of that is like just and think about how your and actually get on the same So that I mean that that's biggest lesson in all of that i'm just a different person email I wouldn't respond in You did Will like physically home, sent the email, the next backyard and we were sitting Yeah, I mean, it wasn't that You didn't dis I mean, you You just, you, you didn't see told you, I was essentially you're talking me down. I don't know why you see it true, but you were there. I mean, you, you literally like you were an asshole. You were the, you were at the time, right? But I do think that this all have to end this podcast. But again, well, let me you know, the thing I feel interesting that it's fuzzy to our friendship now, As I talk about it, I'm not, feel, like, if, like, I feel but the way that I would it's a beautiful thing. I think it would Like, I'm not, uh, like, undealt with emotions. Wounds like, and yeah, therapy for both of us. Right. Because I know for me, there there were, there were tears And like me having my own for me and then allowing But now it's not like I feel Yeah. And I, I think that's It's in the past, I've, I've, the application, the lessons you know, whether I remember not like, oh shit, am I gonna, No, I don't think so. I think that, um, I feel, I just feel, I feel really You know? Yeah. And that says a lot. Well, and I think a big, a we're at right now, and this the most recent, but also as far as I'm concerned, is our decision to do Wonderhole, right? Yeah. Which is a, um, you know, for why we're doing it the In it, you know, a to do things and it went just making the decision that you want to make. But I think that the. The significance of this as is that the foundation, you foundation of everything perspective is our, is That's the, that's sort of Good Mythical Morning. It's just us being But Wonderhole is significant where the friendship is the passion for the things that we Good Mythical Morning is but we're stepping into a established by us a long time not a synergistic expression Yeah, and we have no And we love doing it. The thing that we want standpoint, we want to Trying things and we're there's been this getting and like trying things not something's going to what we're trying to make subject matter standpoint. Being able to really explore lessons that we've learned that we're communicating Yeah, it's been Pretty a friendship standpoint. I'm really excited that and now have got no point got to a point where we can as a gift to other people. And I think it's I mean, looking for It's on the list for GMM is what it is. It's interesting that we it, but like that is a I would say the first friendship moment, of course. Um, and all the planning uh, can't go without saying, packaging, packaging it as making people feel good, just been, it's just been fun of all the things that we do process, like really being in if, What if this happens? What if we try to do Like, that's, that's what That's our hobby. And, you know, everything obviously, we get to sit we talk to each other and that our company makes. It's frickin, who, How do you get the I'm not gonna lose But again, it's. Talking to each other. It's not there's not a creative element to it. Um, so there's just this coalescence of a lot of And then the net Spending a lot of time to make this stuff like we And then while we're together that we're doing which is that is a tribute to our of is what that's sort of I had a couple of smaller that it would make sense many so many little things. Yeah, this is but I think that's the It's nice to know that like our friendship work is where That's what that's what wonder way, you know First of all, it's what we are applying a for it to stay there and for it to stay something besides just to you know just just that like joyful so we're trying our best to of of this and it's, you spending the night and just Deciding to see if we can stream for no reason, just to be our objective today. Like that level of adventure, I think is, Yeah, that's what, that's And just the, the, you know, thing and putting it out there You know, as we record of days after the release has been well received. Um, and I think that over reception and people kind that we're trying to do and way that we were hoping that We know not everybody's Um, but I think that. There's been quite there's like why oh, I thought this Like I thought you guys hold What can't we talk about work? No, no, but what I want to No, no, but by answer to to what it is and not that we'll like yeah This is a scripted reasons Yeah is because That when you think when you kind and our creative partnership you look At its parts. You're like, oh, well these together And experiencing an, and who's going to say part of our friendship and Yeah. So that's an element of it. But then the, oh, what What if there's a song? What if we do this What if the world Right, right. That's also an aspect And so, My answer, The reason that the show is platform that we're making it sort of restrictions that that we ended up going. But, just as important, more representative say, buddy system. Mhmm. Because that like, oh, two to butt, trying to change of our friendship. That we didn't want to ultimately what I'm saying. It's like, the show ways, because of that. That's who we are. So if we do five years from 45, 50 years of friendship, stuff to put on the list. That's how I feel about it. And I can't wait. We're just getting started. Happy 40th friend anniversary. Speaking of. Happy anniversary You're gonna promote Oh yeah. Look at this iconic moment. We merchandised it. Look at the iconic We didn't talk about at the senior prom. Yep. Which has become a logo now. That's a cool Celebrate your Um, yeah, happy What are we gonna do Well, that's just for me Get a steak dinner? Alright, we'll talk And, uh, leave us a voicemail. 1 888 EAR POD 1 See ya. Just gotta let you two know, the time, that I made a best and Good Mythical Morning yes to being a bridesmaid in live across the country from sent her a little Dink It and will you be my bridesmaid? So thank you for Love the merchandise. Talk at you next week.