[music playing] I'm in Peru to investigate on planet Earth-- Nazca. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS carved into the vast of ancient geoglyphs, shallow animals, human-like figures, and defy conventional explanations. And many of these glyphs are be seen from the sky. [music playing] The mysteries of unsolved for hundreds of years. But I'm here to investigate could provide evidence GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): I explore the world that and speculation, the What we've been taught is not the whole picture. But I'm convinced that every to the truth. [music playing] Although archeologists believe created sometime between the earliest known can be found in a by the Spanish conquistador mistook them for trail markers. But it wasn't until the of the airplane, that and discovered a network of an area of over Many believe that the by removing the reddish colored surface and exposing the Luckily, because this desert the Nazca lines are still But who made them, and why? To begin my search, to meet with my good friend Georgio. David. Long time no see. Good to see you. How are you? You good? Hey, buddy. All right. I'm great. The plane's ready. Let's go. Let's do it. [ominous music] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS is one of the most of the ancient astronaut theory, on unexplained mysteries Even though we've both David and I are always excited they were clearly from the sky. And with so many glyphs here, of discovering something new. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS have proposed that it impossible for an ancient these complex images and shapes of geometry. DAVID CHILDRESS: So I keep is a signal to the Annunaki. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS: Right. DAVID CHILDRESS: And this It's, like, a beacon. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): of all the glyphs is known as This strange figure appears or perhaps waving to and inviting them to land here. Of course, ancient appear to be depicting In Nine Mile Canyon, you can find one called appears to depict an entire And in July 2014, were discovered in India that looking that even archeologists wearing space suits. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): is The Monkey Glyph. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): to take us over the strange referred to as Mount Palpa. Unlike many other Mount Palpa looks as if the sliced off. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): a million tons of Earth that There is not even any rubble if this was done deliberately, have accomplished such an The last site we wanted was the Sun, Star, DAVID CHILDRESS: Assuming some kind of primitive they had to be a very GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): was carved into a a series of intricate But how could the ancient Nazca at the very least, viewing from above the Earth? It's just one of the about Nazca that [ominous music] I'm still shaken Yeah. [laughs] It's just as exciting It really is. Because today, for I saw perfect circles inside I had never seen before. So I really think it also has to flying, because of the angle like this. And you're always amazed by and trapezoids everywhere. It's this giant geometry that's baffling you. You know, you can't figure It really is. And, you know, the perfection the things that look it's as if they were I mean, very bizarre. And I think the is what you showed me. The Star. The Star thing. The Star Glyph. It's just there. There is this-- this ditch in they didn't mind that it's It's very hilly. And it's perfect, though. So it'd be good to go. And investigate that Right. Let's go. Let's do it. [music playing] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): David and I drove to see the Sun, up close, from the ground. Local historians, Luis acted as our guides. And as they brought us right I felt like I was being What really strikes me is the absolute desolation I mean, why would anyone create in a remote, barren desert? DAVID CHILDRESS: It's It looks so different from I mean, it's-- I mean, anybody who says that full form the way we're they're out to lunch. Clearly, to do this, you You need to have something in let's create this. But then, to see the finished GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): that the people who inhabited 800 BC to 100 BC are and that they were here of the people living They're also convinced that the activity, even to this day. Here and around do you sometimes see loose light in the sky? He doesn't know what it is. And maybe by extraterrestrials? [music playing] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS with David Childress at the Sun, Peru. We just learned from our that it's not just ancient that extraterrestrials responsible for the remarkable But many of the native believe it, too. So he is suggesting that that the ancients observed. And then they imitated it. And why are they doing that? I mean, are they trying to That was Luis's thought. That's what Luis was saying. Yeah. So not-- Well, he said GEORGIO TSOUKALOS tells us there is a connection Paracas, and contact with Unexplained lights have been reported at numerous including Stonehenge in England, in Egypt, and Puma Now, according to the these sites were points of in the remote past. And these sightings prove that So it was very interesting to told us that they have seen at Nazca. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): and Cross Glyph, David and of Peru's great mysteries-- the Band of Holes, an ancient plane, about 100 miles Here, thousands of holes of have been dug into the earth running north and miles along a mountain range. But what makes the band is that, like the Nazca be appreciated in their entirety [music playing] You know, this a better perspective I mean, it's-- DAVID CHILDRESS: Yeah. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS: It's Really cool stuff. DAVID CHILDRESS: Yeah. It's a perfect day for all this. All right. They kind of look like tombs. I-- I guess they're not. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS: They weren't. So, but-- but seriously, man, right now? It's weird. Yeah it's cool that we It gets more baffling And-- and when you think, too, human beings, to make all this, is that somebody is going And what for? I mean, why are they doing this? GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): from the sky, it truly And to find out how the locals David and I met up with of the nearby Paracas 5,200 holes. That's crazy. DAVID CHILDRESS: Yeah GEORGIO TSOUKALOS: This band which is a lot. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): the Band of Holes was formed GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): that the locals believe was made to resemble In fact, 2,600 on Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, worshipped a flying serpent god was also known to the And, all over Asia, ancient abound with stories about flying dragons. But when I hear legends about breathe fire and smoke, I being described here was some one which was misinterpreted as some sort of flying reptile. Juan then told us about an as a young man. With light. In the daytime or [music playing] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS was fascinating to hear Juan's sighting right here at Nazca. But as we prepare to follow the we came upon an even All right, so here's a GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): and evidence of ancient tombs. Juan said that of the Inca, a pre-Colombian by the Spanish in But I wonder if these bones of human sacrifice, part of the so-called DAVID CHILDRESS: So this mass so this is, like, 500 years GEORGIO TSOUKALOS: Right. I mean, it's really wild. I mean, all these and they all seem to This is very, very strange. Yeah. Man. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): of the holes, which appear to although at other locations, Seeing this phenomenon and up close from the ground But I'm still unsure This right here, I mean, I've for 25 years now. And I've looked at the pictures. I thought it was But here we are, and dude, I've Zero. It's just-- it's baffling. The whole thing is inexplicable. It makes me think how-- is stranger than fiction. Because fiction But the truth here is that It's really weird. And it's gorgeous. But what is it? I can't think of for this whole thing at all. None, whatsoever. [ominous music] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): of Holes, David Childress to the Paracas History Museum. We were curious to learn why so may have lived lines and the Band had large, elongated skulls. According to many ancient people deliberately bound the skulls and would lengthen them by between wooden boards. But why? And what's even more strange History Museum is the are missing a key feature found the sagittal suture. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Wow, that's weird. You can see some sutures but there's none in the front. It doesn't have the side It's-- this is strange. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): is a fibrous, jagged to the elasticity of the skull. In a normal infant are unfused, while in older But there's not even I mean, there's nothing GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): during my recent visit But that one had to any serious So we asked Juan if the skulls testing or any other analysis. And, if so, what So we have DNA tests that American Indians. It's almost like they're Vikings over the Northern Passage above receded and they and then down to the West or somehow across the Pacific. Yeah how they reached The DNA analysis was only not from bone samples. OK. That's what they did do, What other skulls have-- and, you know, let He says that one of the to look at this thing has a different race. It's its own race. It's very, very fascinating. So, I mean, what if, at extraterrestrials here? Seriously. It's the first time that I've with so many. This is very, very bizarre. It's possible that are actually of And DNA testing would, But it wouldn't matter how if DNA showed that I don't even understand with scientists right now. I mean, that just-- right Well, it would-- it would GEORGIO TSOUKALOS of artifacts in Museum is absolutely astounding. And seeing these skulls upside down. But what does it all mean? GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): be a connection between the and these incredible [ominous music] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): of Nazca is what an extraterrestrial species in the first place. Perhaps a clue can be found at the nearby mountains look as if the tops have been sliced off. So if this is the result then I would like to find out armed with only primitive of rock and earth without GEORGIO TSOUKALOS I've come to Pyrite Quarry to meet with owner, over the course of his career of rock. Buck, thank you very much to your mining operation. I was just in Nazca And I wanted to actually to see what you would have like this could be accomplished. [ominous music] See how this top as if it's been sheared off? Yeah. What would be used to A lot of people, tremendous to accomplish And the idea that there is would that indicate that some possibly went on there? BUCK HOUCK: With no rubble, it that occurred. But, obviously, and took off the top Just to survey and to obtain frame is mind boggling. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): excavating the mountain have been impossible and would involve the to reach those mountaintops And, from the air, there leading to the peaks. In your expert opinion, what to do something like this? Well, something like that by today's standards It'd take tremendous amount and millions and of moving material with loaders, and manpower. And so we're talking Absolutely, the We're not talking No, not at all. So the idea that an ancient by hand-- in your opinion, is that even I can't even imagine how without the equipment that we have today. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): there is little question primitive tools could not at Palpa. Somebody surveyed and decided the high areas filled the that flat table. And to do that without being of it and looking into it, and GPS is beyond And what's amazing, are these ditches and terrain-- Right. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS: --that any effect on the operation. They had to have some a-- a elevated position GEORGIO TSOUKALOS Buck is telling me is amazing. If he is correct, then surveyed Mount Palpa from above, of millions of tons of earth. So maybe Nazca was a complete with a landing zone, and incredibly If you were to shear off how long do you think it To take off a mountain like would take 20 to 30 years 20 to 30 years-- Yeah. --with modern equipment. With modern technology, you could buy, the most The best of everything, You just blew my mind, because everything into perspective. Buck, thank you very much-- Thank you --for your time. My pleasure. I learned a lot. [music playing] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): I'm more convinced was the site of some incredible But I'm still trying to figure were looking for. And what do all the My investigations [ominous music] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS to head off to Switzerland and and mentor, Erich von Daniken, of the Gods,&quot; and now known as the ancient Erich was one of to suggest that there could and extraterrestrial visitors. So I can't wait Erich, I just And, as always, it was ERICH VON DANIKEN: Yeah. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS: on that little plane, and just unfolds It's really amazing. It's the old story. Thousands of years ago, were here. My suggestion was at some time spaceship in orbit. A mother spaceship, after maybe they need some sort of energy. So they observed our Then they found and there they find energy. Still today we find GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): Nazca was the location of an alien visitors came and other natural resources. This theory coincides the Anunnaki, which suggest that tens of thousands of early humans as slaves Today, gold is a used in everything to nanotechnology, And in space travel it to shield spacecraft And, believe it or not, of gold and other precious They simply sent like we do it on Mars. And this rover by blowing stones and Then they make their They disappeared again. And one or two natives and now the natives After some generations, suggests, well, we must show for them, for example, fishes or And now, in the they start to make gigantic that they can be seen GEORGIO TSOUKALOS is that the ancient people made they could offer their gods. But this still doesn't help of Holes. I remember that in one you gave a suggestion of might have been used. Seen from the air you see You see it going down the hill, Why have they done this? What is the purpose, Of course, you see And it has something to do with always eight holes in the It's always eight so somebody was calculating. And, in my eyes, it had to do [ominous music] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): the Band of Holes was probably communication system, where in the stone lined a precise numeric code as to alien ships flying overhead. But one thing continues and that's the Sun, With its precise geometric the glyph looks nothing like But is it some sort of sacred or could it be some type We actually walked to And what is your opinion To me it looks You see you have and then you have It's a mathematical message We have found gigantic signs in in Nacza, including big wheels of such dimension from the air. These people had no contact with each other. So why have they come up Thank you, always, George Tsoukalos, you know Probably you are the one leading Ah, come on. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you, Erich. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): I need to go before I And I'm beginning to think of the Sun, Star and Cross Glyph in solving the mystery of Nazca. [ominous music] From everything more and more convinced extraterrestrials came in in the remote past. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): what the connection is between which look like and the various geoglyphs, known as the Sun, To help me find the to meet with Dr. Michael and astronomy at the University Michael, I just And every time, I'm just Because the mainstream that it's all about the birds, and the monkeys, But there are the giant lines. And this time I actually to go and visit this which to me looks like What do you think when you Well, these sort of figures I love geometry. And here you have, out a great geometric and the squares You know, this is the and the easiest to make. But then you think about making And what would inspire to want to make such GEORGIO TSOUKALOS: were taken from a small But when you're down you can't really appreciate unless you're up in the air. And that is fascinating. In science that's one to be able to do, is form think abstractly. So it's really cool when you no matter what was the original doing these were able to imagine that could be seen than they were doing it. [music playing] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): talk about creating something got me thinking about crop designed to be Now, some crop been exposed as man-made hoaxes. But others are so precise and continue to defy explanation. So could there be a connection? And, if so, what were the trying to communicate? Perhaps something that the natives witnessed. And after whoever it was what if they wanted to So, I mean, it's So when you look in terms of is it just random I think it's certainly You definitely and patterns definitely imply So when I say there's a it's not as simple into a simple English message. It could be a more But there is definitely a communicated, and that certainly Thank you very much to look at these photos and give that might have a correlation to I wanted to give This here is a pre-Colombian Thousands of these that clearly represent animals. MICHAEL DENNIN: Right. But about a dozen Excellent. Thank you. So, Michael, You're welcome. Appreciate it. GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): I'm more convinced than ever and symbols that be evidence of communication and extraterrestrials. I think that highly advanced to this region looking for gold, of thousands of years ago. The native population thought were gods and began After the the ancient humans to communicate with them. So they began to create Perhaps these were done or as an expression of thanks. And the Sun, Star, I'm wondering if to be an elaborate by the alien visitors. And, when solved, know that we have sufficiently Of course, all of For proof I will need keep an open mind, and travel And maybe by extraterrestrials? [music playing] But the truth here is that It's really weird. And it's gorgeous. But what is it? I can't think of for this whole thing at all. None, whatsoever. This is very, very bizarre. You can see some sutures but there's none in the front. What if we are looking at of artifacts in Museum is absolutely astounding. And seeing these skulls upside down. But what does it all mean? GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): be a connection between the and these incredible And how long do take to sheer on this To take off a mountain like it would take 20 to 30 years. Thank you --for your time. My pleasure. I learned a lot. [music playing] GEORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): I'm more convinced was the site of some incredible But I'm still trying to figure were looking for. And what do all the My investigations ERICH VON DANIKEN: We have found worldwide. These people thousands had no contact to each other. So why have they come up [theme music]