These are some of the biggest in the U.S. What do they all have in None survived in China. And you might be surprised to that list, despite China's e-commerce market. Amazon arrived in the country acquisition of Joyo.com, an back in 2004. The company bet big on its offerings, but it took years tricky regulatory approval &quot;Some companies thought their transferred to China. Unfortunately, they China is home to the largest market in the world. Competition includes the multi-hyphenate Jack Ma's It also has a massive middle measly 4% of urban households 2022, making for an &quot;China's a very tech savvy and Chinese consumer's always in into the latest trends. On top of that, Chinese attracted to a lot of foreign So that presents an So why did Amazon, a global footing in a country that so e-commerce? Like many U.S. company was a lesson in It thought its domestic . In North America, net sales 2008. Amazon Prime launched In China, the company began Joyo, a domestic online Joyo rebranded to Amazon &quot;At that time, the e-commerce taking shape. There were only including eBay, Alibaba, JD, Joyo. For the first few market leader, so it was share, only after Dong Dong.&quot; &quot;When Amazon entered the acquisition of Joyo, it was for... that Chinese consumers products, not only domestic from abroad.&quot; In later years, the company e-reader and tablet products, wireless products were government agencies, which lot of valuable time lost. Between 2011 and 2012, a little over 15%. But by the end of 2019, that 1%. &quot;Alibaba, through Tmall and rival, began to expand And that edge, that unique started to erode because e-commerce platforms, began brought foreign brands onto and foreign clothing, brands, And so they become- they for Chinese consumers to get Amazon's failure was, for the After all, the company China. Given the wealth of the assumption is that a Amazon's pedigree would fit trillion. But the reality is and exceptionally Amazon was up against Alibaba's China commerce 2012. Tmall, another controlled 53.7% of the B2C held 17.1% in 2012 as well. Amazon trailed behind by a Alibaba was founded by Jack of the largest third-party China, including Taobao, In 2013, it was the world's commerce company. Alibaba and e-commerce players in China. Aside from their positive consumers, their advantageously informs their Put more simply, they consumer better. &quot;It's important to talk a Day. This happens every year a huge day where e-commerce discounts and big promotions. Alibaba, JD and some of the are very aggressive in their over the years, you haven't role in marketing around And this is the big marketing So I think that really hasn't been as forthcoming for its business in China.&quot; In other words, price wars Amazon did have Prime Day, a special discounts and deals, But the other platforms' just stronger. Both JD and Alibaba break every year. In America, Amazon's attracts many consumers. But in China, the playing The consumer experience delivery was also lackluster Amazon's selection, proved to be narrower than Alibaba's exclusive payment convenient and favored by China since 2004, and on top Amazon's delivery times China. &quot;Consumers value speed more Amazon still relied on last mile delivery. But JD already built its own those drivers would ride on and get the goods very fast Amazon's leadership was also Chinese entrepreneurs. The local team in China was company's missteps, but with Amazon's domestic &quot;We know Amazon is a global It generates more than half international markets. But JD or Alibaba, they are The majority of their revenue so they couldn't afford to So the Chinese entrepreneurs their counterparts in the For them, it's a life or Despite a strong logistics according to some China-based on implementing Western led to an unsustainable With no sign of growth or withdraw most of its and refocused its China operations. &quot;It allowed Chinese consumers its foreign sites. Now that business is tiny, lost the battle. JD.com and still dominate, particularly part of the business.&quot; It's worth noting that Amazon challenges in its 2012 report overcome them anyway. Today, Amazon's presence in selling services. Amazon Web Services operates regions. To be clear, Amazon's presence a full absence. The company continues to and announced plans to open a the Ningbo, Zhejiang province Other services include Amazon Advertising, Amazon Global On the other hand, Amazon In summer 2022, it announced e-book store. In Q3 2022, Amazon's decreased 5% year-over-year $29.1 billion. The international segment billion. Despite its China international scope otherwise Germany and Britain are the U.S. This year, Amazon Amazon Web Services local areas in 26 countries AWS is a multi-service cloud compute, storage and data Amazon provided CNBC the become much more than an continue to expand the Chinese customers.&quot; For now, intentions of reinstating its it still has operations in in the world, it remains to will attempt a revival in the