During the summer of 1940, aircraft of the Royal combat above the skies of southern England during here in Britain and in Germany were locked into would bring forth the next generation of fighter the E28.39, first took to the skies in 1941, In both Britain and Germany, it was determined enough by themselves to power a combat twin engines to provide the required power. In the Messerschmitt 262, took to the on the 5th of March 1943. The British followed flying exactly seven years to the day after Armed with something keener to its foes than anything the last war ever saw. Messerschmitt 262 are quite similar. The biggest a more conventional design with a far straighter its wings angled back in sweepback for better day jet engines, the aircraft themselves were the Meteor requiring the two engines also and gain flying speed or a fighting speed. And as well. Both of them burnt fuel at a really high were restricted because of that. The speed Me 262 coming out on top and the Meteor attaining So they were exciting days. We thought obviously No one had seen anything like it before. In So it was quite different, obviously, no nose in front of them, no noise or vibration about 1600 pounds of thrust, but very high revs, accelerate. But on the other hand, they were very your slowing down coming back into the circuit. it would have looked a lot different to a been flying in British skies at the time. is with the engines. The engines, nice and long That meant that the ground clearance didn't need One other noticeable thing with the jet engine the public look up every time it flown over. it had been seen in some piston engined aircraft, a tricycle undercarriage. That lack of need for on the ground, and it gave the pilot much better original design for the Meteor looked at the cannons. For much the same reason that two engines power, the idea was also that six cannon would be had a very different cockpit to what we see on the and actually would have been hinged, so it folded the cockpit is a blown canopy and can roll back on we start seeing the use of ejection seats as ejection seats and being able to get out of the same techniques as you would have needed this point also gained a level of pressurization with the increased need for greater range. extra fuel was needed in the Meteor. It was helped see here, the early versions were powered by the Mach three and eventually the Mark 8 versions, Rolls Royce, Derwent 8, providing the F8 with the increased, so aircraft handling could become keep it flying in a straight line. The need came on the F eight, we see an enlarged rudder It was in July 1944 that the RAF accepted their with number 616 Squadron. The technology was so pilots were not allowed to fly over enemy lines hands. As such, they were retained for home V-1 flying bombs, flying towards London. In fact, And interestingly, it wasn't through the use jammed. The aircraft flew up alongside this the gyro. This was in August 1944, just over a secrets being so closely guarded, the aircraft Britain was not under direct aerial attack so it never actually saw combat in a met the Messerschmitt 262 as they were heavily can only ever be speculated which would have come By the end of the Second World War, the themselves actually beginning to feel somewhat Examples like the F3 and the F4 were in need of earlier versions capable of just over 400 miles And in fact, it was a Gloster Meteor that achieved over 606 miles an hour. Technology was moving example of the Meteor, which looking particularly having the aircraft flown by a pilot in a prone of that, the pilot would actually start taking but then would move into his position lying down including cockpit pressurization, has Despite the Meteor not playing a hugely Second World War, immediately after the war, it after the end of the Second World War, it would in 1951, during the Korean War and in the hands acquired their Meteors as a bit of a stopgap. but unfortunately the availability was such Australian Air Force's first involvement during P-51 Mustangs, but they would be replaced as the And they were very well suited to ground attack Lower down, the Meteor's performance was still have encountered, but as they climbed higher, they the Russian jets that they would have been facing that the Meteor would have been meeting was the similar to the Saber that the Royal Australian with the sweep back on the Mig's wings, they combat than the Gloster Meteor. 77 Squadron of the in combat on a number of occasions, most notably Following heavy combat losses at the the Royal Australian Air Force Meteors We then reported to the for conversion costs into firing rockets, We then were put on operations and carried with high explosive rockets or napalm rockets, five gallon canisters. We used to fly generally speaking, were described as troop And we would completely destroy a village with With the end of the Korean War in 1953, the single seat variants to be developed, although of other versions, including a two-seat trainer, aircraft, which involved a larger cockpit and an Despite the Meteor no longer being in operational still does have a useful role to play in the hands have adapted a number of Meteors over the years versions the fighter from the rear section and the The Imperial War Museum's Meteor WK991 was service, mostly moving around the number of RAF life came to an end as a target aircraft. years after its first flight and became part of The Meteor remains on display here at Imperial markings of an aircraft of 56 Squadron. F3s was one of the first squadrons to arrive