This video is sponsored by Adobe. This is my new puppy. [adorable tiny puppy howl] And this is the puppy express, gonna ride around on. But it all begins with an age old adage: Yeah, I'm really more of a cat person. But my girlfriend did, cats, The trouble is, the house for work, There's barely enough room for her in the I don't even know what to do with a dog, I mean, what do they even eat, Do you want a carrot? Yeah I think you do. I'm pretty sure it's carrots. [laughs] Yup, definitely carrots, [adorable crunching] and far too small to play fetch, I'm kidding, that's a giant tennis ball, it. Good girl! But weirdest of all, Instead she just wags her tail, like some She poos on the floor... Oop, she's taking it to her bed, Let me guess, Yep [adorable snoring] she's only sleeping on me because there's no other option, Anyway I decided to read up on puppy training, I learnt the one thing universally adored LEGO trains. At first I just set up a simple loop, we'd built a much larger bone-shaped route, a train station, Finally we had something to bond over. And it gave me an idea. You see my absolute favourite projects are I've previously built a sprawling track a Christmas train that travelled through a a breakfast train that literally made and a LEGO recreation of a London Tube train, a ceiling train around the office at my new that even travels through walls. But I've been desperate to build one here and I think I've just found the perfect What if built a LEGO train capable of driving It's almost certainly not gonna work, so I have to at least try. And if it does work, ever made. I'm also gonna use Adobe Illustrator to map of the route, lines. This one's just a mock-up I made of our but I am very excited to make the full-sized Are we gonna build you a LEGO train?! Yes we are! First up, hold the puppy. I did so with Technic bricks for added stability, Aren't you tiny?! The problem is this is much wider than a normal and therefore the edges aren't supported. With a puppy that very rarely sits still, So I added additional wheels at the edges, I opted for more train wheels so they can although they'll just be running on the Add a motor carriage to test it, But there's another problem. As tiny as she is, She weighs roughly the same as five bags of and the motor simply isn't designed to pull So I added a second motor thereby doubling But it still couldn't manage it. So I doubled it again with a third and fourth, even if it then derailed... We'll work on that. Now to turn this into something that actually I first built up the walls of the puppy carriage, castle video, panels, I also made this paw print logo, for the map later on. Next I built two new identical carriages in to run behind the puppy carriage. These hide the battery boxes that power the And lastly I built a locomotive for the front, With the train complete, Does it come with a LEGO dog? Yes, and all the passengers are dogs! Oh and there's a few LEGO frogs dotted around but why would you want to know about that? The whole thing looks playful, happy, and much like the puppy herself, The train however, Test it with bags of sugar, Which means it's time to build some obstacles. Now normally I build these immersive and highly to drive through, and puppy friendly. I don't want to overwhelm, frighten or injure so they're gonna be more themed areas than And since she isn't allowed outside yet, Also as we go, adding the obstacles and stations. Using Adobe Illustrator, 45 degree angles, I also mapped out the 4 additional lines from the Original Line, the Breakfast Line, although they're not nearly as geographically The first obstacle is gonna be Autumn Avenue. I've got tons of pumpkins, pine cones, and entirely artificial so they're safe for I strung the leaves between these fake trees, and scattered the pumpkins and pinecones at It's not much but it's very cosy. Then it's on to Raindrop Drive. I found these really cool tiny umbrellas, down. I then cut out hundreds of card raindrops, As much as it looks like a primary school I don't hate it. Next Jungle Junction. I have an absolute ton of artificial plants so I want to create a jungle for the puppy She's really enjoying exploring everywhere. I built a jungle dome for a previous train, more basic than that, drive through one of my creations. I often wish I could be shrunk down to enjoy well now something living and breathing really And finally Fairylight Lane. I assembled an army of glass jars, By using the jars, wires and it's perfectly safe, I think this section in particular is just I added six additional stations based on the room, lines. Next I added a river, plus the logo I made earlier, Not to blow my own trumpet, Adobe Illustrator is just amazing for this. Come on puppy, It's available from the link in the description, with Adobe Creative Cloud, all this madness. So we've got Autumn Avenue, Jungle Junction, Are you ready for the train little one? So after lining the carriage with her favourite it's time for Puppy Express to depart. All aboard! [upbeat music (Rise &amp; Shine by Half-Asleep I cannot believe that actually worked. It definitely helped that Danielle had already but I can't believe that I just witnessed Aren't you a good girl?! You deserve a whole bowl of carrots! Speaking of, Carrot. I'm kidding, Unfortunately it's now time to take the but at least I have a physical souvenir of with incredible fondness. And the puppy-sized teeth marks will probably Maybe I'm gonna enjoy having a dog after Remember to click the link in the description Good girl!