There's something about the design of but a bit weird. The Nokia N95 had some It's got fast 3G internet speeds, and revolutionary GPS-based location mapping to 90% of all phones at the time had a numeric basic numeric keypad. It was so common that a phone. Smartphones at the time were mostly need for full smartphone features. Ihe majority not looking for an alpha-numeric keyboard. was different. It had everything we expect from that very familiar at the time numeric keypad. made the first complete smartphone that everyone phone of 2007. 10 million units sold in the first had released only 3 months after the N95. The But with this highly successful numeric keypad how Nokia's Executives managed to run the I want to expand on why this was the case. N95 and see what this phone can do. The N95 has its numeric keypad. Slide phones had been common about this slide. It can also slide down to reveal the entire user interface to landscape mode. using this feature more than I thought. I would The N95 also has the not very well known at TV directly into the headphone socket. This TV out ARM CPUs that were being used in quite a number common in the 2000s than most people realized. But Snapdragon, this feature disappeared from My N95 is carrier branded with the Telstra experience. They take over one of the soft key the default app when you bring up the menu. Which time because the main customer buying phones were end user experience. In MrMobile's N95 video, disabled on the N95. To force their customers to this appalling demand. I'm not very familiar with want to explore some of its functions and some of when running apps is there are several versions model in black. But the important difference have one of those original versions here and 64 MB Symbian apps. Later versions of the N95 had 128 is the N95-3. Which should have 128 MB of RAM. The internet giving a decent speed. Though the browser nice. Though it tends not to get a location available, and the camera quality is good. Photos The Nokia N95 runs Symbian 9.2 S60 Third quite a mouthful. Symbian had become the biggest process it had become so fragmented into different one device were not always guaranteed to run on on my N95 quite a challenge. Also this version signing when installing apps. This means all Symbian are no longer compatible with the N95. difficult for the large community of hobbyists to situation become so bad that many end users were load software onto their phones. So many people certificate issuing system. To the point where Another option was a third party website in China you could then sign apps to run on your own phone. free certificates, due to the high demand. This into hacking the operating system to bypass methods left for online signing, the only way I'm using to hack my N95 is to run a patched design has full read write access to the system apps. I did have to change the phone's date allow the software to install. I also found I the installation to work. The SIM doesn't need This Norton software has been patched by hackers versions. These patches can then bypass some of software originally designed to protect the phone software I'm installing is called ROMPatcher, Server. And this will help bypass a lot of the is an important cultural artifact. Sometimes it's we may have bought in the past. And this process their own legacies. Nokia could have released online restrictions when they took their servers video games industry. With the YouTube channel who are killing games. It's time we push back But I'm pleased that the N95 at least has this we can finally start installing some software install is a port of Another World. An early '90s I was also able to install a CPU monitor. This N95. And shows the ARM CPU running at 206 up to 332 MHz. Not all the games that I was able for example expects a phone with a higher is a Nokia developed snake game. It does look This game was a huge hit in 2008. Though Bounce Boing Voyage another Nokia nice 3D Graphics. This is the 3D performance seems quite good on the N95. Another awesome game I found is SkyForce. This A much more interesting game is Lament exclusive. Though the startup warning is will make use of the following features, SMS recording sounds using your phone's your phone camera&quot; And in the game itself spooky atmosphere and the creepy nature of the This might actually be one of my favorite And of course there's a port of Doom. Which can navigation keys are actually quite crowded. navigation button section. Even the numeric the center press button, with the four-way one gets you to the standard icon pages. And the menu. There's two soft keys for the on screen And finally an edit and a clear button. This think this points to why Nokia failed just a few of Nokia's internal culture and their committee article is very revealing on this subject. &quot;a few Engineers prepared a prototype of an Internet But management worried that the product could be a individual user interface designer would think it While this management style did result in a that attracted a huge number of people that had culture at Nokia also paralyzed any innovation supreme success of the N95 had made Nokia become next couple of years Nokia kept releasing keypad of the changes happening all around them. The took over the whole company. The story of Nokia to understand. I've enjoyed exploring the N95, as I was using my awesome but by 2007 aging Sony hacking culture around it that I loved, and it also has patches. It looks like there's a good Though they work a bit differently to the way in ROMPatcher and they seem to be inserted reset should remove all patches from the system. operating systems at the time was the number I love seeing demos, and I've wanted to see really pleased that I get to see them on the N95. example of how a Nokia phone changed the world. and Symbian has a long history, and I'm Nokia to try them on for future videos. Let miss something important in the video, let yourself enjoying this channel consider one day or Patreon. You'll be helping to keep these videos while optional is much appreciated. But that's