(intriguing orchestral music) - Every year, over 120 yachts descend to Monaco to in the yachting industry. We've been coming to Monaco Yacht Show for the past four years you'll get a behind the scenes look on what's going on inside the show, the best yachts of the year, and we'll also answer is Monaco Yacht Show worth it? (regal orchestral music) So Monaco is a really interesting country. In fact, it's the second in the world after Vatican. You'll have less than When you think about its surface area, it's actually smaller than Central Park, which is wild I mean, and shot many penthouses there, and when you think about it, we can see the entire Central Park from one of these penthouses. And I mean, it's not an entire country within That's how small the but then, when you look at the political weight that how the wealth is so concentrated within this small surface (groovy lo-fi music) Alright, so we just got our press passes. We're gonna now get a lay of the land, see where all the yachts are. Please. Nice scooter. It's gonna be a great day. We're gonna just see and hopefully see some yachts, please. (trip-hop music) Alright, let's go. So why do we come to Monaco Yacht Show? Well, there are a lot of reasons. Number one, over the last five to get access to some of and become the outlet for these assets to showcase their stories to the world. And we take that very, very seriously. When you come to Monaco Yacht Show, you have access to industry leaders in every key aspect of yachting. From the shipyards to brokerages, I mean, you name it, everybody's here. Hey, how's it going? How are you? - Good to see you, doing - Good, running this right now. - Oh, that's cool. Yeah, yeah this is the boat yeah. - Let's... We should get on it tomorrow- - Chris, nice to meet you. Enes, hi nice to see you. How are you? - Yeah, very good indeed. - Honestly, there's, there's probably... I don't think there's - No. - Amazing, well done. so honestly like everything - Yeah that's right- - And we take the time to these companies passionately and really try to grab and try to reflect that on our videos, and that's why we go meet - (Sedat) How are you? - How are you, fine, how are you guys? Hi, Merhaba. - How are you Andy, good. Shall we go on board? - Alright, let's do it. Well my name is Sedat, I'm I keep running the brand since 2008. Monaco, it's the mecca of yachting. First time I came here was 2005 and since 2005 it's growing like crazy. (powerful energetic music) - [Enes] Oh I like the - [Sedat] It's good? (upbeat music) This is an explorer, I mean this, you can go to (upbeat music) This year for the first to invite some of our friends and enjoy the show with us We have Max Nobel from Los Angeles, who is a very good friend of ours and he's an incredible designer. I'm sure you guys have seen some of the episodes that we did with Max. And it was really nice to the industry from their eyes, And again, that helps us evolve and improve our perspective (lively energetic music) - [Max] Wait this is leather. - [Enes] And suede. - [Andy] It's nice on your feet too. - Yeah this is good. - Decent reveals? - The finishes are more That's interesting that and right away the finishes - More German. - Because you see this, this is like- - Fitment is good, this is more - We've actually met the The reason I'm really excited about it, is the fact that it's an explorer, has this massive deck on the back. Explorer yachts are yachts that have long open aft deck sections the rear end of the yacht really open so you can put your toys, and you can also launch them and have this open It's like a lot of people and they never really have open outdoor spaces for you to enjoy. I feel like explorer yachts where you get the outdoor space, the sun, but at the same time you have a lot of surface area to work with, so super sexy, contemporary looking yacht. So I feel like these explorer yachts are getting more and more and they just provide so much versatility and usability within the given length. (lively music) Thinking back to all the yachts we've toured on this channel, some of the most successful Burgess is the leading brokerage for buying, selling, or chartering yachts. With some of the largest and at anchor this year, Chief Marketing Officer at Burgess to learn more about this year's lineup and how our previous partnerships have impacted their brand. - Monaco is a fantastic show. We've had nearly 20 yachts in the show, 10 yachts in the port, which is great and we've got the biggest... The biggest yacht that's is under the Burgess banner, We've got Renaissance We've just got a phenomenal and the sunshine is here to help. - And I wanna give everybody context. Burgess and us got a chance to collaborate on a really exciting project. We got a chance to shoot Motor Yacht Flag, a yacht that was at the time - Exactly. - And it was a really cool And obviously having Burgess' support, all the way through and A lot of times when I ask people, or they want to take a photo with me, when I ask them what is I wanna say 50% of the time That to me was also one wow, there's a really cool story here. And a lot of people actually chartering experience is so special. - Exactly and that's, I it's about yachting, creating The yacht is just a platform, the capability of the You can bring your chef, you but it's our job is to bring And I think, yeah, what you That Yacht is now sold very much thanks to the focus that we both put behind it. But we've seen phenomenal results, so in terms of the key pages where the campaign has been we've seen an over 500% We've seen an over a in the dwell time on the page. Then looking at our sales pages, we've seen a nearly 900% increase in terms of the traffic And again about a 10% increase in time on site for those pages. So those stats shout pretty loud and clear but your audience is that we want to be speaking to, wanna be collaborating with you and putting yachting you (upbeat music) - And that's something that's so special about the Monaco Yacht Show and makes it all the more worth attending. It's the connections we get to make with individuals and companies that allow us to learn what and all that they have to offer. And we couldn't share this And then we have Afrojack Afrojack is a world class DJ, producer. (Afrojack MC-ing) And he is also a very and he loves design, he loves assets. In fact, the reason we met Afrojack is the fact that he was (cheerful upbeat music) Now I wanna take a quick and talk to you all about why we decided to put together an episode like this. As you all know, on our channels, we release these really and we tend to shy away from or what it takes to put Now, recently we were at Monaco Yacht Show and we felt like it was for us to pull back the and show you what we do how we run our business. On the show we meet and also we plant the seeds because some of our tours can take upwards of 12 to 18 months from the time we talk to the asset owners, all the way to us releasing, In fact, our goal since has been to give you exclusive access to these incredible assets, allow you to be part of these experiences. And recently we also launched our Patreon, which we are so excited about. I mean it's a big step for us as a company and on Patreon, our goal is to give you even further more access. Allow you to participate in get a chance to talk to me, and be able to communicate That's why we keep raving about Patreon and talk about it in In fact, there's a link in the description if you wanna check it out and learn more. And the fact that we're gonna to participate in these events or in these moments I mean, imagine being able to come to Monaco Yacht Show next year and be right next to us, You can literally be at those dinners that you're watching and that's why we are beyond excited and so thrilled about this opportunity. As always, I'll also be reading and now let's get back to the video. (intriguing music) (upbeat chillstep music) - What do you think of the show? - Amazing. - Yeah but you showed me the... - It was like a- - Showed me the best immediately. - This second yacht we I didn't know you actually enjoy and appreciate interior design so much. - Yeah too much, too much Like the most... The thing I do mostly or I'm doing music or I just love it, first of like drumming is very calming. But like designing a layout for my studio or designing a layout for our bedroom. - Last time I spoke to you in - I was in a different outfit but when I go out with my - There you go, I love it. And we were actually in - [Afrojack] Yes. - How do you think we've evolved I'm curious, be bluntly honest. - You're still the same now. - Your channel grow like this, your like community grew like this, your video production is insane. But you're still the same guy just working, working, working. Thinking about work, and then trying to create - Yeah. I'm in a terrace and I - I just fully, the outfit is out. - Yes one day. - One day and we're gonna get it on camera - One day, we'll try. But look, I really appreciate It's been few years and it's nice to see our friendship get to this level. The fact that we can enjoy Not to shoot a video, not to do something. But I know how much you and honestly I felt very rewarded seeing you enjoying Kismet, hanging out with our other - Meeting Pascal. - Yeah so tomorrow we'll - Thank you, see you tomorrow. Let's go, let's go. (upbeat electronic music) - So there are two industry trends that we recognize this year. Number one, a lot of Turkish shipyards, which makes me extremely happy. Turkiye is a country that is for its build, and it's nice to see all these Turkish shipyards taking their business to the next level. (chillstep music) - What I see now is incredible. You know, a lot of builders coming out with so many incredible When I came from US it was me and maybe one or and a lot of advisors from outside had a misconception about Turkey, a different perception A lot of 'em are coming very established yards and everything happens good in Turkey, it's good for me that's how I see it. If my yard's perceived as high quality, that's good for other builders. If another builder's quality then it's good for me. (groovy funk music) - Yachting is a type of for a country or for a shipyard And after delivering year after year, and being I can clearly say that Turkey is building a very, very strong, in the yachting world. (upbeat trip-hop music) The second thing that we recognize is also how the sizes of the yachts and how they're being The trend seems to be more more voluminous yachts, And I think people are to utility versus the Some could argue that yachting can be wasteful, but when you design these really compact you can still pack so many yet you still get the And that's what's so exciting, that's what really intrigued me. (lively trip-hop music) - There's a groundswell of I think that's through innovation, through trying to tackle sustainability but also bringing in a new We have to start thinking how to the successful of tomorrow. And that's our responsibility to think what experience is gonna matter? What yachts do they want to see? What can we provide them with that actually teases them or a beautiful villa in The Bahamas? And it's not to say but it's how do we incorporate yachting into that full itinerary? But it again, as I say, it's and to educate that audience in yachting, - I always say yachting and innovative because they they work with a lot of restrictions and they have to incorporate design elements to these yachts. So it's fascinating to watch and how they're taking these limitations and these challenges and being innovative with it. And I just feel like real estate world can learn a lot from yachting as well. That's why we take the time to whether they're smaller and understand and are being built and designed. These trips are packed with lunches, yacht tours and catching because we are always curious to learn more about the world of yachting so we can relate and when it comes to showcasing this industry. (upbeat trip-hop music) Max, what do you think of the restaurant? - It's good. - It's good, it's good. - It was his idea, it was Food is great, ambiance is great. Had a long day, we're really tired but tomorrow's the big day. We're gonna see a whole lot more yachts so it was a good way to recap the night. But obviously we have so much more to see. If you're ever in Monaco you get the fish carpaccio, Funny had to pay our respect I just want the money I can manage They know I'm the one (upbeat hip-hop music) It's funny, everybody knows us for these detailed long walkthrough videos of these incredible assets and we saw over $1.5 billion worth of yachts. And in fact the next yacht which is arguably the most important and significant yacht on the show. So it's gonna be fun, we're getting a tour from It's gonna be insane, I mean so much to see today, a lot to see. (classical music) - Is there a chance and then leave it with the girls? - I could do that. - A little- (powerful classical music) So we just spent the last hour the sheer scale of this the interior spaces, the amenities and Lurssen craftsmanship, it's a sensational experience I wish we could show some footage but it's in meticulous condition. Big thanks to Tim from Lurssen and who knows, maybe one day and share it with all of you. (classical music) - I told her that the - So I don't know. - I can stay, I can stay. - No, no, no, no you're coming Peter. - It's an amazing boat so it's fun to see. - I mean we are not gonna shoot it. - We can't do any photos. - Yeah we're not gonna shoot it. - [Cody] You guys go, she'll take photos. I'll stay behind. - Cody, take your time off? Yeah rest a little bit? - [Cody] I'll sit out here. (uplifting classical music) All right, so the yacht is fantastic. They have 19 guest cabins on board, they can accommodate up to 39 Perfect yacht for corporate events, for companies to spend a week on board. Crew is great, chef and It's kind of cool to see how each shipyard and their expression of and different price points too. It was super cool, now (powerful music) Very nice, what are these floors? - Walnut. - Walnut, really? Oh... It may seem like a regular but the amount of details Curved glass, gonna close the door here, look at that little lip another elegant touch. You go in and the entire space but then you have individual And to put it all together to give it a nice little they have a meat slicer (slicer turning) Okay, this is the most satisfying thing. - So we have here full beam VIP suite, which one can be divided with the wall. - Yeah you have the pocketing walls. - [Captain] Yeah. - This stays in the theme of versatility and maximizing interior This is the first time we've seen a port to starboard for the primary. - We've been turning out One of the smartest This makes so much sense. - Traditional oven, normal oven, induction plate, Teppanyaki grill. - Another trend that we see this year, most of the galleys are The days of like all stainless are I think bit gone. Like people wanna design these spaces in a way where they feel they can use it as well as a crew. And this is another example right here. This looks like a really of a three bedroom unit in New York City. You know it's like, it's super cool. It's obviously designed very efficiently, looks really nice, - [Cody] This is my favorite yacht yet. - Yes, 100%. - [Cody] I was gonna say hands down, how much is this one again? - 35 mil. - I mean chump change. - [Cody] Just Afterpay, right? - Yeah that's it, Apple Pay. - [Cody] Apple Pay. What is something that you comparing to the other ones? Like what do you think stands - [Captain] The gentleman's club. - [Enes] Yeah? - Without a doubt, I is like the best yacht we had on the show so far. - I can easily say that and - So many of the boats, you before you get on board, this boat was completely different. - [Enes] Design, quality of the build, ease of walking around the space. - [Andy] Livable. - Livable, utility, and common sense. There's so much common that is quite, quite impressive. Arguably the biggest is this yacht, Serenissima I. When I tour these yachts, I some of the details and the Design is super cool, very efficient. Some of the features that they brought in, like the dedicated owner's deck, the partition walls on the lower level and the engine room layout makes so much sense, it to see these Turkish shipyards And it really shows a lot of people are talking about this yacht, I'm really glad we got Big congrats in Mengi-Yay we can do more of their yacht tours. (uplifting chillstep music) Why do you think Monaco held on to such a strong positioning - It's incredible, it just It's the mecca of yachting. Why it's so special? Because the other shows are good but this is the epicenter of everything. Everyone comes here, the clients, You'll be able to have a and you know, give them a chance to see you personally And that's why I think this is the most important boat show in the world and we're very proud to be here. And also we also see We learn, you know, You know for me it's a learning about other products, other innovations. (uplifting music) - The constant desire to learn seems to be a common theme at the show. Everyone here is excited and learn from each other, and it's inspiring to see and experience. Now the million dollar question, is Monaco Yacht Show worth it? The answer is really simple for me, it is worth it, if you make it worth it and for us, we make this event count. We take each and every day and we do our best to maximize meet the individuals, And we also take the time to share these individuals' passions and really experience Getting a chance to see styles, features and being able to do this at a four day period is extremely special. And that's why each and every year, we keep coming back to Monaco Yacht Show. And I feel like each and every year, we will learn more and more Now I hope you guys enjoy this episode. We are hoping to do more behind the scenes videos And who knows, maybe next year when we come to Monaco Yacht Show, some of you can join us as well. And with that, once again, thank you so much for watching this video and we'll see you guys on the next one. (empowering music)