The EV revolution has chance to make history and, Elon Musk's wealth surge in Tesla shares. So I present to you the But in this race to seize are sputtering. Several high profile bankrupt or fought struggle Even established players in automotive dreams have In recent years, more than or are at risk of The total addressable EV Tesla, which controlled US in 2023, sold more than country and raked in more sales and leasing revenue And EVs made up just 8% of They're expected to be 46% That's nearly 8 million But the business is not for It takes billions and Hopefuls have routinely costs. A company has to put chain, build factories, with regulations and get distribution and service So why is it so difficult why are so many failing? To be sure, despite talks forecasts are still adoption around the world, in 2019 to 61% by 2035. Startups, by definition, markets. This is venture You know, slide number one. And by the way, it's not is also busses, trucks, And in the, you know, even aircraft. Ev investment commitments just two years, reaching Enthusiasm like this is creation and success of major EV automaker outside The growth of the market is favorable government decarbonize offer a range and other perks to help started. Since 2021, Tesla billion in zero emission Those are credits other Tesla or other EV, or plug want to sell a fuel burning In some states. You know, China's had this vehicles of of anywhere. And that's also supported government policies. So, you know, some of the proliferation of new you could say with help it is the entrepreneurs opportunity of this change electric. But this time of tremendous also coincided with several Apple, one of the largest market value, folded its the company as Titan. Dyson, the privately held bagless vacuum cleaners, plans after it decided it them. I mean, those are two high profitability, super I kind of agree with them. If you're going to come come with some serious Indifference. Bringing a car to market engineering and design execute, actually securing suppliers, confronting regulations, and actually the table. Even if you start with an clean sheet of paper have. You have to learn all that the big automakers do. You know, you have to learn to learn to build a supply You have to learn to learn to sell and just and maintenance and after sales But above all, it takes Just look at the capital prices. The the actual not very attractive. This is a highly capital, industry. Returns on invested capital like Ford and GM are in the digits for 11 of its 15 Tesla's returns on invested Plain and simple. Companies just run out of Fisker experienced an old Some of that was inherent becoming an an automaker, to mistakes that that the Running out of capital is automaker has. That might It is, of course, the faces, but the capital automaker are massive. Yes, you're two ish billion vehicle. Not everybody has $2 billion And frankly, even if 2 not a guarantee of success. That's really just the You need to be like a shark or you die if you stand So there needs to be an 2 billion and the next 2 Take Rivian and Lucid. Both of them have So interesting to see these raise 1 billion or 2 And they think that's It's not even close. This was a problem faced by went public using special companies, or SPACs. A Spac is a public shell private business, in this And through that merger, a public one. There is no venture capital write billion dollar checks So to raise that kind of scenario is to become a For EV startups, a SPACE over the traditional IPO. For example, you could go revenue rather than actual The SPAC promise, at least, could turn to markets for grow. It hasn't really been the It's not like retail money into Tesla. This is put money in when it was other things. You know, the pre-revenue, you know, public companies. It's very hard for a to stay ahead of the bow interested in, in investing dollars more into a So what are all those to start budget? About 500 million to 1 tool it, then about 200 on top of that in supplier 500,000,000in product There are certain fixed building and running a Once you have built and to produce a certain number absorb those fixed costs. The person selling the parts got this big fixed cost. I spent $50 million to be vehicles. You're only I need my money and then have any, like. Okay, well, Then you need about 100 to keep everything running launch vehicles. Once you growth capital into the vehicle and possibly the vehicle. Companies choose Vertical integration is yourself, or at least as Another way to do things is the work. Some start with vehicle, basically a of components from an a chassis or powertrain. Lordstown started with a pickup truck. Elms started This can save you the something from scratch, but like the degree to which and customize it is There is also the asset companies like Fisker use contract manufacturers to design. It might look like money by paying an make the car in a factory up. Alixpartners Mark vehicle model from design anywhere from 2 to 4 times expected. You never design it once, Electric vehicles escape the regulations, but there is they have to comply with, Federal Motor Vehicle for short. The barriers to entry on aggressive, are tough, and are things that can kill immediately. But a car also has to be comfortably drive. And there's all these around vibration and that matter to drivers. Macduffie is referring to a vibration, and harshness. A carmaker has to ensure car are fitted together If not, you get intolerable Every automaker that's ever constantly doing a lot of Tesla probably does a people will complain about You know, the fit and The gaps aren't so clean, and so far people haven't the power. They love the software. Like there has to be a And a lot of the startups mover, so there wasn't a innovation that a consumer stylistically different. Some of them had challenges in getting to market. By that time, there was the market too, that were weren't the they weren't game in town. This is a huge source of Perhaps the fundamental any auto startup will face. Got this dichotomy of you different, but there's a in existing vehicle designs validation methods that you those things. I mean, the lower that bill can be, but are and different you are, someone to actually care you at anything. There is no exact recipe for Us data shows EV demand is Tesla missed even the most the first quarter of 2024. Shares have fallen nearly the year. Then again, rival deliveries were better than In some ways, today looks a the auto industry. At that small companies, mostly the center of the business. But in a very short time, a majority of those were gone Those are more or less the today GM, Ford and the Corporation, which has Peugeot Empires to form Some of that consolidation advances in achieving manufacturing of final a lot of vertical suppliers inside. General Motors is known for such as Chevrolet, defunct Oldsmobile and a lot of outside suppliers Gm's legendary CEO, Alfred company through a supplier through the ranks. But in century, automakers began businesses in an effort to simply making the final Today, that trend appears Tesla and BYD are two of the firms in the world. They better. You get much more the right pieces to fit If you do it yourself. You generally have more it yourself. But it it does money up front. They might be repeating a saw before, and both their ability to survive thus far being around in another would be rivals have bitten Even if there's flurry of new firms right now, won't last.