CONOR: For the Pixel recorded scissors closing and opening. And that was used as the the final sound that you hear today. PERSON: Welcome to the Made by Google work on the Google products you love. Here's your host, Rachid Finge. RACHID: Today we're team's work you're hearing right now. That's right. We're meeting our sound PERSON: This is the RACHID: That sounds great, Conor. And &quot;Sounds great&quot; is also your mission So tell me about your job. What is sound design? And why is it important for a phone? CONOR: Well, sound the art of creating intentional of a product or a brand experience. So there are many different We think of more traditional types in or for film, or for gaming. You know, there's a big industry But more recently as kind of electronic and their capabilities become an increasing as a means of providing who are engaging with those products. So if you think about a phone, have really developed and come There's a lot of information At the same time, we don't want to for how we convey information to users. So we're putting a lot of come to people and on the information visually to people. But we have the opportunity to kind of offset the that we're putting on the visual So we can cue things to people and give not actually looking at their device. We can give information when they're We can also kind of that we're giving through is great at providing or providing a sense giving positive inflection, or negative Sound is great at conveying emotion. So if we, as designers, connect people with their devices, sound RACHID: So what drew you And how did that bring you to Google, CONOR: So my background in terms of I have a master's degree And after that program, with an EU project, where I as part of the product design process. So I learned essentially how thinking how those things can come convey information to people in traditionally done at the time. RACHID: So Conor, just to make you get to design and decide what Maybe you design what my alarm sounds Is that right? CONOR: Exactly. So yes, if you think about the with your phone or your Pixel that people might come across some of the classics being like, what a notification sounds like. [NOTIFICATION DING] Like you said, the sound that [ALARM RINGING] And also other types of sounds, So if I'm locking or [PHONE LOCK/UNLOCK CLICKING] Those are the sounds interact and engage with your device. So part of the philosophy sounds, especially as we think about alarms, is that we have feel represent Pixel really well. At the same time, part is providing people an opportunity their experience, their phone, so that and feels like something So we want to-- through the we want to provide them an opportunity a range of sounds that something that matches them right for who they are. So we want to provide, ideally, that people can audition, preview, and see if they find something kind of similar to how they for their phone or a certain We really want to have the the ethos of the Pixel in terms of how we provide default of the box, but also how to find sounds that reflect them. RACHID: So how do you decide then How would you describe a Pixel sound? When is it a match with Pixel? CONOR: Yeah, so when we consider we really need to go what we call the design principles and how we think about So we think about things like human, playful. Those are things that we think and the Pixel design experience well. So we think about, OK, when it comes to out through sound? So if you listen to maybe the on the Pixel, there's kind of like and then it becomes a It picks up-- [PIXEL DEFAULT RINGTONE PLAYING] and performs its duty as a ringtone, of course, by either letting you know or, hey, it's time to wake up now. That's something that when we design sounds on it comes to what the default sound is. So it has to be a good representation overall design philosophy. But it also-- because it needs to work well So designers often talk The form of the sound is And that's how we believe the Pixel brand and the Pixel ethos. But the function of the sound, it's a ringtone. So it needs to alert you And you have about, or so to let someone is ringing before it goes to voicemail. Similarly, for an we like the idea of a gentle it needs to wake you up. So for the Pixel default, and it kind of builds, elements that are more effective That's how we kind of create the sound. We think about the form. We think about the function, and then well together. RACHID: So what does Maybe we can even throw it back Are you shown the device and you Is that sort of how it works? CONOR: For each of the Pixel we try and provide something that is that are going to invest into checking out this new product. So for Pixel 8, for example, since, I think, 2017, where they to an AI-first world. We really thought for Pixel 8, AI optimized devices out there. So we wanted to explore AI as a collaborative for how we would create that only Google could deliver. So that's what we did for Pixel 8. We wanted to not replace but actually to extend it. So we looked at some of so that we could unlock new ways and of expressing new sounds, and think would look like. So that's why for Pixel 8 we created is a collection of Google AI technology to could only do using these new tools. RACHID: And these tools, used jingle of the Made by Google podcast. CONOR: That sound was actually on the team, Harrison. Maybe I'll have him just say HARRISON: Thanks, Conor. The intro and outro music &quot;Amber Beats,&quot; which is and part of the sound The Gems sound collection launched All of the sounds in produced using Google that converts text input into music. Our goal with the Gem to explore how Google's unlock creative and provide an optimistic To give you a glimpse into our creative text prompt. For &quot;Amber Beats,&quot; the prompt there's an atmospheric pad synth, Bouncy drums are featured with a There are layers of synth sounds.&quot; From the 30 seconds of there was a 2-second snippet [MUSIC PLAYING] I took that audio clip and began to building an original idea Here's what that sounded like. [MUSIC PLAYING] See if you can hear it within [MUSIC PLAYING] If you're a Pixel user, exploring Pixel sounds, Sound and Vibration settings. Pixel sounds offers a and hopefully, you can your unique personality and style. RACHID: You bet. Thanks, Harrison, and also thanks Now, Conor, back to you. So far, we've talked about But what about the other you hear when you lock your phone? Do you have someone run out and then record the sound it makes? CONOR: Yeah. I mean, it can be. When it comes to sound we're generally working with So on any cell phone device, the they tend to be smaller. They're not full studio style speakers. So you've got a limited that you're working with. There's only a certain number great on a small device like that. So often, as designers, we because it focuses in the problem. And it makes you kind of get creative. And that's what designers love to do. So when it comes to creating we want to still do it in a way and also, like I mentioned earlier, So yes, it can come to actually and maybe manipulating and doing something digital with them. It can also be sometimes starting So it really just depends on what But I will say I think for I originally recorded And that was used as the the final sound that you hear today. That's not like just a straight But that's the basis of that Part of the process then and we think it maybe sounds good. We then have to, of course, hear and not just on the device, So if it's a camera sound, I want I can hear that sound I want to make sure that you see on the screen that you're hearing. If it's a ringtone, I want going to sound really good in to sound really good on the street. And then we optimize the So we make any orchestration, any types of changes that need to good as possible on the actual device. So it's a highly iterative process. It's not just about the about how that's being played back on and in different environments, too. RACHID: There are always So is there a particular sound or maybe was really hard to make? CONOR: The original default sound was called &quot;The Big Adventure.&quot; And it was a great sound. It was fun, and upbeat, energetic. It's still available for people [RING TONE] But then a couple of we wanted to do a redesign to reflect that was coming out We decided to do a variation And this was called So it was about reflecting more that Pixel has on the device. But we went through a long just to get it right, like it was a really new expression as good as possible on the Pixel. [RING TONE] So I would say with the &quot;Your was one where we found it challenging have from this slow, gentle state to and sound. We worked on that a lot. And that was one where there of trying to get that one right. RACHID: So I guess most of your work is on the Pixel Sounds app. Can you tell us a little bit and how people can use it? CONOR: Yeah. So the Pixel Sounds app is their sound experience on their Pixel. So they go into Settings you either go to look at your ringtone, And what we wanted to do with was to categorize sounds so people could see at a high level what So for example, you have our but then you also have for some people who, believe it or not, all the time. You have retro sounds. You have classical sounds. So we have different collections. I mentioned the Gem sounds earlier, tools in a collaboration that we did. We provide these different styles so that they can customize and find a sound that matches who So that's what we do using RACHID: Conor, there are many We, of course, got the Should all members of the CONOR: Yeah. So that's a very intentional sounds for our family of products. So if you think about the aesthetics of and Pixel Buds, you can look OK, they're different like they're part of the same family. So we very much try and do the and for haptics design. We think about it as, So how does a sound over represent and show up on a And the way to do that is to get that I mentioned earlier. So our design principles should be they're on, but the is going to sound a because it's being played or on a different-- a device So the notification sound [NOTIFICATION SOUND] should sound similar, but not the maybe on the Pixel Watch. RACHID: Conor, you mentioned in the but you also mentioned the word haptics. Could you explain for people who And why is that important? And why would the team that owns CONOR: Yeah. So haptics is about information through the sense of touch. So typically people think about the but there's also other feedback that haptic actuators, which as people interact with their devices. So I mentioned the lock There's also a haptic just gives them that kind or that haptic feedback. Earlier, I talked about how and offset some of the burden through sound. We can also do that So sometimes people are in environments So we provide a means through haptic people that maybe there's that they would like So we do that through feedback, or more subtle haptic cues And really, we think about sound They're all about providing So ideally, sound and haptics That's why as sound designers we try together as a more unified, RACHID: All the sounds on mentioned &quot;Your New Adventure&quot; before. But I'm wondering, how do Is that your team's work as well? It's collaborative, but it's definitely What we try and do as with a kind of musical or And then what they will do is and actually completely any words that we had into sounds really amazing and cool. I think of the one in the past was the original default It's this kind of little explosive And it's called &quot;Popcorn.&quot; [NOTIFICATION SOUND] CONOR: So we did a kind of an iteration ago on Pixel. The philosophy of the but it just sounded like a And they named that one &quot;Eureka,&quot; and instantaneous. [NOTIFICATION SOUND] RACHID: Let's get back Imagine one of our listeners How should they make that choice? What's the best way for them to do you think? CONOR: I really think as people think of changing their It's about going in and hearing sounds, hearing them different environments, they would like to use those sounds. What we found from people is that some about using sounds on a phone, oh, or I always leave my phone on vibrate. What we find is the majority of behaviors throughout the day. So sometimes the phone Sometimes it will be on vibrate. Sometimes they will be using sounds. So you know, I think I would when they do on sound, what what type of sound maybe reflects of their personality. And that's why we try to provide to hear and to use on the device. RACHID: Conor, thank you so It's just mesmerizing to is behind how our Pixel devices sound. So thank you so much. And how about we just listen to our [MUSIC PLAYING] PERSON: Thank you for listening Don't miss out on new episodes. Subscribe now wherever you get your