- [Announcer] &quot;Firing Line&quot; - Isn't it true that certain jokes, at least what were considered are now un-sayable as a result of certain tensions that exist? For instance, certain racial jokes. You couldn't have a minstrel in Hollywood? - Do you regret this? - Well, I like minstrel shows in that era, but I think it's wrong today. I think the colored people and I don't think there connected with them. - Well, but then, shouldn't oughtn't to have been Irish having a terrible time and There shouldn't have been Jewish jokes when they were fighting and so on, so forth? - I still resent Jewish jokes. - Publicly. - And Irish jokes and Catholic - [William] Did you ever - I never said a Jewish word - [William] I didn't say a Jewish word, I said a Jewish joke. - No. I might tell you one when the show's over, but I never tell 'em publicly. - This is what- - I wanna hear. when I'm publicly performing. I'm an actor, maybe a bad - In other words, out of a who would not consider them to a general audience? You would only say them to somebody who's- - Who I liked and knew. - And would understand it. - I resent Myron Cohen and that long farrago of Jewish jokes. I think the Jews should have the Catholics and the Protestants. - Well, but is- - No, but wait a minute. I don't wanna get off this, because isn't it a sense- - I knew eventually you were We were having fun before. Why don't you keep it that way? - Tell me if it begins to hurt. - No, it never hurts. I'm proud of being a Jew, particularly- - No, no, no. - Week before last. (audience laughs) - So do I. - You have no animosity - No. - Isn't he a charmer? (everyone laughing) - A lot of modern poetry, in any narrative sense, does one? - Well, they probably could and my eye face gestures. You were very responsive, that was nice. - Yeah. - I enjoy it, I think it's very beautiful. Now are you suggesting that the- because you took that while under LSD you were able to do it? - Well, it's- No, I think it could be, I cited Blake and Wordsworth I think the LSD thing is as evidenced by the particular details, like sheep speckle the mountain side, revolving (indistinct). - That you recognized. There are human things that, you know, like everybody has seen in nature. I think the LSD clarified to get that sense of Specifically, the one thing I noticed, which I was trying to of heaven, the atmosphere and at the bottom of that ocean of air, there are all sorts of and that those rivulets, like move all the trees, move the beards, the grass, the lamb's wool, rain beaded in the grass. So that it's like one system One giant breathing being in which we always forget the god like of the universe. - You say together, but you're that it's not really together, who is god, or anyone who - Going back to that like are the hippies the new order, I think the primary hippie back 56, Cadillac, boroughs, of that unity of being, and consciousness which we all And that's what I think is the and you know, like make love, not war. Ultimately, it's like it's of the nature of the universe we can't fight us. That force finally is you know of civilization, is just like resolve the problem, and the particularly black and white, particularly square and hippie, particularly police and student, particularly Birchite and - One thing, I don't a pure expression of the people The vote is much too crude what real feelings are in the country. Moreover, politics is and dialectical and contradictory. For example, Nixon could get in and get in on a pro-war policy and be precisely because he's a of mine that it's the and the Republicans who finish them. Maybe because the Democrats they're not Communists, so militant against the Communists. The Republicans don't have to prove that, so they can make peace If you look at the last few - You regret that? - No, I think it's part of politics as you can see. I don't take politicians I think they are splendid and I admire many of their qualities. I admire their ability and bed to bed. At that, they're exceptional. - Well, you say that the Democrats are always feeling the necessity to prove but are you glad that - Am I glad they're not Communists? - Yeah. I detest Communism. I detest it much more than you do, 'cause I know much more about it. I mean, I've read You know, studied it, I spent I love Marx, you see, 'cause it betrayed Marx. It's the way you might detest that had completely (audience laughs) - I certainly understand It is, of course, true who lives, let's say on the would be much less frightened than say by Buckley administration. - No, I think they could comprehend- - At least as far as they are concerned, I think they would probably as more irrelevant than The last time you were heard was on a committee on a fair play for Castro - I still am all for Castro. I think he's a remarkable man. Let me just say that I would probably, well I can't the least bit happy with a certain security, which is have somebody, which I they couldn't ever feel that with me. I love the way we treat You see, I'm not the - You always told me to which I was doing. - I'm glad that we're beginning to find some conjunction of discourse. I'm beginning to, well, let it go at that. See, I like to keep a certain freedom, a certain liberty, to of major figures. For instance, just until as of a week ago, I was thinking I thought the two greatest political were Fidel Castro and Charles de Gaulle. Now I think I may still be able 'cause I think, so far I think de Gaulle's been acting sorta- I think he's the world's I think he's a remarkable man. I'm tremendously fond of him. I have great respect for him. I have great respect for Castro. The point is that, men's, you know, it's the way you wouldn't for saints and generals, for criminals and cops. You know, there's such such a thing as a great criminal. And the way I work, it's to people, but I don't think I try to think this way, if every so-called type There's a better world and the criminals get better. It's a poorer world when the cops are dull and the criminals are dull. - In one of his essays, &quot;By accepting the presumption &quot;on certain issues, such as this one, &quot;one has already lost one's humanity.&quot; I should like to begin by asking him why, under the circumstances, to lose his humanity, he consented to appear in the first place. - Because, first of all, in those terms, I don't think. I think that by- - Yeah, but I think that, certain issues, for example by consenting to discuss and to some degree loses one's humanity, and I think that that's true. Nevertheless, I can easily in which I would've been For example, if there by debating Auschwitz it to eliminate it or to at that was going on. And I think I feel the And I really think that there is no, fundamentally there is no argument anymore at an intellectual level, in my opinion. But I think it's very important - At what level is there an argument? - Well, there- There is a policy, which and devastating policy, it's continuing. And the continuation of the based on the fact of public Hence there still is the that they should act strongly - At what point was there At which point did an of our intervening in - Well as I say there, I a time when there was something to debate. For example, I think that though I was opposed to it was right to be opposed it was a debatable issue no longer a debatable issue. - Why is that? - Because at the moment, I of the survival of the existence as a social and cultural entity. I think that's what's at stake. - But even that could be - Well, in the same sense intellectually argued. in a different sense. - No I think in the same sense. In fact, don't forget there in favor of Auschwitz. - No, no, I haven't forgotten that at all. I haven't had any such on this But it seems to me that even there could be a perfectly for instance, the continuation or the continuation of the state of Gafra, or the continuation of the state of Goa. - I didn't talk about the I talked about the as a social and cultural entity. I think that's what's at stake. - Okay, well if it's a two points of view about into its natural forms, right? - Oh there are many I think they're very legitimate. - Well, I can see- See, they're very legitimate as to how the United States put an end to its destructive There are many different thought about. of course to put an end to is to conclude the war successfully. That's a way. is by destroying Vietnam, which I think probably - You disagreed very whom had indicated that the and rhetoric functionally could If you see what I mean? Perhaps, could you accept of a positive- - good that the Panthers have contributed? Unfortunately, as much could But it is true- - Dick Gregory gave a concrete example, you may not remember, about a black woman who felt intimidated. This is about two or three years ago, and she called the Black and they sent someone to look On the basis of the assurance that she got from his presence, she did calm down and recovered her stability. And there's no question that of a function, armed in that doubt that the leader of - I would like to say this, When people equate the Black Panther party with such people as the Ku Klux Klan and White Citizens Council, I agree that I would like to see a world, and we agree on more points to realize now, but the point that dialog- dialectical struggle, I I would hope that that will as bad will come through But I think that there's of difficulties have reached I think that things just but as long as there's especially an economic interest, one has to support authority then he creates a rhetoric in to an army, to henchmen, of dialogue will be inflammatory and so forth. And I will even point out the history of the Black Panther party, I with the leadership, and it caused many murders, that it laid the foundation so that even the black community could say oh those bad guys out there. You see they only want violence This kind of rhetoric, I think, can promote physical conflict no sort of virtue unless in order to resolve a problem, you see? (gentle music)