Behold! The sum of our work on fixing Disney's The On December 23rd 2022, we started the long disasterpiece. We sought to make it a "good and proper A line you will have heard a few times by This was not an empty platitude. It was a statement of intent. Not just for each part in the series, but since day zero. This compilation serves as the current, definitive of The Rise of Skywalker. The attentive in our audience will find that Some big, some small; but all essential. We have gone through all of our existing work our newest work. The vast majority of parts one through four We have added over 60 minutes of new material. We strongly suggest watching the whole video, since Day Zero. You could call this video the "Death Star on The Rise of Skywalker. While we do suggest some specific repairs, writing-equivalent of Thermal Exhaust Ports. How did Disney go wrong? What does established lore tell us? What are some of the potential fixes? This information is essential for the next of the entire movie. We have given ourselves some constraints, We want to use as much of the original movie's We want to preserve as many of the characters Because our main contention with Disney is lore, we don't want to make that same mistake Three hours of repairs later, we have completed Three-and-a-half hours of repairs later, we Four hours of repairs later, we have completed Many hours of repairs later, we have completed The ideal solution would have been a galactic To set fire to the entire sequel trilogy. Alas, we don't live in a world of ideal We live in a world where the least qualified It is tempting to throw up our hands and call But, if we did that, we wouldn't be any looking at you, Round-Head. It was in this spirit that we resolved to To show Disney a level of care and due diligence That they aren't ever going to show us. It is likely we will revisit this project Right now, it is a fine balance between sacrificing quality of output we strive for. If you do enjoy our work, LIKE; SUBSCRIBE; It makes a big difference to how our videos Now, let's discuss how this is going to You are going to need to be at least vaguely I'm sorry, I'm sorry - but there is We will proceed through the movie chronologically, which they are most prominent. Black-and-white video indicates where we are Coloured video indicates that we are discussing Excellent. Let's get into it, shall we? ED-1TA, roll the film! The dead speak! We could stop here and take this opening crawl But this text was hastily written at the last It offers no real insight into the galaxy, Let's move forward to the first actual scene Why are there dead trees? I had no idea what was going on until weeks Later, I heard this sequence is supposed to We've already seen what that planet is like. Once again, though, if you think about it, These trees would have to grow in the past. Maybe the planet is so hot that a forest of Saplings would be even more vulnerable, so Clearly they all died at the same time, while Yet whatever happened, nothing was hot enough Let's see if we can figure out what's going To the reference material! A book from 2009 says that Mustafar is wracked It specifies that the planet exports ore, The imports are food, water, and machinery. That makes sense, the book also says that Of course the ecosystem and food web will It also states that this happened in 3996 It makes no sense for these trees to be four To have been dead for all that time is absurd. Yet they can't be as young as they appear, The only way to explain it is by invoking Someone looked up Earth volcanoes, and found Then, without giving it a moment's thought, Absolutely zero attention paid to the history be there. Someone thought putting Earth phenomena in clever. Instead, it proved the exact opposite. Surface-level imagery, not a drop of care Now, it is acceptable to doubt this book. I certainly don't trust it, it's clearly written Personally I've never seen an episode, all reboot. And indeed, the 3D animated ones seem to have reboot. There's a mention in the book of Ahsoka Tico, But that's even more damning, because this universe. As for me, I know this book is unreliable. Right next to the Mustafar entry, there's What could be wrong with that? Well we already know things about the Mon For example, that there are two races here: We know the Mon Cal prefer to live on the cities. We know the Quarren are more subnautical, cities. We know both species can breathe air and water, to switch to the aquatic mode. Accordingly, there is an organic gill symbiote, Both kinds of natives can use these, and tourists The facehugger only lives for a week, so it's It is stated that using a gill symbiote is That might be technically correct, but it We've seen existing examples of air tanks, The first is a Roamer-6 mask as worn by the These are made by Gandorthral Atmospherics, The main body is smaller than two of Leia's The internal air tank lasts ten minutes, and Best of all, the small internal tank can be They can dilute or compress an atmosphere They can heat or cool the air, so you might I hear Hoth gets a bit chilly this time of Naturally, the Roamer-6 can be adjusted for However, this device is better as a filter It excels at filtering an atmosphere, and Then you need to install replacement filters, You can definitely hold your breath long enough What can't the Gandorthral Atmospherics Roamer-6 Vacuum. You need a space suit to supply pressure, Quite by coincidence, the one thing it can't The Falcon never passes any barrier that might Using these inside a space slug is a total I don't remember the Empire Strikes Back novelisation But it's been a while since I had my hands The real reason is that making spacesuit costumes If they're only going to be used in one scene, Star Wars isn't the only sci-fi universe that In Mass Effect 2, one mission involves taking Well it does for me, I don't know how you The game realises this can't work, so it gives No shirt, no helmet, nothing. Hang on a minute, I was talking about Mustafar Let's resolve this tangent by hopping over This adds an interesting wrinkle. First of all, the Federation tries to gas The other Federation, that is, and I suppose They were just expecting the lethal gas to Understandable, but a mistake. This scene is an exemplary use case for the We know the gas isn't corrosive, or so toxic Holding your breath is enough to be safe, We're not here for that scene in orbit, though. Down on the planet, we see a completely different For this mission, Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan carry This allows them to dive to the bottom of It seems reasonable to assume Otoh Gunga is of metres. The city is meant to be hidden, after all. Sunlight can only reach about 200 metres down, water. While we're down here, let's dismiss the idea This is, of course, utter nonsense. Sorry, daddy big Boss Nass your honour, but Boss Nass isn't entirely fluent in Basic, Obviously the tunnels only go through the The questionable book takes Nass's word at The planet is a world of peculiar geology. It lacks a molten core, instead possessing locap plasma. Wide, shallow seas and swamps separate plains Not only is this nonsensical, it's also completely Getting from the Gungan city to Theed palace of the planet. All you need is a network of tunnels through The plasma is used in Gungan weapons, but There is no reason to say &quot;it lacks a molten All you get from that, is that a guy with Better to assume he was using figurative terms. Right, back to the Jedi equipment. The A99 breather actually comes in two forms. The original TPM Visual Dictionary showed The one from the movie is riddled with holes, Both are listed as compressed air tanks, with The Roamer-6 has remarkably good capacity. The A99 has absurd capacity. But I've come up with a way to harmonise these Let's say the A99 is more specialised than It has been designed to work in water, and The difference between the two pictures is Remove those covers from the grey one, and the movie. Then, instead of storing two SCUBA tanks in The perforated white cylinder is a water intake, Then there's no capacity inconsistency. If the A99 just held hours of air, how could The aquata breather is a fraction the size Speaking of the organic gill, the Mon Calamari The questionable 2009 book describes the history This is the same timeframe as the Mustafar This is compatible with the prequels, where Episode 1. The Mon Cal appear in Episode 3, or at least It's a bit hard to make out the details. But these appearances are mistakes. We already know about the history of the Mon We know about the man called Ackbar, later I'll give you a moment to repeat his most Ready? We know that the Mon Cal joined the Alliance BBY. We know that the Mon Cal developed space travel, To seek out new life, and make friends with To boldly go where no fish-man or squid thingy It had been hard to develop that tech, since With most of the world underwater, even the crust. In contrast, the Quarren prefer to live on By befriending the Quarren, a new age of technological Orbital infrastructure was created. Spaceports, shipyards, all the supporting More than most, Mon Cal saw the stars as islands The planet of Mon Calamari is on the Outer It had made contact with its neighbours, and location. But eventually, they made first contact with And it wasn't the Old Republic. Fitting our Trek Federation-like characterisation They broadcast messages of friendship and This would probably have worked, if the history book described. Instead, they crossed paths with the Empire. They were interested in trade all right. The Imperial forces were very pleased with for themselves. The Mon Cal were seen as gentle, and therefore The Empire launched an invasion, and the Mon The Emperor ordered the destruction of three To make an example of them, demonstrating Unexpectedly, the plan backfired. A peaceful race with no history of war, wiped They started creating battleships, weapons. Ackbar had been the leader of Coral City. Now, he was one of the first enslaved by the He had been taken as an interpreter and personal Before long, Ackbar was a gift to Grand Moff Ackbar played along, secretly studying the This is how he learnt of a Rebellion against When Tarkin was en route to the completed After they escaped with Ackbar, he returned the Rebel Alliance. For this he was given the rank of Commander His promotion to Admiral Ackbar would happen kind of starfighter. But the origin of the B-Wing is a story for For now, we've established the 2009 book can't We already knew the history of the Mon Calamari But even in the corrupted, rewritten, reboot You can't just slap a dead forest onto the The hazards of using a name. No explanation is given in the movie itself, It could be a new dead forest planet, except To explain the next item, Mustafar makes the It still doesn't explain why there are humans The natives of Mustafar are not human. In the original lore, Darth Vader had a castle In the reboot, I'm told this was moved to Seems a bit of an odd choice. You'd think he would avoid the volcano world. Maybe he used to come here in order to provoke Then, he uses those feelings for dark side JJ doesn't show any castle, just a box in JJAbrams calls this black pyramid a &quot;Sith In his movie, it is a magical compass that reefs and storms surrounding a hidden island. If the compass is destroyed, you're locked However, it accidentally looks like something These are Jedi holocrons, the Force-user's These polyhedra of gold and silver and glass sacred Jedi texts&quot;. In contrast, THIS is a Sith holocron. Notice how its appearance is a black tetrahedral But the holocron is much deeper. It's more like the One Ring of Sauron, it's It wants to be found, to be used, to draw of power. The Sith holocron is the most mysterious of It's almost a character of its own, and all Keep that in mind, and watch this clip from *Kyle Ben crushes black pyramid* See how much more meaningful it is to destroy JJ's box represents a house key, and destroying all. The holocron from Star Wars is more like a Necronomicons. To destroy the holocron means giving up all It's the ultimate proof of resolve, when the Despite all the temptation, the whispers in crushes Swapping in the holocron is perhaps the most Without Snoke to be a mentor, the holocron It can also show how deep the Dark Side goes. Perhaps there's more in there than Kylo was There is a part here where we meet the reborn We shall ignore this entirely. Its issues are best addressed later on, when For now, we go back to see what the good guys Kind of like how episode 5 and 6 start with I wonder if that's a coincidence. The heroes need to transfer some data from A cable is run between the Informant's computer At the start of JJ's movie, the Millenium They string a cable between two rooms, send go on their merry way. There are several things to like about this It reminds me of midair refuelling, which can do in flight. Also, let's appreciate the prop they used. Look at the girth, imagine how well shielded This is great, it's exactly the sort of thing The wires used in Star Wars are not, and will Earth. It'd look and feel wrong if they matched the However, even with how much I love the main Look at what JJ does with this, and compare There are some horizontal stripes on Artoo, macro-USB ports. You may remember that Artoo is connected to Here is the most important one: sharing the Another nice cable, plugged into somewhere Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be anything All we can see is a large vertical panel, This is not what JJ used. There are also two tools Artoo uses for computer These only work on a fixed wall socket, I Would the spinny bit need to spin on the far This one fits a power outlet. Perfectly reasonable, Earth guitar jacks aren't We can see clearly where these two extend This also lines up with the documentation: as the computer interface arms. Another time, Luke attaches some equipment Obviously a Gonk droid would be better to Power droids have thicker armour than most Most power droids are either the EG-6, or They're designed to be extremely safe, these With one of these, you have a fusion-powered As long as you're not running industrial or it all. But you all know the advertising campaign &quot;No job is over this little guy's head&quot;. It's funny because they're short. There's a circular saw down in the centre the hatch. There's a shock probe opposite, in the same Effective against Ewoks, Salacious Crumb, Another zapper here under one of the top panels, socket. Again, no relevance. Next, let's move on to manipulator arms. We know there's one here in the head, used One here from the vertical slot on the far That seems to be a heavy duty arm. Another one up the central hatch, as seen Hang on, I've just remembered something. We've seen Artoo use an arm to operate something, This is the arm used to open the escape pod. But look at it, that's not a very good arm, I choose to believe that these are the covers Though, it would make sense to have the covers These are the main arms used when in a starfighter's Either way, we know this isn't where you'd I've already shown options for data input, At the end of the recorded message, Leia inserts The way to do this would be to reference that Take a close look at the radar eye. See the slot underneath it? Well, that's where the death star plans were We don't see much of the storage medium that We do know the Empire called them &quot;data tapes&quot;, in that slot. Clearly they've also dropped support for CompactFlash. No, this slot is for data cards. Come to think of it, does Leia's data card Star Trek gets a lot of credit for predicting Convenient data storage has been part of Star You might think that is a minor point. Dare I say it, a nitpick. Whether you put up with nits is your business. Notice the difference in effort. The prequel R2 was made to be fully consistent. With all the movies, and with the reference The reboot isn't consistent with any of them. Nor do I expect this mistake will stay consistent Speaking of consistency, here's some infighting. Some TIEs arrive and JJ decides it is time Not to worry, JJ can invent his way out of The magical mystery hyperdrive can just take Right, it is time. Really hoped I wouldn't have to do this: to In Disney Wars 9, there are several references. These only make sense in the context of Disney That movie, The Last Jedi, is famously controversial. Of the Disney Trilogy, the middle movie was He has many names, and the majority are impolite. Perhaps the least offensive is Roundhead, When something has been defiled and disrespected, We dare not utter its true name, henceforth RJ. I had planned to completely skip covering To ignore it entirely, fixing only 7 and 9, However, JJ's hand was forced by the entity At face value, this sabre-catching scene should But this scene only exists to undo this TLJ This here is a very strange and unsatisfactory Par for the course with JJ, but he didn't This is a terrible explanation, and what JJ The Holdo manoeuvre is not a neat trick like Holdo is the name of someone else's death RJ did this. People tell me it looks pretty, but I just Since I don't want to talk about this movie To Holdo is to try ramming something while I didn't want to explain what's wrong with All you need to know is that it isn't how At all. No wiggle room, no one-in-a-million chance: It's time to tell you all about The Shadows. No, not Cliff Richard (Junior)'s band. G'Kar! Get that book out of here. There's hyperspace and then there's realspace. They aren't completely isolated from each Hyperspace is full of shadows, mass shadows. A star casts a mass shadow into hyperspace, What happens if you jump to lightspeed on Well nothing, most likely whatever you hit The ship in hyperspace, though, that just Which means RJ's spiffing wheeze is already My barrel of lore is nowhere near empty, so Another feature of hyperspace comes from Empire Vader demands to know where the Falcon has Darth Vader is nobody's fool. If Han could escape by just steering a little In hyperspace, your course is fixed. That's why the navicomputer needs to calculate If you could dodge supernova mass shadows pre-calculate. The interesting part is how JJ responds. Left to make a sequel after something impossible Throws up his hands in despair and accepts Then he tries to make the best of the broken JJ reckons that this gives him the ability While TLJ draws the fire, nobody cares that Trying to top the Holdo fiasco, JJ comes up This isn't like the 40k lore about the Tau jumps through the Warp because they aren't JJ just wanted to flash up a sequence of cool capture the audience's attention. JJ declares that if you wiggle the hyperdrive rapidly. What's wrong with this one: it isn't how hyperspace There is no element of chance: this cannot First of all, even if it was possible, you The fastest hyperdrive in the galaxy is the In hyperspace, it has the unique ability to The famously cool SR-71 missile countermeasure Point five past lightspeed means literally The trade-off is that the Falcon's hyperdrive It takes constant maintainence, and is prone It's like having Thrust 2 disguised as a station Are we supposed to believe you can flick the The hyperdrive has a few moments of warning steadily for hours at a time. You wouldn't treat a lightbulb like this, blows. Rapid cycling is rough treatment for most So, if the Falcon was real it wouldn't stand There's an intricate hyperdrive on the end the controls' position. But this is the debatable part, one could The part that was Johnsoned isn't so forgiving. Remember the Eclipse, the enormous star destroyer? It's time to introduce an older relative: This one is tiny for a star destroyer, even More commonly known as the Interdictor, they You wouldn't find an Interdictor in an atmosphere, These bulbous protrusions are the whole reason The Eclipse happened to have gravity well Interdictors are built around a gravwell array. Their role is as a mobile hyperspace inhibitor. When the gravwells are running, all nearby More concerning, an Interdictor can even pull Within its area of effect, the hyperdrive into realspace. Be they natural or artificial, a gravity well You've probably figured out the issue for He wants a pretty vista, so he shows jumping This is laughably wrong. It isn't risky, it's flat-out impossible within The only excuse JJ has is &quot;but Mum, RJ broke Who's the more foolish, the RJ or the JJ who This scene is absolutely brimming over with There's one other huge mistake. What's the excuse for breaking the lore? Well, our heroes are being chased. By TIE Fighters. That's fine, I'd go so far as to say it's We know all about TIE Fighters, what they A chase through hyperspace is a perfect example The TIE gets its name from the Twin Ion Engine A marvel of Imperial engineering, few ships A TIE Fighter is agile, and extremely fast. Only the A-Wing interceptors can outrun a A lot was sacrificed in the trade-off for TIEs are short-range fighters, you can't fly The absolute limit for onboard supplies is Partly, this is because TIEs sacrifice life-support, A TIE pilot wears a sealed spacesuit, otherwise cockpit. The other huge sacrifice? Well, TIEs do not have a hyperdrive or shields. Only the TIE Advanced X1, as used by Vader, One could argue that JJ has shown a new model That the First Order abandoned the TIE design X-Wing. All the advantages of a TIE, discarded to That would be incorrect, though. The real reason is that JJ never knew anything They make a cool noise, they're used by the It was never JJ's intention to depict a new He didn't mean to add life-support and hyperdrives TIEs. One of the most prominent ships in the saga, characteristic. If anyone in the film crew pointed out what These kind of accidental changes are typical To be fair, X-Wings are good starfighters. In the Star Wars universe, the Empire did starfighter:the TIE Defender. It was designed to retain the speed and agility Contrast this with the TIE Interceptor, designed The Interceptor is more agile than an X-Wing, The Defender is superior to the Interceptor Of course they still don't have life-support, Because of the sheer cost of building one, phase. Now, let's fix JJ's mess. He wants rapid-fire scenes of Rebel ships This &quot;lightspeed skimming&quot; is not an option. But that's fine, because we have a relevant To use it, we need there to be more than one It is my official judgement as a Star Wars galaxy. Choice! To show the spectacular vistas, we call upon Sorry, the &quot;montage&quot;. Instead of dropping the Falcon into a new A montage is several short scenes in rapid The only change needed is to show a different This ice planet can be the Falcon, this other couple of X-Wings, et cetera. This has two main advantages. First, it isn't impossible. Can't emphasise enough how important that Second, it makes the galaxy look bigger. Remember how in Empire Strikes Back, the Falcon There are countless people having their own JJ wants to show several places quickly. That's fine, there are very few constraints You can use the power of the montage to show To show them rapidly, you can skip the travel Alternatively, you can show different ships By skipping from place to place, you aren't The one thing you cannot do, is to have it It isn't possible for a ship to go from one It takes a lot of effort to get it this wrong, You have to deliberately ignore a lot of warning A lot of canon. To be in the Star Wars setting, is to write If it fits with everything we already know, When you have differences like these, that JJ has not finished reintroducing his characters. Prime among his champions is the exalted Rey. A mighty warrior with a thousand skills: her Nobody is surprised to find she keeps using Where others are injured, blast doors are No harm may befall her. It is time to deal with the Rey training sequence. This is a very odd choice. In the final movie of the reboot trilogy, Let's compare Rey to the Skywalkers. Both of the Skywalkers were too old to begin training process. Luke doesn't even appear in the movie until Luke is offered Jedi training after 35 minutes, Luke passively uses the Force in a plot-critical Luke actively uses the Force for the first By 2 hours 15 minutes, Luke is instructed After 3 hours 2 minutes, Luke starts his second He wins an imaginary lightsabre duel at 3 Luke can barely levitate a stone at 3 hours At 3 hours 50 minutes, Luke loses his first Luke attempts a Jedi mind trick for the first At 4 hours 48 minutes, Luke is still looking He is surprised to hear that he doesn't require Six hours into the trilogy, Luke gains the After six hours of movies, Luke has trained training. This is what it means for someone to become Now let's see how Anakin was handled. Anakin first appears 32 minutes into his trilogy, Shortly after at 41 minutes, he boasts of Anakin has been unconsciously using his Force We already knew Anakin had to be &quot;the best For the entire rest of the movie, Anakin never Anakin is not trained, but he is given the After two hours, Anakin is no longer forbidden At 2 hours 30 minutes, Anakin is warned that Ten years of training have gone by to reach By 2 hours 45 minutes, Anakin levitates an After 4 hours 24 minutes, Anakin loses his Only after 4 hours 52 minutes does Anakin At 5 hours 15 minutes, Anakin has all but He is surprised to hear that he is not a Jedi Finally, at 6 hours 38 minutes, Anakin sees With that background knowledge in place, we For the utmost fairness possible, I use the Rey appears earlier than the Skywalkers, a That's good, this means there's slightly more Let's see what they do with the time given At 53 minutes, Rey hears about the force for From first appearance on screen, Luke took and to be offered training. After 40 minutes of his introduction, Luke Rey has racked up 43 minutes since introduction, To play Darth's Advocate, maybe they're setting Maybe she'll not be trained or actively use That could work, and then a time skip of ten At 1 hour 7 minutes, Rey meets a dried apricot. She steals a lightsabre without the knowledge More importantly, the brand mascot for the Even Disney knew they couldn't get away with than nothing. Nothing, there's a perfect description of The apricot claims to know something about Naturally, Rey instantly rejects the idea Luke didn't reject the training, he just refused He wouldn't abandon the farm to go off on Ben Kenobi was already committed to leaving his uncle was ready to do without him. This puts Rey considerably behind, but it Time to move on. At 1 hour 30 minutes, Rey uses an old Jedi This is an active Force technique, it's not skills of Luke and Anakin. Besides, passive Force usage is already required Not even going to touch that. If we call this &quot;active Force use&quot;, that puts faster than Anakin. Except that's not right, because that would The Jedi mind trick is exactly 3 hours and used one. Okay, now let's look past this absurd timing. This movie makes a distinction between the This is not a &quot;Force mind trick&quot;, it is specifically Luke witnessed this ability before leaving After training under two different Jedi masters, A Force-sensitive person can learn this ability, of a thousand generations of Jedi. Fine then. Rey doesn't know it's possible, had no time people who knew this technique. Besides all that, what's wrong here? Well, for a wizard to cast this confundus and years of practice. Casting the Jedi mind trick requires a somatic Like many others, this Force technique requires One of the defining features of the somatic you can't cast that spell. Remind me of Rey's predicament at the time, Oh. That's right, she's tied to a bed in a sturdy Whoopsy-daisy, an innocent mistake that could've Anyone who did zero research on the subject Moving right along, at 1 hour 53 minutes, This one is telekinesis, pulling a lightsabre Only 18 minutes ahead of when Luke did the Except that in those cases, it was only lifting Rey is doing something fundamentally different A trained Force user of a higher level attempts move it somewhere else. Suppose that Little Ani tried this against We know that Anakin has greater potential untrained. Who do you think would win a telekinetic tug-of-war? That's right, every single time the winner No amount of talent or conviction could hope Well, actually there is one way this scene Yoda tells us that the Dark Side of the Force He says it is quicker, easier, and more seductive. The only way for a complete novice- wait, For a completely uninitiated layman to win the Dark Side. The pathetic scavenger has known nothing but There exists no mentor to instruct her in Both of the Skywalkers are disciples of the If they gave in to hate, like Rey did, they Except that even this explanation doesn't Rey doesn't go up against someone who is committed Her opponent is someone with years of training with the Dark Side. This doesn't work at all, it's like Rey rolled That isn't even cheating, like with Watto's It's a complete failure to understand what's game is badminton. Continuing the comparison, with the stolen It's clear she has never seen a sword fight, Her swordsmanship is slightly more refined stick. Oddly enough, it only gets worse from here. In this one, she keeps attempting a thrust. It never works, but it's better than the baseball There's an amusing mutual grapple, where both it at any time. Again, this could work if she gave in to the Aside from the laughable choreography, we're She wins a sabre duel 243 minutes ahead of By the way, did I mention this duel is the lightsabre? Let's look at it another way. Instead of comparing the first duel the Skywalkers to their first duels? It's a bit complicated, because winning your Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan have decades of practice Rey Disney wins her first sabre duel 113 minutes She wins her first duel 147 minutes before She has never witnessed a lightsabre fight earlier. Now, you could say this is because of the Both Skywalkers had to fight a fully trained Rey only duels an edgy teenage dropout, so She could probably win if she was completely to land a single strike. Then, she meets Jake: the depressed, cowardly Rey's refusal to learn is matched by Jake's She claims that Kyle Ben is strong in the If he was anything approaching competent or At 3 hours 6 minutes, Jake Skywalker has a This is the closest she comes to training, under Yoda. This is also half an hour slower than Anakin, between movies. After 3 hours 16 minutes, she does a little This is to practice her precision of movement, It's no substitute for, say, a training remote. Good against remotes is one thing, good against Rey isn't good at either, her Mary-Sue powers But if this is equivalent to Luke's first than him. At 3 hours 36 minutes, she beats up a sad, I don't think there's an equivalent from Star By 4 hours into the reboot trilogy, Rey has This roughly lines up with Luke's sail barge There was never any real danger, and not just Then, at 4 hours 34 minutes, she effortlessly Yoda struggled with. This isn't comparable to anything the Skywalkers Finally, after 5 hours and 1 minute of footage, In terms of timing, this training is 119 minutes Yet in terms of ability, Rey has remained training she gets. Why would she suddenly need training now? Of course, I do understand the reason. The mouse company realised that there is no stop them from noticing things. Declaring Rey is the first female Jedi ever, People keep pointing out how that's not true, Another academic article claiming everyone no help at all. Regardless of what they say, their Mary-Sue But by the time they realised they needed late. The training should have taken place during Failing that, it should've been both before Since none of that happened, the only remaining of the last movie gets going. This is a perfect example of &quot;too little, By the time the evil corporation attempted You see, the previous movies had established Suddenly deciding she does need training, is incorrect. You can't put the genie back in the toothpaste She can do things that require training, before Putting a training scene after the fact helps Now that we've proven training isn't the answer, That's beside the point, because it wouldn't The first thing to fix is a very strange line, &quot;I'm starting to think it isn't possible.." ".. to hear the voices of the Jedi who came Well of course it isn't. Poe Dameron, this is your eleventh warning You mustn't take advantage of Rey's gullibility If you tell her she can hear the voice of that's a joke. She's spent the last three days floating, possible. This also means we need to remove a funny &quot;And I, pant pant pant, heavy breathing, gasp, I'd never considered leaving that in for a To repair this, we need a spare part. Given that Rey never needs to learn or practice, I've heard she stole the training during the accidentally probed himself instead of her. This is laughable. You're telling me the badman isn't incompetent, enemy by mistake? He can't beat someone with no training, because level? If that were possible, why wouldn't the Jedi Grab anyone the least bit Force-sensitive, into battle. No, that doesn't explain anything. The way to fix this is to turn Rey into a Years ago, Jake Skywalker saw the future. He realised that Not-The-Empire would appear, It wouldn't be safe to operate in the open, But any physical location can be searched. If Jake were to, say, write some books on A Jedi holocron could be discovered and destroyed. He needed to hide the Jedi lore somewhere Jake went to the planet Not-Tatooine, and A daughter a few years old, a Force-sensitive. Jake grasps the little girl by the face and He installs a Jedi katra into her mind, then Young Rey is now a repository of all Jedi help. When the time is right, he will return and Jedi temple. Rey's parents understand the risk, and the He convinces them that the only way to save unwitting pawn. All that is needed is to guide her to the The parents flatly refuse to sit around waiting, After an argument, Jake Skywalker relents. He will appoint a guardian to watch over the Luke. The decision reached, he reaches in to meddle Her mind is scoured clean of anything that The names and faces of her parents, even her Gone. Every childhood memory, every time the family Jake couldn't risk leaving anything behind. He ushers the parents out, as the new guardian A ship takes off, and all three fly away. Young Rey is sure that ship departing represents Time passes. Eventually Rey decides that the ship must've Everyone has parents, right? Everyone but her. All she had was Guardian, and he wasn't much Years pass, and one day Guardian stops moving. No matter how much she pleads, or promises He doesn't even blink, even after days. Finally she kicks Guardian in the shin, and He makes no attempt to catch himself, and Rey moves past the stage of bargaining. She thinks back over her life. Guardian never broke a sweat, no matter what. His body hasn't even started to decompose, Rey realises that Guardian had been a human As far as she can remember, Guardian was the about her. Rey swears she'll fix him. If it takes the rest of her life, she'll repair But to do that, she will need parts and know-how. Adolescent Rey becomes a scavenger. There are a few years of rations left over, She'll have to start selling any scrap that But the parts needed for a human replica droid She accepts defeat, and lives the rest of Until one day the plot catches up with her. When BB-8, Poe, and Finn turn up, something She starts getting flashes of insight, knowing When she gets into combat, she fights like Almost as if she has a thousand generations Most of the time, though, that knowledge is And there we have it. Sure, it's not ideal, but the previous Disney Most of all, it's a way to explain how Rey any training. The ideal solution would be to fix these problems And we will go back to those other two reboot Now that all the characters have been introduced, The heroes meet up for a chat. There is a strange conflict added between Mr Poe is opposed to the idea of Rey training. I'm with him, we've just established it isn't Rey is concerned about the condition of the Its rightful owner, Chewbacca, is not asked The data on R2D2 is decoded and the heroes I'm sure it isn't bad news, though. It's not like the Emperor has returned or Let's take a look at the ramifications of One particularly baffling idea extends throughout A character says &quot;there's no time&quot;, which asked. There's no time to think, otherwise the audience In A New Hope, there is one countdown. It starts at 30 minutes, until the Death Star Ticking timers are not a very common feature They can exist, but it would be strange and Let's see what JJ uses for the timing mechanism. Remember, this is the foundation to the movie. Everything that happens is an attempt to stop In this scene, you can almost see the writer's Soon, an enemy fleet will begin to attack That part is absolutely fine. In the Original Trilogy, the Death Star went JJ feels his responsibility is to make something Start with a planet-sized Death Star shotgun End with the biggestest fleet ever, where Also there's a ticking clock now, the galaxy Imagine there are no planet-destroying superlasers Not a one, or if you really insist, we can You see, Palpatine has returned before. After the first Death Star was destroyed, it. Everyone knows who allowed such a flaw to Bevel Lemelisk. He's the one with the eyepiece, not the devilishly I'm sure Mads is a delightful actor to work of the Death Star. I shall deal with him later. Bevel oversaw the creation of the Death Star superlaser could work. The prototype had the same 120km diameter frame. The prototype had little more than a reactor than the final version. Nor did it have hyperdrives, or crew quarters, in. After the prototype was proven, the real Death Back to our man Bevel, who has just died in of. And he can imagine quite a bit. Bit of a waste, though, losing such a talented The second Death Star was designed soon afterwards, cloned body. Just six years after the Battle of Endor, Having just defeated Grand Admiral Thrawn, the galaxy. This was all part of the cloned Palpatine's His fleet swept in and attacked when the Republic's In this case, he came from deep in the core He had created a new command vessel, a Super The Eclipse: immense, painted black for no The Victory-class Star Destroyer, the small long. The original Imperial Star Destroyer is one The original Super Star Destroyer, the Executor, &quot;Get on with it?&quot; Fine. The Eclipse is 17. 5 kilometres long. Ten miles of ship. One of the minor features on it are gravity-well Or, to use another term for the same device: Just as you can't use or enter hyperspace generators do the same for the Eclipse. Its chief weapon is fear, fear and surprise, By taking the longest straight line in the a superlaser into a spinal mount. This devastating weapon is fully two thirds one. It can't annihilate the planet completely. The prototype of the Death Star could &quot;only&quot; Eclipse can do is crack the crust of the planet. That's enough reason to have the special effects Naturally, Luke Skywalker tracked down and tanks. Not before Palpatine slipped away, wearing for only fifteen years. Technically this one died by his own hand, Palpatine had been summoning. The Eclipse was destroyed in the Force storm, The next clone, and the Eclipse II? A good question, for another time. Let's use this. We give Emperor Palpatine a new clone body, Also, a large fleet of star destroyers. The one thing we don't allow JJ to have is He gets to have just one, and it's nowhere Besides, JJ only blows up one planet in the Instead of a billion star destroyers that big one. And a large but reasonable fleet of ordinary Why did JJ add Death Star superlasers to every Surprisingly, it has nothing to with the power The reason is that JJ knows his fleet is too His squillion star destroyers would prevail To fix this, a normal person would reduce The solution JJ came up with was to make every Why would you do this!? The star destroyer fleet has been equipped has ever seen. For exactly one reason. The only role they serve is as a force multiplier. No, not that kind of the Force; just military The superlasers are not intended for this: is a pretext. An excuse to install a device needed by the They are intended to solve this issue. It's not your fault, Poe. You weren't responsible for this situation. The one who put you up against far too many it looked cool. And the only way you survived, is because After creating such an unbalanced fight, one it. Now he has his thumb on both sides of the The finale plays out with constant nudges The only reason the planet-killing guns exist With a big gun slung out of the hangar, one It's so the inspirational militia can win Without this Achilles' heel, Palpatine would One more thing: logistics. The ticking clock says that in sixteen hours, But that's when the fleet gets ready to leave happen. Surely some planets are closer to Exegol, But other star systems are on the far side arrive until a bit later. There would be a slow process of the fleet galaxy. By taking out the superlasers, we have a very The Emperor's fleet has to actually fight There will be a front line, combat both in There would be a war amongst the stars. If JJAbrams had made different decisions, At every turn, JJ has done everything he can To prevent each battle within that war, every The superlaser destroys any planet without without a space battle. Instead of a front line moving as territory In sixteen hours, the galaxy is all destroyed There's even a timer to wipe out the fleet: If the fleet gets up to space, the shields Imagine if the movie had been built on a star across the galaxy. The progress is inexorable, the situation The good guys can't win even one battle, let The most they can do is delay long enough It's not that every second gets you closer For that second, trillions of sapient beings That's bad enough, don't you think? Using a ticking clock for your story is clumsy When Star Wars movie, it wasn't by choice. That decision was made while editing the movie, This is the most intuitive way to delay the The good guys, the bad guys, and the audience If it was timed around the death star's power time remaining. The original movie used a timer right at the It escalates the threat from the start of In contrast, JJ uses that timer for the whole But worst of all is that a better opportunity Adding the sixteen hour clock was unnatural: war, but it was clumsily diverted. Further, this war is so compelling it could've Imagine it. The Emperor's fleet extended across half a into a single spearhead strike force. Even with this advantage, it goes from the slowly. That is the strongest resistance the good The only hope of victory is a decapitation Then the entire movie is about the journey the meantime. After the plan is set into motion, we have RJ destroyed JJ's cool mask. JJ gets out the superglue and tries to make Just in time for his next meeting. We find out the fleet size. For every star destroyer, ten thousand new If the First Order has one hundred, the Emperor Give Kylo ten thousand, and Palpatine has How many star destroyers might one need? There are millions of inhabited worlds in Would this new fleet need one ship per planet? For that matter, how many star destroyers Surely they must have millions of their own, Or, maybe you can keep order with less than Finding the size of the Empire's fleet would Never mind the size of the fleet. Kylo has people to Force choke, because that's This fails to be impressive. Kylo's victim is in the middle of raising Admiral Motti is in the middle of claiming That's the entire point of the scene. Vader also kills his enemies, which doesn't He kills those officers who repeatedly fail Kylo just doesn't have a reason for this. There's no way to tell if JJ intended that Given how many other times he's failed to on purpose. Mistaken as it is, this is the most sensible Back on JJ's second imitation of Tatooine, Rey receives a necklace from an alien child. The necklace is needed immediately, for plot It is an emergency plot coupon. We will tackle Rey's Diad, Teleportation It is all part of the same rotten Disney Skill This part will be a little messy, and will All necessary, before we can move forward. Next, there are more unauthorised Force powers. The entire finale to the movie is based on To give credit where it's due, he did go back Or at least, to prevent them from coming out The first of these new inventions is to reveal Specifically, she is made of wood. JJ has had a great idea, he is extremely pleased Rey, he explains, is a dryad. An entwife, a forest spirit that watches over Sort of a Force Lorax, if you will: she speaks I don't know what made him think that was There is no such thing as a Force Dryad in Or any other kind of dryad, as far as I know. This was only invented in order to patch holes Whenever something absurd happens, he can After all, if no dryads existed before, JJ Or perhaps this was all Disney, trying to They thought making their newest Disney princess We can simply reject this idea and move along. It has no basis in fact, the desperate invention For no reason at all, let's look at a comment C-3PO asks how he can help his new master. Luke jokes that nothing can be done, unless: Luke is not serious. He wants to leave home, and these are jokes. He knows a protocol droid can't do any of In fact, that nobody can. That holds true for anyone in the Star Wars Obviously, that is no barrier to a Mary-Sue. That kind of bad fanfiction character isn't The reality-warping field will rewrite the for her. Let's compare the abilities of a Mary-Sue Could she speed up the harvest? I have no doubt. She can probably wring water from a stone, Could she teleport Luke off the planet Tatooine? Of course she can, her ability to teleport Could she alter time? I'll give you a hint: the Mary-Sue can always This first shows up in a set of tunnels under Why is there quicksand here? Nobody knows. How can one dig a tunnel through gravel? Just stop asking questions or trying to make Turn your brain off and look at the pretty These mysterious tunnels are the home of a When Jedi encounter such things, the scenario Luke is dragged into the lair of a Wampa, Luke is dropped into Jabba's rancor pit, and Obi-Wan is to be executed by an Aklay, and Anakin was assigned a Reek instead, which Not through lack of trying. Silly Jedi, let Mary-Sue Androcles show you Turns out the Jedi were the real monsters, of it. What they should've done is make friends with Offer them an arm to gnaw on. She senses that the giant snake has a thorn In response, she invents a new power to deploy. She has gained the ability of retrometabolism. The secret of reversing matter. In order to undo the wound on the snake, she By rewinding back to before it got injured, This sets up the use of this power another This strikes many people as being silly. Gosh, if this was possible in the Star Wars Maybe it has something to do with snake biology, It certainly can't work against lightsabre Imagine how different the story would be if Oh, I see. JJ just didn't think about the implications. The basic idea is quite solid. If you're making a computer game, it makes You can even emphasise character using it. The Light Side can heal the player with nothing The Dark Side can only drain life from another But computer games aren't realistic, no matter If your buddy died from bullet wounds, a defibrillator Contrary to what some might have told you, healing. It's a natural extension of the Force, I'd heal. Indeed, we find documentation of this back There is one difference between JJ's bright In the Disney universe, Jedi can cast cleric Rey can yell &quot;cure serious wounds&quot;, which It works by channelling positive energy into Whoops, I might've been reading out a Dungeons Still, it just so happens to exactly describe Starts with the laying of hands, and it instantly Convenient. Contrast this with an actual Star Wars RPG. In the West End books, Jedi have a similar This one is named Accelerate Healing. As you might infer from the name, this is It allows for a Jedi to heal about twice as If being stabbed with a lightsabre would normally a Jedi can do it in four months. Notice how this way, the Star Wars way, injuries In Disney Wars, fatal wounds can literally That's just an RPG, though. Maybe it doesn't line up with either the canon Well, I just happen to have a reference here. It's from the prequel era, and it shows how instead of less. In the first book of the Jedi Apprentice series, He gets prompt medical treatment, and uses This actually causes consequences, instead Qui-Gon Jinn has spent the day using two powers: Then he finds a situation where it would be It is implied that if he were at his full If that's true, it would mean that Jabba's Hutts are resistant, true, but the rest is That would mean that Toydarians have a stronger Hutts do. I'm okay with that. However, Qui-Gon fails to influence the Hutt Because it's possible to use the Force to a Jedi's mana pool. It can take other Force powers off the table. It can force a choice between exhausting your for the unexpected. A Jedi is patient. JJ Abrams is impatient, so he can't use the If wounds took any time to heal, he wouldn't week. That means the finale has to be completely It wasn't very good, or any good at all. Using the Force to heal is fine, so long as If your story falls apart without the spell story to begin with. Finally, we have the other pillar of the finale. Force Teleportation. If only Luke had asked Rey to teleport him In the Disney reboot universe, it is possible I can't prove this, but I get the impression Once again, though, JJ will have to share This was established as part of the reboot It doesn't even have to imply teleportation, supposed to be a teleport. Since Kylo wipes his face with the same hand Either he's gathering the teleported water been crying. If this were Star Wars, we could eliminate What remains, however unlikely, is the truth. In Star Wars, we would know he was crying Is anyone surprised to hear JJ and RJ went Didn't think so. Now, let's go back to the RPG books. There are three sets, three systems. The oldest is by West End Games, and is based It is generally reliable, and covers the era If there is a disagreement between West End go with the older one. Even if the contradictory material is a prequel After leaving West End, the RPG torch was This version really is just D&amp;D in space, Personally I've mostly played Dark Heresy, This, the d20 system, is mostly based on the This one is new enough to take the Prequel If you want to play a Gungan, you can do that Or you could just run it past your West End The final version is from Fantasy Flight Games. This coincides with the reboot, but I don't That system uses a variety of dice: d6, d8, They have custom-printed faces with a bunch Less maths, and they can print those symbols It does make it harder to bring your own dice You'd need a conversion table for each number Why bring this up? Well the middle one, Wizards of the Coast, Its name is Fold Space. It allows a character to move an object from the space in between. That is to say, it's a teleport. This is limited by both range and the size It can scale up to teleport spaceships, but You can probably teleport a data card from In contrast, the West End system makes no Whatever value this ability offers, it does Just find a way to write your Star Wars story I side with the West End approach on this Where Force Healing is negotiable, teleportation Looking back at the Disney movies, teleportation Assuming you maintain your subscription, you you send. This is why it only happens once in TLJ. Kylo was using the free edition, and Rey had They both upgraded their payment off-camera, Perhaps they even decided to share a family The first time we see Force Skype Teleport Personally I reckon teenage Kylo was trying of necklace instead. Analysis of the necklace lets him chase Rey, In the reboot, it's well established how tracking You walk up to an underling, you demand that that thing has been tracked. That's all there is to it, tracking is mostly There's no need to plant a homing beacon or The necklace is mostly to foreshadow Force Skype's Next, Rey accidentally sends Kylo's expensive This reveals that she's in his bedroom, which The last significant use of teleportation He TLJed his own lightsabre, so Rey Force Good riddance, that crossguard sabre was an You remember how Darth Maul had a double sabre? The reason it still worked after the hilt two sabres. There are two complete sets of internal components, Two power cells, two blade emitters, two sets controls. It's nothing more than a lightsabre with a Asajj Ventress had two sabres with a bayonet like Maul's one. Contrast this with Exar-kun. Sorry, I mean Exar Kun. This lightsabre was like any other, until matrix. Notice that that's the only part that changed. No second power cell, no extra crystals, no We don't know how he managed this, since he This weapon is unique, nobody else has managed set of internals. Until the reboot. There is no question, Kylo's sabre must have This can't happen by accident. If someone told you he built a sabre with lying. &quot;I've put three lightbulbs in my torch, and sources now&quot;. You can't have a blade without a blade emitter, There is zero chance of extra blades &quot;venting&quot; Can't happen. It would be like saying you accidentally transmuted a failure. Creating a single lightsabre with multiple Not some minor oddity. A lightsabre is a closed loop of energy. It shoots out from the emitter, then arcs The blade length can be adjusted, and is based Suppose he installed side emitters to lower That wouldn't work to create crossguard quillons. The side blades would be a significant fraction longer. Also, this does not function like the guard Lightsabre hilts are not immune to lightsabre For the crossguard to work, it would need Otherwise the &quot;guard&quot; wouldn't be fit for However. If you have access to a sabre-resistant material, and you want a crossguard. . . You can just make the quillons from Mandalorian None of the logical inconsistencies from this You could even say he installed red LEDs in Now, back to teleportation. The plot of JJ's movie doesn't actually require Everything that can be accomplished through Adding teleport powers also causes any number RJ's first teleport is across the galaxy, JJ's first teleport, the necklace, is also In both cases, neither party knows where the It's an instant, unguided teleport to anywhere Since it isn't necessary, Force teleports Otherwise, guess what becomes possible. For one thing, using multiple lightsabres One in the hand, and the other can be teleported Useful as a distraction, or to ignite the But even better, there's one unbeatable attack. Take a thermal detonator. Leia, disguised as Boushh, has a heavy Class-A It is particularly powerful, Jabba was well The standard-issue Imperial thermal detonator belt. They have blank control keys, to make it harder The Imperial one has a blast radius of 5 metres, Everything within that sphere would be vaporised, But if you can use the Fold Space power, the Can't be countered. You activate the grenade or thermal detonator, There's no way it can be removed from the The best scenario is that a vibroblade or cut it out before the bomb goes off. However, the utility of teleportation doesn't Imagine how the history of the galaxy would The Jedi wouldn't be known as guardians of The Jedi would be the Navigator Guild, the With their unmatched teleportation abilities, to anywhere in the galaxy. If it was possible to Force teleport in Star different. Wait a minute, the history of the Disney Wars Star Wars. Like the rest of JJ's ending, this is completely It isn't necessary, and it isn't possible. That means taking this absurd idea out won't Nothing in the reboot trilogy would even be any sense. The simplest explanation seems the most likely. JJ thinks the Force is like magic, or a superpower. It can just do anything he wants, no constraints That isn't even how good wizards are written, I'm quite certain JJ never planned to include When he does, it's implemented as a reference Lando Calrissian is undercover in the land What a surprise, for this to have happened Look, he's even got something on his wrist. Okay, so it's the outside of his left wrist Close enough for fans of the reboot. Lando was just the next name on the list. After Disney has killed the primary heroes block. His character is mostly intact, surprisingly. Nothing shown here conflicts with his original There isn't very much shown, and I might have Still, at least it is consistent. Kylo has exploited Rey's teleportation magic They have to make a getaway. Excuse me? What was that? Can you say that again? I'm not quite sure if I heard you. Didn't quite catch that, would you mind repeating This dialogue is silly. Is it meant to be a joke? I'm not laughing, and the characters aren't This is no laughing matter. But if we assume this is meant to be serious, Perhaps this is supposed to be comic relief, Comic relief is a traditional part of Star Think of Jar-Jar and Threepio: they allow It's about managing the emotions of the audience, the star war. The scene starts with hotwiring a pair of Then, the ducktroopers arrive on their own This is the infamous, what, &quot;treadspeeder&quot;? This is okay, I might enjoy riding one of But you have to ask yourself what the point Tracks are good over moderately rough terrain, Because the weight is spread out, ground pressure That would be an argument for using continuous dunes. The downside of tracks is extra maintenance, This seems like a solid set of arguments to However, this is Star Wars. We've definitely seen tracked vehicles, but There is one other option that Earth doesn't We've seen Luke's landspeeder, Jabba's sail Almost every advantage to tracks is trumped Terrain doesn't matter until it's as tall Ground pressure is nonexistent: we don't see it. Further evidence comes from Jar-Jar Binks's Qui-Gon tackles him to the ground, and an We see air blowing from the cooling exhaust, The weight must be transferred directly to underneath. The Multi-Troop Transport is extremely heavy, We'd expect Qui-Gon to be crushed, if ground All repulsorlifts have one very simple limitation necessary. Though, as we can see, the IT-O interrogator clearly has artificial gravity. So the same repulsors that allow it to float the equivalent artificial gravity. Most people pay no attention to the artificial We know at least 62% of all films are shot staying 1G in all the footage. It also turns out that tracks can be a vulnerability. The First Order looked at a hover bike, and Why is the continuous track offset so far Traditionally, tanks and bulldozers have their Moving the track underneath would make it Alternatively, extending a thin armour shroud bike. When this grapple attempt happens, we're meant Instead, I'm reminded of the 74-Z speeder They have exposed steering vanes, which could Still, they chose to show a kind of failure What else am I supposed to conclude about There is one Star Wars advantage to tracks. As you may remember, shields can be bypassed If there were a planetary shield in use, a In that one scenario, treadspeeders would Of course, JJ can't use that, because he later Also, our new heroes are on repulsorcraft, If I were consulted on this, and couldn't Show the terrain as being something suited What might that look like? Well, look at Luke's X-34 landspeeder. It has three turbine engines, making their These are like the propulsion fan in an air Keeping the machine up is buoyancy or repulsors, I bet these are weak to hills. I'm quite fond of Darth Maul's speeder bike. It's something different from the scout troopers My physical reference on it is from 2012, The make and model are Razalon FC-20. Apparently the bike is named the Bloodfin, His Sith Infiltrator is identified as the We also see him ride the bike off a cliff. It immediately drops down, and continues at This proves landspeeders have a hover ceiling, The Empire's 74-Z bikes top out at 25 metres. The sail barge was the best Jabba could afford, Like the MTT, the sail barge can use repulsorlifts Though there is a small green thruster visible, Luke's Incom T-16 Skyhopper is an airspeeder We all know a T-16 has similar controls to Skyhopper repulsorlifts can reach 300 kilometres It wouldn't make sense that its altitude changes underneath. I have to conclude that on a hill, a landspeeder to keep itself level without touching the And that going uphill will also put more work Whereas to a bike with wheels or tracks, hills Okay, now on a desert planet covered in sand, This brings us to the only other feature of The toy will come with a spring, so it can On a chase over perfectly flat ground, it's Suppose the chase actually took place across If the goodies have any head start, they might Now the man-catapult comes in. Take the trooper riding pillion, use the bike Now he can see exactly where the prey is, Suddenly, I'm no longer confused about whether This is a sensible tactic for the situation, done this before. Or at least have thought about it. You could even play it for laughs: boing, Then it dawns on our heroes that while we The snarl of bike engines drifts over the directions. Look at how easy that was, how the scene writes The lore partially controls your actions, Our established lore tells you the will of When you learn to quiet your mind, you'll As soon as you set up the premise, we know dunes. I've already gone on for longer than the chase Only now will I allow them to fly. I have no problem with flying stormtroopers. In fact, I would immediately interrogate JJ Look, matey, I can accomplish that for you You've got to consider these things. Wait, no, there's four or five ways. What are the existing Star Wars options? In one hand there's a jetpack, on the other And on the final front hand, there are still I'll explain the implications of each, but One would be wings, presumably a mechanical Another would be lifting gas, inflating one These two are probably more trouble than they're Let's start with the rocket pack. These are powerful, and they just work. Doesn't matter if you're on Hoth or Dagobah companion. The Old Republic used rocket-jumper troopers, Bit thirsty on the fuel consumption, so you Just like 20th century Earth rockets, they A rocket pack doesn't care if it's underwater, The other main option are jet packs. These are a bit simpler, cheaper, and more These have air intakes, so only tanks of fuel This means jet packs can only work in a breathable Personally, I spend a lot of time in breathable Boba Fett and I happen to agree on this one. Jango Fett had much the same model, but with Finally, repulsor packs. If you think jetpacks are cool, you probably The key factor is speed, which a repulsor With a small man-portable flight pack, it's Repulsors give you the ability to linger effortlessly, They're also more precise in their movement, So, not much use in combat, but very practical. You might bring a repulsor pack with you to of a hobby item. The ideal solution would be to combine the It will be bulky, there's no getting around With the repulsor to keep you aloft and the both options. Anything a jetpack can do, the hybrid can Except being able to face sideways and walk The hybrid's probably not what the Empire They'd most likely go for a jetpack, which Verdict: &quot;they fly now&quot; is absolutely fine, The vehicles and use of terrain, abysmal. It's less like a car chase, more of a. . . well, it was genuinely filmed on rails. No wonder it looks like the whole sequence L to K. That'll do for the desert. One more thing. It turns out this quicksand is another reference, This is a reference to a previous JJ movie. He invents the planet Jakku, which has quicksand. But JJ never shows these &quot;sinking fields&quot;. Later, he invents a new desert planet, named By an amazing stroke of luck, this planet the other planet. Now it's time to talk about the droids. R2-D2 is well-loved by fans, often one's favourite As for C-3PO, he is far less popular. Still, it's possible to have him in interesting A deliberate choice was made with C-3PO. They decided to say he can translate the Sith This is an obvious reference to Star Wars &quot;It's against my programming to impersonate &quot; That's a good reference to have, because character. You can say it's just programming, but that's he is. There are better ways to do the same job. This plot point does several things. The most important is a fake death scene, It also serves to add complexity to the plot. One more hurdle erected on the road to the Plus this introduces a droid specialist named Frick is cute as heck, arguably the most popular To say I've fixed something, the new version Otherwise I haven't fixed anything, I've just These movies are not irredeemable. On the contrary, they are so easy to fix, All it from anyone involved. You don't even need an expert, just to listen Run all your bright ideas past him, half end be possible within Star Wars. Saying Threepio can translate but won't, is Functionally it changes nothing, except maybe &quot;Bet you never predicted this to happen!" And once again, that feature is one that we Does it make sense for a droid built for etiquette Yes and no, but I reckon mostly no. He can figure out a translation for the Ewoks, The language has similarities to the six million rest. The Sith were thought to be extinct for a Let's handle the complexity first. An obvious answer would be that Threepio can't Yet. This gives the team an errand to run: looking That alone could fill an hour of run time, Perhaps they go to a museum, and look at an Maybe it's gibberish, and Threepio can immediately So they break in and look for the original. Whatever they try, it doesn't work. Then, they track down the required component. C-3PO was built with a TranLang III communications Times change, and that won't be top notch Maybe they buy, borrow, or steal a TranLang Maybe a cantankerous archeologist named La'ra Sith language. The most logical place to look for these parts The galaxy is not short on options. One we know would be compatible is a military Not a battle droid, despite coming with spooky The M-3PO is built to handle paperwork the Imagine its personality when talking to C-3PO. Another model, the PD series, is fully sealed C-3PO is better at his job, because the PD The LOM series is a cheeky copy of the 3PO, Not exactly handsome, but I'm not in the target They're reasonably popular with the various A bit more calm than the competition, and Similar looking, there is the J9 worker drone. People say they were made by the Verpine, It's Roche Hive Mechanical Design and Construction The J9 drone was a protocol droid, but only No reason one couldn't have been upgraded Another distinctive one is the CZ made by These were built to be secure comlink and Its memory banks are so secure, you'd have We see some non-functional ones, destroyed the Hutt. This one is CZ-3, after Jabba had installed Perhaps the most likely to have a Sith module These all started out in Imperial service, this model. They were common, but not considered very Unless you're in the Imperial Security Bureau, The real purpose is to spy on Imperial officers, Suppose a Death Star droid had seen a researcher That might be enough for C-3PO to learn the Or an ancient model, the SE4, which make decent They'll speak Bocce and Huttese, but might However, there's already a slot on its chest This one detail makes it perfect for our purposes, It's impossible to use a skill package from R2-D2 and C-3PO are two of the most famous In the original lore, their manufacturers Some 3PO-series protocol droids are over a Now there exists the C-series, from C-1 to Cybot Galactica has officially stated that fame. How does C-3PO feel about the new model to Wait a minute, if there's a new model, why Our heroes rush through the process of installing It doesn't work. C-3PO explains that the digital certificate is unofficial. He would not, could not, install this language The team considers buying a subscription, today. They're out of their depth, so finally they The technician can sort this out, thank Frick. The manufacturer condemns user modifications, It'll just mean resetting the droid to factory By the way, when was the last time you had If you don't wipe them regularly, they can This is the other reference. A reference to the very first Star Wars movie. After buying two droids, Owen Lars tells Luke It never happens in the end, except after It's clear in A New Hope that Threepio doesn't A memory wipe is a good way to pull off a But instead of a foolhardy legal excuse, have the characters. Where we think &quot;oh, that's like jailbreaking You mean we have everything to save the galaxy, Frick! Hey Frick, can you circumvent the DRM and Notice how there are a dozen fake deaths in I suspect these are a cheap way to prompt Yet, without the constraint of that character In Star Wars, only Anakin Skywalker had a From a certain point of view. We all know Boba Fett escaped the sarlacc, the movie. JJ's has the wrong approach entirely. The It also shows up in the smallest details of Sometimes they imitate the shape of something The function of these details, nobody in authority This item is called a medallion. When inserted into a ship's CD player, it The plot calls for our new heroes to stroll destroyer. How could they possibly manage to do that? Well, this medallion is a ticket past all But this is a new item JJ has invented, so used. Have a look at these pictures. Notice anything these men have in common? That's right, they're all carrying several Why would Grand Moff Tarkin need four different This object from the Star Wars universe is It's a good thing they don't smell as rank far from one's nose. Officers within the Empire's military would medals they might have. Like medals, having many rank cylinders isn't But both items do imply prestige and power, In the Star Wars universe, there is no such When the Empire fell after the Battle of Endor, What was left of the Empire formed into the to come. The Imperial Remnant still uses rank cylinders, things like ID cards. Technically speaking, this cylinder is a dongle. To access restricted areas or files, you must access code. Your permissions are linked to this, and the It also stores what we call biometric data: thing. Of course, even the Empire has more than a as contacts. We can't assume every race has dermatoglyphic Or, if it has fingerprints, that they uniquely As for why officers have more than one rank have access to. You could imagine an Imperial courier ending of prestige. Keeping them separate is an important security Stealing a rank cylinder from the Death Star Let's compare them. JJ's First Order captain's medallion allows The rank cylinder gives a specific officer According to the Disney Wars (tm) Databank to verify their identities while travelling, Such verifications help cut through bureaucratic operations. Quite right, it would seem. Very useful for covert operations against Two sentences on this plot-crucial item in And a whole half of them are the explanation My hard copy references on Rank Cylinders Printed in '97, naturally. The original key solution, in the form of Let's play "Spot The Difference." Do you see? Yes. That's right. Those maniacs finally really did it. They created a worse version of something And they did this while looking right at a And erasing it. The medallion has no security of any kind, The rank cylinder has a password on it, and The medallion has no limitations on its use. It belonged to a ship captain, who either Yet the First Order doesn't know a medallion Whereas the Empire changes the rank cylinder This writes a whole scene for you! Our heroes would need to get a rank cylinder. But not any old one: it needs to come from Tracking down this guy can take any path, When you have the right one, you then need On top of that, you need to get the correct Biometric security can be ignored if you want, And after all that, you have a ticking timer The rank cylinder could stop working at any Using this instead of the captain's medallion It makes both sides, goodies and baddies, A costume designer somewhere accidentally The Disney universe is full of various pens. Both TLJ and TFA have uniforms with many cylinders. These are superficial details, they have no A lot of things are superficial copies, and There is certainly no regard for how any of All sci-fi is basically the same, right? The movie doesn't convey the location well, is another moon in the Endor system. Some assume it's a complete mistake, that need to spend decades to drift a single parsec. Disney did actually solve this, by putting giant. They just didn't give the audience any indication The easiest topic is the earliest on screen. The Falcon would not crash land like a Galaxy-class At this point, the Millennium Falcon is en The crash is set up with one moment Okay, something is wrong with the landing That's a very specific problem. The ones discussing the problem are Chewie better than anyone else in the galaxy, and They should both know a hyperdrive from a leg. If these two say the shield projector has instead. Let's take a look at how the Falcon lands Without landing gear, the ventral turret will and the ship won't be level. But that leaves the dorsal turret, and the We know what it means for the landing gear In JJ's movie, the Falcon ploughs a trench This is the sort of crash landing you might busted. Instead of rolling to a stop, the jumbo jet This is exactly what you'd expect from a vehicle Based on the trench it carved, I'm convinced Generations. From the moment the saucer of the Enterprise-D minutes to stop. This is a tragic scene where all the characters The ship they love makes one last effort to It needs to be that long a scene, otherwise Regardless of what the inspiration was, it A landing gear failure on the Falcon would Spaceships in the Star Wars universe have The most visible are the sublight engines. The old lore says sublights have harmful emissions That is false: we can clearly see the Falcon's bay 94. The wiki acquired by the mouse seems to have This has confused some people, because I describe Yet only the new Discanon section mentions The Legends part of the Rodentwiki does not Those who depend on this wiki for their lore I have tracked down the origin of this detail. In 1996, there was no mention of harmful sublight It's not in the description of sublight engines Then, in 1998, the cross-sections book for In the introduction, it covers the three engine As far as we can tell, this is the first mention In the Expanded Universe, this does not ring We never see this depicted. No starship ever flies with inactive sublights, It doesn't line up, so the book must be wrong. After the reboot, the Disney universe was No knowledge truly existed about it, because As they published a new set of books, to replace in. But notice how it mutates in the process. The area changes from near people, to the The motivation changes from causing no harm, In the 1998 book, this describes the behaviour They use their engines in this way, because This is a fun detail for some setting, but In the Discanon article, it talks about laws. Because the lore in question contradicts the Every time we see sublight engines used in The Falcon needs to escape fast, so Han breaks It certainly adds a little tension. Oh no, Han's hot rod doesn't have a catalytic When the Falcon blasted out of Mos Eisley, Will the scoundrel get a ticket, and pay a In 1998, pilots use repulsorlifts near civilisation. Irradiating the locals would not be the right doing it. In the 2018 Disney book, it's illegal anywhere Sublights should be for emergencies, but everyone We never see anyone obey this law. If that's the case, how harmful can these Is the law pointless, the Empire extorting Trying to keep this scrap of lore is more Time to drop it and move on. If the sublight engines break down in deep Can't move the ship, so you'd better fire Another engine is the hyperdrive, which doesn't We all know what happens when the hyperdrive The final drive system is repulsorlift. If you have no landing gear at all, that's on repulsorlifts, making a safe and controlled To fix this, the dialogue would need to say That gets you almost the same result, but JJ shows the Falcon crashing like an aeroplane. To be in the Star Wars universe, in this scenario, Without repulsors, the only way to slow down to hit the brakes. There are two paths to a landing. One is to come down almost vertical, with pointing to space. Using the main sublight engines, we bring As the last of the speed gets scrubbed off, onto the landing gear. This is extremely violent, not good for the It's a good excuse to break the Falcon, for The other option is coming in at a very shallow front. It's the same as the vertical one in the end: out of the sky. The difference is that this one doesn't have and this can plough a trench. Either flight path would look spectacular, It would certainly be more exciting than having This location has a particularly rare resource. Apparently, the whole world is full of ex-stormtroopers. I'm told there's speculation about their parentage. That all the Disney stormtroopers are Lando's That doesn't quite sound right to me. There is a lot to be said about Disney stormtroopers. Stealing children and waiting for them to It's not particularly efficient, and it means long time. We would expect this idea to be more prominent. Are Disney troopers trained in horseback riding? If not, the mutineers needed to learn that There's no need for a Lando connection, because An entire movie could have been dedicated They don't fill the role of Ewoks, because A colony of deserters could be entertaining, Now it's time to deal with the last of the JJ's movies are based on locating an item, In this case there is a book, which points To get the pyramid, a knife is required. To get the knife back, a medallion is needed. Getting the pyramid unlocks the end of the The knife had a lot of thought put into it, They weren't trying to portray the Sith as time. They also assumed the lore ran as deep as In fact, their unknown unknowns are fathomless. Let's be clear: JJ did his best to foresee He did steer clear of Scylla, but set a course This isn't a question of canon: the knife This behind-the-scenes footage shows JJ designing The shape of the knife blade is supposed to The problem is normally said to be geometry. The knife points to a different destination, Which is true, but not necessarily damning. The Death Star is on the horizon, it's too According to the Disney section of the wiki, That means the horizon is 8. 6km away, when the knife is ten metres above Assuming you can line it up within one degree stand on. That would make your search area the same Not good, but close enough if you're sufficiently What actually makes the knife nonsensical? Erosion. The movie itself makes it clear that exposed It's falling apart, corroding, and it absolutely decades in the ocean. In this case, the map will last longer than So we have to replace the knife. From that clip earlier, there were many alternative First, this pentagon-based object made of It needs to be held up to the light, perhaps This works fine, but there is a claim the Next, we have scrolls. Some of these are clearly less sturdy than One of them is a segmented scroll, made of This is an easy winner: it looks interesting, and doesn't have the issues of the knife. Another prop on the table almost looks like Presumably this is a hologram projector, which We've seen R2-D2 project a holomap on Naboo. There's also a squat cylinder, with no discernable Even that can't be worse than the knife. Finally, this one. It could be much more simple, a slab or tablet. That works too, it's absolutely sufficient Every single prop JJ turned down was a better Replacing the knife gets you an entirely new Whatever the new item is, it has different Those hints tell you how to write the rest The leather and the holomap imply different The movie makes a point of describing the Granted, it does seem like a bad situation It would be nice if there existed some kind Where Rey's boat floats on water, what about Like a helicopter, or heli-jet, or airspeeder. Or a spaceship. Even a speeder bike will have a hover ceiling Somehow, heh heh heh, we arrive in the Death A scene takes place in the Emperor's throne There is a well-placed Dark Side introspection This idea is great: no other place in the of the Force. Palpatine's throne room is exactly where you'd happen. On paper, I should love it. &quot;What was never in the original films was throne room." "So we take a bit of liberty, sort of 'actually, it'.&quot; There was a reason never to have a door there, Where is the throne room? This is an enormous battle station, so perhaps down by the main reactor? Or by the south edge of the superlaser dish? That can't be it, the throne room windows It is above the surface. If you were to approach the north pole of Sithmas. A long way off, you'd notice the turbolaser Then a spire, one hundred storeys tall. With the combination of shields, physical most secure place anywhere in the Death Star. But There exists concept art showing a fallen movie, Disney Wars 7. Somehow, that knowledge was lost over the Why can't there be a flight of stairs leading Because that door would open into hard vacuum. Can't imagine the Emperor would be pleased, away from suffocating. The way it's depicted in the movie, if you the exterior of the tower, walking deeper Okay, but besides that, why can't there be Because we already saw the tower, and it doesn't An exterior afterthought room like that is seen the tower. Hiding it inside the shaft would have to come is a vault with flimsy walls? Luckily, it's trivial to fix this whole mess. Change the part of the Death Star that crashes Switch the equatorial edge of the dish for This way the throne room belongs, and you art: the flooded turbolaser turrets. The secret vault can be brought into line they intended. This vault is described as &quot;accessed through To hide the vault, it needs to be under the To access the vault, use a concealed turbolift only stops at the vault and throne room. There are so very many possibilities here, Should the throne room be flooded? Maybe, maybe not, but the vault definitely This underwater art looks great, and it's Luke Skywalker grew up on a moisture farm. Vaporators condense airborne water from an Tatooine has dune seas, but no oceans of surface The planet Not-Tatooine, I mean Jakku, looks This means that both Luke and Rey should have see an ocean of water. For anything involving sailing or swimming, water. You can get so much emotion from that, while characters. Maybe JJAbrams didn't want to remind anyone underwater was removed. Shame, there was a lot of potential to this We're getting quite near the end of the movie. It's about time we had another JJ invention. JJ kills Han Solo in the first movie he makes. That happens right next to the mega death Then, JJ brings him back from the dead. After the worst sabre duel since 1977, Kylo He imagines that, if he hadn't killed his This is meant to absolve the character of Rey goes to sulk on an island, the way Jake After this, the real problems in the movie She is on this island to gain upgrades. We are to believe Leia's lightsabre has been And yet, I bet Carrie Fisher never once laid Of all the nonsensical things in this movie, The entire star destroyer fleet launching Someone on the project realises something ships this way. Through rock and atmosphere, when the entire A limitation is put in. Not about star destroyers in atmosphere. No, for some reason Poe tells us that large Not that these ships are built without repulsorlifts. That would mean you need to raise them individually This is not what they go with. No, Poe declares that in principle, a large On Earth, there is a device called an artificial This little machine has one function: it tells Yet Sheev doesn't have any? This isn't just a failure in ship design, which way up is. Unless the ship was slightly smaller than If this is a problem for large ships, why Something like a TIE fighter, or a Lambda Anything at all would do. The reason is that nobody thought about this. The &quot;can't tell which way is up&quot; idea was This finale doesn't work, but the movie needs It requires a single point of failure for Something our heroes can drop bombs on. It might be possible to fix this &quot;can't find That isn't the point, though. This problem exists as a symptom of a deeper The entire ending is structurally unsound. A fix to this misses the point: the problem A better ending to the movie would sidestep Before we can think about a decent ending, It had to be complex and elaborate, with many That's not how speeders work. This is a reference to the speeder bikes on After getting into a bike chase, Luke suggests The rebels don't want the scout troopers to Leia is told to jam their comlinks. This has nothing to do with jamming speeders, This line is based on walkie-talkie mechanics. The speeder bikes were not built with a switch Luke's technical expertise lets him disrupt It works for the same reason you need to say As long as you hold down the transmit key If you capture an enemy comlink, you can tape For example, if you have one of their speeder There are ways to get around this with Earth It should be possible to change comlink frequencies. Scout trooper helmets should have their own Still, it makes sense. Comlink jamming is based on real limitations. Mutating that to &quot;jam their speeders&quot; is a It's not the only issue in this part of the Perhaps jam is meant to replicate tyre countermeasures. The star destroyer has the equivalent of spike This is the least interesting way to do that. It would have been better to invent something. The line becomes &quot;sir, they're jumping over A cool new weapon, and one the horses can There are three distinct problems JJ is grappling Second things first, the Star Destroyers. In a wet navy, destroyers are the smallest classed as capital ships. In a space navy, destroyers are a larger class Star Destroyers are built in orbital shipyards, same event as being destroyed, just a minute I think the source of this confusion is Attack star destroyers: Acclamator-class troop-transport Acclamators are equipped with landing gear purpose is to deliver clone troopers to a But they aren't dedicated warships, they're There are also the Victory-class, which are and as such they can descend below orbit without Obviously JJ would never settle for something not what he's going for. With the fleet of a zillion superlaser star the intention could never be the small ones. If JJ had thought for a second about building There, now the fleet is enough to blockade compass and the Red Matter. Third, in order to make the zillion ISDs go in atmosphere. He is not correct about this. Finally first of all, the intention with the nature, or some such thing. This could actually work, surprisingly enough, a cavalry charge makes sense. There is one technology that has a vulnerability that can happen. To justify the horses, you: MUST. Have. Shields. In atmosphere. Shields can block energy weapons, and are hover technology. What can pass right through shields? Walkers, wheeled vehicles, infantry, and tracked Anything in contact with the ground can get This has been established as the way it works in Phantom Menace. But if JJAbrams ever watched those movies, If you look carefully, you may notice how If the star destroyer had been a little higher If the whole fleet was in orbit, where it Some have suggested rotating the star destroyer. Either pitch or roll could send the horses Let's have a look at how that would work. Artificial gravity ought to leave the crew One of the challenges with artificial gravity So, you want 1G of gravity inside your ship? How deep, exactly, do you think Earth's gravity The moon orbits hundreds of thousands of kilometres That's a lot of gravity, a long way off. Gravity is gravity. If you have 1G inside the Falcon, logically Even if it makes a vertical column or cone But maybe that's not how it works in the Star It certainly doesn't sound right. When we see a fleet of ships, none of them of gravity. Again, this is something we can prove. In the very first movie, we see TIE Fighters One looks like he's about to make an attack Another one clearly flies over the top. While I like the idea that the TIE Fighter Flying through the skies of Bespin, in the Maybe its repulsorlift system can compensate. But far more likely, artificial gravity does That means if you roll the star destroyer, That would be one way to remove the boarding How are these star destroyers floating? Presumably this model of star destroyer has But wouldn't you imagine they're at the bottom? Do you think Jabba's sail barge can float The desert skiffs clearly have repulsors along The sail barge would work the same way. So would Luke's landspeeder. Seems like it might be dangerous, rolling Here's another option. Just have the other star destroyers open fire. These are meant to be warships, right? Surely it has enough armour to withstand a If not the heaviest turbolasers, then use A light bombardment should clear the ruffians No, definitely not with ion cannons. That would disable the star destroyer, you Believe it or not, walking around on the surface There are problems with it, but it is physically You could create that improbable scenario, The rest of this ending, well, that gets rather The only times we see Rey and Kylo fighting, As we move swiftly toward the conclusion, have a fight. Would you believe that they decide to fight I guess that this is one of the downsides of your trilogy. If you want a lightsabre fight, it has to Because Kylo is a goodie now, that is right This entire fiasco is an excuse to employ This time it isn't for pathfinding. It is for drama. Let's return to Kylo, and let this play Now, Kylo crosses the border into the planet He was flying a TIE Fighter, so clearly faster Rey was flying Luke's old T-65, and that TIE What effect does this have? There's still no sign of a TIE pilot's suit. Using a fighter that's several decades out Not so much as a line about taking the shortest Having discarded his sabre, he is unarmed. Except no, not really. He has a blaster pistol of some kind. If we can forgive him finding a TIE Fighter, I could imagine a pistol or carbine stashed It's okay for him to have this. Then, for no reason at all, his only weapon Blasters take two ammunition types. To actually deal damage, energy is stored For the blaster to function, it also uses It would be fine to say the pistol has run Perhaps a Matrix reference, with Kylo carrying instead of reloading. Or, he could fire a bunch of shots before In JJ's movie, Kylo does not drop the weapon There's no shot of him discarding it. He doesn't even throw it at an enemy. These fellows appear. The Knights of Ren. These are like Vader's bounty hunters, if These guys are copycats, imitating a guy who Not exactly interesting, are they? Being mysterious is not as impressive as these It would be reasonable to drop your blaster What're the chances that you'll get a shot However, there's no indication in the movie They also don't have lightsabres, or much They'll just be wearing armourweave. The weapons are even worse. These appear to just be clubs and blades. One of them glows red in the dark. There's no indication any of them can stand one. There aren't any Jedi for the knights to hunt. That's a foundational principle of the reboot Seems like a rather bad idea to throw it away, Really, he should have been able to take out After the first one is down, he can telegrab A gaffi stick is better than nothing. Speaking of Tusken Raiders, they're a good Their gaffi sticks use simple metal blades. In contrast, Gamorean guards use vibro-axes. The vibroblade is somewhere between chainsword The axes are made to look like classic weapons, These Knights of Ren? I think that's just a lump of metal. JJ thinks it looks cool. Kylo fights Ren. Kylo loses. Not sure why he was having so much trouble. It's not like he Force uploaded his skills When he gets a Force Skype call, it gets even Being teleported a lightsabre, he is pleased. Kylo does a little curtsey. Then he attacks with the sabre. After a round or two of combat, Kylo deploys So far, he has been a little heavy on the Besides that, he's actually decent with a Maybe the problem is with Rey's actress rather Anyway, Kylo uses an ancient technique he Kylo twirls the sabre behind him. Then he bends down. Kylo crouches, and Ren winds up for a heavy Then the combat round ends. It is Ren's turn again, so he makes the attack For some reason, this connects with the sabre. Ren must have seen the guard position Kylo Why does he aim for the sabre? Kylo's guard doesn't actually protect much His hand is level with his ribcage, the sabre More than half his torso is open for attack, This is a strange moment in a strange movie, Maybe this is a move that he's practiced with to swing. He's never in danger because these chaps are After the obliging buddy swings at his blade, This isn't an accident. It's not as if this was the only take, so Most likely, someone told him to do this. Maybe this was in the script, or it was decided If this wasn't supposed to be in there, someone I hope this choice had the desired effect Because I don't get it. Is he supposed to be a little puffed, out I don't think we've ever seen a Jedi do this To me, this does not effectively convey fatigue With a new Force alignment, he has no Dark That doesn't come across at all. Maybe it's to make us think that one strike If that were the case, maybe his wrist is it. Nope, we don't see that. Was this a dangerous move that Kylo regrets? Did he just realise if the axe had hit harder, He certainly moves it away again afterwards. Again, though, I don't see any evidence that It isn't treated as a particularly heavy strike. There's no sense that this one attack needs It's a bizarre choice from any perspective. Speaking of odd choices, Kylo gets one last Apparently, our man Sheev was rather upset I can see why he might hold a grudge. I think we all know why this line really exists, It's a reference. This whole movie, nay, this reboot universe, Copying the shape of what went before. There are ships that look like TIEs, and ones There are mimics for stormtroopers and star The most clever technique Disney has is a Copying something, to make you remember better Well, I remember. I was there, when these better movies were Kylo joins Rey, now with an appropriately The pair draw their swords and face him. Are they planning to fight Sheev? Sheev doesn't have a lightsabre. That can't be what is happening. This ending is no good. It isn't nearly close to good. It has few of its own ideas, and those are Finally, the designated hero enters the boss How does the Space Pope greet the one who Clearly, this is not true. Disney's Palpatine survived the explosion He flew across the galaxy without a ship or He only lost a few fingertips in that whole Zombie Palpo pops up in this movie for the The real one can just be Palpatine. Sheev has given one command. To kill someone he doesn't want dead. Now, I'm not convinced this edgy teenager One could argue that the skeleton king has Sheev knows that the kid won't be able to Because Kylo is just that incompetent. He knows the kid will try to kill Rey, fail, They will seek out the lich Emperor Sheev, When the two try to kill Sheev, they're forced This does not sound like a master plan. In the original trilogy, this is not how Emperor In his first appearance, he is concerned. There is a threat to Imperial power. In the attempt to gain a mighty ally, the the execution. This turns out to be a bad idea, as Luke evades Then in the next movie, the Emperor reveals With the Skywalker relation revealed, he has At some point, Luke would confront his father. Luke doesn't want to talk to the Emperor. Luke wants to redeem his father, and blow His skills are not best applied by jumping He is more use aboard shuttle Tyderium, to Vader is the bait, and an essential part of Palpatine knows that he can win against the He is not strong enough to ensnare Luke long For that, Vader is needed. The Emperor addresses him as &quot;my friend&quot; and This alludes to the decades of history these By treating Vader with respect, every character How great and terrible is Lord Vader? His master must be more powerful than that. When Luke enters the equation, he must also The two most powerful people in the universe Almost none of this is present in JJ's movie. Rey has no real desire to see the Emperor, In the OT, he wants Luke alive, so he orders In JJ's movie, he wants Rey in the throne Vader is a loyal, capable, servant carrying Kylo is both incompetent and a serial traitor. Really, there needed to be a new apprentice Doesn't need to be anything special, it can He mostly just stands there and looks mean. But even though he dies the second time he warrior. That can't be Kylo, it's too late for that The plan in the OT is to attempt to turn Luke If that fails, then the Sith intend to kill The Emperor doesn't mind if Vader dies, and The one thing Palpatine doesn't want is for With his frail appearance and walking stick, In fact, he has two layers of defences. The first is clear: Luke attacks, and Vader The loyal servant protects his master. We in the audience also know about Force lightning. If he was in real danger, the Emperor could JJ's plan is confusing. Why is it that Disney loves suicide so much? First it was Jake Skywalker, now Sheev Palpatine. A curious pattern. I think JJ fixated on the line &quot;strike me From this, he spins his various mistakes. They focus on trying to find a loophole. JJ thinks the Emperor had the right idea. JJ believes you defeat an evil politician The only problem is how George Lucas ruined Apparently smiting your enemies is evil, so What if you strike without hatred? Maybe the way the Force works, it's got a As long as you stab in a pious manner, it Feel free to go berserk, just do it with good JJ is vaguely aware the Jedi are associated He just can't work that into a story. Accordingly, he tries to minimise the impact. JJ turns to ancient computer games to study He discovers a popular approach is reflecting Perfect, JJ says to himself, having filled Rey won't strike, she'll parry the attack He doesn't have any giant glowing eyeballs, Maybe the robot arm he's attached to has a The important thing is that Rey makes no kind Oh. Well, that pulse of lightning she sent in Now, we do have to deal with a different aspect Specifically, the reincarnation. Turns out the &quot;strike me down&quot; line is older First, Obi-Wan gives a warning that he knows He alludes to his Force Ghost form, which Okay, it's not displayed, because you don't Luke acts on advice from the late Kenobi twice. First, his robes have barely fallen to the &quot;Fly, you fools!&quot; Later, his guidance is responsible for Luke's The prequels add more lore regarding Force that yet. Force ghosts have always been a Light Side Based on &quot;than you can possibly imagine&quot;, Yet as soon as Anakin was salvaged from within I suggest that's not because it's a lost art. Force ghosts are incompatible with being committed Whatever immortality they have, it must be Even if only in our eyes. If a Sith Lord needed one hundred Force-sensitive Some of us would consider that a trifle monstrous. As being lesser than a Force ghost. But you can understand why the guy doing it Back to JJ's movie. Sheev has come up with Sith reincarnation. Despite making no real effort to turn her, Some coercion is applied, but I really think Except that it was in Episode 6, so it was Would Sheev be happy with possessing Rey? Yes, he would. In the EU, Palpatine has many clones. At one point he even threatens to possess However, this isn't truly about what Sheev It's about what JJ wants. Both JJ and RJ decided the galaxy had no Jedi On the surface, this is part of a reset of At the start of the original movie, the Jedi Therefore, that's the situation of the reboot There's more to say on that, but it belongs For now, it'll be close enough. There are consequences to that decision. In the prequels, there was an entire Jedi Fans can recite the names of every member We can identify them with nothing more than Disney has none of them. The trilogy could have had only two lightsabres Three more sabres were shown, doubling the Sure, you can make an action figure for that But there aren't any cool new Jedi. There aren't any Jedi apprentices. They don't even have a green sabre, except That seems suboptimal to me, but I wasn't I'm just here to examine what they called To compensate for the lack of Jedi, Disney That will fix everything. Praise be to Kathleen. First, they put a foreshadowing scene right Then, they take a list of previous actors How much for five minutes of your time? We're looking to pay you voice acting rates This also solves another problem. I believe the initial reboot was based on Disney believed that they needed to make up The &quot;wider audience&quot; must be put off by the Given that everyone hates the prequels, Disney Except a lot of people like the prequel era, the reboot. The movies have intentionally avoided prequel Now, at the very end, they make all the references With only one Force-sensitive left in the Now both of JJ's factions use reincarnation, This isn't really part of the world at all, A seance is the only thing we've ever seen At 4 hours, a thing she can't do is invented. Then at 6 hours she does the thing. Trouble is, I don't buy this as a real power For one thing, &quot;if you strike me down now&quot; It's out of character for the Emperor to willingly On the opposite side, I don't believe in Force Force Healing, to an extent, but not hearing. It isn't your decision when a Force ghost They aren't constantly muttering. To explain why she would need effort, that's Force ghosts are Light-aligned. Imagine if there was any risk of Rey turning The Force ghosts might be trying to contact Their voices cannot reach that far down the Not far enough to reach Rey. The only ones who can help Rey would be herself, All the meditating and training she's doing done. Speaking of Evil Rey, we're discussing the In JJ's movie, she kills the guy who has mysteriously The Emperor fell down a shaft, exploded, and Rey uses her evil powers to shred his face, It makes her feel better, but doesn't help. How can you kill a god? Death is a minor inconvenience to Disney's He has died before. What benefit is there to destroying his cloned He can just get a new one, y'know, somehow. No matter if it's by sabre or lightning, Rey If she had been trained in the Dark Side, I could imagine a Sith technique to cause But as we all know, Rey has done no significant I don't think it makes sense for Rey to confront At most, you could say she has been manipulated. Sheev knows that the only bit of character Rey would like some parents, and if she's Naturally, Sheev exploits this. But the original is better than the copy. Luke was there to redeem his father. Rey doesn't have that motivation. She wants to kill Sheev because that's like If the Skywalkers fought the Emperor, she'll I don't think this makes sense. No, there's no reason to visit Sheev's throne The best option is to handle the movie's finale Remember, in the reboot universe, they can Rey, Kylo, and Sheev can all join a group They could be scattered across the whole galaxy, With the attachment teleport feature, they Honestly, I don't know why they bothered to One option is consistent with the universe The other is a copy of how the original trilogy I suppose that gives us the answer. Duplicating the OT for nostalgia is more important Still, with how many objects are teleported, Most of the movie uses Force Skype, except I think the movie should end differently. Here's what we do. Remember how JJ blew up a planet earlier? I know, it's not very memorable, but he did. The 16-hour countdown has not been honoured. A planet was destroyed earlier than Sheev This is a strange thing to happen, and you JJ just loves to destroy planets, and it's He sends a death star destroyer out alone. This is not sound military strategy. One Imperial star destroyer is enough to intimidate One Disney star destroyer, that's a sitting A Donald Duck. A bunch of non-military craft are able to What chance would a lone ship have against Here's what we do. Sheev sends a ship to destroy the planet of Maybe it was under the command of Kylo, maybe Either way, destroying the planet wasn't planned. Sheev was scrambling to get rid of Rey, and His original plan was to wait for the 16 hours. This will be Sheev's undoing. Blowing up the planet Kimochi galvanises an Suddenly there are a lot of angry people, This sacrifices one of JJ's surprises. He wants these people to come out of nowhere. If you see the galactic populace fighting How can JJ subvert your expectations, when The rebel alliance, wait, no. This is the reboot. They renamed their duplicate factions. The Resistance has a plan. A curious pattern of ships is gathered. Some freighters, shuttles, starfighters, and These are packed to the gills with armed volunteers. The carrier drops out of hyperspace next to All the X-Wings that jumped with the carrier The carrier sets a collision course. Sublight engine throttles to full thrust. Every ion cannon the Resistance has is brought The convenient thing about ion cannons is physical damage. The Resistance has modified many of these Their firing cycle is set well into overdrive. Not one of them can run for ten shots without But when they break, they are very easy to There are piles of spare parts in lockers Under this covering fire, all the shuttles The star destroyer is partially disabled, Each shuttle and freighter docks inside the After a minute it turns back to the carrier, Sheev made a critical error, and now his ship This changes the finale of the movie. Now this captured star destroyer, renamed They venture forward into the Unknown Regions, There is no need for a mysterious red cloud, The fleet arrives in orbit of the planet Mexico. Rey rings up Sheev. He pretends to be busy, but accepts the call Our hero hurls threats and insults at the From the background, Mr Poe makes a few comments It's all very inspiring. Sheev is pleading for his life, making promises. &quot;Oh no, please don't fire your Briar Patch "Anything but that." "I am defenceless, my fleet is still being "Spare me, and you can be co-Emperor of Rey stands at the controls of the main superlaser She aims at the only ship in orbit around There is a First Order star destroyer, left Our heroes have a brief discussion, and decide It's a shame that the planet Mexico is full Besides, the crews for these star destroyers This is a Sith planet, it's heroic to destroy Sheev smiles. Maybe he didn't make such a mistake after Deep inside a hidden compartment, there is It works something like a power cell for Force Creating the clone body for Sheev had nearly Its name is the maledictocron. Finn has discovered this aboard the captured He sprints onto the bridge, out of breath. He tries to warn them of an evil thing he This is Finn we're talking about, the funny Nobody takes him seriously. Rey yanks back the firing lever. The enemy star destroyer vanishes in an instant, She has never felt so good. This is what real power looks like. &quot;You're next, Sheev!&quot;, she yells over Force Finn still fails to get her attention. The superlaser will recharge in a few minutes, Only C-3PO has any interest, and it's clear Look at the cowardly tin man, laugh at him. When Finn first found the device, it was inactive. Now the Maledictocron has glowing red runes A progress bar is slightly filled, and Finn Threepio has turned around and is shuffling He keeps babbling about how there's something Finn follows Threepio back. He asks questions. Threepio only answers that he isn't allowed He is forbidden, he says, from revealing what of the dead. Finn has heard enough, and picks up Threepio. Carrying him like a battering ram, the ex-stormtrooper When they arrive, Threepio declares that Rey He refuses to elaborate. Rey scoffs, and Finn thinks for a moment he &quot;There's a fiendish thingy doing evil glowy Seeing Rey is not convinced, Finn continues. &quot;It wasn't glowing until you wiped out that "It feeds on your anger, and on everyone Since Rey never hung up the Force Skype call, Now he unveils his true plan. The size of his invasion fleet is no accident. The crew of those ships are all walking sacrifices. If his fleet is destroyed, their deaths will If the planet Mexico is destroyed, the Maledictocron If the Resistance is destroyed, even better. Either way, Sheev wins. Rey is furious. Sheev is doubled over with laughter, his plan There is no possible outcome where the opposing Then, at the darkest minute of the darkest Something reminds Rey of an old mentor. This is a difficult position for Rey. She can't see any way to win. Whenever JJ sets an obstacle for her, he grants The reason she faces obstacles is so we can Not this time. Somehow, Sheev has turned her power against He has created a situation where it doesn't Sheev now counts on her talent for mayhem. He knows she can kill countless numbers of Except Sheev bothered to count them anyway. If Rey has any amount of success, the Maladictocron Unlike the Skywalkers, the scavenger girl By unleashing so much dark energy, she will There is no need for reincarnation, she will It is unavoidable. The harder she struggles, the more she will Rey gets a hold of herself. Recites an off-brand Litany Against Fear or With her fist still on the superlaser trigger, She is completely directionless. As far as she can see, there is no way to She calls out through the Force, for guidance. Two voices answer. The first is Leia. She just died earlier in this movie, it's She says one line Disney had footage of Carrie It doesn't make much sense in context, but We know Leia would try to help if she was She is never heard from again. Almost as quickly, Leia's father's voice follows. The voice of Anakin Skywalker is confident. Convincing. He gives her loving advice that makes perfect Only... for most of his life, he was Darth Doesn't that voice sound a lot like Vader? In fact, this voice is Sheev. Now she doesn't even know who to trust. The next voice is Yoda. He is nowhere near as helpful as Sheev Vader Yoda keeps saying things like &quot;at peace, calm, Rey indignantly points out that they're at Yoda replies &quot;wars not make one great&quot;. &quot;Already know you, that which you require.&quot; Then he, too, is gone. Mace L Windu says that you can't trust anyone. Betrayal can come from the most unexpected Has a bit of a grudge against Anakin. Says she probably shouldn't trust the voices Or the villain, come to think of it, don't Ahsoka Tico suggests thinking of your enemies She recites her iconic line from the show: Obi-Wan Kenobi chimes in now. &quot;Hello there&quot;, he says. &quot;That's not very helpful&quot;, Rey replies. Obi-Wan apologises, he says the recording He continues on to say that Sheev is a politician, &quot;You can't win, but there are alternatives Finally, Luke offers a ghostly pat on the &quot;You're all right, kid&quot;, he says. &quot;You know what you doing, move zig.&quot; He advises her to think outside the box. Rey feels enlightened. When she snaps back to reality, she looks The trigger of the superlaser is firmly in Rey smiles, but not the grim snarl of before. She reaches underneath the control panel and When she turns back to the bridge, a new hologram Somehow, Holdo returned. She is monitoring the progress bar on the It has just reached 20% of full strength. Rey serenely answers that it doesn't matter. Sheev will not triumph today. Rey walks across the bridge to the comms station. Somehow, Uhura is here. The first casualties are being reported now. Rey asks to address the entire Resistance Bravely, she orders a full retreat. Sheev will not get his sacrifices today. The planet Mexico will not be annihilated. That's how the final confrontation ends. Our heroes leave the villain, confident that There is no need for a grand army, if every Together, the citizens of the galaxy can hold All it requires is for every ship to carry This is an unexpected ending. One might even call it a subversion, with It's a strange kind of hopeful, and most importantly As it is, nobody wants to tell stories after If you leave Sheev, then stormtroopers and You can have all the Imperial war machines behind them. This is kind of what JJ wanted to set up: All sorts of stories would now be possible. It could even lead into a whole new trilogy. Try a new set of heroes, a trilogy with any You can just skip 80 years and imply Rey finally A lot of things are possible, if you apply This part is the most baffling of all. I could understand all the other failures Writing a disjointed trilogy, with nobody I was sure the company would have certain That after their movies were over, it would One where all stories are possible, somehow. The most important would be the population In order to constantly pull new characters In order to set them up with predetermined Each one has a different philosophy, and a Maybe these guys only use pink lightsabre New temples and factions would be released The other most important thing is finding Part of this can be handled by making Force-sensitives Some become above average at whatever they Others turn to the dark side and get red lightsabres. These are the things I expected. All the movies would be driving toward this the trilogy itself. The sheer possibility of the time after, that I was wrong. Just because I care about the setting, doesn't I doubt they ever looked at it like this. Perhaps they took for granted that a new bad I would have set this trilogy after the majority To have an era all of their own, where no-one A blank slate, except with some useful presets. A pool of characters to draw from, to make It would be sensible to add some other factions. One can be a mini-Empire, that would use TIEs They will make a dozen types of star destroyer Other factions would have to include droids, If they have blood in an unusual colour, that's Might as well add a bunch of people who wish All their armour looks like Fett's, because These are the things I expected. Not a focus on specific new characters, but Maybe even charting out all the future plot decade or two into the future. I still wouldn't like it, but I would've understood That just about wraps up this lore debugging But please stick around until the end. I once heard an anecdote. December 14th, 1972. Eugene Cernan takes a few steps and wipes He is about to return home from work. It's going to be a long bus ride home. And, as we leave the Moon at Taurus- Littrow, shall return, with peace and hope for all He re-enters the Apollo Lunar Module. Mr Cernan is the last to climb aboard. We did not return. Cernan died in 2017. As he lay on his death bed, he did so as the Of the 12 men who ever achieved such a feat, The youngest are 87 years old. In a few years, no living human will be able An ineffable tragedy. The last good Star Wars movie came out in If you were born after then, you were born Star Wars movie. This may be a greater tragedy. For very different reasons. While our proximity to Earth is a tragedy of activity. Our species is demonstrably capable of great imagination. Feats of great distance require entire civilizations Feats of great imagination can be achieved What does it say that the sequel trilogy was Everything. The system has broken. The gears have come loose and are careening However, I don't think there is much of a galaxy far, far away to rot. Those born into the Disney era: that is another Disney's unholy empire controls the vast majority A horrible threshold approaches. At what point does the Star Wars IP become cares enough to investigate its rich history? Feats of great distance first require feats We watched a video recently. An internet, YouTubey man was attempting to Expanded Universe. &quot;I am not a fan of the Disney stuff,&quot; he assured &quot;But it would be so very difficult to write comic from the 80s.&quot; Some colonial nobody once said: Why climb the highest mountain? Why, 35 years ago, fly the atlantic? We choose to go to the moon. We choose to go to the moon in this decade, are easy, but because they are hard. That goal will serve to organise and measure I don't remember who that man is. I don't reckon it is worth making the effort I just like the look of him and how his words They kind of fit into this script, right? Maybe they make you feel something? Either way, I know a lot of people will feel That is why I resurrected the nobody man for His name is Kant B. Arsed. He was some pig farmer from Indonesia. He's a V-Tuber in his spare time. Now buy a ticket to my show or fuck off, pay You may have a problem with this analogy. &quot;That's history, Breadlosers!" "Of course getting history right matters!&quot; Does it? Why? Because it is important to have an accurate, So we can move forward collectively and learn Because the ideology of the person doing the &quot;Obviously,&quot; you say. &quot;It's very different!&quot; Lore IS history. You can't unpublish something. You generally shouldn't unpublish something. Most people know that burning a book is bad. Tearing a couple of pages out, adding in a is totally fine. Maybe you like the new ripped up, post-it think that dude looks better with a willy You like the new page with the Joss Whedon Cool. What you should have done is written your A literary universe is a really neat end product. But it is also a constraint. To add to the canon of a universe is to shoulder It is an all or nothing affair. You are either writing around an existing Marvel does some alt-timeline buggery when This is still a new universe and is a respectable It is stated to not affect primary continuity. I can almost hear your thoughts. You're thinking: &quot;but an author has a right Sure, you can make that argument. But apply that silly reasoning to history Culture is history. I get that it doesn't feel like that while in history, but it's the truth. For history books, a new edition may be released. The old edition is preserved and is essential a history of history itself. Older editions are archived with great care, value. They may even stay in print. Not so in fiction. George Lucas created the Special Editions The last time the Theatrical Versions were Limited Run. You had to buy the Special Editions to get Obtaining a decent-condition copy of this As far as we are aware, you can't stream Legally. Let's compare this state of affairs with When the Quadrilogy was conceptualised, Scott of his movie. All the other Alien movies had DC variants. Scott was happy with Alien and didn't want Instead, he faffed about with various editing Why? The studio insisted on having a DC for each The DC of Alien is famously confusing, because differently. You can still buy both versions brand new. DCs aren't meant to replace the Theatrical In most cases, they are just braindead cash-grabs. The Special Editions were not meant to be They are meant to be substitutions for the But I'm no sleeper agent, and I'm not The Star Wars OT is part of our history. The prequels are part of our history. The EU is part of our history. The work of the creators is as worthy of preservation creators doubt that themselves. Maintaining the Star Wars continuity is a Hundreds of people have made their best effort canon. The burden of canon is on subsequent works, That is what you signed up for when you agreed If a contradiction arises, the earlier conflicting It must: for that is what a literary universe by, other fiction. All feats of great distance began with feats It's important to make sure that we take our world has ever known. Until the Disney empire crumbles to ash, The Doing The Bread Circus things The Bread Circus That's it. The video is over. We hope you enjoyed it. Hmm. You are still here? Why are you still here? I'm afraid we'll be deviating Gordon. Yes, but with good reason. This is a rare opportunity for us. This is the purest sample we've seen yet. And potentially the most unstable! You just spent the entire duration of Return broken Disney Wars 9 is. Oh, if you follow standard insertion I don't know how you can say Although I will admit that the possibility unlikely, I remain uncomfortable with the.. Gordon doesn't need to hear this. He's a highly trained professional. We have assured the Administrator that nothing Ah yes, you're right. Gordon, we have complete confidence in you. Well, go ahead. Let's let him in now. Are you expecting some kind of post-credits Disney owns Marvel now? When did that happen? In Aliens 4, Walmart buys Weyland-Yutani. That was meant to be satire, not a blueprint. Testing. Everything seems to be in order. All right, Gordon, your suit The specimen will be delivered to you in a If you would be so good as to climb up and spectrometer to eighty percent and hold it Gordon, are you not hearing me? Climb up and start the rotors, please. Are you not hearing me? Climb up and start the rotors, please. What is he doing in there? What are you doing in there? Get him out of there! Shut down the equipment and someone get him Shutting down. (beat) Attempting shut-down. It's not.. it's not shutting down. It's not. Oh, nooo! Something horrible has been unleashed upon Something truly awful and bad! It's... it's.... Our Patreon supporters. Stay awhile and listen. Das_LOLtraktor uses a TF2 avatar. Konk, a Discord moderator. The Last Survivor of the 423rd Royal BattleMech who tried out 422 times before they accepted And Zafrex, whose name sounds like a pill your Twitter timeline. Nice guy, honestly.