Hello and welcome (back) to my channel In this video I restore a spirit level Made around 1870-1900 in the victorian era It's in bad condition One bubble is long gone I found one similar one online With makers mark leading to london This one shows no makers mark The main bubble is big, but still there It was apparently once exposed to acid... ...at least thats what I take from the black spots And it also took a bath in wall paint In general the wood seems to be over painted Lets see whats beneath the shell First i have to scrape out the screw slots Overall I count 17 screws A little WD-40 to loosen the screws Now they should almost unscrew themselves Ironic: what appears to be less work... ...was a lot more work in fact If you know how this glass is used.... ...leave a comment I try to soften the window putty with solvent I very very very gentle try to lift it That worked well !?!? NOOOOOOOOOOOOO IT DID NOT!!!! I honestly was so carefull We will see later that there have been... ...cracks in the glass for a longer time The paper was behind for light reflection Now this glass needs to go as well It is not a bubble level, but a single glass pane I will push it out from the inside That hole explains the missing bubble Grabby Gabson will pull it out Much lime shows it was filled with water Nowadays alcohol is used Disassembly is done! Next I prepare a very smelly dough The dough will clean brass in aroud 48 hours I also throw in the screws While the dough is working i fill the screw holes The screws already spun through I use a piece of mahogany veneer And I cut me mini wooden dowels I glue them in with wood glue Now this can dry and I go back to the brass It very smells bad I now clean it with simple water Its better already , but lets do some sanding I start with 240 grit I finish it with scotch brite The contact surfaces remain matt finished A dent silently testifies to a former impact Maybe a reason for cracks in the bubble I press the dent out with the vice Thats better And I also give this part a matt finish A few dents remain as witnesses of time Next the housing of the smaller bubble Its a bit deformed I shape it again with light taps of a soft hammer Afterwards I brush the insides with brass wire Sanding everything from 240-400 grit The third hole on the back plate... ...allows light to enter the longitudinal canal However, the back also needs the same attention I grind the edges back to fit Afterwards I can polish First green compound on medium buffing wheel Afterwards blue compound on soft buffing wheel Nice and shiny Brass is done, back to the wood With the band saw I remove the excesses Next I clean out the bubble house with a brush I also need to sand the longitudinal canal I tape sanding paper to a fitting rod Really level everything with a sharp chisel And once again sanding by hand I only start high with 240 grit I need to keep the tolerances Under the paint something was revealed It seems to be a german product afterall I highlight the NoGo area And continue with sanding Now I mark the new holes to be drilled I use a 1.5 mm drill bit... ...which is of course a little smaller than the screws the wood is sun bleached... ...and unevenly colored With wood stain I bring back some shine Stain goes INTO and not ONTO the wood But first I need to water the wood I show you why I first water in an experiment Because I use stain and not a paint... ...the wood grain and the markings I discovered... ...will still be visible You can go against the grain to rub it in... ...but always finish with strokes that go with the grain Then remove the excess with a paper towel or sponge. After two coats I protect it with antique wax Also really rub the wax into the wood I personally love the result, what about you? I almost forgot about the screws I want to grind them with sand So I need a DIY rotary tumbler Thats the last time I take sand with a glass... ...from a public playground mid day Tumbler made from a glass is ready Activate automation mode Let it spin for 12 hours It is addictive and mesmerizing to watch I have a lot of footage on this Maybe I make myself a &quot;fall asleep video&quot; I pour it onto a magnetic plate Easy to keept track on all the screws It worked But i have to take care of the pitted screw slots I use a hand engraver to deepen the screw slots I cant grind the screw hats to perfect condition... ...without loosing them forwever So I will nickel plate them as they are All screws lined up on a copper wire As always negative pole to the parts and positive pole connected to the nickel anodes I run it on low voltage Only fine bubbles should rise Done after 1,5 hours...yes I plate thick As good as it gets but not perfect Continuing with this thing here Lime inside the bubble shows to me that... ...some water has evaporated over time Cant be repaired Even though I have kept all the shards I searched very very very long for replacements Only a single expert is offering them in small amounts I will link the store of Mr. Mollenkopf in the description... ...in case you have a simillar project Fortunately I can reuse the glass pane I soak and clean with Isopropanol I kept it if somebody thinks he can restore it Everything is ready for assembly But before that it's time for a beer This time I test a "Berndstein Bio-Kellerbier&quot; It is an organic beer from a small business I will rate Entry, Aftertaste, Body... ...Colour, Bitterness, Acidity and Fizz... ...on a scale of 1 = bad till 6 = great. I rate one beer in each video Its a naturally cloudy beer And the fizz seems to be very fine Lets see how it tastes And here are the results Let's get back to work I first glue the pane back in place with window putty The putty is a mix of chalk and lineseed oil But the mess will be cleaned up with alcohol I have decided to auction off the result I need new equipment in the workshop I will add details on this to the description If you know how this was used, leave a comment I turn the markers down...explanation in description Now its time to level the level Better make double sure the surface is leveled As it was I add a paper reflector Again I need window putty I model two comfy pillows Then I leveled the level for 1,5 hours Fun times indeed Removing the excess before final final leveling And then I made it!!! Showing the same result... ...no matter the orientation Aaaaaaand it's done Before After My workbench is not leveled Please consider to subscribe and hit the notification bell If you like it leave a comment I also made a box for the auction I will make a short video on the box soon Auction details in the video description