Hey there guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video we are how heat pumps work. Now, there are a few but in this one, we're gonna be looking at a typical Air Source heat pump. These use a reversing valve to allow both heating and cooling modes. So first of all, the main components you are gonna have, with any system, you'll have an outdoor unit as well as an indoor unit, and then a couple of just connect them all together. Now, you're heat pump system maybe it looks something like this, where you've got the as well as your indoor furnace, and then that's just ducted off. So take that and around the building or home. Now, essentially this system, it doesn't matter the configuration, it all works the same, so don't worry too much Let's have a look inside this unit to see the main components So if we remove the cover we're gonna see something I'll just label up the so you can see what they are. If we look at the indoor We've got the heat exchanger, then we've got the expansion and we've also got a fan inside there. Then we've obviously got which runs and connects And in the outdoor unit which is the driving force of all the refrigerant around the system. Then we've got the reversing valve there. We've also got the heat we've also got a much larger fan, and we've got a check valve and expansion valve there too. And then just to show you how the real components might look like, so in the outdoor unit we've got the heat exchanger coil there, we've got a check valve, we've also got the but a bit tight for space there. So we've got a check valve up there and you can see in most of them, they'll have a direction Then we've got the compressor over here, that's the scroll compressor in this case and it's the driving force of the refrigerant Then we've got the reversing valve here, that's a four-port reversing valve. We're gonna look at the in another video. Then we've got the outdoor and as mentioned, we've also which is a thermal expansion valve with a capillary tube attached to that. Now this is just an example of how the real world There could be a slight difference, but this is just to help you understand how the system works. So first of all we'll works in a cooling mode. So as you can see, this is just working as a typical air conditioning unit where we've got the indoor unit acting as the evaporator and the outdoor unit Now, the refrigerant is and that's leaving us a high pressure, high temperature, saturated vapor. And that heads off, of the reversing valve where the reversing valve will decide which direction it can flow to. And in this case, it's being diverted and sent straight to the where the refrigerant will be condensed and it will give up some of its energy, and you can see these arrows here indicating, or showing, that there is air being the outdoor air which is cooler than the temperature of the refrigerant inside the tubes. And some of that energy will be taken away to allow this refrigerant to condense. Remember that the refrigerant it does not leave and the they are kept completely separately. Now the temperature of this refrigerant as it leaves the compressor is much higher than the temperature of the air on the outside. And that is to allow If the refrigerant and the then no heat transfer would occur and the air conditioning So the greater the temperature difference between the refrigerant the greater the heat exchange can occur. So that refrigerant, as it it condenses and becomes a liquid so by the time it leaves here and passes through the check valve, so when the refrigerant leaves here and passes through this check valve it will be a high pressure, medium temperature, saturated liquid. And the force of all the coming out of this compressor is what's pushing that to the other components in the system. So in this configuration, which is acting as condenser, is there to reject the all the unwanted heat that it'll pick up from the indoor unit will be sent to the compressor and that will push it into the condenser where it will reject that unwanted heat into the air and push that The fan is just there to help and push that heat out into the world. Now, as that liquid this way up into the indoor unit, it comes along and it and you can see, it can only so that will not be allowed instead, it will head over and pass through the The expansion valve will so when it leaves the expansion valve it will be a low pressure, low temperature, liquid vapor mixture. And this will be pushed and that will begin to pick up some of the thermal energy from this wind, or the air that's being forced So the refrigerant, when it which is acting as an evaporator, it enters there as a liquid vapor mixture but the refrigerant has so the temperature of the inside air within the building is enough to actually and turn it into a saturated vapor. And that's still being pushed out by all the refrigerant from the compressor so by the time it leaves, by the time the refrigerant and leaves the evaporator the refrigerant is gonna low temperature, saturated vapor, and that's gonna head straight back around into the reversing valve to divert the refrigerant off straight back into the compressor. And that refrigerant will then and repeat the entire cycle. If we now look at how the heat pump would work in heating mode, you can see now, the Sorry, the outdoor unit is and the indoor unit is So the refrigerant leaves the compressor, again, as a high pressure, high temperature, super-heated vapor, and this heads straight where, at the moment, it's being diverted straight towards the indoor unit instead of the outdoor unit. The refrigerant enters a condensor and it enters this as a high pressure, high temperature, super-heated vapor, and this will give up some of its energy to the air which is blowing across the heat exchanger by the fan. This condenses the refrigerant By the time the refrigerant you can see it comes along here and comes towards the check valve and expansion valve, and in this instance it's gonna because the expansion valve so it will flow through here. So that refrigerant, as and it's passed through the check valve, it will leave there as a high pressure, medium temperature, saturated liquid. And this flows along this liquid line straight down to the outdoor unit. And you can see here, the check valve will not let that pass so it's gonna go through The expansion valve and when that refrigerant it's going to leave as a low pressure, low temperature, liquid vapor mixture. And it's being pushed through this coil all the way to the other side, and it's gonna pick up some of the heat from this air that's being So that air, the outside air, which is blowing across that air has enough energy and that's gonna turn the refrigerant, after it boils it, it'll turn it into a low pressure, low temperature, saturated vapor. And that will then head where it will then pass and then repeat the entire cycle again. So the refrigerant is picking from all the air that's outside, taking that to the compressor, the compressor compresses it, and squeezes the air towards the indoor unit. Now, a lot of people would say, well, what about in the winter time, the air is cold, there's how do you take energy from the air then? Well actually, that air still and certainly enough to be As long as the air is above then there is energy in that air which can be extracted, and obviously, we're to that temperature in our climates. Now the reason you can from the air, depending that is because the boiling point of the refrigerant is very low. So if we look at water here, as we know, water boils or there abouts, about 212 degrees fahrenheit. Now let's look at some So, refrigerant R134a, so that has a boiling point or minus 15 degrees fahrenheit. So that's very low. Then we've got R410A, and that has a boiling point of minus 48 degrees Celsius, or minus 55 degrees fahrenheit. So obviously, you can see that there's a huge amount because the boiling points are so low. So as long as you air temperature outside is above these boiling points then you can extract and move it across and into But heat pumps generally the compressor is powered by electricity, so the higher the temperature of the air then the greater the efficiency. So, once you get down to kind of, maybe, just above this boiling point here, then it's not gonna be very to actually run this system. However, you can still extract energy. So it will work, it will just cost you quite a lot of money to Alright, that's it for this video. I hope you've enjoyed Please don't forget to if you have any comments please leave them in the And also, don't forget TheEngineeringMindset.com. Once again, thank you