Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. I'm not. I'm gone like 90% of ever made. deleted, like that text you thought twice about sending or a Snapchat photo, right? When Stalin decided that Trotsky was he had Trotsky removed from photos he appeared in with Lenin. allow you to do the same. forget the actual attendees of a moment in time, delete them. when they're deleted? The Google Ngram Viewer allows you in 5.2 million books published between 1500 and 2008. the words we use have changed overtime. 1979 was a significant year. According to the Ngram Viewer, word delete more often than the word erase. still wins though. Forget is by far more but how does a computer forget? Moving a file to the trash is just the beginning. To protect against accidental deletion, a file remains on your computer in a purgatory, where it awaits a more if you wish. you are warned that you cannot undo the action. But when you empty the trash, the physical space inhabited by the file isn't actually emptied. It's marked as empty. if and when new data needs to be stored somewhere. The file's home has become available real estate but the file itself hasn't moved out. have gone away. Pointers are another type places in memory where the actual file they are referencing They're a bit like the table of contents, operating systems deleting a file and emptying the trash is like deleting a chapter from a book by turning to the table of contents and marking the chapter as empty. To a computer reading the table of empty but of course that doesn't change chapter are still there. look through memory marked empty available to see what's actually there. they can even find a file and save it, bring it back mark it not available, undeleted. But if some of the file has already been overwritten, there can be problems. corrupted, melded together with other Frankenstein's monster. a laptop that belonged to photographer was stolen. Luckily, police were able to return the pulled over, but the thief had wiped the laptop's for his own purposes. Data recovery experts were able to find some of her files, still there, but the files had been slightly overwritten by things the thief had done. really cool way. She titled the show after the thief who made it possible, &quot;To Adrian Rodriguez, with love.&quot; If you want to delete the file so completely it can't even be recovered in a cool, you will need to overwrite the unwanted file completely. and rearrange its corpse with new data. One overwrite should be fine but some Even 35 overwrites might not be enough. Sure, the overridden data is hidden, but what about bad sectors? These are parts of a drive that because of failed transistors or physical damage. An overwrite won't be able to reach them, stays there. So, if you are the United don't want to take any risks, you will also shred, physically polarize unwanted drives. often send such electronics waste to dumps in Ghana, like this one. Earth's digital dumping ground. Why Ghana? unsalvageable electronics to Africa, than it is to properly recycle them. But there, in these electronic dumps, the files can still be brought back to life. Organized criminals operating in Ghana data from unregulated e-dumps. multi-million-dollar agreements, involving the Defense Intelligence Agency, Homeland Security and the TSA. paper to get rid of whatever used to be either. It's not easy and it doesn't shreds of paper computer software can But in the past, shredded documents by hand. In 1979 Iranian students seized With the help of local carpet weavers and they managed to reassemble thousands of shred by the CIA. are and the more of them there are, the Department of Defense requires that not exceed 5 square millimetres. If you really want to delete something, destroy it, erase it, time is on your side. In about 5.4 billion years the Sun will become the ultimate shredder. A red giant large enough to swallow earth whole. Everything will be fine for billions of years. But many accepted models of the universe years whatever intelligence is left will dark era and its final Heat Death, the end of the universe, the end of any file or photo or memory of you ever being accessed again. a little bit of energy is lost. friction through sound or heat. little bit at a time, slowly more and more. energy becomes homogeneous, everywhere. entropy. but given enough time our entire universe may be no different. A gradient, another is necessary for things to happen, for files to be created and read, for life to exist. there may not be any usable energy left. humans are concerned about this. leapfrogs billions of years into the future, their list of solutions doesn't get any longer than none. So, if we think across a grand timescale is cosmic deletion the freezing of everything, heat death, all we have to look forward to in this universe? We went to the Moon. flags with us that we planted on the on earth. are likely erased now, their symbols and colors bleached by the lunar surface, unfiltered by any atmosphere. take them back with us but now day are empty. White flags. to the inevitability of deletion in the universe. But we, today, are preoccupied with just the opposite. what we really seem to talk about is creation. loss. forget and delete, &quot;make&quot; practically deletes deletion. The flags on the Moon are bleached out but is that bleak? deleted or blank, like a fresh sheet of paper ready for new stories? make of it. And as always, thanks for watching.