There are vague memories of falling asleep inside of a machine. Waking up. Being led somewhere. Everything is still hazy. - How are you feeling, Peter? A bit foggy, but I'm fine...! - And how are your urges? My- my what? The smoking. Are you feeling the urge for a I guess not, my head is still a bit... And Peter looks across the room. He cannot believe He is speaking to Magnus Nilssen. Inventor of the Personality Machine. I'm sorry, I just woke up and, I can't believe I'm I saw your fights, they were they were... wild. An awkward silence. Oh, I shouldn't be saying that, I'm sorry... Oh, it's just fine. Quite a normal reaction, really. Well, the smoking habit seems to have been curbed for now, and we are already seeing signs of traits coming through. Traits? And Magnus slides a piece of paper towards Peter. Yes, as you picked in your chart. You selected smoking as your main vice to be removed, normally we would look at a 57% success rate but if you already feel- That's not what I picked. An awkward silence. What are you saying? I only wanted smoking gone, I didn't pick any of this... This is not what I picked, and, this is a lot of money...! This is a lot of paychecks, I can't afford this! And suddenly something catches his eye This isn't even my name! Magnus grabs the paper Peter Larssen with an E? Larsson! With an O! I see... Magnus is quite visibly upset. And he eyes Peter carefully. I personally oversee each procedure, I meet with each client, and I take on each case with personal care. And I had not anticipated... a simple mistake like this. It would seem by chance we have two Peters. Peter Larssen. And a Peter Larsson. Both with the intent of quitting smoking, and one with additional traits. And Peter is sitting completely still. Part of him wants to scream at the top of his lungs, normally a much more ordinary reaction. But something has overcome him... Calming thought patterns. It's true. He is able to rationalize his own thoughts in order to calm himself down. It's coming naturally to him. It would seem we have mistakenly placed traits ... either way I'm willing to cover the cost of the previous procedure and we can, discuss how to proceed next. However, Peter... If you wish to, we could avoid wasting more time and simply leave it here. So, Peter, how do you wish to proceed? On his way home, the phrases of his new personality Calming thought patterns. Express vulnerability. Speak with absolute honesty. And when he comes home his roommate Veronica is watching TV. - Hey Peter! Gosh, did you hear about that, uh, Magnus Nilssen guy, the boxer, fighter? Did you hear about the thing with the machine? Magnus Nelson's face is on TV. Uh ... yeah. I thought he died, or maybe that was someone else, Oh, you know Katrina? She was at Daniel's party; She was a complete shut in and now she's like a different person; wearing makeup, high heels and parties like crazy, you wouldn't believe it! ... Wow, yeah. ... And oh my god. Did you hear about Daniel's brother? ... It didn't go well. Seemingly there is not a quiet moment without Magnus Nilssen involved. But surprisingly things are not hysterical. Something insane has happened, and it's not worth screaming about. But you know what she told me? Her other friend, she went to went to one to quit smoking, and it actually worked! Maybe you should try it sometime... if you could ever afford to! ... Yeah, I guess so ... uh, yeah. There aren't any words that feel necessary to blurt out. No over-exaggeration. The conversation doesn't need to go on. No anxiety to keep speaking. Did you ever watch- Magnus Nilssen. Did you ever watch him fight...? Yeah, I actually did, yeah. So he hit his head, quit fighting, became a scientist and invented a machine. That is so crazy! It's like something from a movie! Veronika is waiting for Peter to keep talking and continue the conversation as usual, but Peter's silence keeps catching her off guard. Over and over again. Nothing happens. Hey, hey what's- what's wrong? Did something happen? Absolute honesty. I actually had something done. You don't mean... Well, I went to take care of my smoking- Oh that's great! Oh you won't be stinking up the place anymore! And, you know, that's a lot of money... but, Tell me about it, what was it like! Well, basically I just slept for a while and, then... I woke up. Was it more than smoking? ...Yeah. So do you feel like a different person now? I guess so ... a different person... Veronika is looking at Peter expecting an elaborate response, but for once, he is not oversharing. Not speaking out of turn, or talking over her, saying what's on his mind. And she, is in awe of this moment. Simply silence. ... Are you all right? ... I'm fine, just a bit tired. But the silence continues on, and the atmosphere turns sour. Veronika keeps looking at Peter, and there is an unnerved look on her face. Why did you want to change? Something happened- with the procedure and... I thought, I might as well take a chance. I'm always so annoying around everyone, and... the smoking and... Absolute honesty. I guess I wanted It reversed, but I also just couldn't help but think that if I stay like this maybe some people would like me better... Absolute honesty. I mean, there was stuff I wanted to tell you, but I was afraid of how you'd feel about it... And uh... ... I really like you. Veronika's face is twisted, grimaced. She wants to explain herself, but, she's looking at Peter as if she suddenly has no clue who she's speaking to. Someone bearing the mask of someone she once knew. Oh my God...! I'm- I'm sorry, I'm just really unused to- Sorry Peter, but... I... ...This is a lot to put on me! I never asked you to do this! Veronika puts on her jacket. I need some time. And Peter sits there. For a while. All alone. Until he decides... ... to have a goddamn cigarette. Standing outside, Peter lights up a cigarette and inhales the smoke. ... But then he does something he has never done before. He stops for a moment, he feels the smoke in his lungs. He tastes the cigarette... ... And he finds... that cigarettes... taste like [ __ ]. He can't believe how disgusting it tastes. He throws his pack in the trash, he wants to punish the cigarettes for how awful they are. ... But even as he rids himself off them, disgust remains. Allow me to understand this correctly. You do not only want the calming thought patterns, expressing vulnerability and absolute honesty to disappear... ... You also wish to reverse your smoking habit. Yes. Why? It's not- it's not who I am...! Peter, you need to take some time to rest. I want the procedure undone, right now! We're not going to have a procedure for you to turn into a smoker. No, I don't care! I don't care, I'll pay you for it! Please, give yourself a few days. I don't have a few days...! I want to be myself, I need to be who I really am. I want this undone to me right now or... ... I'll sue you! I'll get the procedure undone and take all of your REAL, scientists, go through all of your machines, and make sure anyone is able to do this. Out there, for everyone! Whether he takes Peter's threats seriously, is doubtful. But as he looks into Peter's eyes, for one second, he sees something. Sincerity. For one moment. Peter, you're familiar with who I am, yes? ...Yeah, of course. What happened? ...You took a hit. A bad fall. ... It was all over the news. I remember some people saying you would be handicapped for life, ... What, are you trying to say that this machine fixed that?! No. of course not. What I'm saying, is that the media blew it out of proportion. I've taken harder hits. The blood simply added to the theatrics. But it was a... moment. So I took advantage of it. I retired. Do you remember what the media said next? Years later people were saying you'd become a scientist all of a sudden... that the head trauma somehow made you a genius, and you got degrees and... ... invented the machine. I have always been interested in science. Engineering, biology, neurology. But no one ever took me seriously. A serious discussion about neurology with a professional MMA fighter, or how about a former champion with brain damage pursuing the field? Absolutely ridiculous. But then I made the machine, and the story became; A groundbreaking scientist, and an inventor. It's a very attractive story. Something that some people have emulated with... horrible results. But nonetheless, something that most could never possibly... afford. Do you know what the harshest criticism I get is? &quot;Why would anyone ever pay to change their personality? It's what most people believe too, we've done the analytics. Most people believe they could change their own ... But why doesn't it happen, then? How many, do you know, Peter, who before my invention suddenly completely changed who they were? Introvert to extrovert, ashamed to shameless, apathetic to empathetic. ... what are you ... trying What are you trying to tell me, that this is all a scam?! What I'm saying, Peter, is that this... is real science. ... And if it were the case that the science ... suggested ... that all you really needed to change; was a story. Of course it would! ... I'm not sure I follow, but ... It would be quite a surprise for most to hear, ... is more along the lines of a; self-defense mechanism. The apathetic who must cover their feelings so The anxious, afraid that the simplest mistake would mean regret. The over-caring, putting others before themselves, The over-joyous, afraid that anyone might find their company distasteful And the gluttons. Overindulging in their worst habits, all for the fantasy of not being alone. Of course it's difficult to reverse addictions, smoking is a physical habit, it's not as simple as a quick change of mind. Telling someone to quit. We don't expect these cases to work, however; Observation. Taste. Feeling. Pause. The moment. That is the very foundation for change. Peter looks to Magnus cautiously, trying to fully understand the implications of his words, while weighing the question that, maybe... Maybe Magnus Nilssen's brain damage was more severe than anyone had realized... ... But I am not a cynic, Peter. People want honesty; but they are too quick to judge what that is... The pause gives the possibility to reflect, but it's not as simple as who you are and who you are not... Everyone have everything inside of them. Introvert and extrovert. Shameless and ashamed. Apathetic and empathetic. The personality machine is a service, to provide a guide to these traits. ... What a pile of crap...! I mean, come on! You're just telling me, You're telling people lies, and taking all they have, this is all garbage, it's not real! And if any of this were true, people would know! There are things you can't just change about yourself, and if anyone could, then people really would be changing all the time! No. There is an overbearing shame that comes with change. Didn't you feel it, Peter? The thought that kept you unable to change without The Machine ... &quot;What would other people think?&quot; What would people think if you suddenly changed. Because even a positive change, quitting smoking. Your parents, your co-workers, your friends. How do you give the appropriate answer, And what I'm selling, is the answer. The very moment. The same gift that I was given. A scientific invention, a journey through a machine. And as a cherry on top, a personal meeting with the great Magnus Nilssen himself. An opportunity to explain everything to yourself, your friends, your family. To anyone. The undoing of your very own self-defense mechanism. A story. A silent pause. I'm not sure I'm following... you're not making any sense, none of that could be true! Then perhaps it isn't. It's up to you, Peter. I'm telling you all of this, because as you may now understand, no one else has been able to replicate what I have done. Not because it's impossible to replicate the machinery of the ... but because, they always look look towards the physical structure of what a machine is supposed to be. This has been the undoing of your procedure, but as you may have come to find... ... it might not have been in your best interest. Magnus slides a piece of paper across the desk. So, Peter. How do you wish to proceed? Peter is sitting at his dinner table eating breakfast with Veronika. So you're saying, after all that, after everything you went through... These traits you got ... they didn't take? But then you managed to quit smoking anyway, And Peter thinks for a moment. I was heading home from meeting Magnus Nilssen again, and as I was about to smoke... I saw a row pick up a cigarette butt ... and eat it. And I thought... &quot;Man, I don't want to be like that.&quot; So I threw away my cigarettes. And Veronika laughs. Really, after all these years, and all that, this is what makes you quit...?! ... Is that really what happened? ... Well do you really want to know? Either way ... ... it still feels real to me.