MALE SPEAKER 1: Professor and a professor in the He's been teaching an for undergrads for And at some point he decided to compile the lecture so that the life of his students So he wrote the book and was completely unplanned. The book became a It was the top best books for a few months. Then translations to The book has been It's being sold now in most and in Canada with And now it's coming to the US. And fortunately to bring Yuval here and to give the talk at Google. So I'm really happy Thank you. [APPLAUSE] YUVAL HARARI: It's a not only to visit in Silicon Valley, a kind of special As an historian I focus of ideas, ideology, And I think that the most today, in religious terms, is East, not Syria, or Afghanistan, but Silicon Valley. This is where the new religions are being formulated. And this will also be the topic or so, about the new But in order to understand we first have to say a few words And I would like to what is the main religion, of the world today in the of the 21st century. And I think we can say that the at present is liberal humanism, Liberalism is a that thinks that a source of in the universe is the individual of the Liberalism has First of all, it believes It thinks that every Homo which literally means The meaning of the is that you cannot divide it. The idea is, yes, of course, or the human brain, but within of a seed of light, a spark Within each of us there and this inner voice in is the source of all the in the world. Whenever we face a a difficult dilemma, as individuals, or as us, listen to yourself, Try to hear this inner and it will tell you what to do. And listen to that, The second main idea or is that this inner comes out of a space Yes, there are influences, physical, social, biological, within ourselves, we to a space of complete freedom. And from the space we need to Thirdly, based on these two liberalism assumes that only Nobody else, no outside person, know who I am because, is this inner voice which So I'm inaccessible Based on these ideas the which gives it its name, We need to preserve the to think, to feel, to what he or she thinks and is the supreme and source in the world. Now all this may sound very So I would like to give of what liberalism to our lives as individuals If you think about the what is liberal politics? What is liberalism translated You get a democracy with If we want to know who should of economic policies to adopt, to adopt, to make who should we turn to We should turn to the inner So we have elections and goes by himself or by herself. And at least theoretically I try to connect to what are my deepest feelings? What's are my deepest personal And I vote accordingly. And this is how rule the country, whether and so forth. So this is liberal argues that the There is no source of authority You get the same ideas What is liberal economics? Liberal economics is the view right. There is no higher of the individual customer. How do we know if a If the customers buy it. There is no other method. There is no higher can say, yes, they didn't Let's say we are planning a car. And we are organizing of the wisest people We take Nobel laureates and literature, and and they come together with a lot of money, And they design the perfect car. And after five years this perfect car, engineered, on the planet. And it goes on sale or very few people buy it. It means that this car is to the tenets of AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. YUVAL HARARI: Oh, perhaps. But eventually you cannot Oh, we produce a perfect a perfect PR campaign, but the They don't understand This works in This is the idea of communism. You have really wise They plan the car, which And everybody, at least if they And if they don't like But not in liberal economics. In liberal economics the is the customer. You have the same ideas in the Many times in history many had ideas, what is art And they thought that there objective yardsticks to is art and whether And then comes along liberal in the 19th, 20th century. And just as in politics And in economics the So in liberal art, also, he is or she is the According to liberal art, beauty in the feelings of the the painting, the architecture, In 1917, in a very, Marcel Duchamp this art, called it his name, Marcel Duchamp, said this is art. This is beautiful. And ever since then in to art, to art they bring this image Is it art? No, it's not art. Who determines what is art? Is it beautiful? It's not beautiful. And eventually, if you will reach the is whatever I define is in the eyes of the beholder. Whatever I think is And nobody out there you think it's There is some higher authority. If you think that and you're willing to pay and it costs millions this fountain, then it's art. The same idea is also applied How do you know if an If it's ethical or unethical? Well, suppose I live And I fall in love And I go to the priest and and this happened. So the priest will say, this is You will go to hell for this. Why? Because God thinks it's say it's evil, because I, And then I say to the priest, So the priest would say, but Your feelings are unimportant. You don't determine what is Then came liberalism in The highest authority is also the feelings There's nothing beyond that. If it feels good, do it. If you feel good about it, if then there is absolutely why it should be evil or bad. Now, there are, of What happens if a some people to feel good and This is when you have arguments Say, for example, an I have an affair I feel very good about it, he will feel bad about it. And probably I will And if we, say, we divorce as they will feel bad about it. So what is more important, at a particular time, or the or my children? Different people have different but as long as they are will be done in The question will be, what Even very religious people And if you think about the on the Charlie Hebdo, all kinds of organizations, non-Muslim organizations like, but look, was not doing something because it was causing around the world to feel bad. It didn't take into Now it's very interesting because even those not good to draw a caricature they don't say it's not good or because it's wrong They say it's not hurts the feelings of people. So even those in liberal terms of feelings. And finally, just to from the field of education. What is liberal education? The main idea of is that the student or the not the teacher, In liberal education you try to teach your is to think for themselves. They are the highest authority. You go from kindergarten and you ask the teacher, what are you trying to teach? And he or she will to teach history, or but above all I try to think for themselves. This is the most If he or she are liberal work, of course, not all manage to do it, but this is by all liberal Now when we look at the we can say that the most of the world. This liberal package which are these walls, to protect the inner This is the human rights. This package contains in liberal democracy, And I think we can say this particular the dominant ideological And there is very little or real alternatives to Over the last few years, we have in different places but the vast majority were done in the name not against them. People are coming to the you don't live up to We want the politics We want economics, the The vast majority did not have any They simply wanted it than it is being Another potential source which more and more is China, the rising However, even though China is it is still an In terms of ideology or to offer the world, In theory and officially, it but it is very far from And it has no alternative its official communism of how else to run human Maybe in the next decade, we will see the rise of in China, but China is extremely good in in making products, seems to be bankrupt. The third main alternative is radical Islam, or radical but very often we However, even though radical movements oppose they don't really have that can be offered in the 21st century. The reason is that most of by centuries, by The 21st century challenges We are facing enormous enormous new opportunities, that we need to confront. And radical Islam has very to say about these new To give just a few examples, question in is what do we need people In a situation when it will be able to do more and than Homo sapiens, this for the first time in history. The most basic economic value And nobody really has an look like in 40 and what humans will or least most humans. What will they do? If there is a young man or going to college, and what should I study I will have a good job? Nobody knows what Nobody knows. We don't have a clue look in 30 or 40 years. And again, it's not even clear. It's not that there It's not even clear be any jobs for most humans. Another very big concerns biotechnology. The possibility of extending indefinitely, with What will this do to to family structures? This is very big questions. Another very big from this field of of, for the first time in opening between the Previously in history gaps between rich and were social, economic, There was no real between the king They had the same basic and emotional abilities. Now with the advent we are facing a possibility, it's not certain, but of real biological gaps opening into different biological different species. These are the kinds need to confront in And the problem of radical Judaism, and so have nothing relevant to They have no answers because they don't even If you read even very wise books the people who wrote these books knew nothing about So how can you expect to get from people who about the subjects in question? Now it's true that if you count there are many more people are interested in than in nanotechnology or who understand But history is not It's not that you to make historical changes. Very often historical made by relatively If we go back to the last big revolution that swept Revolution of the 19th century, Most people in the 19th and were interested far more than in steam engines, or The same thing we see today, we It was also full of religious For example, in the Islamic the Mahdi in the late established a And also beheaded people and Caused a lot of [? steel ?] when the followers of executed General Charles Gordon, Nobody almost remembers Similarly in India you led by [INAUDIBLE], the main message [INAUDIBLE] had is that all the answers to all in the holy scriptures The Vedas are never wrong. All the answers are there. If you have any difficulty, open Tens of millions of In the Christian world you Pope Pius IX, the in the middle of had this new idea that It is a new idea. It's not an idea The Catholic dogma, the Papal the pope is never to questions of ethics, This is not a medieval dogma. It goes back only to the And then millions of people In China the biggest was not the Napoleonic War, By far the biggest war was the Taiping Rebellion, when this person Hong God revealed himself to that Hong was brother of Jesus Christ. And he had a divine the kingdom of Heavenly Peace Millions of people followed establish any peace. They waged the most terrible with at least 20 million dead. These are the So you had your full share also back in the 19th century. Nobody almost today or these movements. They did not change the world. The Industrial Revolution did. Well, these people in Sudan, were concerned about and so forth. A few engineers and and bankers, and in Liverpool, and Birmingham, They shaped the world Now there was one ideological which began in the did manage to change is far more important. And when we think back and we ask ourselves, the big ethical ideas that we think not about the we think about In 1800 there were hardly very few. Even in the middle there was still a fringe who have such was one crucial characteristic like Marx and Engels, that change the world and to spread over the entire planet. And helped to shape The crucial thing about Lenin and Trotsky, is that they did not just of centuries previously. They studied the technology and And they tried to create will be suited to and challenges of 19th-century economics. Lenin was once asked in Lenin was asked please, Vladimir, tell us in is. We are not going to read very dense book. We don't want to hear now In very few words tell And Lenin answers, is power to the workers' plus electrification You cannot have communism without the steam engine, railroads. The Communist system of demands these things. You could not have in 16th-century Russia. Impossible. First you must have an Communism and built for the world following This is why they're In a way communism and of the new religions in the 21st century in the on technology and After thousands of years in no role at all in religious communism was the first or ideology if you roughly the same things by the traditional religions. It promised peace, prosperity, with the use of technology, by the act of some divine power. This is the definition It promises whatever it with the help of technology. And communism was perhaps and it completely changed our Previously the between people and their beliefs do we believe in God, what god? Do you believe in a soul? What kind of soul? What happens after death? These were the main questions from Muslims and After communism Now people more and more by how they think about Sounds very strange, 30 years ago, destroyed in a nuclear were divided not in what or God, or the afterlife. The were divided in about how economic production So communism really changed Even if you don't you started speaking in that you asked. And we see indeed that Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, did not disappear. It's not that people They just became less and less They were transformed from a creative force In the Middle Ages they Much of the new technological, administrative techniques were pioneered by The best equivalent for Silicon is the Vatican. This is where all of the new about information is where you went, The first archives, for archiving information, this is something the If you are a king and you wanted how to handle information, you turned to monks. You turned to priests. They were the experts. So back then they were But in the last 200 years They're still there, is react to the changes, to the that other people make. Like somebody invents and completely changes And then the pope they scratch their head, What do you do? Is it OK? Is it not OK? They react. Similarly somebody And then you have all the their heads, what Is it OK? [INAUDIBLE] just use it And it's not only technology. Also new ethical ideas, the Perhaps the most After thousands of years we have the feminist social structures, And again, you have all and priests, they think, how It's not our initiative, but we So they are reacting in A very good way of place of these is to ask yourself First, ask yourself what is of the 20th century. And this is a very because there is a Perhaps it's antibiotics. Perhaps it gave each one of you on average, you It's a huge difference. Maybe it's nuclear weapons. Maybe it's the computer. Maybe it's not technology, like feminism. Perhaps feminism is the of the 20th century. Difficult question to decide. Now ask yourself What is the most in the 20th century by religions that believe in or Judaism. Again, it's a very because you can't What did these people years that changed our lives? Yes, they are still that they react to the of others, but what new I, at least, can't which you can mention with antibiotics, or So we see that the that we think that in the world to liberalism Neither China, nor Radical they don't really have to the liberal package. But this does not mean Just the opposite. It seems that we of the collapse of liberalism. And the collapse of happen because of things in Syria, or Iraq, or in that people are doing and in Stanford University, and in the Hebrew University. What kind of things? Well, it starts with The basic problem of liberalism is that the life sciences are The basic beliefs on which sounded sensible in the of Locke and Rousseau But there is a huge gap between about the world, and and what the life sciences are telling us Liberalism believes as we said earlier, that each We have this ray of light, this This is our real self. Well, according to the there are no such things. All animals, including They don't have souls. They don't have any essence. They don't have any inner core. They are basically a collection all kinds of build the brain, that build the elephant, whatever it is. And if you peel all the layers, an animal, an organism you peel one layer one layer after the you won't get an inner You will get nothing. There is just nothing all these different biochemical There is no individual. Secondly, these that make up an There is no such according to the life sciences. All systems in nature, including they work according to just Either they are deterministic Perhaps some events insert a certain randomness of our brain, of our but that's it. The word &quot;freedom&quot; in the life sciences of today. Taking these two ideas together Homo sapiens-- which like the chimpanzees, and so forth-- if a collection of algorithms, are not free in any that at least potentially an external entity can It just needs to understand come together to build this And the crucial insight is our emotions, even our believes above all how you feel about politics, this is the holy grail of But now come the life Feelings are just biochemical Calculating either probabilities of survival and That's it. The Homo sapiens, like are calculating all the is just a calculating machine of survival and reproduction. This, again, may So I will give two First of all, Let's say you are a baboon. And you are somewhere in And you see a tree And you ask yourself, should But you also see that Now should I or shouldn't and risk that while I eat the Now in order to reach a what I need to do, is to and I need to take into in order to do it correctly. I need information How far are they from you? Are there any How many bananas? Are they ripe or are they green? It's one thing if there and it's another thing if there I also need information How far is it? How big is it? Is it asleep? Is it awake? Does it seem hungry? Does it seem satiated? And thirdly, I need a lot How fast can I run? How hungry I am? If I'm on the verge if my energy is so low that if I don't eat something, then I should try and because otherwise If, on the other hand, I there is no reason to risk even if the danger Now to reach a good means a decision that I need to take all that and weigh it together somehow, together. How do I do it as a baboon? I don't take out a or a calculator, or a computer. I don't have it. And I don't need it is a calculator that was by natural selection What we call emotions, are simply that take all that information, of information from and within a split second a certain probability. Now the result does not like in some futuristic movie that the sees a number in The result will come This is what feelings are. They are the result If the result is that I it will come up as the I will feel very courageous. My chest will be puffed up If the calculations reach the result that I the chances are too small, will not be a number. It will be a feeling. It will be the feeling, I will feel very And sometimes the calculations It's not clear if it's a good of survival to reach And this too will show up I will feel confused. I will feel I don't know what not to take them. This too will be a feeling. The other type of that this machine is concerns not survival, And again, if you are a peacock, If you are a human, And you need to make up your is this a good mate or not? And again, lots of information from the ears, from the And within a split second a number, but as a feeling. You will feel this is or, no, it's not beautiful, it's disgusting, whatever. All of these sexual are biochemical algorithms. They are not some that comes from the sky. They are the result of very, algorithms that has evolved and selected of generations until Now so far these actually supported liberalism as I said earlier, it as the supreme What I feel, this is of authority on the planet. And biologists this is actually a This is true because if about your life and you have two say the Bible or biologists will tell you, The Bible contains the in ancient Jerusalem. That's it. Your feelings contain upon millions of the algorithms that have passed the most rigorous Each one of your genes, and is here today because it has to pass the most rigorous So if you need to you better go with This was the situation But now things are changing. In two ways things are changing. First of all, the biochemical algorithms and that are responsible They are no longer mysterious We understand them Why I feel this way in And secondly, we have that are creating better and Now the question is what will happen once knows me better, and my feelings better than What will happen then is It will shift away from to these outside algorithms. Our feelings at are the best algorithms But after all, they They appeared maybe the way a few tens of thousands of years So far they have been the but we are now at the version, something better. And when we have then the authority This is already happening in most clearly in the and decisions about your own I think it's not far fetched are now listening to this the most important during our lifetime will not They will be taken by algorithms that understand and that have statistics upon millions of other can make better predictions about our bodies than To give a concrete it was a year ago, two is very famous story came that she had a Why? Not because she discovered She didn't have breast cancer. But she went and did a And it showed that she carries that, according to the means she has an 87% chance And she had a lot of breast I think that her mother died from breast cancer. She did not have breast Her feelings told her that she should do something. But the external you have an 87% chance So she had a double is a very, very big decision And likewise I think most of about our lives in our be taken by such not based on our inner feelings. Now when this will spread to liberalism will collapse, but it will simply People will move authority This has happened In the transition from the in the Middle Ages at the of [? faced ?] religions, when a problem, the practical was listen to scriptures. Read what is written This will give you an answer. Now the rise of liberalism It was not just a It was a practical matter make decisions in If previously, when they faced they opened scriptures Now, with the rise the guidance was listen Go maybe at night, Look at the moon. Look at the sea. Try to connect to yourself. See what you really feel Go with your feelings. This was a practical guidance. It was not just theory. Now we move to the next stage. When people say, don't what do they know? Listen to Google, or listen or whatever. They understand than you know how have much more information. And they have much than what natural They have information not and your books and so is all these biometric devices and that gets a constant about your blood pressure and whatever. And, of course, do a DNA test, And if you have all this built algorithms you can than from your feelings, or So we see the potential of religion, a data religion. If previously God was in the humans were in the Now data or information of authority and of It starts with simple got to an intersection or to turn right, don't Listen to [? ways. ?] It knows intuition whether to go Then you move to a more What book to buy? I go, I enter the I want to buy a new book. The first thing that happens is I know you. I know you. And I know that you will enjoy this book And the annoying thing is They really know me They can recommend So at present it's still based sophisticated, like they that I've read and bought. And they try to make an But now we're moving to a when the books start to If I read a book on a Kindle, the device can know the book, how quickly I stopped in reading the book, and which parts I read slowly. This is a wealth of conveys a very good idea the book. The next stage is to connect programs. And the book will know not but when I laughed, when This is an immense device that only recommend books, but do more sophisticated things. And eventually we will whom to marry. In the lives of most of the most important the question of who to marry. And now instead of and asking, Father, who should or trying to connect and making bad decisions, dear Google, who should I marry? And Google will answer, from the moment you sometime in the future. I've read every email I've listened to every I remember every failed If you want, I can show you and blood pressure during every you had in your lifetime. And of course, I also like if I have to choose So yes, I know him and I just as I know you. And based on all this on all this information, off millions and millions of relationships, I can recommend that you had better go And one more thing. I know you so well that you are disappointed I told you to choose A, but And I also understand why You give too much importance to external beauty. Now I'm not saying that Beauty is very important. But you give it too much weight. In my calculations, on these enormous I know that beauty of the success of But your old-fashioned because of things that happened give this data, 27.5%, which is far too high. So believe me, even that B is the right And this is an If enough people enough a good answer that they will more and more decisions big things will be Authority will shift from the inner feelings to the wisdom of these This is a very favorite topic and books, and whatever. The usual plot of science goes like this. Computers or robots Then there is a big war or humans and computers. And the computers are so They can do anything, understand the inner They don't understand And this is why humanity This is a very common plot because their So they have to sell Otherwise people won't buy it. People won't like it. But there is a fallacy here. And the fallacy is that why or robots will not the feelings, love, whatever? It's not some otherworldly It's, at least according it's an algorithm. So why think that be able to understand OK, it's a It's not an But what's the difference? The mathematics is the same. The calculations are Why does it matter The second fallacy, is that most of these but most of them of war between or humans and robots. When the far more likely seeing now, is not We are talking about a merger the biochemical and the or not necessarily a struggle. Now there is one hovers over this And this is whether the Does life really than information processing? It may seem like it when and books on the discovery but there is still one And this is the question of subjective experiences. What is called in philosophy the We now understand how to find correlations or electrochemical and certain subjective But we are very, able to understand how is of electrochemical creates a subjective experience or whatever. The life sciences-- of them-- have this don't know how to explain years with more we will understand how transformed into But at present in 2015 Still today we don't have a clue can turn into Maybe the life sciences Maybe humans and reducible to algorithms. This is an open question. However, in historical as you might think because does not have to be correct to take over the world. We have many cases when religions and said what we think today to about the world, nevertheless In scientific terms the story, tells about the world, how humans were created, how it's not true. It's simply not true, at But this did not from taking over So you don't need the truth Similarly with these maybe they are based on a but this will not from taking over the world. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] AUDIENCE: Hi. My question is a bit random, And how we're now But some of the talked about how like around the agricultural there was no patriarchy. It was equal society caught small animals, and So at what point in human YUVAL HARARI: Did AUDIENCE: Yes. YUVAL HARARI: Well, the Do you hear me? The simplest answer One of the things I is that when we we can simply say we don't know. We have very little idea prior to the After the agricultural when we have in mass and then written that they were patriarchal. Like you see even you find the remains of after the agricultural You see that in times of famine and kept the boys. The boys were fed-- you see in far more from malnutrition than So this is a clear evidence after the agricultural How did gender relations, how did they look like 20,000 There are many theories. We have no firm evidence. Even if 50,000 years ago there or an egalitarian the case in the So even if feminism, returns things to what they in terms of the it's still probably the that occurred. What is even more is that not only we don't know years ago, we don't have at for patriarchy. Many people think that the and the domination is obvious because men The problem with this is that in human societies, there is no direct correlation and social power. In human society, for usually dominate even though they are Or when you look like the Catholic church, the strongest And he did not go around beating all the You become pope or by building coalitions Social skills are the key for And it's often argued that women They are better in compromising. They are better at understanding what other people want. Whereas men are much and have difficulty about what other So if this is true we should And among our closest cousins in we indeed find So how come in Homo in most societies in women were dominated by men? We just don't know at present. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] it could AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. AUDIENCE: By the group. YUVAL HARARI: Which? AUDIENCE: If you like if you have more likely to win YUVAL HARARI: Ah, but it's Again, if the main again you get to a situation AUDIENCE: I'm not saying it is. I'm just saying it YUVAL HARARI: OK. AUDIENCE: It's very Thank you for your presentation. I have a couple of comments. Maybe you want to expand on So on the point that going to happen in the future so there are people Jeremy Rifkin, for about the zero marginal So which poses a So we have some YUVAL HARARI: Yeah, there It's not the is leading the world of the future of the job market. This is exactly the problem. AUDIENCE: Right. The other thing that I so when you say communism and then say, OK, this is think of it as an and compare it to disagree there because I think with religions because system on irrationality, or less based on a belief And maybe that's the reason so to speak, because were trained to think rationally So, but let's move on. On the issue of, ask did liberal society did the church do think of Gregor Mendel, right, But I will go to something did the United States It didn't. It provided a framework. It provided the So the church provided the and for a lot of other things. So I think we sort But my biggest points is I agree with I'm very liberal myself. I probably have 10% that but one thing that you is the role of society, between humans. I mean, I don't the question of go and think about what I mean, there's the test or track experiment, or or whatnot. It's also about the bond And I think-- would has a factor in [INAUDIBLE]. And then speaking of Google and So I'm going to fight from YUVAL HARARI: OK. So I'll try to answer to the different questions. Well, about social when you look at make decisions We don't really go and and decide from there. The impact of society But, again, as I said with religions and ideology When they tell us connect to and make your And this is how we our politcs-- it's not true. But in terms of is what they are selling us believe, that we go and we buy whatever The fact that our brain was by commercials and so forth, AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] YUVAL HARARI: Within yourself there is And nothing can really touch it. Nothing can really change it. Now, we know that it's not true. But this is why it's an Now I will also say I call it a religion and It's really a of how you define things. Many people define in God or supernatural powers. Nobody defines it as Religious people think They never say, I'm Maybe a few of them do, but don't think that religion is Now, if you define then, yes, liberalism they are not religions. And certainly data But this is a very narrow There have been in which gods played a very and Confucianism. And we still call them religion. For me the basic is in terms of the in history and in society. Religion gives legitimacy by hanging on to some super We come to people and we say, And they ask, why? So you don't answer, or because a couple of and now you must obey. This won't work. You must go to some Now there are two kinds we find throughout story. One kind is gods. They are these superior If you don't do this, They'll punish you. But there is another was common throughout is to turn to natural laws. The argument is human laws, were not invented by humans. They reflect the laws of nature. Therefore they They are not random and You have to follow them. So this is the case with This is the case also with The Nazis come and not Hitler that invented this that they should be This is the laws of nature. Natural selection, There are different biological Now we can say that Darwin and the But in their eyes, the laws, did not reflect some whim It reflected the And if we don't we will disappear, that have disappeared before us. So in this sense I speak about these ideologies because they fulfill They give legitimacy to And the last question that the church did But it's not really the church. I'm not sure that-- AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. YUVAL HARARI: Yeah, I'm not sure if he knew what Gregor or what would come out of it. Which is not the same financing the Manhattan Project. They knew exactly where they So I think that there AUDIENCE: So a few kind of One is what is your of at least a myth or that was matriarchal And I wonder if it being supported by are the reasons that this That's one question. And the other one is with not all science fiction And specifically-- YUVAL HARARI: I know. AUDIENCE: No, were talking I was thinking who exactly have the about these exact things. And I wonder how you think our future history, so to speak. YUVAL HARARI: OK. So about the Minoan As far as I know, but you as far as I know it was for a matriarchal society, Today the archaeological and system show that it was probably maybe a little less, but it was We have some genuine examples For instance, I think there in the southwest is a genuine matriarchal but this is very, very rare. The vast majority of known to science in the last About science fiction, yeah, There are many strands follow the basic script like the &quot;Frankenstein&quot; script, But even in the case of the the most interesting is between biology Very often when people that I raised in the they give all the importance science to our ability to create and computer programs. But in my eyes the is actually from The really big revolution are telling us that biochemical algorithms. If they didn't tell can have all the advances It won't impinge on humanity. You will still are something And all the advances in OK, we'll have better computers. We'll have better robots, make much of a difference to us. Where it becomes really is that once you is a contribution of that actually humans then you can make And this is the really This is also why I think like Google that started simply are moving more and more to And then the two industries The most fundamental comes from the life organisms are algorithms. This is the most important, And also the most because we don't Currently, it's just dogma. We don't have any explanation can create subjective Indeed, in the field as far as I know, we're subjective experiences It's just a dogma that It's the same. To give another in the 19th century to understand humans, and the or whatever you would one of the main theories algorithms. Humans were steam engines. This is the basic at the basis of Humans usually try in terms of the most of the day. Ah, we are like is the most sophisticated In 1900, the most the most sophisticated which was the basis was the steam engine. So people came and said, ah, the There are valves and there So even today we say that when like we pick up the telephone The idea is that the human being It has all these And if you block it And much of Freudian So today this sounds Oh, the human being is We have a much better So we say, ah, humans are They are like computers. But at present at least We don't have the hard AUDIENCE: This is sort of, I So you may skip if you But reading your to me and one of that you have absolutely no Is that really true? Do you have any of any nation, religion? You may skip that. YUVAL HARARI: Well, it's Maybe the highest compliment is that he or she has no bias. I tried to write the book I think you can read that there are some things some ideologies, that I like more than others. But I think that my is above all to describe It's very important to decide what is good, what is But the most basic to describe reality. And if you start with a certain you become blind because one thing almost is that it's complex. You take any the agricultural revolution, you will always find some bad and some neutral So if you start with you can't see at AUDIENCE: Thank you It was really, really-- [APPLAUSE]