What if I told you the country responsible for this was once great at fighting deforestation? In recent years, one man has become synonymous with destruction in the Brazilian Amazon: former President Jair Bolsonaro. His lax policies allowed swaths of rainforest to be razed to the ground. "During the last four years, the Amazon was a place without law." But it wasn't always this bad. In fact, Brazil was once good at protecting its forests. The country previously reduced deforestation in the Amazon by 80% over the course of eight years. This downward trend started in the early 2000s under President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. Most just know him as "Lula." And now, Bolsonaro is out and Lula is back. But Brazil has changed dramatically in the last decades. So, will the country be able to combat deforestation again? Here's the thing: What Brazilian politicians decide to do with their part of the Amazon concerns us all. Even if Bolsonaro says: Of course, the most affected are the millions of people living there. And the hundreds of thousands of plant and animal species. But the Amazon also plays a vital role in absorbing enormous amounts of CO2. That keeps the gas from heating the atmosphere and making scenes like these more and more common around the world. "It's a buffer for climate change. But by deforesting the Amazon, we are destroying our buffer. That is accelerating the climate change, the extreme events." This is Luciana Gatti, a senior researcher with Brazil's National Institute for Space Research. She found that the Amazon has been destroyed to such an extent that it's now emitting more carbon than it takes in. That's partly because the fires used to clear the forest release tons of it. "If we don't stop it immediately, this process, we will lose this part of Amazon forest. It will become the tipping point." Oof, okay, that sounds depressing. I promise we're getting to the solutions. But first, we need to understand what has allowed us to deforest 17% of the Brazilian Amazon. Here's a clue: It's a moneymaker. And this goes all the way back to the 1970s. At that point, the rainforest was largely untouched. But the military regime that was in power pursued an agenda of nationalism and economic development. It decided exploiting its biggest forest was the way to boost Brazil's economy. "The military in Brazil, they were seeing the region as a region to be conquered." Ilona Szabo is the president of Instituto Igarape, a think tank specializing in climate and security issues. "The government was paying for people to go to the Amazon and basically said 'whatever you can deforest will be yours.'" The regime did this to convince people to settle in a forest it considered to be uninhabited. Although, of course, there were Indigenous communities there. It built a massive highway to make it easier to navigate across the Amazon. And incentivized Brazilians to move there to log for timber and raise cattle. Over the coming decades, these businesses proved to be very lucrative. Especially because more and more people were eating meat around the world. And farmers needed lots of protein-rich soy to feed their livestock. So the rainforest had to continue making space for cattle pastures and soy fields. And as laws became stricter, land clearing also happened illegally. But then, in 2003, came a turning point. Lula took office as president at a time when deforestation was soaring. He appointed a minister, Marina Silva, who really put the rainforest on the agenda with immense success. From 2004 to 2012, deforestation in the Amazon went down by 80%. There are three major components that made this happen. First, a massive expansion of protected areas. The administration added millions of hectares to be preserved. By 2010, more than 40% of the Amazon was officially under protection. These areas include conservation units and Indigenous territories. Designating new Indigenous territories was especially important because they've been shown to conserve the forest very successfully. This is Adriana Ramos. She coordinates the NGO Instituto Socioambiental, which focuses on environmental and Indigenous rights. "So the way Indigenous people in other traditional communities deal with the forest is what makes the forest important for us.&quot; In general, all the new protections worked as a huge deterrent. "Because once you have a protected area, the expectation that one will make money with that land will end." But that didn't mean people could deforest all they wanted in unprotected areas. Here, landowners could only farm on 20% of their territories. And to ensure this, the government ramped up its monitoring. It improved its satellite system to detect deforestation in real time. And it gave better training to environmental authorities and law enforcement to crack down on illegal activities. The final step was to tackle the supply chains. This only became a talking point due to pressure from civil society. Greenpeace had published studies linking deforestation in the Amazon to soy and beef bought by major food companies. The public outcry paid off. It resulted in the soy moratorium and the beef moratorium: Voluntary agreements between big food producers to stop buying these goods from newly deforested areas. The soy moratorium was especially successful. It's estimated to have saved 18 thousand square kilometers of forest over a decade. You might wonder: How did this affect the economy in the Amazon? Well, it still kept growing. Agricultural production actually went up as deforestation decreased. That's because farmers were not using their land efficiently before, and pastures often remained empty. Soon, they were forced to plant crops in some of these underused pastures. And stock more cattle on them. If this all sounds too good to be true, it's because it was. Around 2013, deforestation rates started climbing again. During a time of political turmoil, conservative allies of the agribusiness had pushed to weaken the laws protecting forests. And big infrastructure projects were creeping into the Amazon, too. Like this hydroelectric dam, approved by none other than Lula. He said it was necessary for Brazil's energy supply. But it was in 2019 that things really started looking bad for the rainforest. Jair Bolsonaro took office. And his far-right platform included lots of anti-environment rhetoric. Remember the paradigm from the 1970s that deforesting was key to boosting the economy? It came back. Bolsonaro publicly pushed for more mining in Indigenous territories. And his administration weakened the environmental enforcement agencies, shrinking their budgets and pushing out staff. This created a climate of impunity. "That really opened the space for the consolidation of the criminal activities that were already there, but then that were coupled with much more organized criminal networks, much more resources from other illicit economies." The illegal destruction of the Amazon increasingly became part of sophisticated networks trafficking drugs, guns and laundering money. As a result, deforestation rates soared over the next four years. "It's really hard. We are observing humanity walking faster to the collapse." But Bolsonaro was not reelected. Lula beat him with a razor-thin margin in 2022. And one of the first things he did was go to the UN climate talks and announce: He immediately sent more law enforcement into the field to stop loggers and land grabbers. In January 2023, deforestation was already down 61% on the same month the year before. But that doesn't mean it will be an easy path. Brazil has changed a lot since Lula first took office 20 years ago. &quot;It's a different country. No doubt about it.&quot; This is Eduardo Viola from the University of Sao Paulo. He's referring to a set of new challenges, like rebuilding all the institutions Bolsonaro's administration dismantled. &quot;The description of the people that are taking office is that what they found is unthinkable in terms of the lack of information, of the history of what happened, the level of public servants that asked to leave.&quot; The good news is that Lula's former environment minister has agreed to come back. But now, her ministry will face a rainforest eroded beyond recognition. Filled with sprawling criminal networks and illegal landing strips for their planes. Another hurdle will be to counter the powerful agribusiness lobby. While Lula won the presidency, he doesn't necessarily have Congress on his side. &quot;These forces in favor of illegal activity in the Amazon are much more strong politically at the local level and the state level than they were 20 years ago.&quot; We have seen in the past that they're capable of getting laws weakened. And the industry will continue having this political influence as long as it profits off the rocket-high demand for Brazilian agriculture. &quot;The world is eating the Amazon! As beef, as soybean, as corn. People, please stop buying this from the Amazon. Help us!&quot; These challenges are real and they are significant. But Lula's administration also faces a set of opportunities. The opportunity to improve land productivity and farm more efficiently. To boost green economies that use the region's resources without depleting them or cutting down trees. That includes commercializing more products native to the forest and eco-tourism. Brazil can also share its knowledge and successes with other forest giants, like Indonesia or the Democratic Republic of Congo. &quot;So, I hope we go back to the world scene not only as a green power, but as a generous one that will bring others along. This step is crucial because we may not be able to put a price tag on saving our rainforests, but we will pay the price if we don't. What do you think? Will Brazil be able to overcome these obstacles and crack down on deforestation? Let us know in the comments and don't forget to subscribe to see more videos like these.