(gentle music) Good morning guys. Here in Erath, Louisiana, Deep in the heart of Cajun country. And today we're going on a road trip across the southern part of the state all the way to a town called Cut Off. And from the locals I they said, you're going on a You'll most likely see things and meet some very interesting Let's do this. (gentle music) So I've been told in Louisiana above ground because of the flooding. At least in this part. And you can see some of And that's because, I guess that high. And look at these homes, It's a good five feet off the ground. From what I'm guessing you lift the home or if you've But you can see they've put the trellising around the bottom there. Now this is hurricane country. Some people have left. Seems like the type of town Bank of Erath, look at that It's just got a stuck in time feel. First impressions, very peaceful feeling. - Sir, what was jr's - Like a gas station People pick, come to get gas, you go in there and get - [Peter] Did you guys really when the hurricanes come through? - Oh yeah. You get help from all over. - You get help from all over? in the night ward, they still cleaning up - [Peter] How long ago was that? - That's been years ago. Years. - They're still cleaning up. - [Peter] And you guys - Oh yeah, here, over But where I'm at in New - Oh, New Iberia! - [Peter] Do most of the people - Yeah. - Yeah. - No. No. - Most. Oh yeah. Around here, that's all- - [Peter] How far is the Gulf of Mexico? - Maybe 20 miles. - [Peter] Oh, it's 20 miles. Okay. - [Peter] But you smell the salt air here. - Oh yeah, Well you see, you go over when you get near Intracoastal City, you can't go no further. Nothin' but water. If you want to go any further, you get in a plane or boat or whatever. But not by land. - [Peter] You got some potatoes here? - [Peddler] I got $10 sacks and $8 sacks. - [Peter] I'll get a $10 sack. - Down in Tabasco town, - [Peter] What? - Tabasco, pepper, hot sauce. - [Peter] You got a lot here? - No. That's in New Iberia I mean, if you want to go - [Peter] Yeah, I think I gotta go. I'm doing it, sir. - Oh yeah, oh yeah. - All the best. Love the people here. - Oh yeah. My cooking's not as good though. I don't know what I'm gonna do with those. - You bake 'em. - You got good food down here. - Some of the best. - Sir, you take care. Thank you. - [Peddler] Alright. - That's how it is down here. Everyone is, so far, my five days in Southern Louisiana is like that. Everyone's super open It's a very warm culture down here. (gentle music) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) Check out this, called Mexican fish. Some beautiful buildings in this town. (gentle music continues) Looks like it's having a little comeback. Nice town you got here. You're not feeling it? - Glad you think so. All these old buildings - Well that's cool. You're bringing it back. - I mean, you can tell all - [Peter] Yeah. And That is beautiful. - They got a place that's Man, they have, I forget how They always have reenactments of wars. I wanna say that was some kind of shelter or something during one I don't know. But I mean it's a cool building. - [Peter] Is this the would you say? - Now that the older people are dying off, not so much. towards the swamps. Get real deep. - [Peter] Go into the swamps? I'm going down to Cut Off today. - Ho Ho. Okay. - I've never been there, but I know about where it's at. - [Peter] That's deep Cajun swamp, right? - Yeah. - Yes. - [Peter] You don't even go there, huh? - No. - [Peter] I'm pumped up for Cut Off. - Good luck. - Alright man. You have a good one, bro. Be safe. (Cajun French music on a radio) It's really mixed here. You have a mansion next to a trailer, next to a mansion next What an interesting place. (man continues singing Jeanerette has the cheapest prices. Look at this cool old '50's style. - Fourth generation of - Yep. in business for 100 years? - Yeah, as of last Thursday. - [Peter] And you're - Same family. - Thank you. Enjoy yourself. our congratulatory flowers right now. - [Peter] That's so cool. - [Peter] Thank you. They really kept it looking the same. Which is such a great look. And then you see this in Jeanerette, you know, obviously the jobs and gone away. And with that goes the It just takes a business or and really turn a place like this around. That could be something Look at that! Since 1884. Wow. Side entrance. (fans humming) (bell dings) Hollywood? What's the story here? - Oh. - Ain't got time for a talk. - You don't got time to talk? You gotta bake, huh? What should I get? What do I need here? - [Men] French bread. - [Peter] Sign me up. I'm in. You're the sixth generation? to run it by the same family. - Wow. handed down and handed down. - Cajun family? - [Peter] Wow. Oh that's what it is, Hollywood. The French bread. Okay. Melt in your mouth. - [Peter] Oh yeah, that's what you want. - That oven was put in in 1940. - Oh wow! Master Baker. - That's like a Ferris wheel. That's the old brick old oven. 1907. - [Peter] Oh great. - One before that was It was right here. - [Peter] How's business? - Business is a little slow right now. - [Peter] It's just all - Yeah. Why do you, why do you think? - Inflation. - People feeling it. The ginger cake ingredients - But I can't go up double on my price. - So it's really coming right now for the consumer, - Yep. - $2.50. And people are having - Yeah. - [Peter] Is that one of your specialties? - Yeah, that's what we known That's what they would back in the 1800s and 1900s. This is a big sugar cane industry. - Oh, okay. and they'll keep a man full all day. So wherever there's, sugar industry, like if you go to Jamaica with - [Peter] Oh, okay. Hollywood, what time are - 1:30. What time are you going to bed - (laughs) When he leave me alone. - (laughs) When do you - (laughs) He don't bother me. But I'm just playing. - Holly- about 6:00, 7:00 o'clock. - About around 7:00? Yeah. - Oh, around 26 years. - Oh wow. - [Rickey] How you found us? - I'm just on this road to Cut Off and I didn't want to go on the main road. When I had on my Google a bakery came up. - Okay. than I could have imagined. - We've had people buy this like tourists and two weeks that's sayin' y'all bread is better than our bread over here. - See. - That's great. - That's not a horse and buggy. That's the first motorized - So how does it- the first motorized vehicle. - [Peter] 1901. Do you remember as a kid - This is a awesome little town. A lot of industry here. Saw mills and the sugar industry was big, industry had built farm All that's dwindling down. - [Peter] When did that go away? - Probably in the last - Okay, so people left town or? - Yeah. Me growing up you couldn't They had a Catholic school - [Peter] So all of these - This little bitty town - Wow. - Oh it's so cool. He just And I said, &quot;Not really 'cause I'm And I said, &quot;How much?&quot; He's like, &quot;Not too long.&quot; I'm like, &quot;What do you have in mind?&quot; And he said, &quot;I can show that you would normally not get.&quot; So let's go check that out. - I thought you had seen me. I'm sorry. I was waiting right here. When I seen you turn around the corner, I thought you knew my truck. I thought you were gonna follow. I took off and then I This is it, probably- - You getting to see probably one of the nicest places around. (gravel crunching) - You got these massive live oaks. - I think it was built in the 1700s. You're very fortunate - [Peter] Oh, thank you. Oh wow. What a place. - Could you imagine living - Shew! Everything's so It was all about showing your wealth, huh? - Yep. This was probably put in in the 1900s. The kitchen was always in case they would catch a fire, they could put it out before You have a door right here You open them two doors and they always face the You'll get a breeze coming through here and it pulls it through - [Peter] So without it would cool off enough in here? - Yeah. That's why the ceilings are And this was like a wind - [Peter] Yeah. So the people that bought - They want people to see it. Yeah. - [Peter] The community to see it. - They want the community to see it. They having a creole festival, and they doing that to raise money to try and bring back down downtown. - Oh that's cool. - They bought a bunch of buildings and they refurbishing the building. - [Peter] That's awesome. So they're really trying - They want to bring the place back. - [Peter] Try to help with that. - Yep. This was the front in the 1700s. 'Cause the main travel was the bayou. The sugar mill was right here. - Oh, right up there? And then the sugar would But the main was horse and - So in Louisiana, sugar was the big crop? - Big crop. - Still is to this day. (water trickling) And you see the moss? - They used to have moss that they would make They would shove that in the mattresses and they would shove it in - I could have used that. The last five days I had Didn't let me sleep none. You grew up here all your - [Rickey] I never saw this place until Jared started taking it over. - [Peter] Your friend that - Yeah. Just couldn't see it. That's why I said that's a treat for you to be able to see this place. - Thank you. and never could see it. - You'd drive by and always - Yep. The old lady lived here and she was an old widow just- - By herself. - Her husband I think got killed from, after her husband passed. - [Peter] This would be by yourself I would think. Don't you think? (engine humming) The ingredients is still We use hog lard, which that's They didn't have shortening And we still put hog lard. - [Peter] What's hog lard? - That's when they kill a pig and they make a butchering That's the grease. - [Peter] You put that grease in there? - In there. So that gives it the flavor? - Instead of modern day shortening. We still use the same recipe from 1884. How many businesses in the United States six generations still going? Normally the third generation loses it. - [Peter] Yeah. - This is six generations - [Peter] If your son didn't - Oh, unless somebody would buy it. But... - [Peter] But in the family- - I want somebody in the family to take. - Alright, finally gonna Been looking forward to this moment. Alright. Mm. That is delicious bread. That is amazing. Mm. And that's what does it, Let's try the ginger cakes. Alright, these are very dense, heavy. So good. Rickey's doing it right. Well his family's done it Hopefully it continues. (tractor rumbles) I believe that's sugar. So there's still a lot going The history of this is pretty dark. I'm sure most of you know of it. But thank God we're in 2024 and now it's tractors and times So the Acadians, the Cajuns, ended up in Nova Scotia, Then the British came in, the sovereignty of their 1755 to 1763, I believe. There were roughly 10,000 It went to different parts of the US and also back to France. But Louisiana was one of And they came down here because well, beyond and a lot of heat in the summer and difficult place to crack So they came down here and And to this day a lot of the They really hold onto their food culture. There is a distinct feeling here, a Cajun feeling I'd say Try my best to show it through the camera. But they really do take in their food and their connections with their family and their friends. There are a lot of events here and it's one of those places and you definitely get a hi back. (thoughtful music) (thoughtful music continues) - [Rickey] He said for me to tell you, if you ever come back in this area, he'll let you stay in that house for free. - Oh, that's so cool. like entertain you or whatever, show you some of the culture around here. - [Peter] Oh, that's so cool. I really appreciate it Rickey. I'm almost through all your ginger cake. I got one left. They're really good. - [Rickey] What you What you thought about the bread? - Oh I love the bread. I just got to the border of the Chitimacha reservation. - [Rickey] Hopefully Don't they have like a little - [Peter] Yeah, they got something. I'll find something. I'll run into the Chitimacha - [Rickey] Alright. (laughs) Take care, man. - Alright, appreciate it, - [Rickey] Uh huh. - You're welcome. Bye bye. (truck hums) - We're now entering the sovereign nation of the Chitimacha. Pavement changes. The Chitimacha have been in roughly around 6,000 years. There's supposedly 285 But back in the day, their because they were deep in the swamps. So they didn't need fortifications and they could get quite large. The villages were up to 500 people. And reservations are always interesting. Everyone is different. Some are doing very well, others are doing very poorly. This one has a casino that I think funds a lot of what's going on here. I could imagine. It's very small. I mean we're talking, I don't know, a couple miles to get through. It's not like Navajo Nation, which is bigger than New Jersey. Just talked to a local Unfortunately he didn't but what he said was they are more like a 1000 Chitimachas these days. And it's growing. And they're also expanding businesses. So they have the casino, and I guess they're getting another market and they're buying more land. So, from the sounds of it, things are going good out here. Let's see if we can talk to someone here. I'm pointing the camera this way. (ladies laugh) Camera's going over here. Just talked to two wonderful ladies. - [Ladies] Bye bye. - You gave great information. You guys are so cool. - Alright, come back (indistinct). - All the best. - Take care. - But they don't wanna be on camera. And that's just how it goes sometimes. On these reservations, quite often you need the administration to approve of any videoing with people. For someone like that, that So unfortunately that's the story. But they have their They have dental, health, This is very cool inside. Really beautiful, strongly, from the outside, but It's done really well. Super interesting. The tribe's growing. They're proud. Crime extremely low. The good and the bad is That's what they just told me. So when everyone knows everyone, well people know if someone's and that kid gets called out really quickly by the community. But then also everyone knows Let's cruise around a little more. I'm trying guys, I'm to talk on camera. And I get it. Often people are skeptical like, what are you gonna do with this? Are you gonna make us look bad? What kind of content is this in? And yeah, that's just Look at the streets here. Choctaw, Cherokee, Seminole, Mohawks, Seneca, Martin Luther King Jr. Lot of respect towards the Seminoles. They just brought them up in conversation. I said, &quot;How is the tribe doing?&quot; And they said, &quot;Well So in the tribal world, the Seminoles are often looked up to, because they didn't sign a And they've done extremely For those that don't know, Basically the cavalry gave up and said, we're not gonna go and alligators to control you. And now the Seminoles own they own the big casino outside they own a lotta stuff and they So they said here, they if someone's going full-time. So 5,000 per semester. Dental, health, I don't know if there's any stipend here, but it's very small. We've almost seen it all. It's great to see reservations like this that are taken care of and (footsteps crunching) You guys were big in Is that the story? - [Peter] And you're Chitimachan? - Yes sir. - 1/4. Okay. - [Peter] And you live - Yes sir. - How is it- - [Peter] How is it? - It's pretty fun. It's a very tight knit community. I really enjoyed it. You had some people who they enjoyed it or appreciated it. I never let that get to me. But it's a nice community. - [Peter] Everyone helps - Yeah. We try to. We try to do as much as we can to try to keep the community together. - [Peter] They're like - Right Around. There are some Chitimachans who don't live strictly here on the reservation. We're spread out all across the country. 'Cause I got family who live all over who are all Native American. - [Peter] Okay. 6,000 years. Proud of that? I'm surprised we lasted. 'Cause you know we are like left in the United States. And we're pretty close - [Peter] Does anyone speak - Not fluently. They do teach it at the tribal school on the reservation though. - [Peter] Okay. Cool. - I know a little bit, but I know a little bit. I try to remember it. - [Peter] But you're - Oh of course. - [Peter] Many different looks. 'Cause I wouldn't guess you're - Oh yeah. We come in - [Peter] You have a red beard. I've seen some real dark skin. I've seen light skin and - Yep. - Because when I was growing up, I was one of like the only that went to the Native But over time, like I because we didn't really have many people who could keep the bloodline going because there were so many tight families, which would be pretty So we didn't, we didn't do that. - [Peter] So when it gets that small, you have to seek out others because you'll just be all inbred. Right? - That makes sense. keep the bloodline, but If you went to the tribal school now everyone there is probably my complexion. You don't have a lotta people - [Peter] So as long as you - Is that what it is? I think it's not a quarter. I think it might be bigger than that. - Okay. - Oh wow. 1/16. - How you doing? - The bus? - Are you Chitimachan, ma'am? - Uh-uh? - I'm not a Chitimachan. I wish I could have been. (both laugh) - [Peter] You drive the school bus here. - I drive the school bus. - [Peter] How is that going? Because I've seen signs we're hiring school bus drivers. - They need bus drivers like bad. That's Texas, that's Louisiana, - [Peter] Nobody wants to do it or what? - It's just that it takes special people to do this job. - [Peter] To deal with all the kids? You gotta have patience. a lot of patience. - [Peter] Do you lay - I lay down the law. - [Peter] You don't put - I don't put up with nothing. - [Peter] You stop the bus? - And I let the kids know I love 'em, but at the same time, I'm not and I'm not gonna mistreat them. If I see one acting up, you know, getting off and I Boom. That one kid. I close my door and I That way he don't, that kid don't feel and they feel they could understand that. You know, it's a rapport, you know you gotta gain - [Peter] And then they like you for that. - And then they like me like most bus drivers I don't do 'em like that. Okay. So are you driving - I drive for Rain Tree. - That is, I think that's - That's the Chitimachan school. Okay. - Well then I drive for the, - Cool. But you like it out here? - I love it out here. I love it. I love what I do. I love it. - [Peter] I bet if you go to New Orleans or even out of the state, very few people know of the tribe here. - Yeah, even my girlfriend by Metairie and when I go down They had no idea. - [Peter] That you guys exist? And they don't, they don't understand there's its own jurisdiction, your own police force, your own schools. - Oh yeah. - Yeah. But not really a hospital. I mean we have a clinic. - Yeah, pretty much on the reservation it's our own federal government. So we still kind of abide by state and on certain situations. But other than that it's us. We have our own rules and everything. - [Peter] Ah, that's cool man. - Growing up, we always, every morning before we started school, we had to start and we had to and then we said your normal pledge. So every morning we stood (speaking in Chitimacha language) (man continues speaking in Chitimacha language) (pensive music) (pensive music continues) (pensive music continues) - So we're nine minutes from Cut Off. And this is definitely I thought Cut Off was and really primitive. But that's not the Cut Off (pensive music continues) (pensive music continues) - [Man] This is probably pretty good. - This place is good? And then my mother-in-law owns this place. - [Peter] I was gonna go there. - They closed today, on Mondays. - Ah. - [Peter] Okay. - I've never had the crawfish here. And look, I live right here. Never had the crawfish there. Now my wife and mother-in-law and my a sister-in-law eat the crawfish at Binny B's and they love it. - Are you from Cut Off, sir? - How's it going here? - It's cool. - It's all fishing? Is - Fishing? Yeah, pretty much. But sportsman's, you know? Anything hunting, fishing. What are you doing here? - I'm a mechanic for the South - Oh cool! So you just keep these levees going? - Levees and the engines in between here there's two flood gates. So we stop the water from with flood gates and - [Peter] So a big hurricane comes, does that help with that? - Yes sir. - [Peter] Okay. Okay. You know I was in Lafayette this morning. I told people I was going to Cut Off. They said be careful down there. - Oh, come on. Why? - I don't know. And they've never been. They don't know what - Good place man. - If you would've came here two years ago. - What? from the storm, Ida. - [Peter] Ida. It just wrecked this place? - Oh yeah. - Bad? - [Peter] Like the homes did okay? Or those look like new homes. - [Mechanic] Yeah, so this home is mine and this is my mother-in-law's. - This is yours? - [Peter] Okay. And your mother-in-law's. - My mother-in-law's. I have minimal damage. There's a lot of people you know? - [Peter] And then you just to keep 'em up. Yeah, she lifted hers about a year and a half - [Peter] You just get a big crane or a machine to lift 'em up? - So what it is, they come in here with And they'll run some H I think it's my house, and this house, I think it was three And what they do is, it's all on a big hydraulic machine. So they lift the whole and then they'll put the pads - [Peter] Ah, that's cool man. Alright. I'm digging it. You guys are the coolest people. - Appreciate it man. - Yeah. - Yeah. - [Mechanic] You too. - They got some shrimp gumbo here at Cher Amie's Seafood (patrons murmuring) Oh yeah. What a cool town. Shrimp, potatoes, Cajun smell, seasoning. Look at these big guys. Your parents didn't Why? - Last name like Tyler. That's Texan. Uh-uh. You needed Cajun. - They thought I was from Texas, but I was born in Golden Meadow. - [Peter] They wanted you to - A French speaking French last name. - [Peter] So how's your French? (Gary speaking in foreign language) - I get by, whatever. - But you speak fluent French? - Oh yeah. (Gary speaking in foreign language) And friends that do speak French, but- - [Peter] So okay. - Cajun is a broken French. It's not real Parisian, but yet - Although I'm working on it. That's my goal this year is to write it and read it. - [Peter] So the big thing here was oil? Before? - Oil. Trapping. it was a shrimping industry. - Trapping industry and oysters. So it evolved when the oil field came in, when people from Texas moved over. And wanted to drill. Late '30s, early '40s. It really started booming. My dad came down in '39 to the oil field in this area. So he stayed. - So how are the- - Okay. - Her family has and still has the oldest operating - How old? And they used to build dugouts and small vessels out of cypress that they would harvest - So your family's one that came over? - No. directly from France. - Okay. Interesting. I would always speak French with my mother and my sisters. Especially when I didn't want him to understand what I was saying. And it just so happens asked if I thought Wayne of good, a second helping. And he answered her and said yes I would. I mean I wanted to kill him. - Her sister actually had She was drying some dishes. And she started hitting - [Peter] Aw. - Because she said, &quot;I can't believe you understand Two or three years. And you understood what (Wayne laughs) - [Peter] Well you're - Yeah. - Only 51, 52 years. - Yeah. - I mean- - Start again. - [Peter] Wayne what? What'd you say? - When Wayne asked me &quot;No, I don't need a man. I have the three Cs. Cash, car and cable. Three Cs. But they're different I'm doing laundry all the time. - [Peter] So you're saying Wayne is high maintenance basically? - Very! - I'm worth it. She graduated college at 19 years old with a four year degree. - Oh wow. 4.0. - Education. - Teaching. She's been trying to teach me ever since. (Gary laughs) - [Peter] You've been the - And she says there's not enough time. If you're ever back down here. - Peter, if ever you're bring your wife and you can stay with me. - Aw. - You guys are sweet. - You might not like it, but we have room. - [Man on Right] Trust - That was so cool. Those locals saw me sitting alone, inviting me over. Great conversation. What a journey today. And if you look at a map, I think we didn't even get across half of southern Louisiana. There's so much more to explore. But just in that little The towns all had different identities. People were uniformly awesome. Moral of the story as the man said, I believe in New Iberia, when I forget what he said exactly, but it was like, ah, don't go there. Or something's up with that place. You never know until you go. And this is definitely not what I thought it would be at all. It's actually quite nice and I think that's a lesson for all of us. Whether that be a state, You know, we think we might but until you really go and see Alright guys, part of a greater I did a couple great before this one, and then tomorrow I'm with a local Cajun swamp guy who's gonna show us what Thanks for coming along. Until the next one. (pensive music) (pensive music continues)