This video is brought to you by Aura. systems are the conundrum of making the most out Unless you've had your head in the sand, it's a so many different battery technologies are being the point that some of them are now coming out Finland where the world's first commercial sand work and is it a viable path for storing energy? Before digging into the sand battery, we should storage (TES), which is the technology behind on a regular basis, you've probably noticed I've talked about heat storage with phase change solar power plants. Chemical storage isn't the You can convert renewables into heat and store thermal or heat battery. But why should we care the Energy Information Administration (EIA), accounted for 46% of US buildings' energy demand Over 50% of new American homes still rely on based on a recent study, warming up water in industrial processes such as brick and food drying You may see why developing more thermal storage which can help shrink the climate So, how does the technology work? Sensible heat TES solutions. Basically, you heat up a liquid energy during the day or in summer, when there's to pass electricity through a heating element in the heat, you simply lower the battery temperature can be something as simple as water or more typically integrated with concentrated solar power One of the main reasons we need to develop curtailment for renewables like solar and than demand. A good example of that is when you They've turned them off because there's no demand the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO), That's why TES systems could play a role in utility Vattenfall will soon fill up a 45-meter Fun fact: the volume of water sitting in their I don't think I'd want to take a bath in power-to-heat (P2H) plant that harvests up the water to just under 100 degC (212 degF). their giant thermos will keep water hot and This sounds promising, but what if we could But before we get to that I'd like to thank Aura I had my identity stolen this past year and had My first indication of the problem was when I taxes for the unemployment benefits I received. After that fiasco, I turned to Aura to help card fraud. They provide an all-in-one, proactive web for your emails, passwords, social security You can even link your bank accounts to monitor and setup and has 24/7 US based support. If you're navigate the credit bureaus to help resolve competition at notifying you of a problem. And all identity theft insurance. For a limited time, go to aura.com/matt or visit the link in the They believe that being safe online is a check to see if your data has already been part all of you for supporting the channel. Recently, the Finnish startup, Polar Night Energy, tall (about 7 meter) steel silo containing 100 But they're not using this storage medium to build After running a 3 MWh pilot in Tampere to heat their design and scaled it up. Teaming up with network operator, a larger battery is already municipal swimming pool, serving around 10,000 anywhere in the world where you have a district Boston, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Denver, by Polar Night Energy, their latest battery Aside from environmental benefits, this Winter over there seems never-ending and Finnish Alaska. As you can imagine, the huge heat demand costs. On the other hand, the sand battery will readily available, and then reuse it during That's why digging into it is financially handy. ever. In fact, after a recent payment dispute, so you can probably see why they'll need a Local governments are pretty pumped on the But how did Polar Night Energy turn a sand-filled to the grid, the battery receives excess solar is then converted into heat and transferred to power a resistance heater, which heats up the air, the pipes. Although it might sound complicated, which is basically how common appliances like their reservoir is well insulated from heat losses over time. Reaching temperatures could retain heat for months. When it's time to pipes inside the hot sand bed. The end result that can produce greener steam for industrial Clearly, leveraging something as simple is...hot stuff, but how does it compare to other top benefits of sand-based heat batteries. As "it's really a typical Crazy as it sounds, they won't need to Obviously, they need further components such etc. but these are all standard equipment to their key ingredient, sand. This is a key which rely on hard-to-mine metals Although Polar Night Energy could use any prioritizes upcycling the sand discarded in the And that's not the only environmental bonus. As based on the Avoided Emissions Framework, Polar 100 Mt CO2e per year in 2030. That's almost Also, unlike for chemical storage, there's no around. And that's a plus as the electrolyte lifespan is around 15 years at most. In designed by Polar Night Energy can withstand retention capacity and, as the company That claim seems very reasonable given the while lithium-ion batteries' current sweet spot the sand-based device is suitable for seasonal cooking underneath the heat-ridden sand. You won't mean, in theory, you could use the stored heat to step biting into the round trip efficiency (RTE), miles away from lithium-ion batteries, facing So, rather than turning it into electricity, it sustainable to use the renewable heat as is. For gas-fuelled boilers for warming up our buildings. you have district-scale infrastructure. could also decarbonise heat-intensive industrial I can hear you already. How do heat As mentioned earlier, the Polar Light Energy which is 100% energy efficient. Being able to work at temperatures as high per unit of volume than water, which can't go Night Energy said that their battery is about 3x The system would be most beneficial to district some industrial sites, and so on. Basically, anywhere that has an onsite steam plant could as the infrastructure is already through the pipelines, forced hot air from But what about the cost? While loads of steel pipes buried inside it, which Night Energy believe scaling up their facility To be more specific, the startup predicted their system reaches a storage capacity of researchers set a target cost below $15/kWh when Energy estimates being in line with economists' storage capacity is only 8 MWh, so it will take While sand batteries are not the panacea to role in decarbonising our power infrastructure storage solutions. Rather than idling wind they can generate energy for storage I've said it before and I'll say it again, the right job. There's no silver bullet So are you still undecided? Do you think the Jump into the comments and let me know and Still TBD where we'll be discussing some be sure to check out one of these videos for your continued support and welcome And thanks to all of you for watching.