Translator: Peter van de Ven I don't care if you live or die, I really don't. It's a hell of a thing hearing it (Laughter) but imagine hearing that On February the 24th, 2012, I was diagnosed That night, I went home and sat at a table trying to swallow the fear while telling them That's when my daughter pushed &quot;I don't care if you live or die.&quot; There was a lot of anger and that night as I tried to sleep, it kept me awake, and I kept thinking: &quot;Why can't she see what I have given her, I was a broadcast journalist - at one time I was I became a network reporter. I became a foreign correspondent; We went from the cold prairie provinces so I could cover Southeast Asia I couldn't understand but as I lay there, I began to see the truth, I couldn't remember the last time the last time I had told her or the last time I had said &quot;I love you.&quot; And suddenly I realized that the cancer A few weeks later I was in hospital to undergo what doctors call they took a scalpel and cut me to below my Adam's apple - They had to take out And as I lay in recovery, praying to a God that I did not the surgeon came in and that I had to undergo a lot of weeks So, in this time that I knew because I was more scared than ever, I decided to go to chemotherapy and deny my daughter and my wife &quot;I am so scared, please come with me.&quot; I was dying to be close but pushing (Sigh) I'd go to radiation each day, and I couldn't come home just to face so I started to go to downtown areas and hope that that distraction from the rampant thoughts that my demise was just around the corner. It's said, &quot;When you're ready to learn, but I did not know that that teacher I remember the first day I saw him, scruffy, sitting on a piece of cardboard with his little dog sitting by him, And when I first saw him, the first thing You should be up with a job. How dare you? You're not Look at me, I've got cancer, I could die. I've been with little kids in chemo. They're victims, not you.&quot; Over the next few days, I observed him as I would walk and I never saw him reach out or be overly aggressive, he just seemed kind, offering hellos One day, walking down the road, I was on the same side of the road as him. Normally, I would cross to the other side or, I guess, maybe confront my prejudice, but today I said, &quot;No, And as I started to walk by him, that little dog stood up, and then sat down and looked at me (Laughter) I reached down and I patted it, Without thinking, I opened up &quot;What's his name?&quot; He laughed at me and said, &quot;Well, (Laughter) &quot;She doesn't normally stop people What do you need?&quot; Yeah, I wish I was that kind The first thing I thought: &quot;Nice scam. (Laughter) Instead, I said to him, &quot;She must've known and I walked away. And I was confused; The next day after radiation, and either make amends I wanted to give him because we know what happens they're going to spend it I stopped and picked up some little biscuits for Molly, and as I got close, he waved and said, I was about to hand him but he stuck out his hand to shake mine. And as he did, he started as if we had been mates for a long time. I sat with him and offered up &quot;I'm not going to have this The Spanish poet Quevedo once wrote: &quot;There are no sorrows And there weren't any sorrows that day. We sat and talked like two old buddies, After a bit, he reached into his bag and his hands were shaking - He handed it to me, and I looked, and Largactil was the medication, which is used by people which I thought meant (Laughter) What it is, it's an internal jail, people get very little government help, we ignore them, we stigmatize them, and so I turned to him and said, And he looked at me and he said: &quot;What? No, I'm here raising money and he pointed at the sign. And there below the big &quot;Help&quot; - were the groups And suddenly, I realized it was For the judgment that I have had with him blinded me to the truth I saw him often after that. I remember one day, he had this cheeky smile He reached into his bag that I'd ignore as some cheap treat, but I knew from him So I reached around the box, &quot;Thank you, my friend.&quot; And he started to tear up, and he said, &quot;I don't really have friends, and I sure don't have I'd lived my life trying to be important, with TV cameras, recognition. And I never felt more important in my life Because I was important just simply I said to him that I wouldn't take the chocolates So we sat, and he opened them with great joy. And as we sat, I looked People with places to go and people that I used people that were looking down upon us I wanted to be those people for so long, but now, sitting down below, eating the best chocolates I realized the best view is right here. Sydney, Australia, does get It was a winter day as I was walking As I came upon Doug, he put Molly came up and put so I picked her up and pulled her into me and for the first time exposed And Doug said, &quot;What's that?&quot; I started to explain about the cancer. He said, &quot;I know you'll be okay,&quot; and I said, &quot;I kind of feel I am, And he grabbed my arm, and he said, &quot;No, you're going to be okay. You have a lot more to do.&quot; I have never in my life but I was that day. So I did what we men do when we are emotional I sniffled, turned my head, He was kind; he did the same. And we sat there, (Laughter) I think sometimes ... the best things are said we just exchange space. I had to get up and leave. I didn't want to say goodbye, and he just waved and smiled. Molly got up and barked I walked down that street that day, not because I was fearful or angry, Because for the first time in my life - I knew I was going to live. And for the first time in my life, The next day, I had chemotherapy, and, well, chemotherapy has a way You're slowly fed vile poison To make things worse, there was a little girl sitting She was combing the hair She had a scarf on to cover her bald head, her skin was green - God, I didn't want to look at her. Didn't want to look away either. Then suddenly - madness as I closed my eyes - and I remembered when and my best friend, Rob Austin, so I turned to her and I went ... (Laughter) That's more of a reaction (Laughter) You know what little kids can look like Well, that's the look she gave me. (Laughter) The logical thing would've been to turn that would take somebody smart, and nowhere in this talk So I did it again. This time I saw her stomach start to roll; I was wondering was she (Laughter) she started to laugh. And the laughter and I broke out in laughter. Nurses started to come in and they started to laugh. And I knew I had to see Doug and tell him: &quot;You're right, The next day, I went back downtown, and there he was: gone. He wasn't there. I didn't think much, So I went back day after day, I went back for weeks, and he wasn't there. I asked storekeepers had they seen him, and most would say, I'd phone agencies. They'd say they couldn't say anything At night, the time I had reserved the fears about my own demise, I started thinking about him Had he been mugged? Had he been institutionalized? I started thinking about Molly. Had she been put in a shelter? And was she about to be put down? I wanted to tell you about Doug and give you all sorts of great metaphors and how it's going to be part and I wanted to tell you and then I realized, that day I hadn't been prepared You see, in chemo that day, we had to turn our chairs because every time we looked The chemo goes on, and you don't laugh; it kills you. And chemo made me emotional, but I knew that I I knew I was leaving before her - before I said something to her that was going to be so important So, as I finished the chemo, I walked over and I and I got her eye to eye, and I was shaking, and I could feel and I was trying to come up and as I did, she looked at me with an empathetic look that you would recognize and then she reached out with her free arm and placed her hand I was the child, suddenly, and so she wiped It was the hardest thing, As I looked back, she was just there Couple of weeks later, I was in chemo, &quot;Have you seen her? How is she?&quot; The nurse came and told me God took the wrong one that day. That and Doug sat in my heart a long time. I started to realize I had just been scared, I started to realize ... that we can all die in just one minute. But we can all live filled with passion, filled with pain, anything we want, and that I had lived half a century avoiding any negative emotion against the poor, I tried to surround myself thinking if I got to be with them, I can live in this and if I felt any guilt that I could wait to give them some of what I had. But here, in my most desperate moment, two people I had spent a homeless man and a little kid - who I thought had so little to give, I had a lot more to do, but that lot more to do that lot more to do me receiving, and in that giving them It also started me on a course When I was asked to do this talk, and I was scared that I wasn't worthy. Normally, in the past, I'd have told but I didn't tell anyone for weeks, she cried on the phone with me. And then I called my little girl. She now lives halfway She's going to school. She's - She's going to be an and dammit, she's going to be the best she's got a heart so big. And I told her - same little girl that told me and she said to me, &quot;Daddy, I am so proud of you. You're going to do I love you.&quot; Thank you. (Applause)