- [Markus] Just off the coast of Tuscany, there is a magical place These marble statues serve than it might first appear. In fact, they are at the frontline between illegal fishing trawlers that is destroying the sea floor, and one fisherman who stood up to protect the ocean he loves. (Paolo speaking Italian) - This is the story of most diverse ecosystems was almost annihilated by corporate greed. And how one man's passion showing to the world that sometimes evil can best be defeated by beauty. We sent Cameron from Planet to join a unique alliance conservationists, and navy a delicate underwater world. With the power of art, and the most ambitious in our one and a half year history. We are Planet Wild, welcome to Mission 21. (pleasant music) - On the coast of Italy, The art, the food, the sense of community, it comes at you from every (engine purring) (dog barking) (meat sizzling) (pleasant music) But above all, there's the sea. Here in Talamone, the Mediterranean is at the heart of everything. And it's impossible not to lose yourself when you look out to the horizon, Beneath the waves, there was nourished by underwater meadows This keystone species is so after Poseidon, God of the sea. And here's why, Posidonia of the Mediterranean, sucking 15 times more than the same And in turn, it provides So this rich environment food, and nursery grounds And some that you wouldn't Scientists believe that Posidonia can live for more than 100,000 the oldest organism on earth. But suddenly, in a very so much of that beautiful (water bubbling) To find out what happened, who knows these waters better than anyone. Paolo is a fisherman, and he fishes in a sustainable way, providing for his family Not taking more from the ocean than it can naturally replenish. (Paolo speaking Italian) (Paolo continues speaking Italian) - [Cameron] This closeness with the sea allowed Paolo to see what something was very wrong He gradually realised that was nothing less than the destruction of an entire ecosystem. - And he knew exactly who was to blame. Industrial fisheries have developed an immensely destructive fishing technique designed to maximise the extraction of life from the ocean. It's called bottom trawling. Ships drag weighted nets for hoovering up anything and And much of that has no So many of these dead and are simply thrown overboard. On the sea floor, trawling leaves behind Those ancient underwater along with all the habitats, they provided to marine life. And what about those immense Also gone, it is estimated 370 million tonnes of CO2 into According to WWF, the of burnout because what was has become the most - Bottom trawling is actually illegal within three miles of the coast here, but it's not strictly enforced. And trawlers know that So Paolo began a decades long fight and became a vigilante ocean protector, searching the waters for And scaring off these dangerous characters (Paolo speaking Italian) (Paolo continues speaking Italian) - [Cameron] But it just wasn't working. The boats kept coming, and his activism was becoming dangerous. Paolo a needed to find a better way. He knew by now that the would need to be physical, that would rip the trawler's nets. And make it impossible to But he also knew that he had to get the And so, Paolo came up with of stopping the destruction, (upbeat music) The plan, create art to protect the sea. We are commissioning to sink to the ocean floor, that both sea creatures Attracting public attention to the issue, and keeping trawlers away. A dedicated team has assembled in order to make it a reality. And the first step in this of some of Italy's most (pleasant music) This is Carrara, home to the marble that even produced Michelangelo's David. This stone formed over from marine organisms that once And now, they're making their The marble itself was actually showing just how much has gathered in the region. So now, we transport five from Carrara to Talamone. This is a mammoth effort, weighing up to 20 tonnes, and leads us to step two. And this is where Casa dei Pesci comes in. It means house of the fish, and it's the organisation that evolved out of Palo's initiative. Together, we set up a four week from around the world to create five massive marble sculptures. And the Planet Wild community to make it all happen. And once all the statues are finished, they're ready for the final of this endeavour, step three. (stirring music) And today is the day, everything and has to come off perfectly. We even have a team of navy divers to assist the operation from the water. But we can already see because the BBC and are here to tell the story, raising global awareness Now, we can only hope that If it does, these sculptures will be sunk one by one to the sea floor. (stirring music) (gentle music) Okay, everything is ready, Now, all we need to do is sink them. (pleasant music) (gentle music) (water bubbling) (gentle music) Our sculptures are in position, and now we get to be the first divers to explore the new wing of the museum. This place is truly magical, like nowhere else I've ever been. Not only does it have this but it actually works to protect the timeless beauty of nature. Our new additions are still kind of fresh, but over time, they'll start to integrate with the marine life. And that life will merge with - We could have stopped Instead we went much, much further. The statues are guarding but we also need physical for a large and effective protected area. That's why we're deploying our biggest community funding yet, to instal 40 concrete blocks at up to two kilometres off the coastline. And significantly extend that has been put up here by Casa de Pesci over the past 12 years. Paolo has seen firsthand how Wherever they have been put up before, the boats have stopped coming. What's more, these concrete with holes that provide ideal homes for the diverse creatures that have lost their habitat to the trawlers. (gentle music) (Paolo speaking Italian) (Paolo continues speaking Italian) (Paolo continues speaking Italian) - Dostoevsky once said in one that &quot;Beauty will save the world.&quot; And while here in Talamone, on physical barriers as well, there's certainly that aspect is able to elevate us And make us aware of a larger beauty even, that is life itself. And that we all need to protect wherever we see it threatened. If you want to protect the consider joining Planet Wild as a backer. We do one of these missions every month, and it's all community funded. There's a link in the description and you could even ask your because we're offering a So if you think your boss would love that, or if you are the boss yourself, click the second link and help us make this (gentle music) (no audio)