So, in today's video, we're going to take I'm going to see what all comes in the box, and see how it works. Alright, so first things first, we've got dimple in there that I just love from Breville. It comes already with the double basket already Put that back in there. Then we've got the Razor. Now, the Razor is something that Breville machines. It's to kind of clear off the grounds here And then we've got the rest of the baskets. I only use the double basket. For me, a double shot is just right. That's just what I want as a base for my cappuccino, But you do also get a single basket here as And you get two other baskets. These are both pressurized, a single and a And these are pressurized so that if anybody if the grind is not quite on, you can still baskets. The machine also comes with a cleaning kit, for backflushing the machine, a pokey thing it's got a brush. But this is the best part, right here, opening Let's see what this pretty machine looks like. Look at that sucker! A pretty machine, if I do say so myself. The matte white just looks really nice, especially I just love that combination. In the next part of this video, we are going it operates. Let's go ahead and move on to starting up So, I've already been soaking this water filter I'm going to put that right here into the Plop! Let's fill this up with water and drop this And now, we gotta prime the pump. But before we do that, let's take a look at Of course, this is always the case. They include everything that you need. So, here they include a milk pitcher with Let's go ahead, turn this machine on, and Where's the power button? Here. [Music] Alright, there it comes. And now, let's let some hot water out of the Oh, oh! There's that one. Alright, excellent. Now we are good to go with the water. Now, there's one thing I'd like to do here check the inside to see the color here of There are in total 10 different settings. I'm gonna put it at five, put the bayonet here, we got more steps than we used to have You had 16 settings, and with this one, you've All right, so there we go. We've got the machine primed with water, and see where we end up. Getting value from this video, please take Alrighty, we've got the machine all commissioned. We got it filled up with water, we got the We set the internal collar of the burr to But actually, now that I've used this machine of five inside, it's still grinding too coarse. So what I had to do was switch that from five have more range here on the wheel and to get But now that I've done all that, I've experimented experience with you. In regards to the first feature, the automatic integrated tamper, which is very cool. Now, before I go further, I should mention Breville did reach out to me and ask if I and I said, &quot;Heck yeah, I would like to do No money exchanged hands. I do quite like the machine. Nevertheless, I am going to give my opinion I'm also going to mention a few missed opportunities and I'm going to give my pros and cons at So stay tuned for that. But what I'm really impressed by with this It makes things very ergonomic, as well as So let's just try the automatic adaptive dosing. I'm going to tear out my scale here, and what Now, I'm at a setting on the inner collar wheel, I'm at eight. And so what this adaptive dosing does is it on whether you're doing a double or single. Then, once you tamp, it's going to realize going to say, &quot;Okay, either that is the correct Or if it's too much, it's going to remember So let's just give it a shot. We are on a double dose. Let's give it a shot. There's something else really cool about this the cover and see how the tamper works. It is a really cool mechanical operation of puck. Let's take a look. We hit the green on that one. Let's see how much we've got in here. Okay, that's 17.0 grams. That's a good double dose for me. And what I like to do is, because there are to go ahead and just give it a couple more And you'll see that knob turned there on the and polished. Very, very nice. Okay, so we've got 17 grams. I've done a bunch of trials, which you can before where it does too much, like let's all the way back down to 18 grams. So, I would realize that just based on the it's got a dose for the next time. It's really cool. So anyway, let's just see what this shot looks And here we go. There we are, so that is what the espresso It's quite delightful, nice crema on top, there. I get a little bit of bittersweet chocolate. It's just a little bit on the bitter side. I might need to actually open up my grind machine. Now, I would like to show you something else I've got this bottomless portafilter here So we're gonna do the same thing. We're going to dose into here. What we want to take a look at is whether this out to do any puck prep or WDT (Weiss For all of you who don't know, this is a little you distribute the grounds a little bit better. But you can't do that because if you do, if then you're going to spill coffee grounds So let's just pull a dose. Okay, we're a little bit low, so I'm going That's that adaptive dosing. And now we're in the green. Excellent. Polish that a little bit, and it's a nice Now, let's go ahead and see, do we have channeling? What does the shot look like? Alright, let's give it a shot. [Music] So there's our shot right there, our two-to-one considering we didn't do any WDT. All we did was tamp it. Look at the crema on that, oh my gosh. Oh, that one's better. That one's got some sweetness to it. That one has got what I would call more of It's not too bitter, it's not too sour. Got a little sweetness in there, and that's And this machine, it does get better with The first shot, of course, not everything be the next second, third, fourth, fifth shots, This brew group also gets hot over time. That's an advantage that the Impress has as Both of these have brew groups that passively 20 minutes, and that makes the extraction Okay, what else can you do with this machine If you don't want to have an 18-gram dose, the green here, and I'm using like medium-dark in here, and for a single shot, I get 10 grams. But if I want a bit less, for example, 15 Alright, let's see what we get. Alright, so according to the meter, we're 15 grams. That's good. Now I've got this manual tamper here, and though it's a little bit underdosed according tamp. So if I go ahead and try to tamp it myself, I don't have to tamp it myself manually. What I really like is the fact that this mechanical quite a bit of tolerance for being able to to being a bit overdosed. It's able to handle that. So that's good news. With that being the case, I would say let's Now, there is one thing I do quite like about to wipe off. That's something that my wife pointed out smooth surfaces. It's really easy to wipe down. Now, where I think they could have made one faster. It still takes the first time you steam right mode. [Music] [Music] So what it does allow you to do is get a really Just got to make sure to have that wand pointed Get it circling, rotating, and you'll be good [Music] Let's give it a go again. I get a little nervous as I'm doing this. [Music] [Music] All right, so there you go, a couple of delightful impress. And how does it taste? That is nice, very creamy, nice intensity Quite a delightful cappuccino. Let's talk about the pros and cons of this I think that they have a couple of missed The first one is the water tank. So, the water tank doesn't have any sensor That can be super annoying when you want to water. That is really annoying. So, you have no indicator unless you look looking for water. The second thing that's a little bit unfortunate, the tamping function, it's the fact that you a look at it because if you do, you're going to make a mess and waste espresso. So, it's just something to get used to. You've got to make sure to tamp every single And finally, a third thing that would have standby. This shuts off, I believe, after a half hour, to be one hour or three hours if I want, just Now, on to the pros, there are a lot of them. This tamping system, it works great. I mean, I really like it. I can dose all the way down to 14 grams or tamp no matter what with this tamper, which It even gives it a little bit of a polish The Adaptive dosing is also super nice, very So, if you have other people in your household And despite the fact that you can't do WDT little channeling that I noticed while I've So, that's another benefit. Plus, just like the Barista Express, this It's a beautiful machine, especially in the It's almost like it's got kind of like a pearl Very handsome on the countertop. Easy to clean. The surfaces are nice and smooth and rounded It's got a manometer, it's got volumetric You can even adjust the temperature. You can adjust it from 93 down to 92 or 91, So, those are a lot of nice things. Plus, over the Barista Express, here you got in your grind a little better with this machine. Another pro is, and this is something that machine. It's quiet to grind, and it's also quiet to One last thing, I nearly forgot about the in for three seconds, then the next time that which is great so that you don't have to waste It's another nice feature. And finally, one other thing I forgot to mention water spout sputters. It's really kind of sputtery. If I wanted to top up a drink, it would make I'm gonna make a mess for you guys. [Music] But what are you gonna do? All in all, I think it's a great machine. It's a delight to have in the household. My wife really enjoys it. And with that being said, here are her thoughts. &quot;It's beautiful-looking and it's a nice paint It's two in one cigarette I included in the with ground coffee beans anymore. That's one of the best features. What I like a lot is the included tamper. It's very nice and ergonomic. And what I like the best, it is self-explanatory I can make myself a creamy, tasty cappuccino steamer. It gets 10 out of 10 points.&quot; All right, guys. I hope that you like this video. I hope that it was insightful for you. And if so, give it a like, check out my other If you like what you see, subscribe to the It's totally free. And until next time, I say, happy coffee drinking, Bye now.