Transcriber: Thekra Alkadee I'm a professor of happiness. You might ask yourself, how can The truth is that And yet most people don't know that. I mean, not everybody acts like they do, deep in their souls, I do believe. But I ask my students at the university, And many of them will say, "Well, it's the feeling In fact, they all talk about And I say, no, no, that's not It's so much more than that. If I asked you, what's the definition you wouldn't say, That's an indication that there's It's an indication that dinner's coming. And the happiness feeling that you get a psychological and even Happiness is a combination They're kind of like the macronutrients If I ask you that to define you might say it's proteins, and you would be right. And similarly, if I ask you and you're getting it correctly, it's a combination of three things Now, each one of these things There people studying each one Enjoyment, for example, is not Maybe you'll see that in the dictionary, Pleasure is something that happens to you. It runs through a very ancient part of It's a reward for something so that you'll do something Enjoyment is an elevation of that but you add your your true humanity to it. You move it literally called the prefrontal cortex. And there you can remember it, it becomes a part of your happiness gives you pleasure by filling your belly. The enjoyment comes from consuming that and the people that you love, thus becoming enjoyment and thus Similarly, purpose and meaning are not Everybody knows that they want meaning And it's hard to. But even beyond that, is that as part of happiness, I ask people, when did you the purpose in your life? And inevitably people talk to me about about grief, even when somebody died That's when they find The irony of that is that happiness And just like those first too As a matter of fact, is the most difficult of the elements of Satisfaction is the great question but we can't keep it. Now what is it? Satisfaction is a joy and a job well done is the reward for a goal If you want to be satisfied, you'll be satisfied when you graduate when you marry the person that you love, when you get the house when you retire after a long career You'll be joyful at the goal And furthermore, That's what your brain is telling you. That's what the marketing That's what Mother Nature tells you. But it's wrong, you know perfectly that you hit your goals and they give you And then it wears off. You get that car in a new car smell And a couple of weeks later, You move to California you want the beautiful weather. And six months later, you're driving That seems like almost as if it were a hoax It's actually part of See, you can't keep satisfaction If you stayed satisfied with Let me explain a major and important it's called homeostasis. Homeostasis is the tendency either physiologically or psychologically. It's the the equilibrium that we always So we'll be ready for the next set For example, perhaps you went to and your objective was to raise and you raise your pulse rate and after half an hour you got off and within 15 minutes your pulse or wherever it's supposed to be. If you didn't have and your pulse remained Now, similarly with your emotions, you need to go back to your baseline. For example, you feel fear as something Why? Because you need to be ready for the next thing You can't be distracted with Your ancestors wouldn't With happy feelings, You can't say happy with something because you need to be ready as a matter of fact, This is Mother Nature's purpose. But she also has a slightly which is to make you think even though she won't let you So you keep running and See, if you knew wasn't going to last, And Mother Nature doesn't want that. So you run and you run and you think The Rolling Stones sing, "as I try and I try and I try The real point of that song is not that He can get satisfaction, That's the irony of as if it were on Now it's interesting, isn't it? We have a concept called the hedonic treadmill. Hedonic means feeling treadmill but you want to get the feeling of joy, so you run and you run. Or as Jagger says, You stay more or less in the same place. Furthermore, as you get more and more to the material possessions, the money, the treadmill starts to turn up in speed Pretty soon you're running and you're not just you start to run out of fear, right? If you're a success addict, You know how this fear, this fear feels. You're running for more and more from the object of your work, from that congratulations, the promotions, the deals done. And pretty soon I'm actually not getting that much What happens if you stop on the treadmill? You face-plant is what happens and nobody wants that. Well, it might seem to you Then I'm telling you It's not that great. It's not that fine. And maybe it even seems like Well, there is something that you can do. There's a lot that you can do, but you have to be willing to do the work The old idea that When it comes to happiness, Mother Nature She wants you to pass on your genes. Your happines, that's up to you, and you need to and this is a perfect case. I'm going to tell you how lasting and stable satisfaction, It starts with a formula. Most people think that satisfaction comes If I manage my haves, I expand my haves, if I maximize my haves, I have things, I have money, I have power, But the truth is that stable comes not from what you have, but what you have divided That's a better model for it. Because when you think about it, when you have a lot, well, A friend, he told himself - early on in his twenties, he said, You know how I'm going that's kind of his own yardstick. I'm going to go to and be able to buy And the day he was able to, He went down and I mean, who buys a Mercedes in cash? Different question. He puts down And they gave it to him and As he was driving off the lot, I should have saved six months longer He was managing his haves, Remember your high school fractions? If you got a fraction, If you maximize the numerator, But another way for it to go up, another way for your satisfaction to go up is to decrease the denominator Do you have a haves management strategy? Do you have a wants management strategy? The secret to lasting satisfaction to have more, but rather is to want less. I have a beautiful friendship, one that I treasure with His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, who dispenses He's the world's And he was guest lecturing And I asked him this question. He was in his home in Dharamsala I was in Boston, where I teach, and we were separated But we were so close and all the things And I asked him for my students It was a beautiful public event. I said, Your Holiness, He didn't tell me that. He didn't tell But he said it in words. He said, "We need to learn how to want in order to get steady Another way to think of this it's to have a reverse bucket list. In other words, don't think of all of but rather make a list of all to renounce your craving But if you don't, that's great, too. Make a conscious decision from the cravings That's a reverse bucket list. Can you do it? I do that and I've just watched my happiness Now, you might ask yourself, anything that will give me stable The answer is yes. But it's not money, That's the bad four. Here's the good four - Now, my faith I don't mean my faith, I don't mean it necessarily I mean a sense of the grandeur, a perspective that's bigger which is so small and so tedious. Maybe it comes from a walk in Maybe it comes from studying Maybe it comes from going back Maybe it comes from a meditation But you must do something Your family life, the ties that bind that and God knows in many cases you wouldn't. Maybe you had a tough Thanksgiving where Aunt Marge wouldn't But you know perfectly that the 2 AM call that you make would go don't ruin those relationships over Friendship. You need friends, but you People who can help you, Maybe they are people at work Here's the the thing to ask yourself. These people around me, You know the difference. And finally, work. and meaningful, I don't mean I mean any job, or a bus driver or a college professor or a politician or It has to have two characteristics and two characteristics only, You're rewarded for your hard work and you're serving other people Those are the secrets to meaningful work, which is all four different kinds of love. And that, my friends, is the secret. So ask yourself these questions. It can't come from having more. Have you been chasing the wrong thing? If you're going to get more family, friends and work dimension that the world is telling you to chase. Those are the things What is true for us is true If you, for example, It's important that you realize that You shouldn't make these promises Remember, the point is that people in bonds of love, and only bring true and lasting satisfaction. Associate what you do in and happiness and which in turn, will bring