The animals of the savanna no longer run The creaking noises of this truck Zachary is the unfortunate owner. It is thanks to cotton farming At the time, the cotton fields That being said, the climate has changed. Now, the earth is difficult to cultivate I struggle now. When you don't From October to January, the north of Benin lives at the pace The fiber represents around 40 percent For months, rickety trucks travel Cotton is the country's wealth, Huge amounts of water We used to draw water from here, The well has dried up. During the harvest, day and night For a week, around 100 drivers have been A never ending wait never being able If you leave the truck unattended, They will steal the diesel How many millions kilometres Well, it was used by white people, Before giving us the truck, That's my apprentice. Yeah, he's travelling with me. Rahman and his apprentice which are processed in this factory. They're hoping to load the truck up today, The factory dates back to the eighties In amongst this deafening racket, around 50 factory workers After waiting for nine days, the eagerly Rahman loads up 24 tonnes of cotton. I'm overseeing the loading, just The driver has to deliver the bales in The name of the city sounds strangely Far from it, just like the road that leads there. Six hundred kilometres at full speed all During celebrations, and when they drive they danced the shake. A dance created for the road You see how it moves up and down. The road's been badly done. There are lots of holes and that It's only after several kilometres that Even beneath all its modern features, Once he's reached 100 kilometers When I beep the horn, I'll just move to the left But you never stop? No, not for pedestrians. If they're right To protect myself from accidents, We Africans are always safe. But who protects the pedestrians when his truck turns especially considering This piece of metal is the iron strapping The fuel tank could come off at any moment Ten long kilometers later... It's all good. It very nearly happened. It's still a long way to Cotonou. In Benin, trucks like the Rahman's a reference to a French military truck which transported Zachary's truck is far from being a titan. It very rarely goes over Zachary drives around the scrub loading up the cotton The old truck from the sixties and its engine is not as brave Why does the truck break down all the time It would cost me 210 euros to change it. A DIY solution is much cheaper. What's the container for? The pump isn't pumping the That's why I put the tank here, you see? By placing the tank high up in the cabin, pressure forces the Broken again. But the system has its limits. Not again. It's the fifth breakdown this morning. I've lost my spanner. Every few kilometres, Zachary turns into a Before loading up, During the harvest on each farm, There are no exceptions. We have to make our children Without their work, we The work is very bad for The cotton stems prick us and hurt us. Our parents have a hard life. It's hard for them to get The children work an Before becoming farmers, the Bariba people were Today, each loading reawakens The group that can carry the highest Come on, push it quickly. Push the bale of cotton I don't have to be big to lift it. Watch out, they want I'll leave as soon as The round of the cotton Zachary's truck transports Cotton has become one but for the last few years drought A nasty surprise awaits Zachary There's a revolt on the farm. Come on, get up. None of the workers There's nothing Zachary can do. However, the men aren't asking for a lot. We've got nothing. Our wives have to go and search for it. The owner of the cotton field In order to find more, The well is three kilometres It's hard to get water, it's so far away. Because of the lack of water, What's wrong? We used to draw the water from here, The women will have to walk more three The drought isn't the only cause of this. Cotton is one of the crops that An hour and a half later, the women come The water is murky and putrid. Pour me some water. The water's not good here. Why? People walk through here with dirty feet. The water's full of bacteria, We don't have anything The women have walked six kilometres The backwater is far away. We spend time searching for water. And that's why the dishes are dirty I have to hurry up otherwise Boiled maize flour forms the base of their To avoid intestinal problems the men make a natural medicine. They filter part of the liquid with ash. This makes the water richer in potassium Once fed and watered, they sniff a I've given you far too much. So our bodies can help us work quickly. It gives you strength? The men get back to work, Zachary will have to spend the Rahman has also spent the night To make up for lost time, he speeds The day before, As night falls, he's been forced to Highway bandits who strip travellers cost him even more precious time. In order to live, he has to make two The bosses sometimes pay The rest I earn on the road. I transport goods for other He certainly needs the money. Rahman has two children and three wives, and the two others live in a village When he passes by, they take the This is the mother of my child. If I earn money I can I'm stopping so they can get out here. With his two wives, Rahman has started You can help me load up the coal. How much is the coal? Two euros 30 cents. The coal will be resold by his wives for Rahman also takes a few bags It's a bit of extra income, which helps There you go, that's for the coal. This time, Rahman is hoping to arrive The sea is still far away, Right now I'm going at 50 kilometres I'll end up in a ditch because There are two trucks coming, and The driver couldn't control the But there's a more serious concern. It's dangerous, the truck's Is it going to fall? The truck is slowly tipping over, which was displaced during the accident. I'm just measuring to In the end, it's the load that saves them. Even if it falls, We're certain they'll hold it up. As all drivers travel fast, This truck was on the road It wasn't taken away. If it had been towed away, the road The truck looks fit for the scrap heap, never to be wasteful, the Beninese The damage is bad. The trailer has we'll need a crane to lift it back up. But we'll definately recover this lorry. Just having passed by the accident, There's a problem with the pump. There's at least one advantage the mechanics are never far away. Within 10 minutes, On the other side of the road, Prisoners of their own poverty, these men and women break down Yarima, who's 25, When you're in the sun all day, The heat gives you a fever. It's difficult to get water. The water We drink little sachets of mineral water they're expensive. With children, we can The gravel is resold If I manage to fill up a barrel, My back and hips really hurt, I have to bend down Some Beninese people try to change their Voodoo originated through the meeting of the Yoruba gods Over centuries, it has become a religion. These women are dancing for their king Daagbo Hounon Houna II. Thanks to voodoo, The voodoo spirits predict good or bad omens and cure This man is said to have been bewitched by His wife wants to leave him. I wish you good health. The spirit says, I sense illness. I sense misery. I sense bewitchment. If you fight, it will end in unhappiness. You shouldn't argue over You must resist fair-skinned women. The couple's problems The spirit's talking it says the wife must keep her mouth shut That way, her child's health will improve. The sacrifice will ensure that A king never walks. A rooster is not easy to guide. Your may well be in the presence of the As for Rahman, he's a king of the road. Those who stand in his way should beware, he'll stop at nothing to arrive As for Zachary, I'm going to the factory in Banikora It'll take me four Five hours for a mere 65 kilometres. I've had this truck for six years. But it's not cost-effective anymore. The journey's very tiring for me. The truck suffers as well, It gets tired out and that Can you smell that? I can smell fire. It's coming from the belt. But Zachary hasn't been he's broken down in his own village. After renting a motorbike, he's off His village is on a main road There is, however, a shortage of belts. You never have anything. Three hours later, It's completely wrecked. The alternator has stopped working. The ball bearing has given way, I'm completely exhausted, I'm hungry. I've got no money, While he waits for the mechanic, Zachary He'll have to admit to his wife have once again ended up This year's going to be very hard. God will make sure I really hoped that our lives would So did I. You're completely filthy. She still manages to make him smile, When you're all loaded up the cotton could scatter at any moment. One day I saw a driver whose He can tell from the tarmac on the road The final piece of bad news of the day I'll have to wait here for five days, then if everything goes Once again, the factory is running leaving the drivers waiting once more. We've been here for a week. The delays are costly While he waits, the manufacturers will call upon Another engine problem has forced Rahman His boss will make up for this extra day Rahman arrives in Cotonou two days late and a huge traffic jams and neither does the What's in your truck? I've been waiting since this morning for it's taking a long time. The clock is ticking and a wave Why are you waiting here? We're striking because And it's badly paid. The bales of cotton weigh We earn 20 cents for that. Per day? None of the dockers will help. Come on, hurry up, If you unload it quickly you'll have the That's slowing you down and it's making Yes, okay. The reprimanding continues. The coal Rahman has transported has made some of the cotton dirty. You can't put coal in the same truck as Okay, thank you. Sort that out, I don't want Eventually, two dockers accept the work. As soon as it's off the truck, by buyers like Jean-Pierre, What are you doing? Many of the bales They're good quality, but they aren't How was this one damaged? Because of the rain. The bales are on the ground which makes them rot faster Benin's cotton is sold all Rahman's decent wage allows him He's polygamous. The driver has just married his third wife That's a crockery cabinet. My wife chooses from it, and if I don't like what she chooses If she makes me tea, I have to leave soon. Isn't that enough? -I want a new dress. What? A dress? No, I don't have much money at the moment. Don't forget to buy flour Rahman drives seven days a week As for Zachary, he only has one wife,