Did you know? Pokemon Gray and Pokemon Z were the past three years, we've been searching for and digging up every scrap of information we but never released Pokemon games. This acting as its own separate investigation, where newly-translated interviews, and connect all the what happened to these two games. And of course, First we'll talk about Pokemon Gray, and to do of Black &amp; White's development. Let's start gaming news sites reported that eight in Japan -- Pokemon Black, White, and Gray, and Scarlet. Fans speculated the trademarks and they were proven correct one year Black &amp; White in early 2010. Many of these fans definitive third edition -- just like in every gonna be proven correct once again, when in for PokemonGray.com had just been registered by company who registered PokemonBlackWhite.com Here's what PokemonGray.com looked like by page. As part of our fact-checking process, we and it turns out those gaming news sites only were actually trademarked on November 18, 2008, day. Not just PokemonGray.com, but *all* the PokemonVermilion.com, and so on. Although it hands on a few of the URL's because they were was already a fansite. We'll circle back but for now the thing you need to remember is itself shortly after the launch of Black like IGN -- it was actually registered in 2008 Black &amp; White 2 released in Japan, GameFreak's September 2012 edition of Nintendo Dream magazine. he explained that two sequels weren't originally making Black &amp; White under the assumption He said: &quot;During Black &amp; White's development, and weren't thinking about making a direct sequel, while we were making Black &amp; White, we weren't part of the Pokemon fanbase back in those that Pokemon Gray was gonna be a 3DS game. The so if Gray was gonna launch a couple years later, newest handheld and not the old DS. But Masuda saw the 3DS was becoming mainstream, but we wanted many fans already had a DS was incredibly Pokemon is everyone can get together and have fun would've disappointed many fans, but at that consumers hands, while the 3DS hadn't even a no-brainer business move to go with the As far as the game's plot, unlike Black &amp; White final moments of Black &amp; White, N bids farewell and in a post-credits cutscene he's seen jetting in the post-game, Looker says N's been spotted You never hear about him again, and what became of Masuda explains: &quot;We originally planned to leave presses him on it, saying: &quot;When I played Black next one, but you weren't planning on that?&quot; his story in a way that left an emotional impact N's creator, and he goes on to say that even after he still didn't want to continue N's story. they felt like they had to continue his they had him return to save Kyurem from Ghetsis, kinda retire to his castle. But initially, the The developers never say explicitly that Gray of Black &amp; White's story, but that probably did in all previous third editions. Masuda would Unno direct Black &amp; White 2, and it's probably Unno would've directed that game as well. That's Masuda directing the initial paired release, then colleague while he got to work on the next Masuda explains why Unno was the right guy to the director, and I mostly worked as a producer. when I looked ahead to these games' development, visuals and improve everything... I knew Unno so I had a lot of confidence in him.&quot; Unno's and explains his three pillar plan to make sequels In other words, how Black &amp; White 2 turned out. Those three pillars and a new adventure taking place two years but we took all this to mean if they had made but it would've had the same protagonists as and the story wouldn't take place two years later. these interviews, because it doesn't sound like Gray would become yet -- it sounds more like, up they were working under the assumption Gray but hadn't worked out all the details yet. And hadn't worked out, let's talk about Kyurem and In the middle of Black &amp; White's production, sounding cry for Kyurem, but then he was told and he should make it sound weaker. Which is kind of a weak hiss. Here's what it sounds like appeared in Black &amp; White 2: [Audio clip plays]. at least one fusion form in the next game, but White Kyurem yet. As he explained it: &quot;At that decided yet if the next entry would be numbered or but we already had a general idea that Kyurem and Reshiram. But if Kyurem appeared the same as right? We wanted to surprise everybody, so we came have Black Kyurem or White Kyurem at the time, Then the interviewer asks: &quot;So there was a and Masuda replies: &quot;Well there wouldn't Pokemon. (laughs) But from the perspective of like the higher-ups knew they wanted Kyurem but they weren't 100% certain that they would end known that Black &amp; White's internal data includes meant for Kyurem -- which is similar to except for its color. But there's something else and seems to line up with what Masuda a fansite called PokeBeach went digging and discovered a table that lists every Pokemon with zero alternate forms have the number example, while a Pokemon with four forms like the *only* Pokemon in the internal data with a signifying that at least one new form is being was also found in Diamond &amp; Pearl's internal the only Pokemon with a 1, which shows Game Freak one new form in Platinum. I know that all sounds what Masuda and Ichinose said, and suggests some many new Kyurem forms would appear in the next new Kyurem form for the next game, or more than Landorus, and Keldeo a 0, which suggests Game at the time they were making Black &amp; White. register all those other colors early in Gen in any of these interviews, and unfortunately, Freak will grant us our own interview. We when an interviewee wanted to talk, they'd be And unless you're part of the journalism Pokemon Corporate won't even respond to so to connect some of these dots, we'll have to fans were assuming Black &amp; White were gonna on the cover. But we think Game Freak might've like Landorus on Pokemon Brown or Genesect all these interviews and looking at all the we think it's possible they wanted to keep their Pokemon that would appear on the cover. We hired out, so keep in mind these covers are unofficial example, when Game Freak trademarked Pokemon Brown been leaving the door open for a potential fusion for Pokemon Purple, or a Victini fusion for pretty similar shades of red. It also occurred to titles just to throw fans off the scent of what wouldn't know if they'd be Black, Brown, Purple, of them trademarking a whole bunch of titles so we don't think it's likely that's what make sense that they'd employ the same strategy Something that stuck out at us in all an interviewer asks Masuda why they didn't make about Gray -- he always refers to the scrapped a different color.&quot; Whenever the word &quot;Gray&quot; cold water on that color specifically. Like when he said: "A lot of people were expecting Black &amp; White was kind of these opposing forces it would have moved away from that concept..." 5's third version as Pokemon Gray -- but we've concept of Gen 5's third version. Actually, we were just as likely to have become that third fairly late in Black &amp; White's development, solid plan for what came next -- but rather, an keep their options open. Okay, we usually try decided to make an exception in this instance stories and we think they're worth exploring. We'll let you be the judge of our analysis, possibility you think's the most likely. Okay, and hear from the developers about why they and went with two direct sequels instead. In had ideas they couldn't fit into Black &amp; White happens in every generation, and it's a big reason little different this time because Black &amp; White's and some of those late-stage ideas were a &quot;Every time we finish a game's development, we're left unfinished... As development on Black &amp; to come up with lots of fun new ways to make way we could implement them in time for Black &amp; even though we'd really wanted to. So at that next game, but we hadn't decided they'd be sequels Ishihara about what we'd do with the next game, he want some kind of new &quot;innovation&quot; added into it.' for the first time in the series... So with a plot time of 2 years, we felt like we wanted to Masuda and Unno go on to say that the ideas they were the three features that made up the the Key System lets you unlock additional content an Iron Key that lets you open a particular door Iceberg Key with Regice. By trading keys back and Legendary Titans in both games. For the first time settings -- but you can only unlock Challenge you wanted to play the other difficulty setting opposite version. But the biggest chunk of content and White Forest was only in White 2. By trading locations in both games. Those were the three development, and it's the reason they repeatedly one. To be frank, and just speaking for DYKG content could've just been in one game -- a third There wasn't really any need to lock a trading mechanic -- and maybe Game Freak since they never used the Key System in any there were a couple more reasons they made Black they wanted to surprise fans who were only surprising their fans. And the final reason they Even though third versions were always the best worst-performing in terms of sales. The first four sell, on average, 40% as many copies as the paired together Black &amp; White 2 went on to sell generating approximately $100 million more in Gray -- or Brown or Purple, whatever they ended and Black &amp; White 2 were made with a skeleton margins were incredibly high as well. Game Freak their decision making, but profit appears In the collector's edition of the Black &amp; White 2 to make these games, and he says: &quot;...We wanted could enjoy the game. The platform itself was the many players as possible.&quot; Reading between the number of players is essentially the same thing definitive edition and being financially rewarded altogether, so we never got anything akin to Ultra Sun &amp; Moon, which by the way, also sold at a fans were getting a better bang for their buck opened with a paired release, then closed with point in the modern era, after they switched comes to definitive editions like Pokemon We're halfway through the video now -- If you're liking it so far, give us a like helps out the videos and lets us know if we're Okay, now let's move on to the second half of this originally part of Game Freak's master plan -- but Z got axed entirely, and the series skipped that happen? Well, let's start with the official 2016 issue of Spain's Official Nintendo Magazine we never end up seeing Pokemon Z?&quot; Masuda says: we always want to do things that surprise fans. Pokemon Gray was going to come next, but instead instead we made Omega Ruby &amp; Alpha Sapphire. but taking advantage of the fact it's the another surprise with Sun &amp; Moon.&quot; Simply Z to celebrate Pokemon's anniversary in really line up with the series' usual timeline. a paired release was always followed up with a So if history's any guide, Z wasn't due in 2016 released a year earlier. In fact, 2015 was the new mainline Pokemon game. And it's not just something's missing -- there's also data hidden dataminers were already rooting around in X &amp; Freak was working on two more Gen 6 games -- which 29. Think of it like the Forms table from Gen 5's it's a list of every Pokemon game, including plans to release in the future. When Sun &amp; Moon and found data for seven unreleased games -- was also reserving spots two more Gen 7 games, Not a lotta folks were paying attention, but Freak was gonna do next. This was long but over the next year those reserved and Gold, Silver, and Crystal on 3DS. But and never got released. However, more information in 2020 -- revealing that games 28 and 29 were spots called &quot;Alola Reserve&quot; later became Ultra released, all except for two -- the Kalos Reserve and Sun &amp; Moon, which means if they had released, when talking about Pokemon Gray, two games are and the data reveals that Game Freak was reserving did in Gens 5 and 7. Game Freak don't usually in development -- so it's likely the Kalos Reserve Maybe they would've eventually called with the Z's stylized to look like the number aren't any official titles, for the sake of refer to them collectively as Pokemon Z. Okay now the time to actually make Pokemon Z? One big to make a new series that would become just as explain the Gear Project, a Game Freak initiative but is critically important to how the company before Pokemon took the world by storm, Game Freak Mario &amp; Wario, and Pulseman. None of them set keep the lights on. But after Pokemon's first Game Freak pretty much quit making other games and that changed in the Gen 5 era when they came up was created with the sole purpose of developing making new games with the Gear Project, that it to Game Freak's Masayuki Onoue: &quot;There are two simply named Production Team 1 and Production while Team 2 is for the Pokemon operation. What prioritizing Gear Project, which is production We are always trying to create something that is We recently translated an issue of Famitsu Weekly Project in-depth. The way it works is anyone a new game concept. If two other Game Freak devs six months in the planning stages to make it a and the plan so far looks promising, Game Freak and it builds from there until the game is Gear Project was HarmoKnight. James Turner, speak Japanese too well so he pitched the game auto-scrolling rhythm platformer where you collect around 20 team members were assigned to work on year later they released Pocket Card Jockey, win races, then later ported it to smartphones. Badass Elephant, a side-scrolling platformer All three games got pretty good review scores, been quite a disappointment to Game Freak, since a new franchise that could sell as many copies and none of the Gear Project games were 2012 to 2015 was the period of time Game Freak but instead they took a big gamble on the Gear Masuda lamented that fact in Famitsu, saying: them. I've tried to tell our fans 'please sink in. We also founded official Twitter and more effort into promoting the titles we've please subscribe to the channel! We official channel yesterday... please watch Game Freak's channel is basically dead new video in over two years, and the most their And that pretty much sums up the Gear Project as games -- Giga Wrecker and Little Town Hero, given up on building another Pokemon-sized most active in the Gen 6 era, and seems to be a to Kalos in 2015. It's hard to say exactly but according to official figures provided by Game they transitioned from 2D to 3D. Black &amp; White 2 20 devs or less, so just as a rough estimate, you Z. Gear Project games used up 15-20 developers so they probably required more resources than After all, Game Freak was able to make ORAS in games they started making as well, but never finite amount of resources, and rather than using to non-Pokemon games instead. And it wasn't just talent worked on the Gear Project. For example, time off Pokemon to design HarmoKnight. And Masuda while Sugimori worked as adviser and supervisor. the extra money it'd bring in, they were also having all their eggs in one basket. The so badly in fact that some in the industry hardware business altogether. After HarmoKnight's Xbox One, PC, and even smartphones, as a There's also the fact that Game Freak with Nintendo and Creatures owning the financially and creatively compared to an IP a lot of the Pokemon devs just wanted to we've talked about the Gear Project long enough -- their adventures with new IP was the reason Gen looking at the data, they paint a pretty clear a new Pokemon game. The anime shines even more new series and seasons sync up with new game anime series aired in September 2010, the The second season of the Black &amp; the same month as Black &amp; White 2. The XY Omega Ruby &amp; Alpha Sapphire launched with the along with pretty much every other Mega the XYZ anime aired its first episode in October made their first appearance, along with Zygarde out a good deal in advance, so it appears around the same time as this episode. There's data that suggests Game Freak was planning more in development. Like with AZ's Floette, which Light of Ruin, and even its own cry in X &amp; Y's It should be noted though, all also just be evidence for a distribution Although it's worth noting that AZ's Floette data, and Game Freak took the time to despite it still going unused. The fact ORAS suggest that new animation might've might be some other explanation, and without more why they updated Light of Ruin remains a mystery. Thousand Arrows and Thousand Waves, which went Gen 5, when Freeze Burn and Ice Shock were found added as Kyurem's signature attacks until Black Zygarde in X &amp; Y suggests Game Freak was planning so Thousand Arrows and Thousand Waves were first played a small role in X &amp; Y, just sitting in story -- which was basically the same role more fleshed out in the sequels. Fans excepted a but that never happened -- instead, additional Scattered all over Alola you can find a hundred 50%, then its Complete Forme. This sidequest and an even bigger story tie-in like Kyurem got which says: &quot;When the Kalos region's ecosystem reveals its secret power.&quot; Other areas Z could've Route 13 and all the buildings behind it, which Mega Evolutions -- Ken Sugimori said they tried to Now for another big question -- how far did into it seems, as there's no evidence any code lot more interesting if we said maybe it was Enforcer, and Z-Moves could have all been taken Sun &amp; Moon. It's likely some ideas got repurposed, everything Zygarde-related appears to have been chunks of code copy-pasted from an unfinished been discovered -- there are millions of lines of A lot of it hasn't been combed over thoroughly, that none of it came from Z. Dataminers have been video was getting made, one of the dataminers Sina's Zygarde that got deleted from Sun &amp; Moon. far, nothing to suggest there's a half-finished With all that said, there's probably out here -- Game Freak's adventures with the but it's probably not the only reason we never would've ended up calling them. Maybe personal or Game Freak just wasn't all that enthusiastic a full and official explanation -- so even though it'd be irresponsible not to point out dots we couldn't find in our research. Aside and inferences based on series history, become. But that hasn't stopped fans people are still asking for a return to Kalos. It but who knows...? Maybe someday Pokemon Z'll Did you also know that Pokemon Collseum's For more on that, click the video on it to about 10 seconds if possible] And a this video possible -- like HiResPokemon, Jacob