- Today we're gonna be looking at the best espresso grinder under PS250. We've done the best This one actually, I'm more excited about, because as a category, there wasn't very much. If you wanted an espresso you had to spend serious money, and now prices are coming But if you are looking serious, good espresso grinder, where is your money best spent? To answer that question, we First up you've got the Baratza ESP. In the UK, this is the cheapest grinder, coming in at about PS160. Next up is the kind of I think this was released It's the Sage or Breville Lists at PS200, but you Here is the Fellow Opus. This, in the UK, about PS200. Next up you've got the Varia VS3. Little bit more expensive And then at the end here, just under PS250, at PS246, I think that we paid. First up is gonna be workflow. I'm gonna take each grinder and talk you through dialing it in, adjusting things, how it works. Then we'll taste a bunch Delicious times. Then we're gonna get We're gonna look at some because we can do that here. And then we'll look at things we'll look at sound, we'll and other technical We will, of course, talk about and how these do, if you're Then, my favorite bit of the whole thing, I get to talk about my that I have with each of these grinders. And then, of course, we'll Now there are five grinders here, but we actually bought six. We bought a Smeg grinder. It was about PS220, looked It's not, it's really not. It's designed for espresso machines with pressurized portafilters and so it cannot grind which is wild to me that as an espresso-looking grinder, that it can't go that fine. I have no idea why they're for something that just So that was purchased for this video, but it is not included in the testing because it can't do it and I can straight up that grinder in any way. Let's get on with some workflow testing. So first up, the Baratza Encore ESP. Body-wise, it's pretty much which was one of the kind of great, entry-level filter The problem with that grinder is that it couldn't grind fine enough and precisely enough for espresso. And actually it's an behind this grinder to have and a kind of filter coffee range. Now as you look at it, you can You can use this as a single dose grinder or of course you could theoretically but it has no automatic so probably best used as (beans pouring) just by twisting the hopper here and you'll see an indicator with these little dots here and The technical sort of success that this click from here to here is a much smaller movement of the burrs than it would be if you were here and moved one click coarser. Lots of specificity here. To grind coffee, there's two choices. You can push and hold or you can use the switch on the side. Here we're grinding into a little dosing cup that it and a little base for that. If however you are grinding filter coffee or a larger dose, you can grind into this Ultimately a nice, simple workflow. Let's grind some coffee. (coffee grinding) As a quick end note. Each step, I think is small enough, it's about four, maybe five seconds of brew time, sort of, for a fixed recipe, but obviously it's not a stepless grinder. The Sage Smart Grinder Pro or the Breville Smart Now, as I said at the start, this is a much older model of grinder. It's been around for a decade now since they released the And you can sort of see it of home espresso making. Sort of from the top down, it's a pretty big hopper on here, and this is a grinder, I to have you fill this with coffee beans and then draw down a dose each time you were pulling a shot. More like a kind of but in miniature. As such, on the front here a surprising amount of technology with buttons that you can Here, you've got your grind time. Because you are theoretically and that portion is determined by time, you would wanna set your However, today we will use it as people do in the sort of modern espresso world and we will be single dosing this. So I have a weighed dose here that I will just grind through. Next button along is your sort of shot/cup so you can have preset memories of different amounts of time. You've got your and then your grind adjustment here. What's interesting is it moves from saying two and then the grind time shifts as well because it knows that at coarser settings, coffee just grinds faster. So interesting little bits Turns of the grind adjustment, and it's showing you those And each step is probably similar in that kind of four-ish for a pretty standard, let's say, 18 in, 40 out kind of recipe. This will grind into either where you might wanna sort give it a little shake before diverting into your portafilter, or it does come with I've never been a huge fan and grinding straight You have to do a bit of extra and get the distribution right. Grinding into a catch bin but these just slot in. But let's go back to We'll take the time up a little bit longer just to make sure we're gonna And away we go. (coffee grinding) Next up is the Fellow Opus. Now this is a grinder, full disclosure, that we bought on launch from the US and it is running on a power converter, which I wouldn't recommend in most cases, and when it comes to that may impact things but Ultimately I think its of how it would be if because most of what I wanna talk about is nothing to do with how the motor runs. Let's talk about how it all works. It is a single dose grinder. You have a very snug-fitting and this is your small enough hopper, big enough that you could put in a good amount of filter coffee or, you know, a large dose grind 60 grams but, you know, not too big that you're wasting space. Inside here, you do get a your sort of suggested grind settings, which is a nice little touch. And then you've got the grind adjustment. This is relatively simple, the smaller the number, that's true of pretty much But as we said with the Baratza ESP, when you get down to kind you don't want this click this click over here, right? You need larger clicks over here and smaller clicks down here. They've gone a different route here, which is if you take off the hopper, you have a second, smaller, kind of micro adjustment inside here where you would need to press this down and move it that little bit coarser or that little bit finer. It's an interesting two step solution and it does sort of change the way that the sort of readings on which may be slightly confusing at first. It takes a little bit of getting used to. The dosing cup. Here is an interesting thing, it's a pretty big dosing cup which you wouldn't so they have a lid with a smaller inner. I take this off and you can sort of see a bit more what I'm talking about there. So you grind into this for espresso and then it's designed to fit nicely on a traditional kind of portafilter. If you don't wanna do and just put on a normal lid and you can grind much more So nice flexibility in that. As you can see underneath to keep the catch cup in place, and then you've got So if you push it once, it If you push it twice, sort of tap tap, it'll run for 60 seconds. If you go tap, tap, tap, it'll run for 90, and if you push and hold it, Most of the time 30 seconds is fine. One final note on this (beans pouring) This is such a snug-fitting that you can use it as a bellows system, so when you grind coffee... (coffee grinding) So now that we're done grinding, I can kind of bellows it out. So the Varia VS3 Gen 2, a substantial, chunky, quite So one of the heavier grinders here. You'll see on top, lid and then of course your little Pop you back. Obviously this is designed Grind adjustment is done by I guess the funnel or, it's but this will control your grind setting. Smaller the number, the finer the grind. It is stepless and there's a little indicator ring here. One nice touch. It does come with this. A little, tiny spray bottle so you can spray a little It's called the Ross Droplet Technique. We have made a whole video about this if you wanna go deep into the science. So I shall do as I'm, I (spritz spritz spritz) And then lid off, we'll (motor whirring) (coffee grinding) and then bellows to finish. In terms of the catch cup, it comes with a little one like this, which is held in place via a magnet, which is always a nice touch. So here's the DF54, it's because it has a flat as opposed to a 38 to In cheaper grinders, you because conical burrs need a cheaper motor or don't need as an expensive or as a powerful motor as flat burrs do, they'll turn more easily, Flat burrs tend to require and therefore cost more. So seeing a flat burr grinder is definitely interesting. In terms of build, very easily the heaviest grinder here, not surprising if it's and all metal housing. In terms of ground adjustment, you've just got a ring at It's a stepless grinder which is nice. So infinite adjustment between the steps. In terms of work flow, it's pretty simple. There is another little And actually, the is all metal, so you have a little hole through which your beans would fall. They'll bounce off this thing and then they won't easily be able to get out again while it's grinding. There's no smart electronics here. There's just an on off switch, so er... (motor whirring quietly) That's it. (beans pouring) The grinder does claim to to reduce static at the output, and I nearly forgot to which, as you can see, is clear plastic and designed to sort of go for the little twist and dose. You could, I guess, put As I said, I wouldn't I'd much prefer grinding into a dosing cup and working that way. Let's see how these shots all taste. Now obviously this is not gonna be a blind tasting for any of these. As part of the research and we have done blind tastings but we decided it was just for me to give you the summary of my experience as I taste this shot. Now this is a conical burr grinder and people expect conical more body but maybe I have to say though, I really do like the shots especially for the price point. They have nice texture, They may be not maximum clarity but I feel like plenty enough, just honestly very enjoyable. The Smart Grinder Pro. The shots from this are a little bit more as you'd expect from a They don't quite have the same cleanness as some of the other grinders have. It's a little bit muddier, it's a little bit more and you tend to drift into those kind of chocolatey that may not typically express Reasonable acidity kind of profile. Not bad. Not bad, just simply not great. Espresso from the Fellow Opus. Espresso from this grinder, and actually from the ESP as well has been a good reminder of me not to have a closed mind about conical burr grinders that are a little bit cheaper Both of them kind of or the flat burr style you might expect than they do taste like conical burrs. That shot, tons of sweetness, quite bright acidity, nice texture, really you know, very enjoyable. I don't really have a lot of that I've had from the Opus. Often I've become, you not entirely sure which is, you know, this or the DF, which is I would say I have been impressed by this and also the ESP as having nice clarity, brightness, sweetness, all of those good things. Espresso from the Varia VS3. This has always been a classic, Very heavy, much more in It is a muddier shot. It lacks the clarity of If you like those kind of chocolatier, kind of bassier styles of espresso, this may well appeal to you, like the texture is pretty good, it's thick, it's pretty rich. But for me and my own biases, I just want a bit more clarity of flavor, a bit more explicit sweetness and a little bit less muddiness. And the last of my espressos, to be honest, thankfully, it's the DF54. Shots from the DF54 have flat burr-styled shots really nice sweetness, tons of clarity, comparatively, maybe not compared to but for this group here, Nice acidity, can be a but not in an unpleasant way at all. For me and my style of espresso, the things that I like to drink, I have really enjoyed It has been, you know, my favorite of the espressos Not by a lot. I will say, you know, those two conicals, the Opus and the ESP, the Baratza, are pretty close to this. This, for me, does just I've just enjoyed it that little bit more, that extra clarity, that Now we'll get into some some of the details of the and we'll start there with We use an imaging particle size analyzer and we get a load of data from it. We put lots of coffee through it and I'll show you some of the outcomes. Important to understand it's not a truth about the grinder. This will show you differences in how these grinders ground on one particular day when set for a sort of similar outcome. So I'll show you the espresso first. They're all producing the same recipe in terms of in and out and brew time. Some variants in extraction of course, but we have to standardize it somewhere, but this is not an objective it's just a comparative Let's have a look at the And you'll see as they appear, that all of the conical grinders grind it in a very similar way, and quite notably really, the a very different-looking distribution. Its peak is a little bit finer. You can't really tell whether Perhaps it is producing The conical grinders tend to produce a broader range of particle sizes, we've known this for a long time, that do go from finer to coarser But here looking at it, That doesn't make it a better grinder but this does explain why and how it may be producing when it comes to espresso. Conversely, if you look at the VS3, you'll see that it has a bunch of particle size at the in the fines and sort of but like a hundred micron in and notably different to To me it just speaks to a greater level of inconsistency in its grind setting and would explain perhaps, perhaps some of the additional Now what I'll show you next because it's gonna be the filter coffee particle size analysis. So they're all grinding much coarser, and as we show you that there are real limitations to what you can discern from without beginning to potentially kind of over-fit your So yes, you could say the DF it might look the most uniform. I'm not sure I'd say that I'm not sure I could really any of these grinders from But as we'll see later on when they do produce very different cups. And so I wanted to show this because as I keep saying, or this incredible insight and if you just had a particle then you'd know which one to buy. They sometimes show you stuff And here, I don't feel like there's a ton of really interesting information but it's kind of useful So when it comes to retention, that's a really important point and we did two kinds of Test one is the traditional test, you weigh 18 grams of you weigh how much comes out, you do that a bunch of times. And so I'll show you a quick comparison to see how these all performed. Looking at the data, I would say probably the though, you know, the The Fellow Opus definitely has some challenges around retention. You know, you really need to get sort of, all the coffee out. It does tend to retain when it comes to espresso grind settings. Unsurprisingly the Sage Grind Pro, which is not built to be well, that also was a in its ability to deliver We did another kind of that I think is perhaps more useful. So if you have a grinder that has half a gram of coffee in and you get 18 out, well that half gram of coffee you know, at some point. It's the new coffee has replaced it and it's been pushed out. Can you measure sort of exchange? And so what we did here was that we dialed the grinders in, then pushed them all the way ground 20 grams of coffee through it, therefore exchanging any fine pieces that were left inside for coarser pieces and then brought it back to If there was a lot of let's say there's two grams in there, well, that next dose out of it should have more of these coarse pieces and the extraction should and the shot after that it's then all of this new Most of the grinders did pretty well here. In some cases, you know, were, in fact, higher extractions so that the grind setting Only two of the grinders saw The DF saw a little bit of and the Baratza Encore also saw a little bit of a drop off in extraction, suggesting they are retaining and exchanging slightly But overall I would say in flavor or extraction, really. They were still producing straight after grinding indicating that almost all grinders here are doing, I think, a reasonable Of course we need to that's definitely a thing and there's a pretty big variance here. Again, we did a espresso test, and we'll show you the how long it took these Now the kind of standout the VS3, which is a pretty slow grinder. It's also the lowest RPM grinder, It's a small burr set, that Interesting to me is the DF54. That's a surprisingly slow especially when you think that is relatively fast but definitely, definitely quite Not a problem, just kind of Worth noting, worth remarking upon. As a final note, we also ran power consumption tests on these things. You'll see at the bottom of it'll have a rated wattage, We like to test if it does that and typically they'll draw more where the motor has to work harder than that of filter coffee setting. Interesting to me is is just way off, weirdly way off. It was rated at 70 watts and we were recorded in excess of 130, so don't know what that's about. The Opus, totally fine. The DF54, again, and I think the DF64 in a again, above rated wattage. We got to 170 watts at I don't think this is dangerous, though if you are trying to calculate the amount of total draw going 'cause you've got them all on extension, you probably would really wanna know what it's actually gonna draw, not what it says it's gonna draw The Sage, again crept up a little bit. 188, not the one advertised, 165, and then the Varia, pretty low 80 is about the peak Now of course for me, personally, and I know for a lot of you watching, sound is a really big deal. So as usual, we've done the same setup where we have a microphone a fixed distance from the grinder, we have a sound meter a fixed and we'll run the grinders and let you listen, I hope very clearly, to For us it's definitely an assessment, not just of total volume And I think the recordings are actually a pretty good representation It really matters to me. It's a kind of something or hear every morning I don't necessarily want a noisy, screaming, screeching thing, and for me, it's a big negative. For a lot of people, But here is the comparison of sound. (coffee grinding) (coffee grinding) (coffee grinding) (coffee grinding) (coffee grinding) (coffee grinding) (coffee grinding) (coffee grinding) We did also do a filter tasting here. We actually filmed a blind tasting of the filter coffee tasting. And so for me, in summary, I really do like the filter but I feel like you just have to push it that little bit finer to and then I think the cups You know, if you are someone and I know there's not a lot of you, but I would just aim on Or if you have one of those grinders and you feel the cup is a bit lacking, don't be afraid to push I will say the Opus performed incredibly well across testing and I really like the and I like the filter coffee I'm surprised that I from the Sage Smart Grinder Pro more. It's not the best, it doesn't really, truly but it's better than I But for me, the one that sort of struggled the most in this testing was Across filter brews, it and sweetness that other grinders Even the Sage Smart Grind Pro has been a, I think, a notable step above. Going back to those I can't see it in there, with that particular metric. I think that's interesting. But it's definitely been something sort of consistent across testing. It's time for nitpicks. I This grinder is where we'll start, just 'cause we started I will say, in fairness, I don't have a ton of nitpicks with this. I have some substantial issues in that, the noise for me, like is really a problem. It's kind of a deal breaker. I don't think I could and listen to it every single morning without being annoyed by it. That's me, I may be a especially early in the morning, but I just wish they'd They're great, they're I just wish they were I think they've done a pretty good job with the grind adjustment system here, though I can't help but of increasingly common stepless grinders, we're still working with steps here, and I'd love a little bit more just for sort of messing I don't really understand why there's a button on the front here. I'm never gonna push and hold a button when there's an on off switch. But actually, that's it. I can't really complain about the build feeling a little bit light and It's 160 quid, which I The Smart Grinder Pro perhaps for having been in the market for 10 years and having been a kind of pioneering model and option for people at I think that's a good But in comparison to the there's a few things we should talk about. Styling wise, fit, finish, feels a little but that little bit of plastic here. Massive hopper, it feels and I don't love how it looks. It's not a great catch cup, it's just not that great to work with. It's really big and weirdly sized and it has this funny lid thing that lets you close the hole and stuff. In terms of other performance, It's just not built to do grind-to-order. And so that's kind of on But it is quite hard a bit of a thump and if you are trying to single dose with it. As a final complaint, it has a pretty good but we actually found it without making a second adjustment. Your primary grind adjustment is down here on the grind adjustment dial. There's another way to adjust accessing the burr and That will give you a bit more range. That's not a great experience and so I kind of wish they'd just given me a little bit more range on the coarse end, assuming that I wanted the fine For its flaws and its failures, it's been a good value and I'm glad it's been around. The Opus, I have to say, the plastic on it does feel for this price point, especially with some of the other comparative Now if you've seen any review of the Opus grinder before this one, you'll have seen people complain It's a really strange decision. It's not a particularly intuitive one. Baratza in the past have done like, two rings that you adjust, you know, a coarser adjustment Something like that would've been nice. But the idea that you awkwardly press and inside it like that, that's one of the two big headaches for me with this grinder. The other one really is retention. Like, it is annoying to fight this grinder to get the coffee back out of it again. And I really like the I was impressed by that and that made these other two You know what I mean? I If it was more intuitive to use, if it didn't retain coffee, I'd forgive the build in a heartbeat. I just wouldn't think about it. I'd be like, this is a But those two things are frustrating. In addition, I like the idea for dosing into the portafilter. I have reasonably large hands. I find holding this to dose a portafilter a little bit uncomfortable. I just don't really wanna do that. I'd be much happier just with this. If you gave me this, I would be fine. But this doesn't have This doesn't, this doesn't So I kind of wish that I or an espresso dosing cup and not a kind of amalgam of the two. It works well. I have no real complaints about its actual function as a dosing cup, but it's just not hugely even if you've got very large hands. A quick positive and a I don't like bellows on most grinders. I feel ridiculous doing it. It feels like sort of I don't like it. This flush-fitting hopper as because it looks nice and it's invisible. It's not the best to use, but it works. I really don't mind it. It's not explicitly sort The downside is that you can what it looks like just wear and tear from mild usage as bellows. And so I'm kind of confused. Am I supposed to use it for that? Which clearly works well because I clearly need something to help me with the But if it is that, why on the inside of the hopper? That's just for me, I don't quite get it. The Varia VS3. I'm afraid it's gonna have a little bit of a longer section on nitpicking because it's got a few issues. Start with the lighter I wouldn't recommend the white because actually this You know, it's messy enough that it really, really shows. And so for me, probably would I will say, the first time I was excited because the and so solid that I was like, put money and effort into this grinder. It's weighty, it's That was a good thing. It Now there were a bunch on the first issue of the Varia and I'm hopeful that they I did not have an issue in my first gen and I have not had an with any sort of parts Its biggest single frustration for me is its inability to keep the At espresso settings, there's enough friction between the burrs that it starts to drag the grind setting away from where you set it. By grinding coffee, you cause the grinder to That's not okay. That's not acceptable. That's a very frustrating This is not a sort of If you look online, other people and there aren't really much offered in the way of solutions. It can be, you know, don't use so that it moves in a more difficult way, like there's more Other grinders have fixed this, other grinders do not have this problem. They have stepless adjustments that don't shift during grinding. And I've seen other grinders but it really shouldn't be there. It's a fundamental problem and I think it's, it's really not good. This, in addition, the does a really good job of stopping coffee getting into the burrs, which is frustrating. So there's no way I would without checking that because chances are there's This gap is actually pretty small. It just doesn't work very well. And so I probably would just but be aware that if you don't you might get some popcorning. As I've said, I'm not a huge These are fine as they go. At least it's a nice, metal lid that does magnet on top if you But you kind of need the bellows to improve the retention on this thing. I will say on the kind it is slow to grind, but the upside of that the least offensive to listen to grind. It's the quietest, it of all the grinders here, but it does take nearly twice as long as some of the other ones. So when it comes to sound, you know, a short, sharp pain is different to a long-lasting pain, which is different to relatively pleasant sound. So I guess, points there for but not the noisiest grinder. Probably the quietest of the grinders. And that should be acknowledged. And this is one last complaint. This is the power brick for this thing. Now the good news is, in theory, this is transforming it into DC power. So you could switch this cable out and you could run this and it would work fine. You just have to change that But this is a lot to house You know, if you wanna right by where it is, you've and there's no way around it. The DF54 is a fascinating little grinder. it's quite unusual. If I think back to the one of the grinders there was the X54, a 54 mm grinder pretty much And this, half that price, is a substantially better grinder. It's better built, it's better performing. It doesn't have the bells and whistles, but that's kind of charming for me. It's a very simple thing A couple of issues. One: again, yes it has a but two: I still don't like bellows. I just don't enjoy that experience. And it is, like many of the messy. This says it has an ionizer. I would not grind coffee with this thing without having spread some And yeah, a bit like the others, if you are too aggressive you can blow coffee back which is a little bit annoying. I don't mind the plasticky dose cup. I don't mind that it really has a dial and a button and that's it. It has no smart features and I will take that in exchange for a relatively inexpensive, One last little note, I This step adjustment dial but it is much more difficult to adjust. So even just small adjustments, probably a two-handed affair, I'm surprised at how hard it is, and it's something you have to worry about if you wanna take the burrs out. If you wanna go all going then back all the way fine, you've really gotta make sure you've gone all the way kind of to zero. It's easy to be kind because it is that hard to turn sometimes. I need to add a little about this grinder. I did complain endlessly and then we gave it a really good clean, including cleaning the ionizer So if you are having issues give the ionizer a clean, but it is also annoying kind of relatively quickly and so the performance does degrade. I just felt it was It's time to wrap it up. Well, firstly, I'm very happy to people at this price point now. I really feel like there's some very good, high-quality grinders able at under PS250. And I think that's great. Are all of these grinders No, I don't think so. And different ones may Starting over here, the Baratza, I think it's I'm genuinely surprised and how good it is for that money. It's simple, it's noisy, but it does make really nice coffee. The Sage, I get how it's It pioneered the market. It's a little bit out of date now and I wouldn't be surprised coming relatively soon. Obviously, Sage Breville acquired Baratza a couple of years ago now and there may be more You're certainly seeing it in that have built-in grinders. Anyway, it's a good little grinder. It's maybe not the greatest but it's better than I It's okay, it's just up to modern standards when The Opus is a point of I really like the cups of coffee I was surprised by them. I think it makes really I think it makes great shots of espresso. Some of the usability though This thing, if you are and you really like texture above all else and you want sort of and bassieness in your espresso, I could see going towards this. There are a bunch of issues with it and I hope they continue to I like the build, I like the It just needs to hold its grind setting and maybe get rid of Those kind of things of a contender for me. As someone like me who likes this is an incredibly good For a 54 mm burr set, you don't have a ton of but it's built solidly, it works well. I like the cups of coffee that it makes. It's a simple grinder. If you don't pay But a quick spritz before you grind is not the end of the world. And I would take that as a compromise to get the cup quality It's not perfect, but it And if you're interested then I think it's a great starting point on flat burr grinding at home. I'm impressed by this, It's not head and shoulders but it is a little bit more and that's how I should But these two here, most And you wanna pay attention to things like customer sales and support. You know where you are in the world, you wanna make sure that you can get it fixed. And that may rule out a grinder like this and rule in one of these grinders here. But now I wanna hear from you. Do you own one of these grinders? Have I been too kind, even? Are there things about them, quirks you've discovered from that you want to share with I would love to hear your thoughts down in the comments below whether you have one of these If there's things we should We always wanna improve make them better and more exhaustive and hopefully more helpful to you too. But for now, I'll say thank and I hope you have a great day.