Transcriber: nwyr lqHTny Have you ever thought to yourself Tomorrow is the day I'll change, tomorrow is the day have a healthy breakfast, go for a morning jog, breath fresh air. Tomorrow is the day, I want to change "The best version of myself". Well, change doesn't come easy. You have to incorporate that all eventually lead to you becoming the best version of yourself. You also have to eliminate certain habits that are hindering your path. Well, how long will it take you to form a new habit Most people will tell you for a person to form a habit I remember once in highschool, when my teachers told me: "It takes exactly 21 days for me to form a new habit". And I thought, this is my chance to become a bed maker. I thought that instead of getting up every day "Mom, please don't forget I thought I'll do it myself. Day by day, early in the morning, 6 a.m. Even on days I got up every morning And I hated every seconds of it. And by day 22 I opened my eyes and the first thing I did was say "Mom" "please don't forget I quit. and of course that was expected. And I thought, okay, maybe I'm just gonna be than bed makers. Whatever, I do not exaggerate, if I say that this 21 day theory is the most famous myth in the world of self-development Let's dive a little into our theory to understand and the reasons for its spread Dr. Maxwell Maltz when he began noticing a strange pattern for example, in a nose job, he saw that the patient to get used to start seeing He also noticed that if a patient the patient would acknowledge the feeling for exactly 21 days before starting to get used with their new condition. Dr.Maltz published his theory in a book that went very famous and sold over 30 million copies. And here, the conflict started brewing and it makes sense why people why? Number one, the number 21 is considered a short period of time and that's also considered which means something you can do. Number two, the number 21 is also long enough a difficult challenge but not impossible. I mean, who wouldn't love within just 21 days. Wouldn't you love to start waking up early Wouldn't you love to start cooking wouldn't you love to start drinking And all within less than one month! We'd go for it in a heartbeat. So is it true? Can we really change our lives I know that sounds very exciting, but there are actually a few factors to be able to estimate the time to form a new habit or to get rid of an old toxic one. Number one, is the complexity of your goal If I decide to start eating fruit daily which is considered a simple habit, I'd probably take less time than if I want to acquire like a tennis serve. Number two, behavior consistency affects Me repeating a certain behavior is different than my friend repeating for 30 minutes a day. So, we want to clear things up. How long will it takes us to form a new habit And is there a reliable study Answer is yes. There is a famous study titled "how our habits formed". The study followed 96 people over a period of 12 weeks. Each person chose such as, drinking 3 cups of water or running for 15 minutes after dinner. After 12 weeks, the data was analyzed to move from the old habit to start subconsciously And after 12 weeks, two to eight months, in order for the task to become a habit. And 66 days to be exact. The difference in time was largely due to the task itself, the person, and their circumstances, as some were able to form the habit while other is took 254 days. So, according to psychologist "Lally" If you want to know the time or get rid of an old one, the truth is that and not just 21 days. Guys, whether it is two months, three months, a year, two years, it doesn't actually matter as much as it matters And once you begin, make sure to maintain your new habit, make it a part of your schedule, set reminders create a supportive environment and most importantly you don't have to be perfect, making a mistake once or twice has no lasting effects on your behavior. Actually, that will give you time not to rush yourself into things, you have to give yourself time and not just rush yourself If i want to become a better person, I will have to commit to the system and embrace the process. That way, I will commit to making tiny improvements rather than rushing myself Change is not always easy and it is not always simple, but with enough dedication, any habit can be reshaped. So, if you really want it, becoming the best version of yourself, get up today and start working on it, I promise you all get there Thank you. (Applause)