Every problem comes from our desires. can you give an example of which doesn't? - It can be. - Something that isn't a desire... [Voiceover: This is Endgame] GITA WIRJAWAN: Hello Friends, Today we have Bhante Uttamo, the head of Vihara Bodhigiri and Bhante, thank you very much BHANTE UTTAMO: Thank you as well for the invitation. - No problem. As usual, people who can inspire others. And usually, those inspirations end up and the vision ahead. If you excuse us, when you were born in Jogja, - Yes. I was born in Jogja from a non-buddhist family. So, from the way I look, you must think as people know a Bhikkhu from his dress, his accessories his haircut, it's clear. Sometimes, people ask, &quot;did you become &quot;No, we came from a non-Buddhist family.&quot; However, in Jogja, more tolerant. So, for a non-Buddhist family, or a family with different beliefs, so, my parents, my sisters, - What are your parents' beliefs, Bhante? - Just say they're non-Buddhists. then, during childhood, I learned, as directed. 100-200 meters near our house, there was a place of worship. then we joined the worship there. Then, we also went to Then slowly, I got some experiences from sometimes my mother said &quot;Wake up. Go to school and get smarter.&quot; Maybe such words are common to many people, but for me, &quot;get smarter?&quot; &quot;yes, if you go to then I went to school. Then, similarly, at school, my teachers said, &quot;any &quot;hehehe. Clever.&quot; Those who couldn't answer, That time I felt weird. Why should anybody be Then, my teacher had a perspective; if a student sits in the The further back he/she sits, Those who sits alone at the back, So I felt, &quot;why should it be like that?&quot; That (experience) rose my curiosity. Then I tried asking my religion teacher, &quot;Why are people different from each other? Are they destined to Then, my religion teacher said, &quot;Every people are born different&quot; &quot;why?&quot; &quot;that's a secret. We don't know why.&quot; I felt, &quot;why a secret? why But that is when I was I just let it be and Then I continued my life as usual. The further it gets, the For example, When I was at a canteen, or places where kids have their lunches, the rich tends to get more the poor is slightly isolated. And I feel that this is weird. And when I asked, &quot;why are The answer was, &quot;well, So, I felt things as such Then, I learned several religions, and I studied religion And the same question rose. Each time I study, &quot;why are And the answer was more or then when I was 20 or so, as I went to the university, I tried, how about learning Buddhism? Because I hadn't learned it yet. Because at the senior high, However, I would rather So people sometimes said, I liked to bully them back then. One of the examples was sometimes, my Buddhist friend said sadhu. It may have a good meaning. But, I flouted, &quot;What? Sapu That was very anti-Buddhistic. But when I was 20, I felt, &quot;I want to know what Buddhism looks like&quot; So I entered a vihara in Jogja, called Cetiya Buddha Prabha, Because that was the only Vihara I knew at that time. And I felt maybe this can because the friend I bullied back then when there. He usually did his services there. Then I entered the courtyard. In a Chinese temple, there and in the first courtyard. So, in a Chinese temple terrace, there are usually pillars with I sat there because I am still an anti-Buddhist. Then I asked the same question, &quot;According to Buddhism, why are Why are there the smart and the the healthy and the sick, the Then I got the answer, It's because it's not their first lives. So why does he sick, maybe it's because, in his past life, It's like if we sow rice, we got the rice, if we hurt others, we'll reap what we sow. Then I asked, &quot;What's the proof?&quot; If we hurt others, if we tend others, people labeled us evil. If we do something good, to donate to an orphanage If we are parsimonious, Then if we inspire many people, Mr. Gita, for example, the one who inspire others, is labeled smart. And Mr. Gita is indeed smart. Maybe this is the ability until today. Then those who are ignorant, when people asked, they knew it, but they pretend to not know, and people labeled them least clever. and many things are being labeled. Then I asked, &quot;what's the proof?&quot; Then the man explained of the vihara Cetiya Buddha Prabha. He usually sits in front of maybe to get some fresh air. Then he answered, has had the hypnosis theory.&quot; So there are people who He said this, &quot;when hypnotized, for example, &quot;Why do you have marks on your body, In Bahasa, what do we call them? body mark? - Yes. There's the word in Javanese. But, I don't know in Bahasa. Sorry if I used Javanese because I was raised in Jogja. So there is. maybe similar to this. - Birthmark. Then, that person was hypnotized. And he could go to the stages of his past lives. One example, I was jailed in Germany at that time, Then, this jail, when I looked at the window, I could see an intersection, then, the intersection has pillars. On that window, I often take a look at the outside world as the jail was full, the room was packed, so, I like it there. The jail was full of rats. And sometimes, the rats Until at one moment, I And the bitten area got and I died ultimately. The strong memory of that bitten area, made it to my next life as a birthmark. Then experts who could do the In Germany, at that time, are there a prison near an intersection, and pillars in the Then they searched many locations some old prisons, war prisons and others, and they finally found it. Indeed, the place is no longer a prison, the intersection still exists, the pillar in the middle of the and finally think, &quot;so they concluded as such. Then, there is a person who can he was European, but fluently. But the Arabic was different. Then the experts asked, and said, &quot;Oh, this was which at that time, the person cannot even speak the language. And there are a lot of cases as such. For me, this is the answer I expected. I feel that the other answers are not wrong, but didn't live up to my expectations. Then for the first three months, I went to the front and then I entered (the vihara). - Entered the vihara after that three months? Then I entered and joined - If I may ask, was it intensive? - every night. Every day, every night. from 6 PM to midnight. Everyday. because he (the leader) sits So our discussions went on and on. Then, we entered and I felt at home. And I started entering after the discussions. I tried to go to the library Because I was green about Buddhism, and because books about There were also few Bhikkhus, so much so that I hardly ever saw them. I only learn Buddhism from - in 1980s? - In 1980s. So in the end, I tried reading I read them and I felt Buddhism's way of teaching fits me best. Buddhism's way of teaching fits me best. Then in 1982, I was determined, Then people, including &quot;Can you?&quot; &quot;I can. 36 months from &quot;If you become a Bhikkhu, I &quot;Oh yes, please remember your promise.&quot; &quot;Yeah, sure.&quot; - Because I felt that I I must finish my study first. Then I must prove my parents. My father actually had already passed away when I was a 6 grader. So I only lived with my mother the one who raised me. I have to prove her that after she put me to school, up to my graduation, I need to be independent, so no one will think that I become a Bhikkhu to escape formal education, to escape the economy. Then I also have to prepare my mother's mental for his child to become a Bhikkhu. Because in 1982, when I said to her that I want to be a Bhikkhu, she fainted. So that time was lunchtime when I told her, &quot;What if I become a Bhikkhu?&quot; &quot;what is Bhikkhu?&quot; Because my mother was not a Buddhist. &quot;Bhikkhu is someone who lives in the Vihara that must do things like this and that.&quot; Then, she stopped eating and she went out from the dining room, to her bedroom and cry. One night, I was about to sleep when I heard something shattered. &quot;What's this?&quot; Then I went out. I was shocked the time I heard that thing shattered. I went out and I saw my mother fainted. My mother had some kind of gastritis. So her gastritis relapses when she is stressed out. Her gastritis relapsed when she was going to the back. So the time walked to the back, she fainted because of the pain caused, and her head hit the glass cupboard. So there was a glass cupboard for shoes and other things, She got wounds here and there. That night, I laid my Then, I contemplated. My mother had sacrificed so much, so I have to give her a I think she fainted because she was shocked because maybe she thinks, &quot;you usually picked different why now you would go that far?&quot; So finally, after wrapping her wounds, I contemplated that I need I estimated by graduating and working, I can explain things to my mother and in another city for Finally, within that 36 months, I can input all the data as maximum as I can to &quot;I just want to become a Why do you have to be sad to see If I become a bad person, I will become a Bhikkhu, a good person.&quot; But she kept wrapping herself with sorrow. &quot;And one more thing, if I become a Bhikkhu, I need a signature from my It'll be difficult if this Then, I asked my mother, &quot;Do you want your son to be happy?&quot; &quot;Yes, I want it. As a mother, it is obvious if a &quot;Then, I am happy to become a Bhikkhu.&quot; &quot;Then, so be it.&quot; My mother said so because she doesn't know what Finally, she signed the consent. Then I show the file to the organization, the organization for Bhikkhu, we called it Sangha. Sangha Theravada Indonesia The place where I am now. And at the 36th month since my determination, in 1985, my friend said, &quot;I have graduated, Because actually, I had been working I studied at IKIP Sanata Dharma. Then at the first semester, the asked me to join in, &quot;Teach here.&quot; So, when I graduated, I had been Then, I can join the examination, the paper examination. At that time, there were many questions. Then I said to the examiner that time, &quot;Actually, after this examination, I will become a Bhikkhu candidate.&quot; A bhikkhu candidate is &quot;I want to become a Bhikkhu Candidate. At the graduation So with such difficult questions, when I can't answer, that is okay. Because I will not repeat it, I will become a Bhikkhu.&quot; Them, the examiner team But this was for sure, not just because I said such words. In the end, everything went smoothly. Then, I became a Bhikkhu My mother came and cry, along with my brothers and sisters, even though they are not Buddhists, my uncle and others as well. In our family, Buddhism is because all of them live in Jogja, and in Jogja, there were not So no one in my family practice Buddhism. They knew what makes me interested. So they came, taking part in the ceremony, Then, when I use the robe, in 1985, I joined the graduation ceremony, in IKIP Sanata Dharma. I don't know if the photo still existed, but I have one, But does Sanata Dharma Because until this day, I a Bhikkhu robe at a graduation ceremony. - There must be others. If it's pastoral robes because there must be others. Then I became a Samanera. - If I may ask, how was your mother's reaction - A mother must've cried. She cried. - But has she accepted it whole-heartedly? - I have proven that I have Then I often come home so that she doesn't feel left behind. She thought that when I become I visited her, then we talked about things. The first time we met, she cried, then for the first one to two years. But then, she let me go. And then, I became Samanera for a year. A year later, I went to Thailand. - Yes. In order to get an Because back then, There are a lot of regulations And at that time, Now, there is. Very easy. I was one of the last batches to join the ordination overseas. After my batch, most of I lived in Thailand and was forced to learned Thai, with all its difficulties. What important was that I can talk and finally, I was ordinated there. Then I felt, ever since I was a kid, I liked meditating. - from what age? - Actually since childhood, at Elementary school. - but inconsequent. - Okay. - So... the chronology - No Problem. It's exciting. - So, when I was in elementary school, maybe because of the condition in Jogja and the term semedi, etc., then because of the films that I watched, still insequent. So we have one yard at our house. When I want to relax, I went to the backyard, sat down under the guava trees, doing nothing for a long time. Then in junior high school, I had a teacher for the subject PMP My teacher was unique, My teacher didn't teach my teacher told stories about meditation. So my friends didn't like it, but I did. That was amazing, the Then, at certain times, sometimes I rode my The house was far far from my house. So, did you ever go to Jogja, Mr. Gita? - My dad is from Jogja. I went there many times. My house was close to the Kranggan market, the monument, to put most easily. My PMP teacher's house was near just go straight to solo, that's quite far, and I went there by bike, as a kid, not as an adult. Today, we can get there faster. It was far, outside of the town, to visit that special asking, &quot;what is meditation?&quot; From that time onwards, and also the books, I also read a lot there. So that was amazing. My and I was only a junior high student, still in development. - so when I was still I felt so happy to know the And finally, I learned When I became a Bhikkhu, to retrospect, in the vihara where he studies, Vihara Cetiya Buddha Prabha, there was a very old Bhikkhu, so old that his age was 112 years old. Very old, that he even slouched when standing up, and he liked meditating. Every afternoon, I went to the Vihara, asking him, &quot;How?&quot; and so, my junior high who was 112 years old. That 112-year-old man even though sometimes he as he was senile, he But when I was there every day, I sometimes gave him a massage while inquiring about things. When he remembered, then he explained his of which I never heard from anybody, from books and everywhere. that 112-year-old man, for like when someone That person answers many of is appealing to me. When I became a Bhikkhu, I then felt the same in Thailand when I asked my senior, &quot;where can I do the training?&quot; &quot;oh, there. There's a teacher named [...]&quot; He lived near the border So, it was in a village, and I went there. I went there by bus and his Vihara was indeed there. at the end of the vihara across the river was Lao. So it was close to the border. There, I learned a lot about meditation, because every night, I was summoned by the Along the way, we talked Because my Thai language is limited, I relied on my friend, which was I asked my friend, &quot;Please ask him.&quot; If he (the Guru) answered, If not, I asked my friend. And there were quite a that I shared with him. - In the middle of the forest? - Yes, in the middle of the forest. The vihara In northern Thailand. Because when we see Thailand, the northern Bhikkhus are mostly experts in meditation. There are two kinds of Bhikkhus; the Bhikkhu who masters I would rater to be the meditation one, because we need to learn, then we learn, but not many. Because for me, meditation is actually about knowing oneself. By knowing ourselves, we can understand others. Because other people are like us. what we want. We want to be happy, others too. We want to avoid suffering, others too. Then, if I don't want to get hurt, don't hurt others. If I want to be happy, That's my meditational principle. However, it needs to Because meditation trains the way we think. Many people said, &quot;meditation No. Because this is to train the way you think. For example, to learn how to read faster, you need to train. If first, you should know what is scanning, So does meditation. the more you train, the better &quot;Ah, my way of thinking is This emotion is only a So sometimes, when it pops up, it'll explode, however, if we wait, it will come down. Similar to meditating. When we want to cough or -Could you? Holding our breath for 5 or our impulse to cough or Then, we exhale slowly, and we lose our desire to cough or sneeze. All in our mind is just like that. Hold it for a while, and then fades away. Then our emotion, if want hold it for a while, and it fades away. That's why people in the past said if in the mirror, it'll then disappear. But it works. When we are angry and we look at the mirror, we will then aware of so when we hold the mirror our anger has faded If you're still angry, look at So, that's it. Becoming a meditating Bhikkhu means to get to know oneself better. I felt it suits me best. Bhikkhu in the practice especially the one that master meditation. So my choice shouldn't Some Buddhists don't want Some want to become because if everyone becomes Most entrepreneurs aren't Buddhists. then when we talk about Bhikkhu, I Some people prefer to become If everyone's meditating, This world will be full of colors. If we can accept it as it is, peace will come. What people want, they have their own needs, so why must we force them? When I want to become a Bhikkhu, it let them be. It's about compatibility. A Bhikkhu has to meditate, when one didn't want to do Just walk comfortably, then we can have a comfortable - one of many things I how to accept that everything is not everlasting. And for me, that helps everybody, not only me. And, oftentimes, I got stressed out, or I got sleepy, but the more we train our mindset, that they are not everlasting, you will change. It's helpful, isn't it? Everything in this world So people know from their Because you can see your your grandmother and grandfather the day becomes night, Everyone knows them. pets can die, everyone knows it. But that knowledge is for someone else, so those immortal concepts are for others, but we can't accept it for ourselves. For example, when we read a book, any book, things about the philosophy of this life that are not everlasting. So that when we read, we can When their significant other passed away, we can say, &quot;this life isn't eternal. you should be grateful with your significant other. passes away due to old age is certain. Be grateful.&quot; Easy. Then, those who lost their money, so you should be grateful to live, Very easy. But when we lose someone we love, and our friends give us some advice, in the same manner, we refuse them. &quot;But you gave us similar advice, someone you love can &quot;Yes. But yours was old and ugly. Unlike mine, who is still handsome, Then, when we lose our money, our friends give us similar advice, but we say, &quot;the money you've lost It's a big loss. It's difficult.&quot; With meditation, we experience so that we can get accustomed. Like someone doing a training, like weightlifting training, it's all started from something light, maybe half a kilo, and gradually So does the meditation. So starts slowly. First, we &quot;what's this tingling sensation?&quot; Usually, the best position who requires less movement. So ideally, during meditation, I usually can do three kinds of movements. that is, to move my back, because the posture of due to his/her habits, so the back can bend over. So when it bends over, I reposition it. when it bends over, again, I reposition it. Next, I move my head. In a longer meditation, my head sometimes ducks down. then, I reposition it so Then I close my eyes. The third movement I because we produce saliva, so I need to swallow it But you don't have to swallow it often. So, we swallow our saliva. the tingling sensation is also I would suggest a timer. pay attention to the time, Ideally, it's 30 minutes. If you want, you can go for an hour. Don't go overboard, just training your mindset. In 30 minutes, for You will feel an extraordinary Hold it on. You'll So this is to train ourselves on at the beginning, we're then the tingling slowly fades away. Sometimes, we get bored. meditation needs every training needs it. Mr. Gita likes playing Sometimes, when you want to go, But if we learned to discipline ourselves, when the times come So does meditation. If we can discipline ourselves, when the time comes, At first, of course, There are times Because the spirit of those who do the second, third month, Sow e have to In the morning, after waking And tasks. When we first feel if you feel extraordinarily lazy, &quot;Why doesn't it ring?&quot; then, all of a sudden, But if not, just continue such as our breath. pay attention to the time get to know when you or, cont 1-5, and back to 1. but, breathe naturally, let it happens normally, most importantly, we are aware of it. If we keep on observing such things, then the timer suddenly will ring. And we open our but it disappears.&quot; Then we see, &quot;ah, life And that's in every side, until when, for example, when we It should be at X time, it's late. No problem, life isn't eternal. Just think that I have a chance But I had this kind of anger. I should pay attention to it. because this anger is then the anger can give me spirit. Now I feel the anger, waiting But I finally can observe. And when I met the not to say, &quot;What's wrong with if it's like this, the receipt try it 3x to 5x a day. you'll finally be able we can do it. Everything we own is not When our body grows older, our body loses its ability, our ears lose their ability to hear, our vision fades, and so does And we can accept it as it is. That's what meditation is. - This is interesting. If I may talk about the history, before going forward according to this topic, If we look at Indonesia and with all of the harmony in even though we have passed through ages. If we look back at the Srivijayan era, Buddhism persisted for 400 or so years. After Majapahitan, Hinduism After that, Islam, colonialism, independence, So this Southeast Asia region is actually incredibly rich, from the even though some beliefs and religions had come and gone. This is extraordinary. And many Indonesians don't realize that In the past, in the Srivijayan era, we became scholarly references for those who want to learn Buddhism, regardless of where they are, Maybe, can you share some - SO, if we talk about Because at that time, &quot;did I experience it? no. but I remembered.&quot; If we basically think &quot;did I become Buddhist because I was in Srivijayan era?&quot; I don't know for sure. But our culture is indeed based on unity. All Southeast Asia nations are like that. Or maybe, we extend it across Asia. One of Asia's cultures is amity. One example, up to this day, in Indonesia, we have the tradition to greet others. Like, if Mr. Gita comes alone to a meeting, sometimes people ask, &quot;where's your wife? &quot;I am the only one coming.&quot; &quot;Yes, why don't you invite her too?&quot; asking someone who is not with us. Then, when a husband &quot;why don't you invite all your family in?&quot; asking those who aren't with us. It means that we have a In western countries, it doesn't exist. They never ask as such. They will think, &quot;I went alone. But in Indonesia or other Asian and we live in such a world. So if I would imagine, we still experience it today. And if we look at the earlier time, when I was a kid, and there are some jugs filled with water in front of our house. Did you ever see it, Mr. Gita? In every house, there's a so those who felt thirsty, can come by and drink. And in some places, I - Woah there are a lot more. And the jug was not meant to The water was straight from the well, it was refreshing. It shows that whoever you are, whatever your religion is, wherever you are, I provide this water to This is incredible. So, if we look at the era, the culture of amity because if there is no unity, there is no power as big as it was. And people overseas learned from us. If we look at the historical relics, we had a really big area for a kingdom. So it's clear, the unity across different groups has been our culture and even to this day, although... some may forget, it doesn't mean everyone forgets. So now, if we look at the Why? Because they want The Srivijayan era was incredible, they could build these so it's incredible. So if I look at that day, right now, we still have a lot to learn. although there have been Unity will overcome differences. How can it become power? Like our fingers. We have five fingers, each is different from the other, the function is different, but If for example, the thumb brags itself as the strongest, then only has a thumb, When it comes to the But it's hard to eat and - Maybe we can type in our smartphone But we don't treat others lower. because each finger has its own function, Thus, once it's lost, you'll experience difficulties. Some people lost certain fingers, or maybe with other analogy, when we bleed, sometimes we the pain will then hinder you to So, what does it mean? It means that we don't Differences will bring upon power. If we can accept that our body is different from every angle, that the left and the right side are different, that the heigh of your ears are uneven, the wrinkles of your ears are not the same your eyes are of different sizes, the holes on your nose everything is different, the left and right hand is not and so does with the feet. If we can accept that our why don't we accept others? and if we can understand I think we can form a great nation. I don't what happened back then, but we have such a culture. - Our nation is rich in cultures. I sometimes get confused if outsiders come and think that we can't unite. Especially my friends from Europe, I directly oppose. &quot;Look at the first and the second I think that's their limitation to promote unity, or maybe, their weakness, compared to us within the last 2000 years. For me, it's minuscule. There are victims periodically, but I think it's manageable, and the rate is far lower, and that's what we - I want to take you back Bhante, to what we have discussed about how to train our mindset, to keep in check with our emotion, anger, and so on, which exerts negative energy. if we look at the whole world, these negative energy are getting more prominent. From the way we communicate or talk, even I can say that these things have been polarized to the left or right side. one group doesn't they can't communicate with what can we infer from about recalibrating reality is a little... - Actually, the principle maybe if we discuss longer back then about meditation, self mindfulness means to understand that wherever you are whoever you are, an Indonesian, Asian, it's actually back to them; if I don't want to get hurt I don't hurt others. If I want to be happy, so does with others. Sometimes we feel &quot;we have a different we should make our own group.&quot; the polarization. actually, that one's way of thinking but we still can be on the same ground. Imagin when Mr. Gita invites maybe I can't give Mr. Gita's understanding, but it doesn't mean that I If I can't talk about badminton, maybe there are things within So does with my perspective, &quot;I can't be at the same level Well, I don't think I'd like to There are other things that Mr. Gita this concept is something If I can't relate to one topic, there are 99 topics that can still be discussed. why should we get separated just by this discussion? we can talk about something else instead. If we can apply this, regardless of our color, yellow, because every people's feeling is the same. They want to be happy, That is maybe something we want to develop. So let's see, if the topic is familiar, If it's not, then it doesn't We can find other topics. - Even with our awareness that's our ticket to openness. If I don't understand badminton, it's okay to ask questions about it. For me, that's our modal to unify, to communicate. Rather than saying &quot;Pokok'e (you must)&quot; - That perspective works. So everything is transient That is what makes us, But if you wan't to go deeper, today, I can't talk about badminton but, maybe you can give me a week so that I can get some basic of it. - You can know more than what I expected. - I can. That's why you That's why I said life is transient. Right now, it doesn't Right now, I am only part of the process. the continuation of who I Right now, I will start processing things, for me in the future. Things shouldn't be everlasting, We need to change the pattern We fix it by understanding the - I sometimes hypothesized that recently our topic is correlated with the digital technology. I want to know your this polarized conversation is there any correlation - The technology is neutral. Everything in this world is the mentality and morality So does with technology. If we use it to improve it will become incredible. If the technology is used such as with social media. If we fill our social media There is a lot of information about good life lessons and there is a lot of But we can also use social So it's not the social media that is wrong, thus, no need to close it, but the people and their mentality Today, we have the word arit in Javanese. How do you call it in - Yes. the grass cutter. - Sickle. When you want to cut grass, Sabit ini untuk memotong rumput, This sickle is to cut grass, but So we don't need to ban the sickle. we should feel pity for the the one we should focus don't misuse it. We don't have to forbid we need to fix the people, their morality. It is morality that we need to fix. One way to do it is to suppress the feeling of fear and shame. Which shame? Most people in Asia or maybe also in Europe, each person is connected If you are a westerner, the son of Jacob. Then on another side, Mr. Gita Wirjawan, do you - Wirjawan is my father's first name. Wirjawan Djojosoegito. - So your parent's name is there. Let's begin with the feeling of shame, if I do something good, my parents' and ancestors' If I do something bad, then my parents' and It's like you spit to the For example, in school, let's back to the smart If you are smart, the teacher often asks, Smart/dumb, they will If you are naughty, then &quot;who's That means, they (parents) So now, we can encourage either in Europe or in Indonesia. We encourage that everything you do if it's good, you support your ancestors. If it's bad, then you tarnish their names. For example, &quot;Woah A his parents should be very proud.&quot; Later on, the parents' &quot;If I am unable to pay for their kindness, at least I can be a good kid.&quot; Conversely, when the kid &quot;This is the son of X&quot; so the parents also felt, &quot;What a shame it is to be your parents.&quot; Then the parents turn teaching them that they are no longer in need of babysitting. But as a parent, My task is to teach (my but also teaching them to be good persons. There is the feeling of shame. Shame is something to hide from others. That I am from this family, I feel ashamed. &quot;I am an Indonesian, I In Japan, if someone &quot;I feel ashamed if I take it.&quot; That's incredible. The culture of shame is incredible. So the feeling of shame is very important, and that's very Indonesian. When we were kids, we were told by our parents to, &quot;Come on, sit politely, it's embarrassing.&quot; &quot;Come on, don't do it, it's embarrassing.&quot; &quot;come on, finish your These cultures are very good, however, we only feel ashamed So besides the feeling fear of the consequences of our actions, that, &quot;if I do something bad, I will reap what I sow. When I pinch others, I will get pinched, I don't want it, so I won't do it.&quot; If I don't hurt others, so I won't do it. I like getting attention from others, I love being loved, so love others. So we look at life as a When we can do it, to include the feeling of fear and not only Indonesia the world (will also get better), and shame. We don't need to feel ashamed no need to. But we need to fix ourselves. Life is transient, when we still can breathe, there are chances for There was a movement in &quot;littering is shameful.&quot; But not long after &quot;Not using helmet but it fades away. It's unfortunate because helmet, there's the fear that if they will face the consequences, because once we decided then, there's a problem, your not other's head. We did it ourselves. - If we look at the context of littering, there are at least 5,5 million tonnes of Indonesia contributed But for the worse, we threw plastics We contributed 15% of - From Indonesia? Maybe it's time - Yes, the feeling of fear First, we feel ashamed or mineral bottles to the river, we collect and recycle them, reprocessing them. then we feel the fear of the Maybe I won't live long enough to experience the damages but our next generation will. I pass down all the trash and If we use the concept it's enough for us Bust sometimes, I tell others at a personal level, the world will have one the world will lose one But if we live then we can become, which has a culture of shame the culture of fear of and finally, the world will the world will lose IF this family can to other families, all of the society will have and the world will lose then the good society can become then a good nation will be born, A nation called Indonesia And the world will have one more If Indonesia could become then the world will have a culture of fear and shame. At that time, world's peace not only locally, or within the family, or within ourselves, but in every aspect of life. Because when we we wait for others. Sometimes, &quot; I don't know, &quot;yeah, the system is wrong.&quot; - Yes. Why wailing about we are the agent of change. Why don't we start So we need to have the And later on, we - How Bhante, how to I'm sorry, I can't contain Indonesia to other big nations, including China, India, There's no excuse for us And I think it starts The culture contributes If we have the culture some necessary attributes That's incredible, I think. in our household, at school, and - As I said, if we are waiting it will never change. - yes. So we wait for the school, &quot;I want the school to have We need to become or the head of the foundation. But to achieve that, we How will I do it? at last, we just say, We can only lament, but So now, we start from ourselves. Because the only thing that is our family, our significant other, For example, one family should eat our family needs to eat It's hard to control what they eat. - Indeed it is. why? because they have not yet understood. Now, when we we have the knowledge, Others will see, &quot; people will ask as such and making them ready to &quot;How did you do that? You were very bad By then, we can explain them. If it fits them, they'll maybe later, other people From doing things to ourselves, to becoming the role That's why &quot;If someone has already, in the religious context, because I am a Buddhist, when you understand Buddhism, how will others perceive you? are you still the Do you get better or worse? if you are still the same, it you haven't done the dharma yet. If people perceive you That means you have to If people perceive you Because religion is actually, Buddhism for example, Motivator/inspirator for Whoever the motivator is, the most important If you get involved with a certain you won't tarnish you'll feel the fear feel ashamed of it, will also taste the consequences. And in the end, we can regardless of the religion, how high our education is, how low our knowledge is, the point is that everyone has without needing a It is fundamental wherever I am, either I will always bring my So when I do good deeds, my Even there are some people who uphold For example, the Wirjawan, I When, for example, Wirjawan but also the grandfather, and his great grandfather, there are such people. &quot;Woah, it means for their sake, &quot;Indeed, those who inherit We will then be proud. We only live one, So we don't need much Very simple. And maybe, in - I want to go back to Recently, if we want we tend to have it With the most the most personal. This is quite different from wherein hundreds or if we want to have a consultation either in Islam, Christianity, we go to Ustadzs, But now, people and I bet the question I asked is way more personal then other questions I would've to anybody in mosques, From your perspective Bhante, what will Due to the role of technology. - As I said, there's nothing It's the human. Why do people get than to religious leaders? because sometimes, the so it's hard for us to sleep. It's 2 in the morning, How can I sleep easier? If we wait for a Bhikku to answer, answer it in the morning. So he left me So I ask my smartphone, and so do all of the So I ask for my smartphone because I feel ashamed to ask afraid that it will widespread &quot;Why do Bhante tell that's personal.&quot; But if Bhante keeps silent, sometimes we ask ourselves, &quot;Can we answer it? he's just a Bhikkhu If I want to ask him about my Now, if I ask him the Probably not. Well then, So, it'll become as such. Now actually, the most now we can answer not google. Why should we become part of the solution We must be able to analyze What is the cause of Our desires. I want this, and Ask anyone and the answer is your desires. Sometimes, the reality our desire is at 100, they are 30 points apart, this I want to sleep at 12.00 But u couldn't even sleep till 2 in the Actually, these are we don't want to Now, if we want to we can only change we can't change the reality. Now it's 2 in the morning. I Yes, you have to set an alarm, that it's currently But because I I still have an Once you can accept the No need to ask Google. Conversely, if I want you don't need to because we got more What makes it stressful is when you That time, we actually learn If we understood it, then all our desires &quot;It's 02.00 and I can't sleep, I want to sleep at 12.00 Okay, I have to But maybe, this can be a I may want to sleep earlier.&quot; So the lesson is not only &quot;later at 05.00, I'll adjust it again. Not sleeping? I'll adjust it.&quot; then, you'll get sick. We should treat this unpleasant so that, in another chance, This applies to any problems. the causes of all of those All the problems What problem for example? The economy. Someone said, &quot;my why isn't it enough?&quot; I this world, we only have 5 our fingers symbolize the middle finger symbolizes us, that's why we use But I always show all five, not just the middle one. Now the middle finger is money, let's say 5 million. &quot;I feel that 5 million Okay, it's 5 million. Actually, we can see that some earn 3 million, So, when it comes to this, &quot; look at how little it is you earn, But if we as follows, &quot;7 million, 10, wow, That's normal. So why should we get Others can live That's of different matters. we have unlimited desires, needs are limited. either 5 million, or 500 million, it's the same. There are others who are SO why should we because we will Now, there's someone who That's why we If with our fingers, we talk because it's easier to count. Now we have equal hardship. &quot;I got sick, I saw try to see this one, &quot;he's sick, his life is merely a He has been ill for so long. So does with the success. &quot;I graduated with honor&quot; If we look at it, but there are others who By knowing that we the vanity and inferiority will Then we can relax, there's no And that is what will when we find the solution We won't ask Google any longer. We won't ask other We only confirm our Why is it hard for &quot;Google, what is &quot;You need to drink or milk, or anything as such, to divert our mind Then, if our stomach full, we'll feel and finally, &quot;Ah, this Every problem comes can you give an example Such as... -Like what? - Yes. We talked about garbage. &quot;The garbage is very to solve it. That's why right now we must make a So people will no plastics and such. But be get stressed out &quot;Why don't people That thing causes - Yes. Expectations and reality. calm, there is this case However, in this case, I don't I just use my logic. Why can't a doctor conduct Why can't he be there? Because there is And it can hinder us There is this but we don't need - maybe by showing them our That's it. Don't expect - Yes. Because by collecting I have contributed to - One unit of problem. - Yes. Furthermore, you And then, finally, outside of the pandemic, every holiday, &quot;Let's Either by the beach or - Okay, I want to That reality is not as it is different from Apart from our is this the reflection of - We can say so. the moral crisis in the sense their desires. They So sometimes in a unit we sometimes see there are few, like, a kid fell, in some when the kid fell, the &quot;What a naughty floor. It The floor is to be blamed. So in that kid's mind, I fell I fell because of I am the victim. This culture is In badminton, we lose, &quot;The wind was too strong. The shuttlecock we start to blame others. We pour all the problems and put them in on someone else. until finally, &quot;why It's because of my father and If I had not been your son, I wouldn't have This is horrible. they can't differentiate But once they we can train them from half a kilo, then sooner or later, they'll be In my culture, in the past, In Javanese culture, there's This &lt;i&gt;, fortunately, &lt;/i&gt; to accept the reality that isn't For example, &quot;Oww, why &quot;Fortunately, it's Many people suffer more vomiting, and stomachache &quot;But it's not this &quot;Yes, soon it'll fade away. That's how we conditioned Even though I want it 100, I got 70. I was lucky to get 70. Otherwise, I got 50. But even so, I Otherwise, I got nothing. But I didn't get anything. Well, I Even though I don't get That experience is I was still lucky. Let alone if you desire 100, You're lucky to be able to Once we can manage we will then see, we for our problems. We are responsible - But there are risks if we, If we got 70, we Are there any risks of Because if we compare we should have got But that 80 means But we got 70 instead. that it's okay How to - That's why I said Okay, I have said an So at 12.00, I then I am still awake at 02.00. Okay, it's 02.00 Luckily it's still 02.00, But later, in other chances I learned to sleep earlier, so that I won't experience That's why it's similar My target is 100, but I got 70. Right now I can't change Another example, the revenue This month's revenue should have been 100. But in reality, you only got Okay, this month, it's 70. &quot;But now, who long does &quot;Okay boss, an It means that this is the &quot;So in the next two yes, I can. Finally, you hit 100, Or, you can change &quot;Okay, this month, and your target is 100. Next month, you so that you can Thus, there are two ways. The first is to have or to fix the When we achieved it, In Javanese, we say SO we felt &quot;That's it. it's That moment, we felt But then, not only There is a proverb &quot;Rawe-rawe rantas, What if we enter a place, In Javanese, &quot;Rawe-rawe rantas&quot; then there are roots Then &quot;malang-malang putung.&quot; So it's not Malang-Surabaya. It's not about transportation, Malang-malang putung It means... There's a proverb, if But with malang-malang ptung, rawe-rawe rantas, If there's no way, you make one. So if the woods are too dense If my target is 100, and I got 70, make it Don't just accept it as it is. Accept the reality if but fix it in the future. - Bhante, you're exceptional. I want... that's enough... I want to ask the last question. I noticed that Buddhism is considering the past, the I want to ask Bhante about Let's say that the world What should Indonesia to become outstanding in 2045 in every perspective. - 24 more years. We've - Only I am still alive. But most importantly, we If such morality exists, the world will be in However, that may Indonesian and its culture with countless hardships. One of Indonesia's cultures that So when your neighbor doesn't come out to have This culture is rarely And If we can direct That we shouldn't &quot;You are sick because you are being cursed.&quot; This is troublesome. But we divert it to For example, &quot;If you are because life is You shouldn't focus only on &quot;Woah, everyone is healthy, If we don't have a pair of shoes, there So in this world, you're If you can divert the for the year 2025... - 2045. 2045 isn't it? Not 2025. 2025 I may be there. 2045, maybe we can because we have because we can pack the culture of to include the culture if we want to pack it So technology is not the enemy. But technology can become our sense of fear and shame, Thus, we should If we talk about things how much incredible How much outside culture But we survive till this day. That means we are solid enough. However, there's we have some a hot rice porridge has it's the cold part near the edge. That's okay. We can't make But as long as the culture It's as if right now, in a they have different Some are higher, some are lower. Now we can't deny that. If some of the answers the question why should the smart/ the less smart, the then if we make a finally, smart or What's more important That in this world, there are people Not because I'm smart, but I think that there are so I shouldn't feel inferior. If we already have then, we know what to do to the The people of welcoming, and then slowly getting colder, It's okay. As long as we are solid, we So what kind of togetherness Togetherness means that as Each person wants Why are there people It's because they have a But it doesn't mean that it Because he, there's a chance maybe an additional time of one or Like when the target No worries, just But we need time to develop or we need hard work to fix it. So does with those who are those who got spoiled How? Sometimes when can move they blend in. And finally, they become As long as we don't There are a lot... I am clever, I treat those who I am not that clever, but I treat There will be a However, now, &quot;Yes you are clever, to teach me that is less clever. I am not that clever at school, but it doesn't mean that I I can't relate if you are but it doesn't mean that one more week, I will give you a So does with the less Maybe they are good at better in art. So in 2045, if we understand it, when we have the concept of &quot;Let's transform and later on, we bring our in our society, we finally can pull the Because in the end, &quot; why am I I want to join in, rather Finally, they join in Whatever the - It's just how we ensure those who are - Yes. And religion Now, our feeling can be based on Our own motivator It shouldn't be Our parents can &quot;Son, that's shameful. Aren't you will hurt you back.&quot; Like that. - Wow. Amazing. Thank - With pleasure, Mr. Gita. especially the language use. I should be the one to say - What an amazing person you are Mr. Gita. Well, friends, that is [voiceover: This has been Endgame]