(lively music) - Surrounded by a jungle an iconic property located in one of Phuket's We had the opportunity over the course of four days and immerse ourselves in the and surrounding landscape. It doesn't get much better. From the incredible staff and hospitality to the stunning Thai How is this real? What this property And once again, I wanna welcome all of you to Phuket, Thailand. (gentle music) (birds chirping) Arriving at Yamu One is The zen tone is set as hidden in the lush and exotic plants that line the road leading you to the driveway (gentle music) Welcome to Yamu One. We are beyond excited for this tour and really happy to welcome Now, this property is situated on this that we'll talk about later. And this driveway brings you to this point and takes you up to the home. The property itself is manicured grounds, mature trees. There's actually a pathway here that takes you all the And coming to this side, brings you up to this cobblestone landing and it continues to the lower level, where we have staff access for catering and all the service staff and goes down to the lower level. Now, coming to this point, you can really get a good Beautiful Thai-inspired I love this pitch roof design that gives you this cathedral feel. Then, we have the metal screens in front of sliding glass It has a really light contemporary feel. And to complement that, we also have reflection with dark tiling and these really setting that zen, calming tone as you walk into this home. Now, this entry is also very grand. Look at the ceiling height. In fact, this high volume where we have an amazing living room. And when we arrived here a few days ago, staff welcomed us at this point, really giving that which we were very excited about. Now, we also have these stone steps, beautiful pattern on the floors. You can see these concrete And it basically brings you to this point where we have the grand entry, All these picture frames. And now, let's go inside. The foyer of this property is We have great natural light coming in. Same vault ceiling design is also here. Beautiful natural stone floors And coming back to the front door again is this beautiful solid wood design, picture windows on each side. And this entire section here so I wanted to point that out. Now, going into the details here, we have beautiful textured And to create some separation between the living room and the foyer, they came up with this metal screen design that runs up all the way to the ceiling, creating some separation, but allowing natural light to travel. And Cody, let's head this way where we have this I mean, what a space. Take it all in. We have the seating section Massive glass frame seamlessly opening up to the Again, we are beyond excited And now, let's cover the We have 10 bedrooms, 10+ bathrooms, 41,387 square feet of interior space. So, we have a lot of different Situated on 2.71 acres, which is arguably one of the most important given the fact that the property is in a very exotic location. On the market for $18 million. And I wanna give big thanks to the listing agent, Felix Desjardins, for making this tour possible. And more information about will be in the description of this video. Make sure to check it out. And once again, welcome to We have the seating area beautiful warm textures. And just like the entry, they carried out the same And in fact, it continues to this wall where we have this really unique pattern, giving additional dimension to the space. But obviously, this living room is all about this amazing You have wood panel ceilings with mood lighting. Then, we have these concrete framing the seating area here. Obviously, the entire to the pool deck, which will cover later. I mean, what an impressive space, huh? - [Cody] It's super impressive. And not to like break the but those columns you just pointed out, they kind of remind me of pencils, the way they taper into the ceiling. - I guess they do look like They- - They do a good job framing and just really, really nice space. But Cody, you know what we gotta do? We gotta flow everybody to the next room, which is the TV lounge. And it starts on this side. We have pocket doors here if And just like the living room, this space is also very Unique coffee table. Cove lighting above. And we have three two sides open up to the front of the home with Juliet balconies. And just like the rest of the main level, we also have sliding glass doors here, taking you to the pool deck. Really nice space. TV, built-ins. We haven't had a chance to use this room, but I hope we get to soon. - [Cody] Yeah, we've only been here for like two days now and there's so many living so we've got some work to do. - Or 40,000 square feet of interior space. We have 10 bedrooms, 10 plus bathrooms, so many different areas to cover. We're gonna have to get creative, go through all these spaces quickly. But yeah, it's another room. In fact, Cody, let's take So now so far, we covered the Now, we're going to the left wing, which is where we have the Again, the center volume is phenomenal, views are incredible. And going to the other side, we have another pocket door here. Sealing off this section. And welcome to the dining This is a space that You have a massive dining with a light fixture Just like the rest of the main level, we have the sliding glass doors, flooding the space with natural light. And this is really where having breakfast, lunch, and dinners. Staff here is so welcoming Food has been incredible. It's been a joy staying here, working here, and being I have absolutely no complaints. It puts a smile on my face talking about our like lunch and dinner experiences. - [Cody] I was gonna say the same thing. I have zero complaints and this is my first time in Thailand too. And the biggest thing that shocked- in Asia. - [Cody] First time in Asia as well. And the biggest thing that shocked me is how good the fruit is. They give us mangoes at every single meal and those are the best - Everything just tastes so - [Cody] Yeah. - But regardless, this is a fantastic area and I just love how conveniently You flow to the pool deck. You have access to the staircase there. It has a nice flow to it. Now, the next space we wanna talk about is the show kitchen. I'm saying show kitchen because behind that door right there, there's actually a service kitchen where the staff prepares And this kitchen is here or service area for us to grab some food. But regardless, it is You have modern cabinetry, Your induction cooktop, with some built-ins. And it's just a really Again, all the service conveniently located to your dining area. And if we go this way, there is a powder bathroom to our left, with its own vanity and And this is the powder bathroom And if we open up this door, it gives you access to a to the two levels that are below us. Now, this is a really important section because this home We're currently on the top floor, where we have the common spaces. Level below us is where we and the lower level as well as entertainment areas. Like being here, enjoying enjoying these views, and getting a chance to live, stay in this amazing home, have been nothing short of spectacular. (gentle music) The pool deck is the focal And what a space to entertain. Look at our views. The scale of the pool and all we got a lot to cover. Now, Cody is towards the and we have natural stone floors and right in the center, we In fact, Cody, let's perfectly frame up. Now, I wanna mention something. We're shooting this so it's a little hot right now. So, you may see us sweating a little bit. So, I want to give everybody heads up. But regardless, what an Look at this infinity edge pool, 24 meters long, eight meters wide, and the tiling within the pool So you have this dark, earthy texture that makes the pool And Cody lets actually get a closeup. It is like a pure glass right now and if you go low enough, it which is fantastic. And we have a really nice And what we're looking Yesterday was really, really sunny, so we had some fantastic shots. And today's a little bit cloudy. You have all these mountains on the back. It actually opens up at Andaman Sea, and then leads to the Indian Ocean. And between the landscaping, you feel like you're in a resort. - [Cody] It's so beautiful. And like you said earlier, And the clouds and the it doesn't look real, but it is. - It's breathtaking. - [Cody] It really is, without a doubt. - Now, Cody, let's continue our tour. We have so much more to see. Additional lounging beds, palm trees. To our left, we have the dining room and the kitchen opening up. And let's come over here. Outdoor barbecue area. The structure here houses pool bathroom to the right. And I also really like how the Makes it nicely blend in. And Cody, can we get a close up? I'm currently standing which is essentially a massive skylight, bringing natural light There is also another one We'll talk about this detail later. Let's take everybody to this side. This is an outdoor staircase to the level below us again. And lastly, can we push back a little bit. Look at this view. Seriously, the pool, lounging decks, the views, unreal. - [Cody] Unreal. If those pool- - Unreal. - [Cody] Unreal. If those pool chairs weren't this infinity pool goes - Incredible. Not often at our shoots the amenities these homes have to offer. But with this home, we After a long day of shooting, we got a chance to - [Cody] Please don't splash the camera. - Is this good? This pool is incredible. - And it's completely salt water. - It's perfect temperature. (upbeat music) (water splashing) - Who splashed this lens? There's like two dots on it. Our time here has been full with so many different activities and meaningful things that we've done, and I'm just really excited. I'm gonna keep enjoying this pool. I hope you guys are enjoying this video and I'll see you guys out there. - Is it vertical or horizontal? - It's horizontal. - A setting like this where you have a massive is rare to come by, and one of many unique All right, let's continue our tour. Now, we have this deck that's in front of the pool. To our left, we have the that we will cover later. And you arrive to this point and what a space to entertain. How is this all real? Reflection pool, lounging beds. And then, we have the And in fact, Cody, let's pan I wanna talk about its architecture. We saw these metal They have it on this side as How the house features And it looks deceiving from this angle. You think it's just a nice one story home. We have two massive levels below us and in fact, what I'm about to explain helps it tie all together. So you see the gap right there between the glass section - [Cody] Yeah. - So, this is an infinity edge pool and that's a waterfall wall that goes down to two levels below us. So, it's this really that we will see on the guest level as well as the lower level. I cannot believe they came Essentially what they did is this is a massive retaining wall holding up the first floor of this home, and they built the second and So, it's like a separation point in a way. And they architecturally blended all these interesting Between the house, its I mean just what an amazing and spend time in. Now, Cody, let's take They have water features, water elements throughout the property or in as many spaces as possible. Essentially, they're trying to bring this calming element to the home, because you can hear it everywhere you go. And it was another way for where you can just sit enjoy your coffee, read a book, Just enjoy being outdoors, because this is really what Now, we're not done with this pool deck because to our right, we have that amazing outdoor dining area. It's nice to have a for you to enjoy with It's also set back from the house. It sets a nice intention We have a solid wood that sits nine people, Again, the entire section is covered. We have ceiling fan It gets a great breeze. And what I like about this space is the fact that once you're done dining or you wanna take a little break, you walk to this section and you have a nice grass for you to just take in these views and have a little break, have And from this angle, we get a really unique and the rest of the neighborhood. So if you look down, that's 2.7 acres, grounds are And then, the beach access is right there. That's Yamu Beach. If you look at this entire neighborhood, it's called Cape Yamu, consists around 26 to 27 homes, all massive estates. Yamu One being one of the And you have this beautiful cove. And the resort to our which is an amazing five star resort. So if you have guests, you can actually have Not that you will need it because but this is a really cool spot to again take in the And you may assume we're and the main level, we are not. We still have one more space to see. When you wanna get away from everything and enjoy the peace and this is where you come. You take this walkway, get up on this deck with a Water feature to our left. And it's a moment for you enjoy the outdoors and enjoy I mean this is a stunning property and it still has so much to offer. (serene music) (water glugging) Welcome to the guest level, everyone. We have this long walkway taking that we have on this level. And even at this point off of the entry, they're really setting that relaxing tone before you go to your bedroom. To our right, we have this They use the same lava rock tiles. And then, we have the to the detached guest home, We'll cover that later. And then going to the other side, we have more floating steps, And remember, the skylights that we pointed out at the pool deck. Well, these are the skylights bringing natural light to this level. So, it's a really nice architectural touch and a beautiful entryway Now, follow me this way. To our left, we have the outdoor staircase taking you back up to the pool deck and coming this way, Again, it's all about setting the tone. And then, you come to this point where we have five guest But more importantly to my we have the first primary bedroom suite. Let's go in. Off of this entry, we have Room is extremely spacious, And right in the center, we have this platform set up, king Definitely great energy in this room. And then, you take these They use the platform and created this little There's also a pop-up TV here. And even more importantly, the entire room opens up to a beautiful private balcony where you can really enjoy Now keep in mind, this property four of them being primary bedroom suites. And we're all about bringing That's why we decided that we should share some of these primary bedrooms, so you can hear our team's thoughts. In fact, the room that is Cody's. Cody, I'm gonna grab the camera from you- - [Cody] All right. - [Enes] So everybody can hear what do you have to say about this room. - Yeah, so this is my bedroom and it's pretty sick. Come on up this way. It has incredible views over the bay. The sunrises every Most of the time, you would I keep 'em wide open because I want that sun It's been really nice. We have super cool cove lighting here. Art on both sides of the walls. We've got a desk area. This is also doubled as kind So, there's some gear back in the closet. We also have our sixth camera right here. This is our vlog camera. We've been doing a lot of If you haven't seen, we did a whole vlog documentary in Dubai. So if you haven't checked that out, please go check it out, But we're basically gonna over this entire Thailand trip. We've got another property after this. We're going to Bangkok following that. We're gonna be there for a couple of days. It's gonna be super exciting. So, that's pretty much the bedroom. I'm gonna get this back. We - There you go. I mean you guys heard Cody's thoughts. Not to plug our vlogs, the entire behind the scenes of this trip. It's actually a long trip. I hope you guys enjoy And now, let's keep going this way. We have a really spacious Currently, our gear storage. But I'm gonna flow everybody which is amazing. It's spacious, gets great natural light, has a fantastic flow. And right in the center, we have this beautiful vanity It's actually textured on the outside. You have mirrors, ceiling Of course, all the toiletries. Everything is cleaned and thanks to our incredible staff. And then on the other side, we massive picture windows, Again, look at the natural light that we're getting in this bathroom. Insane. And then, you flow this way to a really nice semi-open walk-in shower with two sets of fixtures. We have the first one here. Rain heads, beautiful natural stone with some textured details the entire roof above us, it's all glass so you are just in tune - [Cody] I would say my is the glass roof. Like last night, I was like crawling around above. Rain or shine is just and you're just immersed - Well said, absolutely. There's something beautiful about seeing the sky Fantastic space. Cody, let's jump to the other side so we can show everyone which is right here. There's a nice frosted glass door. And over on this side, we travertine niche, bidet, toilet. Beautiful bathroom in a bedroom suite. But now, I want to take In front of us is the staircase that takes you down to the lower level. You can actually enjoy the And the rest of the walkway that connects to the But even more importantly, this is where we have I mean look at this space for a second. So right there is the that we saw earlier. That's the glass roof. And this wall basically cascades down all the way to the lower level, where we have another reflection pool. And you get to hear this tranquil sound as you go to your bedroom. It's crazy that this is How is this real? - [Cody] It's wild. And like you said, you hear it when you're going to your bedrooms, but also every night, you just have that subtle little It's like a lullaby. It's beautiful. - It is beautiful, I agree. It's like I wonder why we you know? literally. - And what a crazy detail and what a clever way to take advantage of something that your and turn it into another feature and benefit the rest of the property. - [Cody] Exactly. - Super smart. Big credit to the design They've done a phenomenal job. And now continuing this way, we have the steps taking and let's continue our tour I like that each one of the They all get great natural light and even better, they're Now, this one has two single beds. They're kind of pushed to the center, because we have a desk set up here. Great ceiling height. And on this side, you can and a really nice seating area. And I love the pop of color here. Beautiful textured walls. Ceiling mount TV. And Cody, let's take your built-in cabinetry. And even better, this desk setup creates some separation between the bed. And also while you're you're not compromising from these views. You get to enjoy it And even better, you opening up to a private balcony, where you can just take Fantastic. Now, I wanna take everybody This is where we have the full bathroom. We have the floating vanity here with a stone countertop, two sinks, stonewall with mosaic details. And to my right, we have the built-in tub, which is also your walk-in shower thanks to the rain head. And then on this side, we have the separate water closet here. Definitely a really nice bathroom. Now going back to the bedroom, I wanna actually take We have four guest suites that are in the center of this level. So, this is the first one and the first two are And through this door, straight to the second guest suite, which is also very spacious. This one actually comes But even better, look at the views you get from your bedroom. I feel like I can touch the sea, I can touch the surrounding landscape and it just comes in your room, which is so voluminous, again. Your king size bed, textured back wall, I believe Erman is staying in this room. - [Cody] What do you think of your room? - My room is incredible. I love my room. My view is great. My bed is great. My pillows are amazing. I love my room. I love my room. - It's just a really nice space. Cody actually come this way. Built in cabinetry, really Your TV, additional storage space. And of course, this room also Single vanity with sink, chrome fixture, nice linear mirror. And we have the toilet on this side. And Cody, can you pan to the other side? - [Cody] Ah. - It goes straight into the walk-in shower and there's actually a So, you can enjoy the views which is all natural stone. Beautiful niche. And Cody, why don't you Like we said earlier, we which will take forever to tour. So the next few bedroom suites, Guest suite number four comes Let's not forget the views And don't worry, you can still see the sea straight from your shower. See what I did there? (Cody laughing) - [Cody] That was good. Lastly, this beautiful vanity 'cause we love you. Guest suite number five. And if you want to get some work done, we got the desk for you. Of course, you're still the cool kid if you stay in this room 'cause and it's pretty comfortable. And if one bed is not We have the second one on the other side. And for your comfort, They're really good. (lively music) So far, we've covered five guest suites. Now, we're gonna take these so we can check out the which happens to be the And even more importantly, Let's go in. So, the layout of this to the first primary bedroom Again, dark hardwood floors, And I really like that we keeping the bed right in And it's not an additional it's part of the room, And again, they took advantage of it, created this built in seating area, which is perfect for your morning coffee. When you're wearing your robe, you just wanna sit down, relax. You have that seamless And I don't wanna say that my but this happens to have a little bit more unobstructed views, where you can enjoy the sea, enjoy your grounds, this view and it just comes into a room. This is what you wake up which is great. And then coming to this side, your secondary staircase to the platform between the around, textured walls. These little art niches. Room has a lot of character to it. Pop up TV, of course. And Cody, I need you to I think this is a really important element and I want to cover it So instead of tucking the desk or the office section to a corner, which by the way this room They brought the desk to which is great because I end working in my bedroom. So, it's nice that I can I can still be part of rather than being tucked to the corner. This is one of my favorite details. And before we go to the bathroom, I'm gonna actually walk Again, your makeup area Beautiful woodwork, shelving. Everything is clean, nicely organized. You have more hanger space here and in case, you're wandering I did a little cleanup- - [Cody] There we go. - Before the tour, it's all here. And it's been honestly There's something exciting that's so big, warm, that It just makes you happy. - [Cody] I agree. - So it just, it's super cool. All right, now follow me this way. Let's go straight into the bathroom. Just like Cody's, it has but I just think it has a - [Cody] Oh. - We have the vanity here. Natural stone countertops. Again, marble vessel sinks. And we have these two mirrors which are also medicine cabinets. Another little secret, - [Cody] There you go. - And we have this beautiful jetted tub and I mean look at the views. It's also nice that it's sunken. So when you're in it, no one can see you but you still get to enjoy the views. And even better, you have the Behind Cody is actually the water closet. And going to the other side, with two rain heads, glass roof above us, beautiful natural stone tile. And Cody, can we actually hit it? - [Cody] Yeah. - It has a motorized cover if you want some additional privacy. Obviously, Cody and I have We love natural light, but this is great. What a shower. I mean I've been just loving You come in here, turn your rain heads on. When you're done, you just get ready for your day. And on top of that, you get to enjoy these Now, we have a lot to cover when it comes interior square footage, but since we're enjoying these views, let's go outside, see what (gentle music) Before we see the rest of the home, we need to take a second to talk about our team's Staying at a home on the waters but combined with the and meals of Yamu One, we could have not asked for anything more. As our first time in Thailand, we were all excited to and the staff delivered (ceremonious music) Everything's super light, super vibrant. Obviously, stuff is fresh. It's like every time we eat I'm looking at Cody to get his reaction. He is like, &quot;Is the bell pepper is He is like he is just like in his life. From the incredible to lunches with fresh organic ingredients to delicious dinners. - Oh my god. - Mm, man. - The staff's attention to detail rival that of a high-end restaurant. If this is how we're gonna I think it's gonna really - So good. (serene music) - We also traveled to Thailand which allowed us to see the (rain pattering) The seamless blend of made the sound of the rain (serene music) The walls of glass allowed to the surrounding landscape, All of these elements combined brought out a unique side of this property we were lucky to have experienced. (serene music) If we count this level, this property's technically four levels. We have a really nice that's covered with its own kitchen. So, it's a perfect spot for enjoy your coffee before Now, the property itself is situated on little over 2.7 acres, so we got a lot to cover. And then, you have this main walkway that picks you up from the guest house and it takes you all the way to the beach. And look how beautiful, And on top of that, we since we were touring the grounds and walking all the way to the beach. In fact, I took it a step so we can bring this immersive - [Cody] You're bold for the no shoes. I couldn't do it. The gravel's - I hear you. It's actually fine for me. And I mean we're in Thailand, you know, we gotta embrace the culture. We gotta embrace the energy and what's better to do than and just enjoying the outdoors, you know? - [Cody] Fair enough. - All right, now let's continue. We got so many different This property is landscaped so nicely. We have all these mature And this is the walkway that I picking you up from the front of the home and taking you all the And then, I'm gonna transition And I also really appreciate and created so many different zones for you to hang out, relax, and make the best of this space. In fact, we're at one of There's a really cool seating area here. In fact, I'm just gonna enjoy it. Look at our view. Sea right in front of Beautifully tapered, manicured spaces. How does this feel? - [Cody] It's so beautiful. Honestly, before we leave, a cup of coffee in the - You definitely, definitely should. Now, let's go this way. More areas to see. In fact, I'm gonna go back to It's so cool for you to walk to the ground and just wander around. I mean it's like you don't - [Cody] Exactly. - When you have a space like this. Now, we are looking towards and they have some rock formation there. It's actually a manmade retaining wall. They just wanted to add All these trees, this like this is a massive property. I mean 2.7 acres. What - [Cody] So far, it's incredible. I mean the walk down here, I love the fact that they've segmented all these little levels, just all of the seating areas you can put in different places. And they have the sculptures up the hill. It's beautiful how they - Now, this is your - [Cody] It is. - First time in Asia. - [Cody] Yep. - Now, that you're the weather, landscape, properties, all these things coming together, how has it been for you to just be here and take in this new landscape? - [Cody] Honestly, it's Like the hospitality just from to the staff at the home, The food is incredible. I know we talked about that earlier too. - We talked about it throughout the tour. - [Cody] Throughout the entire tour. And just the views. I can't get over all these islands that are different distances away, it just looks like artwork. I know I'm repeating myself - It is beautiful. And luckily, we still have more to see. Come on, follow me this way. Let's continue with the It literally rained about an hour ago, so we are just being cautious right now since the grounds are a little bit wet. But regardless, we still have Now, you can really see the And to our left, we have a beach house. Essentially a really that's close to the We're gonna tour that in a second, but now let's go down there. Walking around makes you but this is a private residence. But when you think about all that indoor and this massive plot, so much privacy, beach access, pools, water features, I mean that's technically for your privacy, which is fantastic. And from this angle, you can really get a scale of the property and the landscaping. Before I talk about the details up there, we also have a putting green here. That's the bunker section. Perfect place for you to And the property is right behind me. You can see most of the And apparently, it's one of the We're stoked to be here. I hope you guys are enjoying this video and if you do, make consider subscribing to our And while we're on this subject, I also would like to say have been working on that soon we will be able But for now, we have a signup link in the description of this video. I'll also put it up as a pinned comment. If you sign up there, we will contact as soon as we are ready So, we're really excited about it. Signup link is in the Make sure to check it out. And Cody, let's continue our tour. - [Cody] Let's do it. - So we have even more grounds to see. There's actually a really I like how they incorporated And then, you can see taking you to the beach house, which is a really cool structure. So, we're gonna have a quick It is this wide open space, You can have a little party here. It comes with its own kitchen. They can probably set for you here as well. Great ceiling height, all these And this beach house has which is a really nice shallow beach pool. And if you follow the deck here, it takes you to an outdoor shower. There's also detached structure here where they store all the sea toys, the paddle boards, everything you need. And when you're ready, you just go this way to your yoga deck and basically access the beach. This is wild. - [Cody] It's so cool. - [Cody] And I'm actually 'cause we're gonna go to the beach. we go, Cody finally doing it. - [Cody] No more gravel. Shoes are off. - All right, let's go. It's incredible that we can and walk to the beach. And obviously, we're and what a setting. And tide is back right now. Actually early on, I wanna right about this line. - [Cody] Yeah. - Tide's pretty low right It's one of those rare moments where my backdrop on a - [Cody] Right? - I mean, this is just a moment to stop and appreciate where you are. It's fantastic to be here. Hospitality, the way we've this beach, and having access all these outdoor features honestly, it doesn't get much better. (serene music) Phuket is a global vacation destination thanks to its pristine and overall natural beauty. Yamu One is strategically positioned on the east side of the island, an area known for its luxury It's location give the but also the convenience to go and explore all the island has to offer. This property offers so much and it's easy to see why. You have the mountains, the beaches, and the natural life that combine gives it a unique experience (serene music) Now as promised, we're gonna which is on the other side I love that this is how Also, what's nice about this guest house is the fact that it is fully You have this beautiful and the guest house features So, we're gonna continue our tour with the first one on this side. Come on in. We have beautiful dark hardwood floors. Room is super open. And off of this entry, we with a custom vanity, vessel sink, open walk-in shower with a mosaic wall. And I like the intricate details within the mosaic section as well. And on top of that, we so you can enjoy the views Now, the room itself ceiling mount light fixtures. And then on the other side, which is also a makeup area, TV. And of course, the room just opens up to a beautiful private little patio, which then leads you to this grass section that is dedicated to the guest It's like a little zone And going around, we hop for the second guest suite, Layout is pretty similar, but King size bed, your open walking shower. Again, that's your dedicated entry. Built-ins on this side, And you go back to that backyard. Now, a question for everyone. Would you prefer to stay here since it's detached from the main house and it feels more like a hotel suite or would you prefer to Let us know in the comments below. And once again, we're outside. And then, you have this taking you to the lower (serene music) Now, there are many ways We have this outdoor access point. And the first door we have in front of us opens up to the third primary bedroom, which is below the first It comes with a pretty king size bed right in the center. And it also has an amazing full bathroom where you have a separate walk-in shower and a free standing tub facing the views. Now coming back to this landing, we have the interior staircase here with this terrazzo finish so it has a nice texture to it. Powder bathroom on this side And going down we can of this waterfall wall, Look at this backdrop. How is this real? This is crazy. - [Cody] It feels like - I agree. It's like we have natural these sculptures, sound of And coming back to this hallway, this door opens up to the spa. Thai culture is known for its hospitality and wellness practices. So, it's really nice that you have your own spa It comes with two massage tables. Great volume. Room also opens up to the grounds. And on this side, we have a full bathroom with a marble pedestal and a separate water closet. You pretty much have everything And also keep in mind, this so they can also accommodate Now, the next room we're gonna It's nice to have a dedicated and that's exactly what they did here. You got a good sized pool table. The entire room opens up to the grounds. There's also a nice terrace here. And then, you flow straight to the side where we have the seating section. You have your L-shaped couch, two chairs. It's an area for you to get away from the rest And we also have some They also have a karaoke machine here, which is perfect for entertainment. And let's just say we've been Back in through the side - And with that, we're done with the entertainment lounge. Room next door is the gym. You walk straight from We have hardwood floors, gym equipment, your bike, treadmill. More contraption on this side. Of course, let's not forget TV. And keep in mind, each one of these spaces are also individually air conditioned, so you can really cool Now, let's jump back to so we can check out the last guest suite, which is on this level. And it's actually the Let's go right in. Again, another spacious room. This time we don't have the platform, but you still have a lower seating area. Opens up to a balcony that Cody actually let's show Instead of a walk-in closet, with beautiful oversized brass handles. You'll also get a desk here and follow me this way, we gotta go straight into the bathroom, which has a different layout. You have a walk-in shower that's with beautiful natural stone walls. Love the mosaic details here. It just adds up to the character. And then, you go to the other beautiful vanity with as well as these vessel sinks. Additional storage on the bottom. And then, we have a free standing tub. The two primary bedrooms they both feature free standing tubs, but obviously the focal - [Cody] Would you rather or a sunken one like you have now? - That's a good question. From a visual standpoint, I But from a functionality perspective, I actually like the tubs that we have. They're more spacious so you get that additional functionality. - [Cody] That's true. I agree. - And with that, we're Now, let's go back into Again, all these bedrooms and specifically the primary Then, you get these lower And of course, we're gonna another private balcony. Incredible views. I mean, it's been so enjoying this property, understanding and appreciating I really, really hope we'd and I hope you guys enjoy (serene music) (air whooshing) (fire crackling) Our experience at Yamu to say the least. (people chattering) The landscape, the design, the architecture, and most importantly, the people and the culture From our early morning workouts to paddle boarding in the sea, from our incredible meals to we could have not have asked for a better experience here at Yamu One. (serene music) For our last meal in the home, the listing agent, Felix joined us for a special The chef prepared steak And combined with great company, it was an amazing way to wrap (triumphant music) All right, everyone, And thank you all so much for I wanna give big thanks to the listing agent, Felix Desjardins, for making this tour possible. And as always, you can about this incredible property in the description of this video. Make sure to check it out. And lastly, if you enjoyed our tour, give us a like, subscribe, and we'll see you guys on the next one. (triumphant music)