(dark ambient music) - [Narrator] Who would've believed that one day we'd be A black hole in the universe, a strange star from which no This image was calculated using the equations of general relativity, a scientific theory of space and time developed 100 years ago, a theory that was in turn and then rediscovered, a theory that this black my theory. (dramatic music) - The theory of relativity is infamous for its difficulty. I want to show that there's nothing - Let me illustrate this let's imagine that this and the presence of matter - Einstein's theory of relativity does lead us into very - Relativity is perfect intelligible to anybody who is willing to think. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] In the 20th century, I was known by the name of Albert Einstein and for my equation E = MC squared. I sought to understand I had a new vision of the and I expressed it in a theory, general relativity. General relativity is the mysterious force that attracts stars and For 250 years before my theory, gravity was the realm of the My theory revolutionized the worlds of physics and mathematics. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] Newton's theory of gravity, revolutionary in its scope and concision, had held water since the It is fascinating to think that to explain just a everything had to be turned on its head. And that is exactly what Einstein did. His theory of gravity involves Space is no longer straight but curved depending on the matter inside. Giving a position at a given Positions and times are intertwined and geometry now has to and we can't count on this It needs to be replaced by one with a radically different form. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] First of all, I discovered that space and working as one and matter such as stars and planets bends and curves the space-time. That curvature is the gravitational field obliging the planets to nothing, not even rays of light, can escape the curvature. All these discoveries were that of free fall, known since Galileo, and which can even be - Well in my left hand I have a feather, in my right hand a hammer and I'll drop the two of them here and hopefully they'll hit Galileo was correct. - [Narrator] I saw and differently from all other people. It guided me towards the All I had to do was observe closely. - [Translator] Einstein himself tells us about the that this was the tool that would allow him to form his theory. (speaking in foreign language) In 1907 he wrote, &quot;I &quot;in the patent office in Bern &quot;when suddenly, I thought that &quot;they wouldn't feel their own He realized that gravity has the property and is the only force with this property of disappearing as a and that if we're in free fall and so under the effect of gravity we feel like there's no gravity. - [Narrator] In my day, I was only able to experiment But 100 years later, the physicists of the 21st such as this tower in Germany which can create a vacuum that By dropping objects and we can see how, in free (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] In this experiment, we put two objects on which will be dropped into The needles on both scales showing, albeit not how this apple and this one kilo weight fall in exactly the same way So it looks like mass which may seem absurd because if we're able then does gravity exist? Once sealed, the capsule will be raised to a height of 110 meters for a five second free fall in the vacuum. - So we have the perfect conditions for every experiment that For example, if we have we can test the payload of - Oh, thank you. - You're welcome. (dark ambient music) - [Hanns] Here we have a view of the inside of the drop tube. - Okay, so three-- - Then, after one second it will go. - Three, two, one. Wow. (crashing) (clapping) Impressing. So now (mumbles). - So now we have to search for for the five seconds-- - The five seconds, okay. So this is after something is happening. Okay so now, here we are so it was zero on both sides, gravity has disappeared. It worked. - Yeah. - [Narrator] Until now, this principal, the cornerstone of my theory has proved water tight. Nobody has been able to prove it wrong. A team of French researchers is preparing to test Their satellite microscope, set for launch in 2016 will orbit 700 kilometers above the earth and provide an unprecedented But let's wait and see. In science, the experiment Back in 1907, this idea, today known as the led me like a lighthouse in (dramatic music) I returned to Switzerland in I returned to the city of my student days. The two years I spent in Zurich would be the most important of my life. I was offered a professorship in physics at the Zurich Polytechnicum School now known as ETH Zurich. - So here's ETH. - [Narrator] One of my Marcel Grossman, had He was far better than me in geometry. His notebooks inspired - [Translator] Impressive, no? - [Translator] Yes, it's very detailed. - [Translator] The fundamental properties of elliptic functions. He was preparing to work for Einstein, without knowing it, obviously. But that's what was going on. It's really surprising. I didn't think it happened like that. - [Narrator] What I would I really cannot say because the mathematical seemed insurmountable. General relativity made To see if I was on the right track, I used a flaw in Newton's theory. Newton's gravitational equation couldn't predict the precise orbit of Mercury around the sun. Mercury's perihelion, it's closest point of shifted much too fast. This was a perplexing problem that physicists and astronomers - [Translator] He arrived in November 1915, definitive in particular because he determined Mercury's perihelion with incredible position. - [Narrator] After all these years, I still remember those evenings in this cafe on the river Limmat putting the world into equation. Our discussions concerned but ranged far beyond over all the topics that who kept their eyes wide open. It was here that my theory took form. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] The key is the geometry of space-time. So for the object present in the universe, you have to determine the namely the geometry of space-time. - [Narrator] To do so hinged that took me eight years to create. I wrote it as follows, G mu nu is equal to eight pi G over C4 times T mu nu. A single equation and just a few mathematical symbols to describe our universe. - [Translator] Based on a he opened up a new path, one that is still relevant today. It's incredible. You could've thought that - [Narrator] But it did work and it was here that the theory started to take on a life of its own, to unveil properties of nature Curve geometry implied that time didn't pass in the same way in all Gravity influences time. The stronger the gravity field, the more time slows down. This threw everybody, myself included. In my day, it was impossible to test this prediction gravity on earth is too weak and its effects on time are imperceptible. But technology having evolved, in your day, this difference in time can be measured with amazing precision. The new atomic clocks in the basement of the Observatoire de Paris are the most precise clocks in the world, a billion times more Even at this level of precision, my theory still works. The effect is true everywhere. The universe does not tick as Newton thought. Each region of the Each galaxy and each solar system exists in its own space-time. Looking at the universe In 1915 with world war raging, the publication of the went unnoticed, gravity being elsewhere. But I did receive a letter from the German physicist With my equations, he had succeeded in calculating generated by a star. This was a titanic achievement given that my equation and each one of them had to be solved. But his work exposed a sort that nobody noticed. This flaw would later be called With his solution, Karl for the mathematical Unfortunately, this was to be the only He died in the war in May 1916. The seemingly never ending war, prevented the circulation but a ray of hope came where I was nevertheless - In Britain in 1915, there was a British who was a pacifist who was not at war, in fact was still at Now, it so happens that Eddington was one of the few people in Britain who was capable of understanding and he immediately of this general relativistic theory. - [Narrator] The best physical was to measure if the rays of light actually follow the space-time curvature. The sun is the only that can curve space-time but if the sun is in and the distant stars are invisible. Our only chance would be to photograph the starry - The war ended in 1918 and the following year he traveled, he led an expedition part to the island of Principe and to Brazil. Weather wasn't totally favorable, the observations weren't brilliant but they were sufficient in exactly the way Einstein had proposed and when he came back, Eddington did a number of presentations and huge popular lectures about this work and I think in the English-speaking world that launched Einstein. - [Narrator] Eddington to the Royal Astronomical Society, standing before a large portrait of Newton that had sat there undisturbed Reportedly, the whole was exactly that of a Greek drama. - Napoleon and other they were makers of empires but there is an order of they are not makers of empires but they are makers of universe. (applause) When they have made those universes, their hands are unstained by the blood of any human being on earth. (applause) Galilei made a universe Newton also made a universe Einstein has made a universe and I can't tell you (laughter) - [Narrator] After my I received invitations During one of my trips in 1921, I found out that I'd been honored with the Nobel Prize for Physics. Strangely, I didn't receive the no doubt still too controversial but for my previous work. There was little talk of As Charlie Chaplin once said to me, they're cheering us both, you because nobody understands you and me because everybody understands me. When I was in Paris in 1922, people wanted me to talk about time. I recall people talking about it more in philosophical psalms The fact is, nobody there understood the but my most vivid memory is of a conference at A French mathematician Jacques Hadamard stood up and pointed at me threateningly, pointing out a supposed flaw in my theory. He brought up the very mathematical flaw that had escaped me in (speaking in a foreign language) - [Translator] That's the - [Translator] If I understand correctly, R is the radius relative namely a star? - [Translator] Yes, it's - [Translator] Okay but that there is a problem because if I see a radius equal the coefficient here becomes and here you get one divided which is even worse. Your solution falls flat on its face. - [Translator] That's said to Einstein in Paris. It was terrible for Einstein because here obviously but think about physics, which for example determines the sun in the solar system. Imagine we send a What happens when the Does it stop, does it explode or does it disintegrate? - [Translator] And that must've been seen as a fatal blow to - [Translator] It did pose because his theory was the structure of space-time and for a particular solution, he saw that there were places where the idea of space no longer made sense. The end of the world in equation form. That's right, the edge of the world, what we call the - [Narrator] No doubt this a few symbols on a blackboard but for me, this singularity It resembled a sphere, an impenetrable black bubble, a place in the universe and where space no longer existed. The sphere appeared at the like a star. Fortunately, after a few calculations, we discovered that for our sun, the size of the singularity hidden inside. For it to become visible we would need to be able to condense the entire mass of the sun into a three kilometer sphere. For astrophysicists then, the singularity remained imaginary but mathematicians had a Would it prove fatal for my relativity? Soon the entire community was and apart from a few firmly pretty much everyone dropped my theory. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] These were After his glory days when relativity was in all the newspapers, when he was the star and spent the 1920s he was the most heralded But interest in his and life for people working on - [Narrator] With Elsa, I moved to Caput near Berlin. I took up sailing as a hobby until the day when events in 1933 forever. - Dr. Einstein, who gave the is back in California again with his wife. They've been fog bound all The professor had a theory but before he and the the fog had all gone away. Now he's going to the Institute to work with other There his theory will be and if it is what he says it is, why then everything will (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] Physicists and not very interested. There was a certain amount of aggression from physicists in particular except for the people who believed it who were few and far between and then there were those who simply didn't want to try (dark ambient music) - [Narrator] The problem of singularity grew as the years went by. The impenetrable sphere, hidden in the heart of the stars remained an obsession, impossible to understand, to imagine, the edge of the world. Relativistic scientists working on the gravity found that according to my That really was the limit because the theory appeared the star imploded and its size reduced to approach - So stars are born and live and die. The sun's future history is fairly simple, not good for us on earth. The sun will go through several phases including swelling then it will ultimately shrink and will steadily cool thereafter, just stop producing energy, stop its fusion reactions but still quite hot and cooling. For a star that's much basically what happens is the to make a neutron star. The rest of the material suddenly finds it's standing on nothing goes rushing down to get a foothold, meets this very, very solid and 90% or 95% of the material goes out and the other little bit remains. - [Narrator] This extremely with a radius of barely 10 kilometers is coming dangerously close to the Schwarzschild singularity sphere hidden in its center. The risk I immediately saw was that it could be that stars could condense even further and their singularity escape from within. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] The question is do we know any stars the edge of the theory, is on the exterior of the celestial body? - [Translator] You would've or even astrophysicist. Can we find any solutions or the celestial body and here the Schwarzschild singularity? - Those are probably created Once that big star begins gravity wins so the star shrinks. That puts up the gravity so it shrinks which puts up the gravity so it shrinks and it shrinks right down and even the atoms, things like this table the atoms collapse and the nuclei collapse and if you believe the theory, it collapses down to a Some people don't like these so that's debated but it goes down to having been one of the biggest And it's a black hole. (dark ambient music) - [Narrator] All of a sudden, mathematicians and physicists that the Karl Schwarzschild singularity, the flaw in my theory, could in reality exist stepping out of the world of mathematics like a magical sphere and a completely black sphere, a place where space and time disappear. I didn't want to believe it. For me, the singularity had to remain a mathematical hypothesis. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] A star can't cave in, not stretch but implode, it's not possible. There's something unbearable about that. - Other people, in particular Eddington, thought there must be something wrong. He thought there must be but if not, there had to be So he thought, nature but then it is a strange it's just very different from the sorts of things - [Translator] The most was Einstein himself. He didn't want to believe that could really be manifested. So he set out to prove it. The worst paper he ever wrote. He took the conclusion he wanted to reach as the basis for these calculations. - [Narrator] The main clearly concluded that didn't exist in physical reality. - [Translator] It really was one of the worst but we can forgive him because he did write - [Narrator] It was all too much for me. My own theory had Since the mathematicians had invaded the theory of relativity, I did not understand it myself anymore. In the USA in the '50s, I was seen as a sort of fossil made deaf and blind by the years. Ultimately I didn't mind that role. It suited my temperament. Shrouded in this mystery, I left our planet and I can guarantee you that the most beautiful is the mysterious. (upbeat music) The doubt persisted after my death. The black hole continued to disturb. A number of competing theories showed that it can't even exist a star cannot simply collapse to zero. But the life of relativity would be changed by the - Well according to Einstein's theory, the black hole results from the collapse of a star several times would be an object But if you, say imagine the until it became a black hole, the dimension will be a something like that. - [Interviewer] That's the earth? - The earth would have to to be a black hole. - [Narrator] Roger Penrose ideas that came to him - At the time I was getting which was about 1964, perhaps and there was a lot of interest at that time. While I was pondering over I was at this time at Birkbeck College where I was a lecturer and a colleague of mine, Ivor Robinson, who also had an important influence on many aspects of general relativity, and he was talking to me very excitedly about certain things, I forget what they were, I'm afraid, but we came to a road and when we crossed the road, and when we get to the other side, instead of walking into a wall I forget the idea I had which you see, and then he goes off later and then I try to Why do I feel happy? I have no idea. So I think, my breakfast? No, ordinary breakfast and I think, aha, I had this idea about how you could characterize to a point where it is gone too far, a point of no return and this was a surface and this surface can be irregular, can be not symmetrical, but it has a very curious property that the light on both and I knew I could use this condition to try to prove a theorem. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Roger Penrose the black hole that had thwarted so many physicists before He proved definitively all its constituent matter condenses into a single central point, an infinite density of matter, a point where time stops. Roger Penrose worked with and most decisively with the young physicist Stephen Hawking. The two earned a medal from for their work on black holes. - Well, I haven't seen this before. Yes, proposal for the Eddington medal, that's what it was, yes. I talked to Stephen at that time and we had quite a long discussion on the details of this type of argument and this had a big effect He generalized the argument and then further, later on we got together and had a general theorem which seemed to encompass pretty well all the things that had occurred earlier. - [Narrator] I'd been dead and this time I had to accept that my theory predicted the Despite everything, even if the work of Roger nothing proved that these arising from the death of stars, actually existed. It was all purely theoretical. But new means of astronomical observation were developed in the '60s and a young British scientist was to change our vision Her name is Jocelyn Bell-Burnell. - Radio astronomy revealed things that did not look or spectacular to the optical astronomer. My first two years were constructing a radio telescope. By the time end of my PhD I which was not a skill I We started observations and after about a few weeks of observing, there was the first indication (dramatic music) So then I turnt my attention to this thing which meant going out to just before the telescope turned to it, switching to a high speed recording and it turned out to be about one and a third seconds apart which was not something I We hadn't known about anything like that. We hadn't imagined that - [Narrator] But the universe Jocelyn Bell-Burnell came until she detected, after a second similar source. - Ha, what's that? That looks a bit like the first signal That bit of sky will be at two o'clock in the morning. It was very cold and the in cold weather, it was some problem with the receivers and of course when I got there, but I got it to work and it was the right five minutes as the telescope was and it was the right beam setting and in came pulse, pulse, pulse, pulse. And that for me was the sweet moment, 'cause you know it's not you know it's not interference, it really does begin to look still don't know what. - Well these signals that we're picking up are entirely new, nothing like this has been - Here is a discovery which illustrates the universe is far more complex (dramatic music) - It's not showing any sign of tiring which means it's got lots of energy which means it's big but because it's going fast, it's small, so it's big and it's small. That didn't make sense for awhile until we got our questions It's small in the sense of how wide it is but it's big in the sense Not that it's physically big but it's got a lot of mass and we can see with hindsight that these very, very dense stars which are small and massive actually explained it. - [Narrator] Jocelyn Bell-Burnell and everything seemed to suggest that a pulsar was a neutron star. The remnants of the death neutron stars are the closest So my theory was right and in the end, I was wrong to doubt it. Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new. - [Translator] It became clear then that all the theoretical what was possible and how stars evolved, how they died and how they can collapse to and correspond to phenomena which also meant that the next step, i.e. if you have a dead star but one that is too massive and so according to Einstein's was that black holes exist too. And after the discovery of pulsars, the conceptual landscape changed and everyone considered it clear that not only did neutron but that black holes had to exist too and that we would find them one day. (machine clicking) - The gravity on a pulsar You've got the mass of the sun, thousand million, million, all in a ball 10 kilometers across and this produces some curious effects, curious to our minds. They're explainable by general relativity. One is that the gravity bends light rays. So if I look that way on I actually see over the horizon. I see over the horizon in every direction and it also effects clocks. If I'm on a pulsar and you see the second hand is because the gravity has I can use my watch, take my own pulse, and it's okay but that's because the gravity has slowed my heart the and actually I have problems the pulsar, because as i come down to land I am pulled down by but there's a very strong the force on my feet is much stronger than (slurping) Your body gets stretched. There's a technical term for this. It's called spaghettification but actually the difference in force between the bottom of your is so strong it breaks, your body gets pulled apart. Your feet get pulled off your legs, your legs get pulled off your body, your head separates from your body and the different bits of your body drop onto the neutron So don't go there, not a healthy space. (dark ambient music) - [Narrator] The universe is far stranger than I dared to imagine. The famous Schwarzschild singularity, an impenetrable sphere, actually represented the But what actually happens - [Translator] This surface It isn't material and yet into two zones, each with You can cross it in one direction and send light from the but you can't send light from - [Translator] It's a (energetic music) - [Narrator] A black hole is above all a solution to the theory It is a mathematical solution, a space-time configuration, a universe and the question is finding actually corresponds to - [Translator] We aren't sure that black holes exist There are strong signs (speaking in foreign language) But the entire evolution of astrophysics in the 20th century, the fact that stars are born and die, that very dense, dead stars and that neutron stars all this strongly indicates that black holes must (speaking in foreign language) Maybe we will find absolute (speaking in foreign language) (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Finally, my has found its field of application. It describes the infinitely large. Astronomers today are of Roger Penrose, Jocelyn Bell-Burnell, Thibault Damour and many others as they search for the hidden in the immensity of our universe. Without relativity, there no relativistic astrophysics and not even a scientific cosmology with which to speculate on and its future. That said, as always in science, each new discovery brings and the black hole concealed over its horizon. - [Translator] So if you you should find a point at its center because if a star collapses in on itself, it crosses the horizon. But what does it do after that? It collapses. And what happens? General relativity says that the fabric of space-time tears and that a true space-time singularity now exists at the center In other words, space-time - It gets swallowed by the hole and then that information Now you see this is not I can see there's some from you on this position point. You're not unique in this, I may say. And it's probably the majority that the information Maybe into another universe, maybe gets out through some curious effects one way or the other. Personally, I think it has to be lost. - [Narrator] Today, I enjoy watching all these as they try to resolve new mysteries. From string theory and loop theory to non commutative geometry and twisters, a number of ideas have emerged to try and go beyond my theory. One such speculative idea has been developed by Carlo Rovelli. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] General but it clearly tells us that it doesn't work in the where a singularity takes hold. And this is where we and for which we have a that should tell us what is going on. What that theory tells us or suggests is that afterwards it - [Translator] Hold on, if you say that it bounces out then you should be able to see loads of little explosions everywhere so why don't you? - [Translator] Exactly. That's the magic of the theory. Because if you were on the star and strong enough to then that rebound would a few milliseconds. - [Translator] Except that Time passes at different - [Translator] In a black hole, that effect becomes enormous, very, very strong. According to our calculations, a millisecond inside a black hole corresponds to billions of years outside. So if this image is correct It's a star that becomes extremely small, a plank star, and then bounces out and explodes but seen from the outside the whole thing happens in slow motion, extreme slow motion, taking billions and billions of years. (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] I think that a mystery lies at the heart of physics, a mystery that is yet to be solved. And that mystery is the nature of time. What really is the passing of time? We've discovered that as understood by Newton, we've discovered that each we've discovered lots of things about time but what really is the passing of time? We don't know. The theory my colleagues loop quantum gravity, has a set of equations limited to general relativity in one case and quantum mechanics in another. (speaking in foreign language) These equations are special because they have no So time is not a fundamental (speaking in foreign language) Obviously, as with all we are not sure because we have not yet to establish measurements providing theory but I think that on the whole, everyone is convinced that putting general relativity and quantum mechanics together changes something fundamental in our understanding of space and time. (speaking in foreign language) (dark ambient music) - [Narrator] To tell you the truth, I would never had wagered my theory would still be around. I thought by this stage, you would've replaced Now you have to unite quantum theory with my theory of general relativity. I'm convinced that this will once again revolutionize our vision as my theory revolutionized (speaking in foreign language) - [Translator] Issac was able more than anyone to see more things and discover In a letter he wrote there's a beautiful that he doesn't know exactly or how they will remember him but he sees himself as a child on a beach playing with pebbles, a child who is happy because he has found some while in front of him, lies the immense ocean of all the things he is yet to understand. And I'm sure that Einstein of the immensity of all (dramatic music)