At first glance this looks like just some of these a long time ago. Probably not too long This was when the first iPhones and But when I was told that I was looking at smartphone. I'd heard of a Nokia with One that could do multitasking, and I mean It ran on a fully open source Linux kernel and interface. That actually included a command line access to the system. This was a phone that and it wasn't scared to give the user full and customize the operating system. Compared I'd like to thank one of my Finally get to have a close look at the N900, and When you turn it on, the first thing you notice From the way the brand and model are printed Nokia logo and the animated startup screen. They Including the entire operating system and all There's no option for portrait mode. Except of the phone that runs entirely in portrait mode. to run more like a computer. This operating Nokia and based on Debian Linux. And they've tablets since 2005. These were small Wi-Fi only take a SIM card. Nokia had this strange idea at Symbian operating system. Symbian was developed easy to develop apps for. It wasn't until after released the N900, running the more powerful Maemo the N900 was launched as a developer's the hands of people that would develop The N900 turned out to be very popular, even technology savvy people. It sold better than In fact there's still a die-hard fan base to this they often describe it as their favourite phone There's even still a community of developers community updates for Maemo even in 2023. The just so much to learn and so many rabbit holes to I could continue exploring this For example when it comes to just something pages and pages of documentation and different For such a complex phone I want to start at the can use your finger on with a bit of pressure. But I want to make sure I can reinstall the operating wipe all the data from the phone before doing the five digit passcode that's needed to wipe the the firmware. I'm using the excellent maemo.org refresh the phone. Including software for using is called 'maemo flasher 3.5'. This is a But most importantly it's an offline flasher that With everything set up and ready to go, I simply on the keyboard and plug in the micro USB cable. flashing process starts. I'm flashing Nokia's It's called public release 1.3 and this is a good as I found out, doing this doesn't wipe any of Exploring a bit further, there is a way to do a However I couldn't confirm that So as an alternative I decided to use This is a small OS that's uploaded by the It gives you some nice low level access to With the system now clean and fully reset back the N900. With the knowledge that any problems to default. The first thing I want to install systems directly from the external micro SD card. didn't let me install u-boot. So I decided For this I had to install rootfs This enables me to access superuser commands I can now use apt-get to install u-boot from the up the phone I now get a handy startup menu, I can now try out some other operating systems inbuilt eMMC storage. And the first operating like to thank everyone in the comments I'm using a pre-built image of PostmarketOS. This is a fairly simple tiling window manager. some more complex GUIs and there are just so The other operating system I tried on community version of the Meego operating That's the successor to Maemo that ran on system before Microsoft took over While this version of Meego is not complete on the it's interesting to see where I now want to switch back to Maemo and explore of the best ways to do that is to have a look games on the N900 is Bounce Evolution developed system to control a ball through an impressive 3D Though this is my first time playing The game however doesn't seem complete Still very impressive to see Rovio were best known for their game Angry Birds, This game was extremely popular at the time, and Overall I'm very impressed with this phone. It's an open operating system. There's also a fair Including service manuals with complete board interesting is the number of interface pins on the pins can even be used as serial i2c interfaces a phone with such low level hardware interfaces. system. Though looking around I couldn't find The N900 is a really unusual phone. It as GPS. But it also includes some rarer and an FM receiver. The FM receiver is not But with some patching and adding some software, This is something I explored in my 'Phone to Phone check that out if you want to see images sent Another unusual aspect of the N900 is of its headphone socket. This enables you Doing this mirrors the phone's entire operating to use the Sony monitor I fixed in the previous using the built-in video player, and The Nokia N900 is a really unique phone and makes for an extremely fascinating experience. to try out with this phone. It's like opening powerful little computer that almost became one possibilities embrace you like an object from I'm not sure what I'm gonna do with But there are so many directions it the latest version of Maemo and try Thanks for joining me here on my channel. Be sure I think there's some good stuff coming up soon. foreign