No, please. 1, 2, 3! That is ok. Mr. Alexandre. Trumpeter: I'm sorry but I need 29, What does that mean... Trumpeter: ...I couldn't count since 29! Come on, what are you talking about... Martha: I will start from... Seriously... he didn't understand?! Yes, I'd like it to be more rhythmic, We can't take the liberty of changing For example, the piano is a quaver after us, right? We want to play with her but we shouldn't. Will you bring back the tempo? You want me to bring back the tempo? That would be nice. But do everything. We've played this concerto everywhere on the planet, but this concerto is never played the same way twice. Sometimes I even wonder why we are rehearsing But it's like that, we need to practice, to pull Martha slightly in our direction, but you never know what will happen, It depends on a lot of things... what happened during the day, the blood pressure, So you always have to be alert - and that is what Wait, where do you start? At the beginning! There, 35... Yes, E. Let's go (Musician: It rushes a lot...) Keep going... inspire us. Well, I guess it's alright... No, no, it's the percussion that is late (others echo him), Yes, you are a little bit ahead of the beat somewhere. There, you are a little ahead. So try to understand it, because, Mister... tell me, the bassoon - In what? No... play for me the tempo It's not comfortable? Will you shut up! :P Because, you know, when we played this a long time ago, When we played this finale, he stood up and then said : She said she had no idea. And he said, &quot;Because if it goes this fast you will find yourself Bassoonist: I won't do this. It's not easy... Yes, that's it, precisely. When it is slower, it's more difficult. That's why I asked him! You see, that's why we are divorced! Solo! That was a good tempo! What? What does it mean... "good"? It means that it's not too fast, it's just nice I don't know, but I think it's because it's only morning... and I haven't practiced yet. You play well, Yes, I know... The last movement - The problem is with the orchestra but let's not mention that. No... But you should let them take the initiative as well. For example, the trumpet, it could be a little Don't tell him, though! I really need to practice the piano somewhere, Stay here, then! If you want to come to Gland ( Swiss town) to work, I would gladly invite you to Morges ( another Swiss town ) but... ...you have no piano. And you live in Morges. Yeah, it's a little nearer than Gland. Don't you find it sad to be here in Lausanne? What? Don't you find it sad to be here and - Who is dead? Jean Dujardin? (he's not dead) - I am dead! Oh, you know what, I read the story of the soldier I am dead among the living! No! The people who died of... What? - Oh, nothing! Oh dear... It's very sad! But, my sweet... What are you doing after this? I'll go to Los Angeles. So listen, before we leave each other, I would like to thank you I hope that we will have a beautiful concert, The orchestra members are different But at the end of the day, so we are very happy to celebrate this anniversary with you, - Can you hear me? You can hear me. Great. It's true, we can never pretend It's the privilege of being a musician and It's not like a finished painting, You are allowed your own interpretation, But music needs to be conveyed through human beings, so it's clear that in this system there can be Nobody can say that he knows this work completely. You need to work anew each time all of this play a great role in the work and its development. It's nice that they bring us flowers. Thank you, my dear. But you are not ticklish? Are you ticklish? You are not ticklish. - I am ticklish! I am happy it went well. You're happy? - What about you? You are always happy. You know that I'm always happy. Excuse me. See you later :)