- I'm gonna show you how to make creamy, buttery garlic mashed potatoes. Check this out. (upbeat music) Hey, everybody. It's Natasha Garlic mashed potatoes are definitely special enough for Thanksgiving dinner, but it's easy enough to make tonight, and I'm gonna show you how to make it. It's so simple. Let's get started. You'll need four pounds of potatoes. And by the way, by the way, wait a minute. If you haven't already, make sure to subscribe to our channel for more great recipes and tips. So we're using Yukon Gold potatoes. These are a waxier potato, and they come out super creamy and they have just this That's why they're my favorite First, rinse them, then peel. Peel the skins away from and making sure to remove any dark spots. There's two kinds of potato peelers, this standard type or a Y shape. I'll link to my favorite but I'd love to hear Once the potatoes are peeled, you do wanna keep them in cold water. This'll keep the potatoes from browning and removes excess starch. Cut the potatoes into halves or quarters if the potatoes are very large. Once the potatoes are all chopped, you're gonna drain that water and transfer the potatoes to a pot. (upbeat music continues) I prefer using a stainless steel pot for cooking mashed potatoes because I can cook and mash Add enough cold water to the bring that to a boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer and continue cooking or until your potatoes are This can take more or less time, depending on how large When your potatoes are peel and smash six garlic cloves. Smash the garlic with the side of a knife and transfer them to a small saucepan. (upbeat music continues) Add 1 1/3 cups of whole milk, and I like using whole milk to add some richness to the potatoes, but you can use any kind of milk. Place that over medium-low and continue cooking then take it off the heat. You don't wanna boil the milk. The potatoes should be just about done. You can see they're easily so it's time to drain those potatoes. Make sure the potatoes and if they seem very moist to you, you can place them over very low heat on the stove while you're mashing. There are several ways to mash these. You can either use a classic potato masher or use a potato ricer. Pressing your potatoes through to ensure you have zero lumps My favorite way to mash up potatoes is using an electric hand mixer, but really, you can use Also, make sure to mash your potatoes right away while they're hot. This helps to prevent the Coarsely mash up your potatoes. They don't have to be We're gonna add the I like to use a small strainer to make sure the garlic cloves don't get into the mashed potatoes. And add the hot milk to I add the full 1 1/3 cups of whole milk for four pounds of potatoes because I love super Continue mashing the potatoes until they're fully smooth You don't wanna overmix your potatoes. Also, use a spatula to scrape the sides and bottom of the pot to make sure you didn't To finish the potatoes, add eight tablespoons of along with 1/4 cup of sour cream and 1 1/2 teaspoons of All right, once they they are done and it's time to serve. And here's a great tip. If you're not gonna serve these immediately after you make them, it's a good idea to mash them up at the stove over very low heat. That way, the potatoes stay hot and steamy until you're ready to serve them. All right. Little sample for the cook That's what I'm talking about. (laughs) All right. Just a couple little things for garnish that will take these Let me show you. I'm gonna put them in a serving bowl. (upbeat music continues) Complicated. (chuckles) Here we go. All right. Now, to garnish this, because I'm excited for mashed potatoes. I don't know about you, but I get this craving for mashed potatoes that doesn't go away until All right, so I love to over the top while the potatoes are hot so it kind of melts over the potatoes and it kinda keeps them from drying out. All right, here I go. I just find that little over the top of mashed potatoes to be completely irresistible. Okay, a little more. Okay. And some freshly chopped chives. It adds that little pop of color, and chives go really well with so it's a really good Lots of chives. And look at that butter, Ooh, I'm excited, because I get to have some garlic mashed potatoes, and I'm gonna dive right Creamy, whipped, buttery. Mmm. (laughs) Really doesn't get any I need a bigger taste test than that. That's what I'm talking about. Mmm. Mmm, mmm. Mmm. Wow. This has beautiful garlic flavor laced throughout the whole thing, but it's not overpowering. It's just so much flavor. Oh, and then you can I love using softened butter because I feel like it gives the potatoes more flavor than melting it. And those chives, such a treat. Really just that little bit of garnish really goes a long way, and it really brings out the You can taste it. Even though there's only 1/4 cup in here, it just adds so much amazing flavor. If you've never added sour it is a must try. Oh, these are fabulous. Oh, this is so good for any They taste, like, very decadent, even though there's not But wow. Make sure to try this with our instant pot chicken and gravy. The gravy over these mashed You're gonna love it. Or these are also really good with our juicy roast Oh, wait, one more thing. These are excellent. If you have leftovers, make sure to try our They're so good, so easy, and a genius way to use Okay, I think that's it for now. (laughs) I think. Bye!