In today's chess video, we're going to look London system. It's a solid opening - and very same opening moves, no matter what black plays. this is what it is - you get the bishop out &amp; These 3 pawns &amp; this bishop on f4 are Some would say that the London is boring because I'll show you how to play it in different ways middlegame positions. We'll see where these We start with the queen's pawn opening &amp; now are d5 &amp; knight f6 because obviously they play d5 &amp; then knight f6 or even the other way same position. Of course, there are other moves But for the moment, let's stick to d5 &amp; knight f6. would be tempted to play c4 - the queen's gambit. of countering this. He can decline the gambit with or he can even accept the gambit. And of course, And there are many other ways in which black can going for the Queen's gambit, you need to study a which is not an easy task. And that's where play it against anything, literally anything. you should create this pyramid of pawns, but so bishop f4. And as I mentioned earlier, knight our pyramid. E3 almost always is going to be our in which black can play. He can solidify with He can also play c5 to attack the center or I'll give you some really simple strategies to let's look at the ideal London setup from black's moves for the moment. Just focus on Let's say, he plays e6. Then finally, c3 - Let's go a little further. Black plays c5 these three minor pieces. And generally, this is suggest you don't play this until black has played anytime play bishop g4, and pin our knight. Here, Black continues with his development &amp; we activate look to castle so he has to move his bishop. If he just keep the tension &amp; slide your bishop back recapture with this pawn &amp; open up this dangerous if he moves his bishop to e7, then you can simply knight h5 &amp; force you to exchange your bishop Therefore, I prefer to play h3 so that if he So that's something you need to be aware of. then you finally activate your bishop. And we solid pawn chain in the center, both these bishops And even if he tries something like c4, you The reason why the London is so good is because Look, we're controlling this square with this knight, the bishop &amp; this pawn. These two squares having control, we restrict black's counterplay centralize this knight &amp; then attack with your perfect London setup for white, but black will you can't just memorise these moves, you still doing. Therefore, I'll show you some simple &amp; But before that, I would like to thank Babbel, best language learning apps that teaches practical I first started using Babbel to learn French Learning new words and languages always fascinates turned out to be really, really difficult. The very complex and demanding. That's where Babbel with a few short lessons to pick up the basics, learning methods , like podcasts, games, videos, I found the podcasts to be a great tool with the Speech Recognition feature, you Yes, Yes! So guys, if you're heading for a holiday in the the land, or if you just want to learn a new Babbel. Right now, Babbel is offering a 65% the link in the description and you're Alright, so I showed you the basic setup of structure &amp; all these minor pieces are beautifully is to centralise this knight. And if he takes, Don't worry about these doubled pawns because this h5 square &amp; now you have the queen jumping into You can even go for some smart sacrifices Now in this position, what if he doesn't take your you can always castle &amp; play a safe game. But if queen this way or maybe even start pushing these on what you are comfortable with. Now this is I feel this is the best opening for lazy players, is doing. Chess is not that simple. So now I'll responses. Let's start from the beginning - d4, if he plays e6, it is safe to play knight f3. c5 move is very common in the London &amp; you might The point is that not only does this undermine Look, by getting the bishop out of this pawn black can take advantage of. Now after c5, we its time for you to activate these 3 minor pieces. order is very important. If you go for knight f3, Now pushing b3 just weakens your pawn structure Here if black takes, then you are still in a good open file for the rook. In fact, initiating of the sides because that activates the enemy take &amp; instead push c4. Again, you'll have to move and that is, bishop to f5. You cannot take At the end of all this if you see, you just smartly activated all his pieces. Therefore, you In this game, since e6 was not played, this bishop back, in this position, instead of developing this this knight first. Now look, even if he goes queen simply take the bishop &amp; then easily save your opponent tries to copy you? D4, d5. Bishop f4 play in the pyramid style approach, but that's I like to play c4 because I want to take advantage side. Black is trying to play the London setup &amp; So, we can just go after this with, knight c3, the queenside. This is a really good strategy Alright, now what if your opponent does not play Well, this move completely stops this pawn from queen from coming out. This means black won't are 2 ways you can play this as white. You can take control of the center &amp; push with e4-e5. immediate attack with c4. You can pressurize d5 try to disrupt the center from the queenside. It's but definitely worth a try. Okay, now let's look with the King's Indian setup. So d4, then knight it's the same thing that we saw earlier. But here, for the center. This is the King's Indian, a very Now to counter this, my recommendation would play knight c3. That's because if black does not you can plant your other pawn &amp; now you have a black is always playing catchup, he'll try to Our gameplan is simple, play queen d2, castle bishops &amp; then push these pawns, open up the army. This of course, is not the London, Okay, now in this position, your opponent so his best way to stop you would be d5. In this But another way to counter this is to play e3 queen &amp; bishop. In this kind of a variation, your activate your knight &amp; bishop &amp; even try to push in an aggressive manner. Basically, there are many your strengths. I've given you all the ideas, try the like button below this video. Alright, so its and you need to find the best move continuation section below. Guys, don't forget to like and