- I cook year round, all the time, but for the holiday, this is when I like to cook the best. I like to take my time and Something that I enjoy cooking. Tradition is big at our house. We like to eat together and have fun. And even though, you know, you kind of splurge a you can still do terrific like we are going to do today, which is about half of what I mean, it can go to 3000 calorie and I think ours would be in the area of less than half of this and what we're going to start with. is the turkey, of course, there is no holiday for I love turkey. My wife loved turkey, everyone is crazy about So I have one in the oven now, which has been cooking What I do is to start it this way, breast side up for about 20 minutes so that I form a crust on top. And so it doesn't stick. And when I have that crust forming on top, then I turn the turkey upside down and all of that, so that now the juice go into the turkey and it's still nice and moist. So I don't really have to The reason is that as I said, the juice will go into the turkey. Now for my sauce, I use whole cloves of And that has now to go back into the oven and we cook it for about an hour and a half more, so it depend on your size First, you saving time and you know, too small turkey about 10, this one is about 11 pound, rather than the large, large one, What we are going to do And for that stuffing that we are doing, I have the, that will go later on into the sauce. But I wanted to show you the neck of the turkey, I put that in water and I So it's nice and tender. I will pick the meat out of and the juice that it's cooked on, will going to go in the, in the pan also to make our gravy. So we use everything. Remember that we put no fat or There is plenty fat in the skin. And actually when we do the gravy, we're going to remove the fat. So our stuffing now, the stuffing here, we have breadcrumb that is diced bread. This is whole wheat bread, I have golden raisin. I have celery. I have onion, garlic and the provence, which are a mixture of with those little blue flower, which are lavender flowers in it. And dried mushroom, see those dry mushroom like those here, shiitake and I have a tree mushroom here. We soak them in water. That not only is terrific to put in the, in the stuffing, but the juice we're going to So what we'll do a little We do the stuffing only with oil. We, you know, stuffing, we have less than half the amount of fat that you would have in regular stuffing. And we put first the onion in it, that we're going to slice, nicely chopped, rather. And that's saute and a bit of celery. The celery is special I like to use those, which we cut in little you can crack it like that on the table, cut it into strips and finally get it together to chop it coarsely or small dice, you know, about quarter of an inch. I like to cook the stuffing First, it's easier and And I am sure that the, the stuffing come to the to cook at because often it starts fermenting, it doesn't get hot enough, you know. So what we next is those mushrooms. And you know, that dark strong juice from those dry mushroom, this is really going to And what I do there is I wash the mushroom first under water then I put them to soak, you know. Here it is. And a dash of salt and pepper in there. That's it. Freshly ground pepper. This is just saute a little now we can put it here And you know, stuffing, we which are good. I put a bit of garlic. The garlic could be saute in there or put directly into here, have the provence, you know, you can put all fresh herb, the bread. And I'm going to moisten that pour it slowly here. You don't want to put where you may have a little And that's it. We prepare that stuffing ahead. It should be kind of loose, directly into a loaf pan. And that's it. This has to be covered now. Then we put it in the oven Just put it when you're about ready. Well, half an hour or 45 minutes before you take the turkey out, you put your stuffing when you're ready to use it. So what we are going to do now, is the first course of our holiday meal and the first course is actually snow peas and scallop. And I need a little bit of water in there. I just want to steam the snow peas. So I will steam them in that water. And I have here the snow I have some red and yellow pepper, the scallop, and a bit with a little bit of oil. So the first thing is the snow peas. I'll put those which are And as you can see, again, it's a type of steaming process because actually I put By the time this will be cooked. There will be no water left. So we continue with So the first steaming, I don't refresh the vegetable. I don't wash them under water. I don't lose any of the So I get all the nutrient of course, and all the taste of the vegetable. So I have the scallop that I Those scallop, I may as well Those scallops here, you're able to see, have a little muscle on top, right here, that I'm removing. That little thing, that So you want to put it out. Now, if you do a scallop mousse, then it's fine because it ground directly. But if you do what I'm doing today, you want to remove that For the red pepper, I peel it with a vegetable peeler. I peel it wherever I have access to it. And of course in the pleat then I cut it between those pleat. So that now I have access to the side that I couldn't reach before It's a, it's an easy way and And it makes a big because it doesn't come back to you. Remember that those are red. those are orange, you I mean, there is a lot of So I'm cutting that, That's going to go into, that's going to go with the This is a very fast type of dish. And with that, I will heat And for that, a little piece of butter, another little piece of butter, I mean the whole recipe will be less than one tablespoon of butter. I'm putting a piece here A bit of, Tabasco in there. And that's it. Salt and we're ready to saute the scallop. I want to show you there, the snow peas also should be peeled because there is a string on each side. If you take the end of it, you will have that string coming out here, then you break it at the end and the string will come If you don't do that, it's going to be pretty even the small one. So I saute this, we can put this one here now. And the scallop, we arrange them one next to the other, so that they brown nicely on each side. The scallop are going to You want them on a very, very hot skillet. With a dash of salt on top and a dash of pepper, that I add here. It's a popular festive dish, And I have two different which are going to go well As the scallop crust on And now basically we are on plate. I'm gonna turn the See after that they and start browning on one side. This, you don't want to Those are fairly large sea scallops, and they will take a couple Okay, here we are. Now let's arrange some snow peas, beautiful color, and it's particularly When you have the red and the green here, scallop arrange all over. And our scallop are about ready now. I put them on top. Five or six scallop per person, depending on size you know, This is about the amount And this is our first (slow jazz music) We splurge a little bit for the holiday, more than usual, especially in the south. What I like to do best candied orange rind. That's really Christmasy holiday for me. And I want to show you how to do those, those chocolate truffle. I have melted chocolate here, which has about that thickness with a little bit of milk. Into this we put an egg yolk and as I stir it, you will see that it starts thickening with the egg yolk, you know. However, because of some people kind of are a So what you could do, now it's thicker. I can leave it at 140 degree. That's how about the temperature it is now for like three minutes if you have a bit of a, if you are a bit conscious about this, I have shredded mint into it. We mix it. And that's it. When it's stay for a couple You put it in a bowl and that Now we do small chocolate that just mold them out and put them right on top of cocoa powder. What I do very often, I just mold them this way and put them back in the refrigerator so that they start getting And when those are hard, they are not quite as hard Then I mold them with my I don't want them round. I want them kind of twisted and so forth, just the same way that And I know the chocolate but you know, that size, there are about 30 calorie each, which is not that much. So you roll them like this in the cocoa powder. And now they will look Remember that a truffle is which pushing the roots, It grows in the root and it has a knot shape and all that, and kind of covered with that's where we imitate. That's why we call it a truffle, you know. So we put that on top here. And the next thing that we want to do is the candied, the candid rind of orange, you know, and the candied rind of orange again, it's great because you can do it ahead. You can give it to friends and so forth. I do it usually with a That vegetable peeler And that's what I want. So we cut those slices after into strip. Strip about that size. And those strips now are kind of bitter. So what you do, you put them in a bowl, with about two, three cup of cold water. Bring it to a strong boil, pour that mixture into a sieve, wash it under water and put into your saucepan with sugar and water and cook them for like 45 minutes. And at the end of that, they should look about like this one does. You know, cook in that sugar, not quite caramel, it's in fact talking about caramel, I have a caramel here that it just finish cooking. And I'm going to use it to in a few minutes. For the time being, Those candied orange rind, what you do with them, you live them up with your Then you can separate them You know, you want them to If they get saturated then you take them out. And those are going to get hard. I mean, look, you can hear You want them chewy and elastic. And this, you can put them in and you can keep that for weeks, you know, but you want to have them covered otherwise they get too hard. And now to decorate those, that we're going to have with this here, which is of course our Christmas thing, we are going to do a beautiful decoration, which is the caramel cage. I have cooked that caramel as you can see and let it cool off a little bit so that I get the viscosity Now I have a bowl here, which is a standard steel What I want to do is to do long strip of caramel from one side to the other. You see very often people tell me &quot;I cannot do a caramel cage, it breaks.&quot; You have to follow, you have to follow the same That is you bring your caramel from one side to the other of the bowl, like building a house. By doing this, of course the large beam. When you've done that in a you can put some in between This has to cool off for a so that the caramel hardens and it's ready to take it off. So it's relatively easy to the caramel, I could And in that water, I could or remelt it. You want to clean that up, just fill it up with water So you can see that here, with our chocolate truffle I have those little fig in the middle. Those are small mission fig, which I press so that they hold sitting and chop the hat off, And here I have almond paste. You know, you take a little that your roll I mean, you can do another color to it and place that right in the middle. I mean, what we are doing here is you know, walking and I I could do a little to place that, to do a little bit of a Okay, well I push it Okay, here. So this is cute. You can do it with different color. And what I want to do my caramel cage is coming off. It should, it's not quite cold yet. When it's cold, it will come out relatively easy, but it has to be a bit You push it from one side to the other. It's coming up on this side. As you can see here, it's to I put it right on top of it. And through the griddle of that, you could arrange some flowers and make really a beautiful So the turkey has to cook the oven, but I want to let it rest also. When it comes out of the oven, let it rest 20 minutes or so, the juice will go through it. And it's much better I have my turkey here now, and my stuffing, which is finished and the gravy. I want to tell you a It is important in the particularly I take the all the juice out of the We put that in a, in a large, in a skillet like this. And what I did after that, I let that rest for about 5, 10 minutes and pick up all the fat from the top. As much as of the fat as I could. Then remember that I had we pull the meat out of that, cut it into pieces to add it to it and thicken that just a little bit with the a dash of So I put a bit of the gravy It looks beautiful on top like we can serve at the table directly. And the stuffing around, you know, my stuffing is nice and loose now the way with the bread and that strong smell of you know, through it. I love the smell of those, those dry mushroom, really makes it here. And I don't like to fuss with the turkey. You see the gravy on the side, the stuffing right there. And with this, in that menu, I did a puree of carrot with, And I didn't have time to show it to you, but you should have a couple either a green vegetable in addition to your And this is our beautiful turkey like this is ready to serve and (slow jazz music) The holiday would be very And today, I'm very happy that my daughter is here and Claudine, just fresh out of college is joining me for dinner. - Well, thank you for having me here. - Well, it's nice to What I'm going to do first, I'm gonna give you a piece of turkey and I know the piece of So I am not even going to ask you. I know that you like the dark And actually this is the drumstick. And with this, we have the stuffing. We have the gravy, but tell us a little bit what's in there because you help in the - This is a puree of carrots that we do in the food processor. And it has ginger and some olive oil. It's really good for the holidays. The ginger is a nice spice to have. - That's good. And put you a little bit of gravy - Yes, please and the first course you want to tell us what it is. - Well, there's scallops And it's, it's a really nice first course because afterwards we - Yes and it's lot of food. Good and finally, of course, And for dessert, I have done the cage there, which is really a decorative truffle and the candied orange and those little tiny mission figs stuffed with the marzipan. But this is not the way you do it, right? What do you do with it? I mean, having just graduated from college and not having all that much money, I like to make gift boxes with the food and you can use some fresh mint and the candied orange rinds and stuff, and some fresh flowers. Don't leave these in a box but it makes a really pretty thing to give to friends and stuff. - Yes this one is for me, right? - Yes, this will be for you. What am I getting for Christmas? - What are you getting for Christmas? Well, I don't know. Your mother hasn't but what we are going to do is to have a little bit of I hope you enjoyed what we are going, what we've done today. Remember that the turkey is roasted how they say upside we haven't put any fat on the Turkey because there is enough in the skin. And I know that you're watching your, your diet all the time, So do you eat the skin of the turkey? - On the holidays, yeah. - On the holidays, yes. - And how many chocolate while you were doing those package? - Not too many, only three or four. - Remember there are only 35 calories, so it's fine to, to have a couple, of course, you will see the difference, but you can do that ahead, Actually, we can freeze them. And this is terrific for with a little ribbon around and those candied orange rind also. Sometime we dip them When you have your melted chocolate, you can take those rinds And that makes another, Well, we really enjoy And I hope you're going as we've done it and enjoy it, I'm sure. It was nice cooking for you. Enjoy it and - [Together] happy cooking!