male announcer: &quot;In Touch,&quot; the Stanley, reaching the world with Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; &quot;Confidence Dr. Charles Stanley: The forty-four and I was We were in a war and we Pacific and also in Europe. It was a time of great distress Many things were rationed: food and tires and all It was a time of great distress were dying on foreign shores. It was a time of great stress was going to happen because of about the war and And oftentimes people would sit news while they And it was a troublesome time reports of where this particular going on in the fighting. One morning my social studies laid her books down and &quot;We're going to do something And she began to read. And I remembered And then she told us that, she'd heard the news, and her division which They were in a very bloody And you know, I don't But I have never And how many times I've turned some difficulty or I remembered Psalm forty-six. So I want you to because this is a wonderful And I want to talk about stressful times in life, And this is a word and the psalmist says, &quot;God is our refuge and strength, Therefore we will not fear, and though the mountains should Though its waters roar and foam, at its swelling pride. There is a river whose streams the holy dwelling God is in the midst of God will help her The nations made an He raised His The Lord of hosts is with is our stronghold. Come, behold the who has wrought He makes wars to cease He breaks the bow and He burns the chariots with fire. 'Cease striving and I will be exalted I will be exalted in the earth.' The Lord of hosts is of Jacob is our stronghold.&quot; What a wonderful word Now, all of us And all of us go through when we think the stress And so, we will do one of two periods in our life. And so, what I want to talk how to confidently walk through so stressful, so And there are two ways that And I, first of all, want to That is, what is the natural difficult, troublesome Well, the most prominent way against them, and I or three terms, if I might. First of all, when we stress is pressure that we feel. It is either pressure that we are being tugged and And then there is which is sorta the same distress, I think about the fact to a place of real deep anxiety and pain in my feeling. When we think in striving means to contend with. Striving means to fight against. Striving means to put forth And so when we think in says here, &quot;Cease striving Now, it's interesting in this uses nature as an example when there's great turmoil. And he says, if you'll notice will not fear though the the mountains slip into the And though its though the mountains What he's The stressful times that come He says the whole mountains When there are tidal waves, And as it hits the mountains, even quake at that. Then he moves on past the care of his own kingdom. If you'll notice in &quot;The nations made an And then God raised His That is, either in troublesome war and bloodshed and And then there stressful periods that We wake up on Monday morning. We see what the schedule is. We know the situations and we're gonna have to face. Sometimes those stressful finances, trouble in the home, example, trouble on the job. And sometimes the stronger than you'd think But when you and I when we put it to the not saying that you'll do it When we begin to understand for us to live, you know what? It doesn't make any difference It doesn't make any the burdens may appear to be. It doesn't make any the cause of that stress. God Almighty will enable you quietly, peacefully, walk stress does not become absolutely, listen, peace and inner quietness that you won't even be You just know that when Almighty He is exactly what He promised. Now, what in the Look at what he says. He says here that If I should ask you today: More than likely, probably percent of the people Because what you mean by that Christ as your personal Savior, of that, you know God. Well, no question way you begin to know Him. You begin to know Him by Jesus Christ, as your Savior. Well, what about the unbeliever? When you say to More than likely the &quot;Yes, I know God.&quot; And they would begin to tell answers their prayer and they the Bible, which they do don't really believe. And so they would tell you which you know that's not true. Now, I understand, listen, I never trusted Jesus I understand why Now, they think they do. Well, they've read the &quot;Well, you know, I I believe He And yes, I believe that and yeah, I believe that I hear Christians Yeah, I believe all that.&quot; But they don't know Him. You see, listen, believing does not make you know God. But I don't want to deal does not know Him, I want to deal just for a &quot;Yes, I've trusted But the issue is not as your Savior, but Listen, He didn't say, Him as your Savior.&quot; He said, &quot;Cease He says, &quot;Cease He says, &quot;And Now, let me ask you a question. More than likely, more than likely, You've trusted You know that If I should ask you, &quot;Tell me, Do you know Him trusted Jesus Christ Here's what people do. They say, &quot;Well, I've I know He's my Savior.&quot; And most Christians, I'm afraid, Savior, the They're going to heaven when them in time of trouble Did you know that God you just knowing If you love someone, And if you love someone and do you want them to know you? God wants us to know Him because the core, that is the real, of being able to walk through stressful situations, no matter no matter what source it may be. The key, listen, to be able to with peace in your So what I have to ask is this. If I should say to you, &quot;Yes, I do.&quot; If I gave you a piece of paper &quot;Write on this sheet of paper that you could defend That's how I know You see, if I say, &quot;Well, write say, &quot;Well, listen, I heard that, and I believe But what do you know? What do you know? Do you know Him personally Do you, listen, He wants us to but the Lord and And most people just They don't want to They, you see, most interested in They want to know Him as Savior And if they need to they'll let Him know. That's not the way God He says, &quot;Cease striving Know that I'm not but your Master and your Lord. Know that I love Know that the forgiveness My only begotten Son. Know that I have but I'm a just God, that I am omnipresent, that I'm a and that I see you as I have a will and a I want the best for your I will chastise you I want you to understand operate, what motivates Me. I want you to know that I I want you to know that when suffering and difficulty, I will turn that into I want you to understand the I want you to I want you to know those men and how I worked in their lives. I want you to be I want you to absorb Me. I want you to be I want you to I want you to That's what He &quot;Cease striving and Well, that brings me to this &quot;Cease striving and know that I Listen to what he says. He says here's the Watch this. He is our refuge. He's a place to which I can run. He is my strength He is a present help. Thank God He said &quot;present.&quot; And notice what he says, the Hebrew means When I get in a tight place and the stress, he says what? He says He is a very when I'm in a tight place. Then if you'll Not only that, but he He is our stronghold. And if you'll verse eleven and verse Now, I want you to turn back and I want you to This psalmist--the in a little different light. But notice what he &quot;I love Thee, O The Lord is my rock and my my God, my rock, in whom and the horn of my What are these Psalms saying? Here's what they are saying, stressful and distressing times Look who this is. This, listen, this is the--this This is Jehovah God, This is the Lord He is the Master of all things. And this is the God who I will be your refuge. I am your stronghold. I'm your rock, I'm shield, I'm your salvation. I'm everything you need. You don't have to strive. You don't have to contend. Trust Me! That is the message. I have two choices, I can or I can rest in the Lord Jesus everything I need This is the God. He says, &quot;I'll--&quot; He says, He says, &quot;Cease your striving Now, what we have If--what do we We say, listen, not not just to know about Him, but Now listen, if you you have a And the--and, listen, the the better you know them. Which brings us, when He says, I'm God,&quot; the next how do I get to know Him? Well, let me ask you this. How do you get to know someone? Number one, you You spend time with them. That's the way you He says, &quot;Be still The God you serve, I want I want you to know Me as God.&quot; You spend time with Him. And you know what? No one can do for There is no one who can There's no one who can lift me like that, like He can. Talking to someone No one, listen, no one can of difficulty that's You can't shake it, you you can't loose yourself How do I live, but peace listen, indescribable joy we're stuck in something. I'll tell you how: you can live in anything, Listen, I'm make this statement very clear. I'm not saying that you should are being physically fashion that it is dangerous. I'd never say that. I'm talking about those Just because something's Neither am I saying that you should never walk If God tells you to walk God's not gonna ever tell That's the key. He will never tell you to do the Word of the Living God. How do I know Him? You spend time with Him. How do I know Him? Here's how I know Him. I will never know you till I because that's So how do I find out I get in this book that Or I listen to a message or read tells me how God is thinking. How does God think? I observe what God does I observe also what Because you see, one of the ways is to watch what He And then, some time will go by, say, &quot;God, what are Help me understand You see, if I become observant people's lives, I some powerful lessons. I will learn how God thinks. I will learn what God says, &quot;This is what Well, why would You You see, I will understand who begin to understand My friend, listen, you will until this Word becomes read to say you read through absorb, you began to look &quot;God, what were You saying? What were they feeling? How did You work and Moses's life and How did You work in Paul's life? How did Your Son operate?&quot; He certainly was not striving. Jesus could walk through difficulty and trial There was this of inner peace and quietness. You know why? Because Jesus was never He knew Him. He says, &quot;If you've seen I and the Father are one.&quot; No strife, no contention, no He had an absolute If I'm gonna get to know Him, I've gotta find And then you know what, I've got to be able &quot;Lord, this is This is the way I see it. This is what's I've got to be Then you know what, I've got to be able, listen, then I've gotta to hear Him respond to And you say, &quot;Well, now, God He doesn't have to. Listen, don't limit God knows how to speak, straight to your spirit and He is an infinite God. We, listen, you listen to You listen to each with our heart, with our spirit. We listen to God, listen, we Listen, there's It's so perfectly intangible, goes straight from His We know God has spoken to us. You have prayed asked God, &quot;Lord, You know what He says. From Spirit to spirit. We begin to understand, we begin We go through thrown into How do we learn who God is? When we watch how He maneuvered that moment to bring us How do we know Him? When we understand what He's chastising hand of God. What is He doing? He's teaching us You say, &quot;Well, He's teaching He's teaching us He's teaching us that He allow us to get by with sin. He loves us so much He's gonna center of His will. &quot;Be still,&quot; He says, Well, how do I know The God, listen, the God that of God is the right God. There are lots of people today in God because The only problem with their can't speak, can't work, Clay, they're figure--listen, mind, some dream they have manmade gods fit Manmade theology without exception, manmade flesh in some fashion. God's theology, that is, the holy and righteous and not allows me to To know this God is to thing I will ever know is to And therefore, listen, if precious of all knowledge, learning something about wasting precious, valuable time. Listen, when you and I die, and everything that's in it. Everything I've learned won't make a bit of difference. When you and I stand everything we have everything we have learned in Him, it will all be What is this life but a--listen, schooling to discover we're gonna spend eternity with! Think about it, eternity If you love someone, love your you love dearly, you could I'd like to spend eternity because I love them so much.&quot; Well, I'll tell you something, eternity with God. And this is the time The truth is, if I'm gonna live without striving, to learn, listen, What is He about in my life? As I think about, for example, and this is where we Think about this for a moment. Think about where You find him in the wilderness. Where do you find David? Up on the Where do you find Elijah? Where do you find Isaiah? In the temple Where do you find Ezekiel? Where did you Up in the mountains, Where did you find In Arabia alone, John on the Isle of Patmos, banished to the Isle of My friend, listen I can tell you, but I cannot most important moments the moments that not only help what He's like but the moments the moments that can cause all stress and the distress and the the anxieties that absolutely moments in and allowing my trust level to say, &quot;Father, I lay that down. Thank You, dear God, I Thank You that You You're my strength, You are my You are my stronghold, You're You're my horn of plenty, which I stand, You're the shield to protect in every single battle of life. You know when you and I'll When we get quiet and we get &quot;Father, I want You And even when you've difficult storm, then in great distress and out of that quickly, You remind yourself: just get still, rest it to handle this for you. Our omnipotent, omniscient, listen, He is my ever-present He will enable me to courageously, victoriously, in out knowing Him better, relationship to Him, and with absolutely beyond comprehension.