Vietnam, late 1960s. Hostile North Force of elite American MACV-SOG operators. Nevertheless, the Americans and their down. Staff Sergeant Jerry M. Shriver, also pummeling the enemy with his unconventional and a lethal sawed-off shotgun. slowly hoisted up through the thick jungle but Mad Dog does not flinch. He retaliates The friendlies are lifted one by one until Mad Dog several times. The enemy fire intensified to assistance with a fresh unit of ground troops. no...I've got them right where I want Jerry M. Shriver was born on September 24, 1941, about this man's life, except that he was destined and the embodiment of the actual fighting brotherhood forged in the heat of battle. World War 2, those from the thousands of young the Empire of Japan and Europe, against Inspired by his country's heroes', Shriver joined the Army from California. The young man proved his becoming a paratrooper of the legendary Shortly after, Shriver tested his going through rigorous training to attain At the time of Shriver's training, the and the Soviet Union had led the United Vietnam after France's defeat in 1954 at the The nation had embarked on a conflict unlike any 1975, the Army would fight to the bitter to turning Vietnam into a Communist state. such as jet aircraft, helicopters, heavily guided missiles, and others, the Army desperately in the jungle and inflict heavy casualties Luckily for Staff Sergeant Jerry and he wanted in; the thrill of the hunt of Communist-infested Vietnam were Staff Sergeant Jerry M. Shriver of the US 5th The tall and thin operator with a narrow face Future Medal of Honor recipient Jim Fleming [QUOTE] "The quintessential warrior-loner, the best teammate, always Shriver was not amicable to those outside his He was born for combat and spent his free and learning about the terrain and enemy he The Staff Sergeant was strict with his men, better soldiers, machines of war, survivors Jim Fleming would also say that: [QUOTE] "Shriver I would not go into a bar and cross someone wolf who often spent the nights at the himself, waiting for his next mission. Shriver joined the elite and highly secretive Vietnam Studies and Observation Group. Chosen men from the Army, Marines, Navy, Air created to tackle the most demanding missions. Shriver would keep extending his frenzy that consumed him. He would spend over especially the allied Montagnard forces. quickly earned him the nickname Mad The Mad Dog's reputation grew after every adrenaline of combat. He was at home in the of catching a break after operations, he that were bound to hunt down North Vietnamese It is said that Shriver once took leave except he did not. Instead, the restless Special Forces camp to join another special Most missions that MACV-SOG carried out were But there is no doubt that Shriver saw As the elite, MACV operators employed a unique Vietnamese. They also had access to special state-of-the-art bows for stealth encounters, Like most the men from MACV, Shriver had a the legend often exchanged his combat fatigues Nevertheless, Shriver was always armed to infiltrators everywhere and never left his among the enemy due to his exploits. see Shriver armed with four to six pistols calibers. From the old-reliable and Shriver's kit for combat operations was also would often employ enemy AK-47s, RPKs, and Shriver carried a sawed-off shotgun, a or a .45-caliber M1A1 Thompson submachine gun. There is a unique account of Shriver's arsenal to MACV-SOG's Command and Control North Captain Jim Storter recalled: [QUOTE] &quot;He he had five or six .38 caliber revolvers.&quot; equipment, asked him: [QUOTE] &quot;Sergeant Shriver, You know the DMZ is not a real mellow area.&quot; [QUOTE] &quot;No, those long guns will get you in I got troubles anyhow.&quot; the staff sergeant turned more eccentric. command for a mandatory rest period to the him to purchase a Marlin Lever action rifle Shriver did not plan on using such a powerful He was thinking of taking down another type to MACV-SOG headquarters and said he would the heart of the enemy with the massive exit As a member of MACV-SOG, Shriver was a platoon small units comprised two or three American locals from the Montagnards or People from the who were trained to fight unconventional warfare. American leaders and followed them until the end. and were tasked with unconventional direct-action missions deep behind enemy lines. enemy operations, and carried out special missions Their activities were highly classified and Hatchet Forces' name reflected their role as a warfare. Shriver and his men excelled at that station, announced a $10,000 bounty for his head. where the enemy outnumbered Mad Dog radio contact for air support when one of the to which Shriver replied: [QUOTE] I want them: surrounded from the inside." he was extremely fond of his trusty tribesmen who lived in the Vietnamese They were courageous in combat track anything that moved in the jungle. him with their loyalty. In return, he spent most clothing, and other donations flow of supplies to the mountain people. his Montagnards. He lived, ate, and slept Shriver also had another friend: a large German Shriver loved Klaus so much that, upon learning force-feeding him with beer, Shriver walked threatened the men. Not a single man dared Chapter 5 Last Fight continuous combat patrols, war began to take but did not wish to leave his men and their was around the corner but kept going forward. company prepared to raid the airfield at Quan the secret lair of the Central Office of South B-52 bombers had heavily pummeled the site, and clean house. The operators were heavily armed and Due to the secretive nature of the MACV-SOG operators were on their own. There Before boarding the chopper with his Montagnards, [QUOTE] "Take care of my boy." He felt it was the failed and had to turn back, leaving Shriver's 1st As soon as the men landed, they were concealed machine gun nests. Mad Dog by six enemy platoons hidden in the bunkers. relieve the pinned-down men. He radioed positions and immediately got to work. mountain men and charged towards the through a hail of enemy bullets and grenades. against the enemy while on the move to protect his approached the treeline, Mad Dog gathered his grenades before venturing into hostile territory Mad Dog Shriver was never seen again... In the pieces narrating how they had finally captured and In the following weeks, the military sent a but there was no sign of Shriver. from finishing his third tour of duty. listed as Missing in Action. True to his spirit, his brave shepherd, Klaus, and his smoking jacket. a Silver Star, a Soldier's medal for Heroism, a Star with 4 Valor devices, an Air Medal, a Purple In 1974, the Secretary of the Army put Mad Dog's The Mad Dog was posthumously awarded a second