In the Steven Pinker book, "The better Angels and an attempt to understand the darker side show plays almost a starring role among many sadists. He is sometimes called the worst mass murderer exact number of how many died due to his policies is not easy. That number is sometimes said to be about and sometimes we are told even as many as It's hard to even imagine such a thing and attributed (there are doubters), to the tyrant a million deaths is a statistic." The reason the number of deaths changes of if there even is a record of death- is not died as a direct result of Mao's policies But historians haven't pulled the number accounts of the devastation of Mao's policies cruel towards the Chinese people, especially The historian Frank Dikotter, who spent a went down during the Great Leap Forward, said worst catastrophes the world has ever known". He said around 45 million people either starved, "It ranks alongside the gulags and the Holocaust 20th century... It was Pol Pot's genocide multiplied 20 times We can tell you first hand how this writer that people were seen only as "digits", This historian, while researching his book, Most Devastating Catastrophe", explained Public Security Bureau reports he found some Dikotter said that in these records of the of children, hungry children, stealing potatoes. The rulers were strict about crime, and in and was thrown into a river. Others were forced to work naked in winter on fire, while others merely had their nose Perhaps the most disturbing thing was a record their children alive. But starvation killed the most people. To give you an example, Dikotter writes that 80 percent of the folks were deliberately food was served. They were old or weak and so it was decided scheme of things and should be starved to That's how bad it was, and this information But before we talk about more misery, let's This will be a very abridged history, as people Little Mao was born on December 26, 1893, in the province of Hunan, China. His parents were farmers and were said to for generations. It's said his family weren't that bad up of very poor peasants. He did a bit of schooling, but by the time It's said he had been a good student, and It's said he was asked to leave school for a book featured in the New York Times. His mother, whom he worshipped, was ok with according to this book. Mao himself once said he had bitter fights At 14, his dad said he had found a wife for Other sources tell us he did in fact marry as his proper wife. In his own words, Mao once said, "When I 20. But I never lived with her ... I do not consider to her." She died a year after their marriage anyway, him to work in a rice store, Mao had his sights could learn things like foreign languages, He would soon be inspired by western economists, as well as the writings of philosopher and It's said at around this time, still a young justifies the means, or perhaps you might some eggs. His father at this time thought Mao's intellectual Their break-up was imminent. At age 17 he left home and went to study in After educating himself more he went on to Party (Kuomintang), whose intention was to That happened in 1912, and the Republic of These were exciting times for Mao no doubt, In 1918 he became qualified as a teacher, still unemployed. Instead he managed to land a job as a librarian's Around this time we are told that Mao had on there with the revolution (1917), an uprising Union based on the tenets of communism. Just a couple of years later and Mao would Communist Party. There was still a ruling nationalist party but having watched Vladimir Lenin's ideas it was time for China to give some power back up most of the country. What happened next, in short, is the Chinese the upstarts, the Communist Party. And here's where Mao stepped in. He led an army (The Red Army) of peasants This violent reprisal wasn't without its and locked up many people affiliated with Mao then formed the Soviet Republic of China under his Communist control. Government forces then buckled down and tried but the Communists retreated and began was a hard trek through the mountains. It's said from about 100,000 people that the way (the exact number is disputed). Walking 8,000 miles over treacherous territory ways a great action and intellectual hero, If you don't know what that is, it's when and he and his cronies (often paranoid themselves propaganda, the media, posters, unrealistic Look no further than North Korea for a present Matters became worse in China in 1937 when The government couldn't have internal discord The Red Army of Mao grew in size in part because Mao's communists were asked to get on one help from the Allied forces the Japanese were Where did this leave Mao? Well, in a pretty strong position. He wanted all of China, and that he got in A second civil war ensued and that ended with So, now we have Mao the leader, and he did If people got in his way, blood was often gave it back to the people. He tried to stop opium production and cut He doubled the number of Chinese people getting and women's rights. It's said because of Mao's policies life He was a champion of the rural classes, but Although he thought he had done so much good, heavily criticized by those he said were on with urban educations. We might remember many of these people were down. After some amount of condemnation he embarked His doubters had to be silenced, and they Mao had even allowed people to voice their which came under the banner "Hundred Flowers But many of those on the right, expressing to prison. If you think being doxxed is bad, imagine cells just for sharing an opinion. Some writers say the campaign was only there In many other cases people were executed, executions. People also perished in labor camps, where campaign change people's views. It's also written that during this time could be forced to work or be executed. But without criticism there can be no progress, and when you glue the mouths of your detractors It did, and worse than anything previously In 1958, Mao launched his "Great Leap Forward", country forward. This included forcing farmers to work in a the move ahead, the bright future, and anyone capitalist was severely punished. The reforms were many, but a big emphasis which often involved taking the peasants out China was then hit by devastating floods and have people working in industries did not The movement from field to factory also meant Mao's propaganda would tell a different When you have zero-tolerance to criticism, police or army that get to you. It's your neighbor, because much of the Dilemma game, which basically means they get One writer for the Guardian interviewing a former landlords and intellectuals were being They were hounded by neighbors, colleagues fervor, personal grudges or little more than Friends, children and spouses turned on them." We might also say that during rules of cults with love, stoned on their belief that they So, when ruin comes, there just wasn't anywhere Many of those that did criticize the policies It was a chaotic time, to say the least. What happened was a famine, a terrible famine. This was a response from one party official to eat, they are dying. "That's right-deviationist thinking. You're viewing the problem in an overly simplistic This famine literally killed off entire villagers, other. Farmers declaring that their harvest was terrible The Guardian writes, "Others are tortured, harvests, refusing to hand over what little angering officials." One Chinese man called Yang Jisheng who lived wrote a book called "Tombstone", which breadth of China to find out how people had His own father had died of starvation back He finds case upon case of acts of sheer desperation In one such case 13 kids appeal to officials The officials take the young kids to the edge In another case a young boy kills and eats He mentions other cases where people didn't them) so that they could collect their food their dead friends and family. Like the historian we mentioned, the Chinese archives. The authorities at least were good at keeping &quot;To start with, I felt terribly depressed The Guardian "But after a while I became on." His book is banned in China, and some critics learned a lesson already about censorship. Is history doomed to repeat itself? We doubt it, but one might ask even as right if banning and blocking is a good thing. Yang called the banning of his book, "an Of course we can't directly charge Chairman some of Communist Party leaders kept a lot depth of the famine, but we must also make fear, his intolerance for criticism. While one man alone we cannot blame, it perhaps one face. But that man, that face, did say things like, of a gun." He also said, "To read too many books is This was in his famous "Little Red Book", It's said a billion copies of this book than the whole of the Harry Potter series bible. Still in some countries today leaders look for their sometimes unruly demands and absolute retaining their power. As sir Francis Bacon once said, "Knowledge with a foundation of knowledge, a willingness lies, to not be seduced by GroupThink, to of a crowd, and live with open hearts and What do you think of Mao Zedong? Could the famine have been averted? Also, be sure to check out our other video, of leytte gulf. Thanks for watching, and as always, don't See you next time.