Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am Tatiana Bryant, the librarian for digital humanities history and African American Studies at UC Irvine. And for the past two years for the past few years, excuse me, UC Irvine sigil. Scholarship services and Special Collections and Archives departments have curled have collaborated on hosting a graduate student researcher focused on applying innovative digital methods and tools to Special Collections and Archives. This work is sponsored by Edward O. Thorp, a founding Professor of Mathematics at UCI. And this year our GSR Zane Kazimir, focused on Thorp's papers, I will let Zane introduce himself and we will have time for a few questions at the end. Feel free to take it away, and I will make you great, I was just going to ask if I'm allowed to share screen. My name is Zane Kazimir. I am very grateful to the library. And Tatiana who was my project supervisor the whole summer for all of their guidance keeping me on track and everything. I am going to share my screen. See here. And we're going to do we're going to do and out of my PowerPoint a bit because I want to demo some things because I get to show you some like digital humanities like visualizations and mockups and stuff like that. So Alright, so let's talk a little bit about what I got I was working with the Edward oath or collection and special collections of the UCI library. What you see on the screen here is just kind of a very small selection of the many documents that are within this collection. And as you can see, there's a variety of things including diagrams, including pamphlets, computer printouts, slides, transparencies, magazines, what we might call the femur, short lived or kind of, you know, kind of easily destructible objects that are preserved in some way postcards, and Edward Thorpe for those of you that are not familiar, as touching on a said he is a founding member of the mathematics department here at UCI. He is very well known for his work on blackjack and several other casinos like Las Vegas casino games and finding an edge there. He's also very well very famous for finding an edge on the stock market. So, he is a hedge fund manager, scholar hedge fund manager blackjack player, kind of amazing all around and he donated a lot of his papers to us. And so now we have this beautiful collection. So, I got to work with it. And let me talk to you about my background just briefly. Because what is a visual studies major working with a mathematics-based collection you might ask. Indeed, I am going to be walking into my second year as a PhD student in the Visual Studies Department here at Irvine. I have a background in art history. And part of what I specifically study are spaces of play, which can mean video games, but also in terms of art and art history, things like playgrounds, play spaces, play equipment. And so, I've got a couple of images up here of one of the artists that I in particular study, someone Noguchi Japanese American artist of the modern period who did things like this giant playground and some photo and this beautiful slide mantra, piece of equipment. This is a metric for it. My overlap here is faces of play. Places like Las Vegas, I was really drawn to the collection in part by Thorpe's work in Las Vegas, Thorp's work on games, games that specifically usually have an element of gambling and elements of finance and money involved. But games and games that take place in some very specific casino II type environments. So that's the stuff that I'm really interested in. I've done some work some research on some of the architecture, or at least I've done some reading on the architecture of Las Vegas, which is utterly fascinating. If you're interested, I've got all kinds of book recommendations. And I'm interested not just in kind of the outside architecture, but also the inside as well where we are playing the games. And then you see over here in this kind of corner here is a picture of a giant computer. And that's another interest that I have, I am what I'm headed towards what will be considered being a modernist. So, somebody who specializes in 20th century art history. And one of the things that I really love about the 20th century as somebody who's cool Born in the late 20th century, is the kind of interesting tradition or not tradition, excuse me transition between the analog and the digital. And so, this is an era that we saw computers appear. And we saw computers kind of move into our lives. But there was also an era that kind of saw this evolution happened versus where we are now, where we just have a digital network, we have wireless, we have email, we have the internet, all these things, I'm really interested in looking at how the development of that kind of stuff influenced humanity. So that's part of what drew me to this collection. My work this summer was in three general pieces, I worked with the unpublished works, and we'll talk about that is kind of very, almost classic archival kind of work. And then I have two kinds of proof of concept things to talk to you about today. One is a network analysis, visualization. And the other is a computer game concept that with in terms of making archives more accessible. Alright, let's, let's talk a bit about everything. For those of you that don't know, I might be, I might be preaching to the choir here, you all might be much more familiar with the archives, and everything. But in case there's somebody in the audience that I don't know about the archives, at UCI, it's up on the fifth floor in the library. There's this lovely Reading Room, the Berlin and Elizabeth Anna's reading room where you can get your materials, there's an online portal that you can request your materials and you can check them out and read them here in This is my this is what my work looked like when I was on campus in person, a lot of files, a lot of boxes, a lot, a lot of this kind of viewpoints. And it was really cool. It's the first time that I'd ever been working in a library archive, I've worked for summer before in remotely for a museum archives. But this is the first time I got to work for Library Archives, it was very cool. And if you want to learn more about this stuff, like I might be preaching to the choir. But for those of you that are like I know, you see I had a special collection, like check out, check out this website, and you can learn all about our various special collections. One of the ones I know that we're that we're fairly famous for the Jacques Derrida papers, but we're My understanding is that we're looking to grow this collection, we're looking to collect more and more. And so one of the things that I didn't know we have are things like the Orange County collection stuff, things there's all kinds of cool stuff to Little bit about what I did, just kind of, in some ways, like I said, it of archival work. And that's part of what I think was important about this is that it wasn't just me offering services to the library. It was the library also offering a kind of training for me of like, here's what archival work is like, here's what we as archivists do to get materials ready for you all as researchers. It's a part of my work with specifically with Forbes unpublished work section. And so, I did a lot of cataloging I did, I created a bibliography, and I was looking at things everything from what were the duplicates, what were similar, what were different, everything down to like, where were the staples in case, we needed to digitize things, which would mean probably pulling the staple out, in order to get fully a good image of the piece of paper in question. One of the most interesting things in the unpublished works was that Thorpe collaborated on working on a textbook about computer game problems. And so, there are several versions of that. And it would be really great to make that available in some way. And I also have been starting to learn about things in order to put this stuff up, we've got to dot everyone's aware of it that may have contributed things in terms of not violating copyrights. So yeah, so that's a lot of the archival work I did thing to thing, too is the data network analysis visualization. And so I want to talk just a teeny tiny bit about digital humanities. Again, you may all know what digital humanities are, but in case you don't, digital humanities is a kind of subfield of study where we have digital computing tools and we apply them to the disciplines within humanities. And so, I as a visual study, art history, dude, love this stuff. I love that we have started to build technology, build programs, and build studies on this idea of looking at data but in a visual way and looking at what we might be able to find that's new or kind of on undiscovered or things that we might not have seen if we just looked at things, you know, kind equations format are kind of scattered all over in an archive format. What could we learn by putting this data together in new visualization. So, I've got a couple examples here of a variety of things, you may be most familiar with a word cloud, that's a kind of fairly common thing we see on the internet these days. And that's a digital humanity like, like, it's a tool that we use for that. This is an interesting one that I'm still trying And it picks the various interactions Return of the King. And then Martin Brown John, which I think I'm pronouncing right, but forgive me if I'm mispronouncing he's got a whole website up of all these different And they're very cool. And this is about airports and transportation clusters. And there's all kinds of data, there's all kinds of information everything from the size of these little dots to the colors to the placements. And you can see he's got some of the information, the key right here. There are, of course, limitations to visualizations. But there are limitations to just about any kind of methodology that we use. So just to be mindful of that, it's not a perfect thing. But it is very, it is very cool. And I get very excited about it. In that it is something of the fact that we now have these digital tools. And we're able to look at data in new ways for the first time with those tools. Before we move on, I want to show you one tiny, tiny, it's not tiny, but it's a specific visualization I had it all ready to go. And it's not showing up. So let's just, there we go. There it is. So part of why I want to show you this is because it's interactable Like it's not just we these, we can interact with them. And so this is a zoomable graph of the history of philosophy, lots of information as well here with the colors with the sizes. And then you can see if you highlight certain like nodes, it shows you a specific set of this kind of giant network. Because if we just look at the stripe thing, this can be a little overwhelming. It's I mean, I think it's pretty, maybe not everybody thinks it's pretty, it's amazing and beautiful and aesthetically pleasing. And at the same time, it can be overwhelming. So there are ways that you can kind of move and zoom in and zoom out. And this is this is the kind of conundrum This is the challenge, the rewarding and maybe the kind of like frustrating aspect of doing visualizations like this, is that because it's a network analysis, we're dealing with a lot of information, and how do we make that readable and accessible, because we're the very thing we're trying to study, which is the dynamic of a lot of information together. Is the point it's not, you know, the point is not to look at little bits of it. But we need to be able to get to those little bits and kind of zoom in and zoom out. And so this is part of why I think this is one of one of the best ones I've seen. And it's also it's created in a software that I So we'll talk about that in a moment. So let's get this. Let's get that away. All right. So what did I what data did I use? What did I analyze what network today analyze, I looked at the works, correspondence, data, and part of this is his correspondence, the section of correspondence in the collection is huge. He kept up correspondence with enormous number of people. And he kept records of most of that correspondence, including copies of the information that he sent to them. If you hear any chirping, I do have a pet bird, she is kind of away at the moment so that she does not disturb us. But if you hear that, that's her. So this correspondence is, is very robust. It's not complete, I doubt it's complete in the sense back ever. But it is incredibly robust. And part of what's really cool about it as people nowadays that we live in an era of email and digital communication, it's all analog, and even there, even some printouts of you know, kind of early emails, but it's all letters that are written. And I think part of what's really interesting and fascinating about collections like this is that it really it can show you especially in the sheer volume that's there, the different way that information was expressed similar perhaps to the internet, but different ways that information was conveyed back and forth, where you had to actually handwrite a letter or type up a letter. Or maybe if you were very lucky, not your secretary to do it at the time, because not everybody had typing skills. We more we have we teach them a lot more commonly today because of word processing. But it was a little less common in the 20th century, especially early to mid-20th century. We have things like attachments. Like if you wanted an article, you wouldn't go to a library website and say I want this article. Is there a PDF? I can download it. You might have to write to the actual scholar that wrote the article and say, can I please have a copy of your article. One of my favorite examples of the analog to digital kind of comparison is card catalogs which some of you might remember, some of you might not in libraries where you'd actually have to pull out a drawer. And you have to flip through this kind of like Rolodex of all the different entries of the library that like what they had in the library in that library at that time. And now it's all on computers, you could do an immediate search. And you can do all kinds of like advanced searches and stuff. And so part of what's really cool about this archive is that we can see what's happening before any of that internet stuff came in. Now, part of what can be difficult about that is that there's no easy way to do what's called scraping the data. For some of you that might sound gross. Scraping the data means that you're you're pulling all those numbers, and you're So we have a lot of action programs that we can do. So if you want to like look at like certain trends on Twitter, for example, you can actually write like some code to scrape the data to grab the data off the internet and put it in a nice chart like this. With the correspondence like archive like this, it's a lot more kind basically me having to go through and check every piece and say, Okay, this was from, let's say, Alan Wilson writing to torque. Okay, the next one is Alan Wilson writing to Paul Davies. The next one is Thorpe writing to Alan Wilson. And, you know, collecting some other data to have like, okay, there are two copies of this correspondence from for to Carter, this one from this guy, Shabbat Chabot, I don't know, I hope I'm pronouncing something in there correctly, to gambling times to see seeing Edward Thorpe. And then does it have an attachment, that kind of stuff. There's more data that could be collected. work with to get a dataset established. or sort of fancy chart, and I these numbers are translate these names. And the fact that you to make a note, you have to translate into certain numbers and get them IDs, and everything. And it is it is it's somewhat complicated, it requires a bit of knowledge of how programming works. You get stuff like that's, so let's look at stuff like this up close in the program. So I actually have done a couple of visualizations in two different programs. I've done one in Cytoscape, and one in Giffy, I guess, technically two and 1.5 and Giffy. Because there are two different ways to look at it. This is the one and Cytoscape. And it looks so first of all, very cool in terms of like the way it looks. It's almost like kind of like an atom. And part of what's happening here is that as we zoom in, we can see that you know, Thor appears names kind of in ripples in kind of this array around Thorp. And they're different colors and that is on purpose because a the closer they are to Thorp, they are they the more they communicate with them, is there any ways and can make the window bigger, I can try my hardest. Let's try this. See here, that is that is the best I can do. That will be a thank you for asking. I will do my best to continue to go and zoom in and zoom out. So the closest they are the closer they are to Thorp, the more they wrote to him. And so that's indicated by a kind of proximity but also by kind of by this kind of color. So the less they wrote to him as kind of this lighter yellow color, but the more they wrote the kind of greener and then bluer it gets. Part of why this visualization took shape the way it did is because this this is one of those conundrums This is one of those challenges of creating visualizations is if we just let the lines be straight from the people to Thorpe, it would just be orange all around here, nothing but orange. And so by basically creating like pretending that the lines go in an arc not pretending but kind of rendering them in an arc. So like all of these lines are going from wrestle Barnhart and kind of like like a ball that gets lobbed in the air around to Edwards door creates a little bit more kind of clarity of what's happening in the image. And so it kind of focuses it shows you that there are these kind of big spikes of certain people communicating with Thorpe you know, kind of maybe sometimes single communication single way communications where somebody may say, Hey, can you send me a copy of your article? Hey, I saw your article on gambling times. And I have a question. Hey, I have a correction for this thing that you mentioned. Hey, I'm a publisher, Here's your check So that's part of what I think is really cool about this one. There are some drawbacks. So it does kind of focus very much on, you know, who communicated the most with Thorpe and some kind of like a very like specific to those this communication Thorpe and somebody else. Alright. So in the interest of looking to see what else could be done with this data, I also did a visualization in Giffy. And so this is what this one looks like a little bit more, I'll see if All right, there we go. And it looks a little different, it might be somewhat similar, and you've got that explodey aspect of it, it kind of looks a bit like a dandelion fluff, or a firework maybe. And so what's a little different here, as you can see, with colors, you've got, like these kind of different bold colors to the people that we saw that communicated the most. And while in the Cytoscape visualization, they were kind of the closest to them, and I'm gonna turn up the name, so you can see him a little better. I've moved them farther away. And part of why I did that is because this enables the network that they're connected to be a little more clear. So we don't just get with this keep changing the the size of the names, as I'm zooming in and out and showing you this, we don't for this one, just get that big on one relationship to Edward Thorpe and somebody else communicating. We can also see from this one, that, for example, Russell Barnhart, in addition to communicating with a report communicated with all these other people. And look, he communicated with Alan Wilson, who also communicated to Thorpe and has his own little network. And so part of what I think is really valuable about this one is that it's got it we can see in addition to everything that goes through for CES. So that's a lot of this one, we can look at, you know, kind of a slightly different version of it here. But it's about same this one is that sometimes data is really hard to work with, because as the old adage says, The thing, the problem with working with computers is that they will do exactly what you tell them to. And so what is happening up here in these tiny little corners are these are communications that are happening to people that are not connected at all to form. So like what may have somebody may have sent him a copy of this one person writing to like a publisher or something like that. And so they're not connected to Thorpe at all, but because of the coding, it's just exploded way far out. And so further work would kind of bring that closer to the rest of the visualization. And so I'm gonna get a little closer here. But we can see there's a little bit more of a kind of aesthetic quality, the lines are curved here. And there's this kind of difference in color scheme. And so this is one of those. Another one of those interesting things that happens when you're working with data is that you don't always know everything that happens when you click a button in these programs. Because much like any kind of digital tool, there may be things that you may know a lot about in terms of plugging in. But there may be things that you have no idea what what it is or what's going to happen until you like read tutorials. And so I know that what's happening here is that the colors are organized by the source, who they're coming, who the correspondence is coming from. I can't figure out much beyond that yet. And I'm going to have to do more research. But I think it looks really cool. And I want to learn more about it as a researcher. So this is part of what happens in digital humanities, too, is that it spawns its own kind of cool research of like, okay, so the visualization did this, and this parameter did this, and this now now, what do I do in order to make this happen? Or Whoa, that's new data, I wasn't expecting to see this kind of color scheme. I wonder what it means. And if there's something that I can do to continue to kind of make that more visible, I wonder what might be here that I wasn't expecting, which happens all the time in research. Okay, so that's, those are the visuals that I have created thus far. Let's get this down here. Because my next question is, where do we go from here? And I think there's a lot to do here because like I said, these are proof of concept. I don't think these are done yet. I don't think these visualizations are finished. I think there's more to be done with these individually by themselves. But I have a question about like, what about all those attachments? What about all the people Letter talked about and referenced and CC within the correspondence. What about the bibliographies within the papers written by these people? How are these people referencing each other? In other words, so it's not just about Alan Wilson wrote to Russell Barnard, Barnard wrote to Thorpe wrote to Peter Griffin, it's Peter Griffin wrote an article that cites Alan Wilson, and Williams, the Ember and Thor, but maybe he doesn't cite somebody else in the network or that kind of stuff. So I'm really curious if there's a way to kind of integrate that, and maybe look at what's happening in terms of this exchange of information, not just this exchanging correspondence, and hey, how you doing? And hey, did you check out my article? Hey, can I have your comments on this? Hey, I sent you a copy of my book, but also like in the papers themselves in in the in the attachments themselves, what kind of information is being shared, especially considering this is a group of people that have a fascinating overlap of interests, many of them are scholars, many of them are mathematicians, but many of them are also interested in gambling, and studying and researching gambling, Williams but for example, does horse race betting versus Thorpe that did blackjack. There's a gentleman in the correspondence that did Pai Gow, which is a Chinese dominoes type gambling game. So there's a lot of different things here, it would require more data, which means going back in and kind of checking each one of those things and recording, okay, this person they're referencing this guy's idea. They cited this person in the paper. And so that's going to create more, it's going to require more work and require another data sets. But I think there's something there to that. And also it would, it would require a kind of understanding how to scale the data so that we can still see everything, it doesn't just become a sea of orange mud, being able to kind of figure out what that data might reveal about, especially these kind of close many times over communications. scholar was not connected to a university, but circles a lot and published and trade magazines as much as scholarly magazines. So that kind of there's that kind of overlap and figuring out how to map those kinds of interests and circles that people flow in, and the information they exchanged and how that influenced each other. Alright, so that's the visualization. I love videogames, I grew up playing video games, I'm a bit older than I may look. And so I was, I grew up I was a little kid when consoles first came out when the Nintendo system first made it to the United States. My father, we had a Commodore 64, we were very, we were very lucky. And we had a Commodore 64. And I'd sit on his knee and he play Lode Runner, and all kinds of computer games that are almost laughably low-fi now, but were amazing. And I still think there's a lot of amazing about them. And so I brought that into scholarship. Like I said, I'm an art historian. And so I love looking at art and spaces to play. And I think that there's an enormous amount of overlap between art history and video games. And so that's kind of my that's, that's one of my big soapbox is one of the things that's really important to me, and I wrote my master's thesis on that. And I looked at a video game, I looked at how old you know, classical forms of art that we're very familiar with, to the point of like, kind of original and kitsch copy kind of narratives come out how those appear in videogames, so something about contemporary reception. And then we got a little box down here about a game that I've actually created. It's not up for sale or anything, I'm still trying to decide what to do with it. But I've made a game I've made a couple of games before. And this is a game specifically, that's interactive fiction. And that's part of what I want to talk about here in a second. So my idea here is to create a game that is going to help act with access, like bringing access to the archive, it's a little bit like how an exhibition invites people in and, and offers up more access to archival material and the information surrounding an archive in general, but wanting to make it in the form of a game. And so I'm very aware that we've got this kind of version of games called entertainment games. And these are kind of these are two teaches you math, you're the green guy chasing the yellow guy that's kidnapped the blue guy and you got to you got to chase them down. And but you do that by solving math equations. And there's a limit. You know, some some kids could probably play this all day and they weren't where I was like, then you have things like where in the world is Carmen San Diego. You may those of you that there's there was an actual like Game Show, where in the world is Carmen San Diego. But there were also a bunch of video games and so I had this video game when I was growing up and it came with this giant Almanac, and I had no idea because I was a little young for it. at that part of what you do in the game is that you're exploring these different locations of the world and you gather clues to figure out where to go next. And you have to use this almanac to help to figure it out. And so it's, it was a game that was meant to teach a lot about geography and kind of other cultures and other locations of the world. I was terrible at it, because I didn't understand that it was like you're supposed to research and figure things out. But as I got older, I started appreciating it more and more and more. Also, just as just as a side, check out that old format does get there. We don't see those anymore. That's, technology and older mediums and older forms that kind of have led to our current moments. So I want to talk about one of the most successful entertainment games, which is Oregon Trail. I call I consider my generation, the Oregon Trail generation, I'm not quite a millennial, I consider myself this, like because I grew up learning analog things, and then had to transition to digital. Even as I saw an enormous amount of digital stuff popping up throughout my life, I played this game when I was like in third, fourth and fifth grade, it came out in the late 70s, early 80s. And it was a kind of staple of class classrooms once a classroom would get like a computer. And sometimes there was only one computer. And so as little kids, we'd be gathered around whoever was playing it. And then a little later, we got like whole computer labs. And so we would all get to go. And we'd have to like do our typing and stuff. And then if you'd finished early, you could play Oregon Trail. And it was so fun. And part of what was so fascinating. What is so fascinating to me about this game is that even as it spun, it So even from the very get-go, you can actually you learn about the trail, just like learning the trail teaches you in a different way in a kind of what's called a procedural way, like acting it out and going through the motions, so to speak. Even if it's not like you're not actually in a covered wagon, traveling day by day across the western United States. It teaches you kind of in a different way than just telling you or having you read about it, how this works. And it did things like you know, you've got to you've got a budget you've got before you start out you've got to buy certain things, you've got to decide how many oxen am I going to take? How much clothing am I going to take? How many spare parts am I going to take? Do I have enough money? How much food am I going to take? And if you ask anybody from my maybe almost anybody, I don't want to pretend that everybody knows this. But if you if you ask most people from my generation from this Oregon Trail generation, if you say, what was one of the most common causes of dying on the Oregon Trail I I would bet I would bet money that most of us could immediately respond dysentery, dysentery, because it is almost memorable at this point. That you know, if you say you have died of dysentery it is referencing this game. Because you could die in this game this game like for kids for enter educating kids, you could totally get cholera, you can You had a family and so you know members of your family might die you the whole might die. You had to make to sit, you know, some stuff like fires would happen and you lose things, you would have to make decisions about where you would go, you'd have to cross rivers and you'd have to decide do I call my wagon? Do I ask for a guide to help do I look for shallow place to cross and just hope for the best. And so it teaches you from a kind of very participatory standpoint, what it was like and all the things you kind of had to juggle in terms of crossing the the west of the United States on the Oregon Trail. And it kept, you know, kind of track of your days. And it told you like what the weather was going to be like when your next landmark was going to hit that kind of stuff. And the goal was to make it before the snow set in that year. Because the snow said and you had to wait and see I don't know if he I can't remember any more if you just never made it or not. But this was a game like this was so this this was fun. This was the stuff that we kids wanted to play instead of doing our classwork. And you can you might recognize the green here the apple to eat computer and then there were color versions. And so I remember the first got one Color Computer and we have all the rest of them are green and everyone wanted to play the color one because we never seen colors in architectural form. So my thinking is the what if there's use that could be derived from designing a and following in a kind of historical to make that kind of history and archive more accessible. The other element I want to talk about just a bit again for those of you older This is a very famous game and is considered When computers were starting to come out. It's an It's a bit like if you've ever read a choose your own adventure story, you're ready to kind of second person you are standing in an open field west of a White House with a board in front door. There is a small mailbox here and you can type into it open mailbox, they had a parser and this was revolutionary at the time that it could parse out like verbs and nouns and that kind of stuff and do things and like you say open mailbox and it would open the mailbox and you could read things and you could interact. You could say go Northwest and go to Southwest and explore and pick up items and get eaten by a gruel and all kinds of things would happen in this game. And so interactive fiction maintains a presence today. We actually have even better tools to make interactive fiction. And so that's why I want to talk about twine for a minute here. twine is a digital tool. So like we're this where you can make interactive fiction. It's not with a parser this time, but it is with links. So you have like little bits of information, and then you can offer your player a variety of links. All right. And so what if there were a game like this, whether it's interactive fiction in the twine sense or otherwise that So I've got this kind of mockup of you know, and this idea of like, yes, it would it would not be the work in the sense of it had no images, I think images would be very useful. So work didn't have images because of the constraints of computers, and many interactive fiction games these days don't because people may not have the ability to get the drawings in there. But I think there's something useful about having images, whether they are drawn images and I think those are useful rendered images like the Oregon Trail pixel stuff, and or actual images from the archive and from the material at hand. And so I want to show you just a little bit of how this works. And you can see this, this is under the hood, where you kind of build the connections between things. You can zoom out you can see just kind of generally what's happening here and it's possible that if a game like this, were just if it were be like yes, let's develop this game. twine might not be the ideal thing ultimately to develop it in. But I mocked it up into fine and I think there's a lot of potential legs for for working in twine here. And part of what's useful about a twine game is that let me get let me get big and get it nice and big is that you can play these games in the browser. So you don't have to worry about people like do they have like if they have a browser, if they're on the internet looking for something about special collections, they can play the game. Or if they're at a computer in the library, they play the game kind of thing. And so I'm just gonna I'm not going to read everything. Because a it's a little small and there's there's sometimes there's a lot of texts, but I want to show you the things that happen here, where you click on things and it can give you you know, your goals are to visit Las Vegas, beat the games, the blackjack, roulette and baccarat and the summer with as much money as possible and stay alive. Because part of your story is the fact that there were several things that happened that were life threatening to him when he was trying to collect this data in Las Vegas. And so you can prepare for your first visit like Oregon Trail, you know, I'm gonna go buy my supplies. But you can also ask for things like information. Can I hear more about Thorpe's background? Absolutely. And here's his background and then look at that so you can make links to actual material that we have. For more information, you could check out the UCI Library's digital exhibit, finding the edge and it takes you right there. That is pretty great. And then you can ask further questions. I apologize that this is not super visible. That's a setting that I have to figure out how to change because it requires like changing I am in the humanities for reason. I can do some mathy stuff, but sometimes it takes me some time. So you can go back to preparing for your first visits and it gives you some money and you can actually be like that's not a lot of money. You're only giving me $100 And it can actually help set the scene and say no and with inflation that's actually about like almost $1,000 So you can say well I'm gonna go by myself but she could also say hey, I want to help I want somebody to help fund my research which is part of how it for was able to do some of this field research is that he got people to bankroll him. And there are also he went many times to Vegas, and he went with many different kinds of people. You know, for the purposes of this kind teeny tiny bit of this where it can show you two different options. Mr. X and Mr. Y were these multimillionaires from New York that originally kind of they were the first people that really bankrolled him, like kind of put a lot of money. He also went later with his scholar friend, Russell Barnhart. So we're going to say this. You know, it gives you a little more information about this. You can go back to wrestle if you want you could go back to other people. Let's say though, that we're going to go by ourselves, and then you have this moment where you can buy you can take tools with you, it cuts into your budget, but you can take tools with you. So let's take some take some medicine, we could take a disguise, we could take a notebook to keep notes. We could take some notes of my own to help keep track of the card counting or note tools just my wits and my memory and so it'll give you a little spit out of everything you've got here and then you can change your mind and you head to Vegas. And this would be a place where you'd put a lot of description and images and stuff then you have a choice of casinos. You can hear more about Vegas. You can look at how big this was different from now in 1961, because Vegas was totally run by the mob in 1961. It might not be run officially by the mob these days. It might be more corporate culture type 10 things but it was totally run by the mob in 1961. And so there's a lot of interesting information about that. But we can go to a casino we can look around or we can head for the blackjack table headed for the baccarat table head for the roulette table. If we had the blackjack. Yeah, actually this is a place where like did Thorpe figure out about beating blackjack or you can go over the rules more if you're not familiar with blackjack rules like Thorpe is probably knows them to his bones, how many hands he's played, but someone like me who's like played maybe one round of blackjack in my entire life. made a note about troubles a little more. And so we can check out like this really kind of basic version and I wrote it specifically for somebody that's like me that doesn't have mathematical training to understand. But if you do want the math, you can also check out the actual article that he originally wrote from his website. And then you can check out the other articles at the website. So this is another way to link in the material from the archive and then you know All right, do because sometimes that changes the dynamic of the what's going on. You can start betting right away, notice things like hey, wait a second, it looks like the dealer is peaking at the carts. They're dealing which happens a lot. So you may you might want to quit the table and head for another and you might want to again, do some observing after watching for a bit you see no signs of cheating. And so part of what's happening here I admit this is mocked up in some very specific ways. But there are ways to write code that Oregon trail where it's like you don't know someone's gonna get dysentery. You can have some take care of your family don't go too fast. You a lower chance of getting sick, but if you push they are going to have a higher chance of getting more you might be able to catch cheating, and you can start betting you can decide whether you So let's go moderate and after a rocky first two what I want to do here is I want to make it so we could at a later date incorporate a mod like enables you to practice the card counting because and many records of those games are in the strategies. But part of what I want to do is make to do the card counting people that might not be able to play Oregon Trail. So that's part of why So yeah, keep up this pace. And so now we have the a waiter comes by and asks if he wants something things coffee cream and sugar please No thanks. and sugar a lot partially to help keep them awake. and sways the cards and the numbers went out of up from the table and somehow managed to make it which actually happened to Thorpe. Apparently, you have medicine, you can take some of otherwise So the game is there's a lot more to was able to mockup and show you and like I I would love to have more images. I would other archives to our archive to show more of an interactive exhibit and also it is teaching to get his material on blackjack like legitimized see that I have you know, just kind of very those Those are the three things I worked on. I hope I'm happy to take questions now. If you've got Thank you Zane I'd say and I just want to thank you so much. this summer and everything you accomplished. expectations of how much you you could really get printer just randomly turned on for notes in the the context that you provided to everything. So thank you so much for your time this Thank you so much for your everyone in the chat, thanks to you as well. So what I want to go ahead and do now is thank Madeline Dickerson, who's the head of digital excuse me, head of Special Collections and Ramirez and everyone at UCI libraries who have And we'll go ahead and have time for questions