- Some people, when I wax say reading that is not And I would say, it's a I think it's this broad would be well advised to take on and read in business school and say, &quot;If I step back from that, could I get a better The great military strategists, the Sun Tzus and the von Clausewitzs, head away of conceptualizing the competition between forces. They saw the best result of military strategy is not having a war. Strategy in business is a It really only came into existence in the late 50s, early 60s, and it was an offshoot People think business and and analyzing everything, and quantifying everything- and it's not. In military strategy, they're really two actors One is ourselves. How strong is our army? What resources do we have to to fight? And then competition, our enemy. How strong are they? What resources do they have? And so, we'll decide strategy or in that case, the country. But in business, the company and the competitor. Sun Tzu, a Chinese general/philosopher who wrote one of the on war called &quot;The Art of War&quot;- he wanted to get in behind to talk more about the philosophy. And I think that's why it's because nothing about the from that deeper philosophical sense. Even though the world has evolved, the equipment used in war, but the philosophy, I think, behind it has remained constant One thing Sun Tzu said was: &quot;The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.&quot; Having the unnecessary carnage in war, the actual killing of people or in business, the of kind of monetary assets in people's lives and careers- that's not the object of war. The object of war should be to try and make sure that you have an outcome that is sustainable. If the object of war is in a way that makes them hate you forever, guess what they'll do? They will hate you forever. So you express your business strategy in a way that causes &quot;I'm gonna compete elsewhere,&quot; and hopefully they'll That's the perfect strategy, so that you won't get into wars, they won't attack you. &quot;There's no instance from prolonged warfare.&quot; On what playing field or if you like military are you going to play and where not? And then on that playing field, how are you going to be the best? How are you going to win? You only want to engage in competitions where you can create a win without creating a loser who will keep on attacking you. Ask yourself, &quot;What can I uniquely do for a particular set of customers?&quot; &quot;Would-be competitors will because I do that thing better.&quot; That is not a prolonged war. If you do it right, &quot;When you surround an army, leave an outlet free. Do not press a desperate foe too hard.&quot; You either have to absolutely eliminate, entirely, a competitor, or give it a chance to You can create for them an escape road to a different part of the market, a different segment. But you've shown them that in your target customer set, you are the best, and they can't just come into that place and do whatever they want. &quot;Treat your men as you And they will follow you A challenge in the modern 'Cause many of them get very big. And you can think of your employees as and if you lose a few, so be it. A challenge for anybody or a business leader is that they pay very little attention to what you say. They pay attention like So if you say, &quot;Oh, we're a family, you're like my son,&quot; and &quot;Oh, we have too many of you, and we're gonna lay off a couple thousand of you.&quot; Say, &quot;Oh, so that's what You fire them?&quot; That's why the disengagement these days are dreadful. They're terrible! And I believe it's because to Sun Tzu and saying, &quot;Each of my employees, I need to treat as if they were members of your family.&quot; And they will be creative for you. They will treat the wished they treated them. They'll develop the They'll do all of these not because somebody In due course, what was recognized in strategy is that there's a and that is the customer. And so you had to have a tripartite view, which is there's things that are important about the company, there's things that are and there's things that are and that was a problem with It didn't pay much but over the last 40 years, getting more and more intimate and knowledgeable about customers, and really finding ways has become a more And that's one of the of business now, design has become very important because design is a field that focuses very much on the customer. And that's why I've spent some of my time in forging a bond between the world of strategy because the world of design in understanding customers and creating offers for them. It's really weak in understanding the it doesn't pay attention to that. That's more the world of And so if you meld those two together, business strategy and design, you get absolutely the most powerful way of creating fantastic, winning - Get smarter, faster with videos from the world's biggest thinkers. To learn even more from the world's biggest thinkers, get Big Think+ for your business.