Hi, I'm Rick Steves, We're on the Nile, exploring the historic Thanks for joining us. Egypt, while not in Europe, contributed to the foundation It's a crossroads where east and where ancient meets modern. As we'll see, it's a long story, and it continues to unfold. In Cairo, after admiring of the ancient world, -Buy one, two free today. -...we haggle with a gauntlet venture into the back streets and help chisel a tombstone. In Alexandria, we delve and smoke a shisha. In Luxor, we revel in the glory and their hidden tombs. We hoist the sail for then upgrade and kick back while Our finale -- the magnificent In the southeast corner Egypt is one of Africa's The Nile River flows like from south to north. After Cairo we tour Alexandria and Luxor. Then we cruise the Nile, and finish in Abu Simbel. Cairo, straddling the Nile, is the biggest city and the biggest It's the capital of Egypt and one of the leading cities With about 20 million people it's bursting at the seams Cairo's downtown is modern Streets, squares, and grand of the country's colonial past, from the 19th The riverfront throbs stately bridges fancy riverside restaurants, and towering The Nile is still the lifeblood sprawling endlessly The heart of Cairo It's long been ground zero If there's a demonstration and there have been massive ones it's likely here. In addition to its the city's long been Ever since the forces of Islam from Arabia in the 7th century spreading the teachings Cairo has been a leading city And today, Cairo's known as Stepping into Al Hussein mosque, you'll find It's believed that resting here There's more intensity around to contain a sacred relic -- a grandson In a mosque, men and women As praying can be physical, it's considered more respectful I find that a respectful tourist is welcome to be Along with minarets, especially in Cairo's While Egypt is today about 10 percent The Egyptian, or actually predates Islam Because they worship stepping into a Coptic Mass The faithful believe and baby Jesus escaped Herod this very spot Later, in 43 AD, it's believed came to Egypt and Mark was their first pope and the first in an stretching back The Coptic quarter Throughout Egypt, travelers security barriers, and These are reminders in Egyptian society. They reveal the challenges While many modern Muslims would prefer a separation others believe Egypt with a strict interpretation Religious fundamentalism as it is in America. Cairo is intense. I love traveling here, but I do it with safety While prices on the street if you want rich-world comfort, I sleep in an It comes with I hope the future But for now, I splurge The people of today's Egypt in a story Even if you don't understand its just observing how old is rewarding to the traveler. Egypt's heritage goes back And ancient Egypt -- The iconic sights of Egypt, are basically buildings Back then, they believed and your big challenge: to be sure your body survived the journey That's why, if you had you'd lock everything up These are the most famous -- But the oldest pyramid the tomb of the king This structure, which marked Dating from around 2600 BC, it's a century older than its This first-ever towering is more than With an innovative stacking it provided a new way creating a stairway to eternity. A visit to Cairo's helps bring the country's Along with the Grand this museum shows off of ancient Egyptian art The core of the collection, art dates from about 3000 Nearly everything filling these art designed to help save statues filled with symbolism, and offerings and help assure a happy This ancient art because most of it was dark and dry, in tombs. This portrayal of geese is perhaps the oldest This &quot;seated scribe&quot; of the educated elite in the court And this couple, was also found in a tomb. It's all art for the dead, locked up until rediscovered Many mummies patiently Ancient Egyptians through a complex process that the soul could re-inhabit And the coffins were with an inventory of things would accompany the body, to be sure all went as planned. The art looks essentially the A remarkable thing about as a whole was its stability. For 2,000 years -- relative to other times very little changed. Religion permeated As long as things were going the gods were happy, Every year the Nile would flood, bringing water and fertile silt When the gods are happy, and you don't change things. And the pharaoh If your leader is a god, You obey the rules. Things stay the same. Akhenaten was the one exception in a 2,000-year line Rather than the same, Akhenaten had his own from a strangely curvaceous body to big, sensuous lips. Ruling around 1400 BC, he was considered Akhenaten replaced all the gods with one all-powerful being, the sun god, In reliefs from the reign the sun, During the time of Akhenaten, people were portrayed looser, Casual family scenes -- must be from the time As always, I appreciate so I'll understand the symbolism So, we're joined by my friend She explained how lots of on papyrus survives, and how it helps us the mysteries of the pharaohs. -Papyrus is made out of the stem which is hammered, and then we press it to get those beautiful papers. These are the hieroglyphs, one of the most ancient because of which about the civilization So, these are beautiful Even in the afterlife, they were and deities in order to Even here in front is a big offering pile oxen leg, as well as breads -Anything to make the god happy. -The son of Akhenaten perhaps the most famous pharaoh. A highlight is a section filled from his splendid coffin to his jewelry. This is exquisite. -It is a beautiful piece of Tutankhamen made out gold, turquoise, and you can see the beautiful where you can see the scarab, the sign of existence, The cobra is wearing the crowns as well as the ankh, The ancient Egyptians and also mummified their organs. King Tutankhamen had his organs inside and that was also inside that had the surroundings of the So it was always -The mask of Tut so his soul could recognize him Placed over the head it was 24 pounds of gold, with a cobra and a vulture of Upper and Lower Egypt, After the museum, Cairo's is a colorful celebration Khan Al-Khalili is the megamall 600 years ago, a stop on a caravan trade route. Then, when the Ottoman Turks it became a bustling Today it's a stop and the merchants -How are you? -...eager to charm you -Welcome. Just have a look here. Everything is free. -Today, 100% discount, -Buy one, two free today. -No money, no honey. No cry. -The hustlers can be intense or fun, depending -Hello, my friend! -Dive in, with a sense of humor. Bargaining is expected Treat it as a game. Never feel sorry for, If you see something you like, show some interest and see -Here, your size. -Maybe 5 dollars. -Big size, you know. -Give me 5 dollars. Come on. Cairo's a fascinating clash religious and secular, While its chaos can be it can also be for the adventurous traveler. I find that simply venturing from the tourist-friendly suddenly, the tourists are gone, and I'm swallowed up Wandering through the colorful here in Cairo's Islamic quarter, you feel that Three-wheeled tuk-tuks [ Horn beeps ] I love to hop in one There's something about this chaotic dance merchants, and pedestrians. Exploring the Islamic Quarter It's a commotion of activity. Everywhere you look, something is happening. Somehow, bikers balance Craftsmen inscribe with verses &quot;The peaceful soul, will finally rest in heaven&quot;. With a little effort, you'll find it can be easy In this shop, a man spins that will become a favorite The classic street food here lentil, rice, pasta, garlic, all mixed together [ Metal utensils banging ] The distinctive clanging And small bakeries hot balloons of pita bread, destined to be filled Bread is subsidized by the for people struggling Walking through neighborhoods you gain an appreciation is a daily struggle for millions I make a point to explore Here in Egypt, there's a big gap In the relative cool the prosperous streets with window shoppers clearly a world for Egypt's And gated social clubs a refuge where the wealthy protected from the gritty My friend Tarek, who runs has invited me out Tarek grew up as a member here, and today their children enjoy almost daily. These clubs have something birthday parties, playgrounds, Adults can retreat to play a quiet game of croquet with friends they've been since childhood, or just to watch We finish our evening just down joining his family for dinner. So, how do you say... In France, -&quot;Bon appetit.&quot; -&quot;Bailhana' walshifa.'&quot; -&quot;Bailhana' walshifa'.&quot; -&quot;Bailhana...'&quot; -That's very difficult. [ Laughter ] -I think so. Heba, this is so beautiful. Can you give me please a tour of -Sure. This is moussaka. -This is the stuffed -Stuffed vine leaves. and this is okra -Okra. Nice. and this is Egyptian beef and this is of course, rice. This is &quot;rokak.&quot; -&quot;Rokak.&quot; What is &quot;rokak?&quot; -It is some kind of pastry -And -- -Tzatziki. -Common between us -I was going to say, moussaka, and tzatziki. -A Greek would say, It's Egyptian, also? -We cook it differently. There we go. Thank you. &quot;Shukran,&quot; So, is it normal for children -Actually, if they're -Yeah. And your kids go to -Yes, American ones. -Sometimes on Friday we watch on the TV, Netflix, we choose an English movie. Egyptian or English? -Family movie! -Family movie! Every Thursday -And, Heba, what do you wish to be successful -Mm, to have good faith, good education as well, self-confident. I think you're on I think you're [ Chuckles ] -That's lovely. Cairo sprawls. It's a jam-packed city Massive blocks many violating building codes, to congest Driving through we finally reach the desert and the sight that draws the pyramids at Giza, one of the most recognizable Towering before us are the tombs or &quot;pharaohs.&quot; These monuments were built the bodies of fabulously wealthy They spent a good part and their kingdom's wealth which served as lockers for whatever they wanted their bodies, their treasures, The pyramid is the only survivor of the Seven Wonders This grandest of all pyramids, was built The neighboring pyramids are likely those of The smaller ones? They're for the wives Experts guess that with 10,000 it took 20 years According to my abacus, that's 200,000 man-years Workers dragged over 2 million eventually constructing In their day, in a shiny limestone veneer. I sure hope Long, secret corridors, originally blocked lead to the tomb chamber deep Climbing this passage, you marvel at the design Finally, reaching you're hit by the thought and precious chamber in the ancient world, until the arrival of tourism. This is it: the center The pharaoh's mummy was put The sarcophagus is bigger so this must have and then the pyramid This huge chamber was filled A little shaft was designed to provide an escape passage For the pharaoh, the most which needed to be free Back outside, is the mysterious Sphinx. As old as the pyramids, it was carved out of that stuck above With the body of a lion it came to symbolize both as it faces east But we're heading north, down which lies on Alexandria is one of the great It was Egypt's capital until the Muslims came Not as big as Cairo, has milder weather, Alexandria is a thriving Fishermen, as they have harvest the sea while taking advantage The harborfront corniche is and people out Strolling here in the cooler you appreciate This beach-side cafe not unlike other Mediterranean Alexandria can feel spirited, In fact, this city Egypt's Arab Spring Revolution The populace is an intriguing modern, religious, and hipster. The city has a chaotic energy exceeding anything With the constant beeping its center is a carnival Scenes like this are why and why many don't. This urban commotion literally But -- apart from this ancient which dates very little survives. It's mostly destroyed, or buried under today's city. Alexandria was named who founded it in 331 BC. It became one of the great with a population Queen Cleopatra ruled Egypt when the city rivaled Rome as a cultural of the Mediterranean world. And it's here that St. Mark establishing what, to this day, is the &quot;Coptic,&quot; Ancient Alexandria was home to two of antiquity's neither of which survive -- a huge library, one of the wonders built in around 300 BC. Imagine the lighthouse at the mouth of the harbor. It was so tall could be seen from After guiding ships from safely into port in about the year 1300, and it tumbled into the sea. Today, a 500-year-old In fact, it's said that many of were dredged out of the sea While the ancient lighthouse guided friendly ships centuries later, this fort like the Ottoman Turks, out. And Alexandria was famously home to perhaps the greatest library No ship was allowed to dock here without giving up its books Tragically, that amazing repository was burned and destroyed. Today, its legacy survives Built in the year 2001, walls are inscribed of the world's languages An inviting gathering point the library feels promising, to see the next generation The interior is welcoming for hundreds of readers History has been harsh with its population shrinking in the 18th century. Then, in the 19th century, when it welcomed from around the Mediterranean, Alexandria enjoyed a resurgence, becoming one of the liveliest The corniche was lined from the early 20th century. And grand European-style Today, Alexandria's century-old Caked in this generation's grime as the city's population it's become a thoroughly of over 5 million. The cityscape includes a gritty of towering and densely that face the sea, For me, no visit to Alexandria without venturing into While you can buy in these thriving there's also that naturally comes And, to better enjoy I'm joined in a classic &quot;shisha&quot; joint. As I've done in Turkey and I occasionally enjoy and very social form of smoking. -Nice, huh? -This is a beautiful scene. -So relaxing, -A lot of people they say this would be a What is this in Egypt? Yeah, and few people now call it -Is it some tobacco, -It's a tobacco flavored Could be apple, Too many. -If I smoke and smoke and smoke, -If you spend like two or This is one -- is like finishing -[ Coughs, laughs ] Sorry. [ Laughs ] But the people aren't doing it We do it casually. be casual, socializing, We do it with close friends. -Yeah. -While clearly Tarek could spend the rest of the evening we've got some exploring to do. A short walk is filled And we'll start with dessert. It's hard to walk by this place without enjoying -Absolutely. And delicious. -That looks great. -This is &quot;sawabe' Zainab,&quot; -Zainab's fingers? -Mm. -&quot;Shukran.&quot; -Thank you. &quot;Shukran.&quot; -Mmm. -The key to this kind have a curious spirit, have fun, and explore. These guys are The entire neighborhood is and it's open late. There's fresh bread... ...very fresh poultry... ...olives straight ...and something friendly and inviting people. I know about six words but it didn't stop the smiles. You can get whatever including a quick trim Okay, we've worked up And Tarek knows There's no menu -- That looks good, yeah. -Oh, that looks good. Okay, I think that's good. Alright? Thank you. -Good. Alright. &quot;Bailhana' walshifa!'&quot; What is the fish? -This is &quot;denise&quot; -Okay. And then -- -This is fried calamari and fried prawns. -We dip our bread in this What is this one? -That's tahini. -This is tahini? -I just go -- -Mmm. And then, -Baba ghanoush. I've heard that word, yeah. -It's made of eggplant, Dill makes it beautiful. -Mmm. Oh, I like that. So, what is this one? -This is fried eggplant -So fried eggplant, tahini, in the Mediterranean and each country You find this in Tel Aviv -- -Turkish. -So today we claim -This is Egyptian, -The Mediterranean region shares many delicious What country wouldn't as their national cuisine? But, tonight, While Alexandria sits where the Nile flows we're heading south, about 500 miles Luxor, straddling the Nile, was for many centuries It's famed which were mostly built These were the glory days From their palaces here, they Upper and Lower Egypt together. Luxor is a standard stop While a city of about Luxor feels like a tourist town shops, and ancient temples The riverbank is lined ready to ferry sightseers Popping into its busy market, that serves both locals The friendly welcome of how important tourism is The souvenir I take home -- memories of so many vivid With the smells, the colors, the just lingering here is sensual, a Luxor highlight. While I generally avoid the touristy horse carriages here, they function as taxis And it's cheap and easy for a clip-clop joy ride Luxor's charming welcomes strollers enjoying As the sun sets, we appreciate of both Luxor and the Nile. The Luxor Temple is particularly Standing in the middle it's evocatively floodlit and welcomes visitors The towering front wall and greatness of the pharaohs. This grand entry was marked Both still stand -- and its sister This holy complex was built nearly 1,000 years before Egypt's temples were not but sites of sacred mysteries, where priests and pharaohs Reliefs show pharaohs wooing the While the temple may have been it seems all the statues Ramses II. Egypt's ultimate king, Ramses ruled for 66 years and did a lot of building. The sheer size of the complex with its forest leading to huge squares to get things done. Evening's a great time to visit. Under the stars, people wander, wonderstruck at the Luxor's other great sight -- another magnificent is best enjoyed beating the heat and crowds. An avenue of battered sphinxes leads to the awe-inspiring heralding the Temples of Karnak. Karnak was the most important Back when Luxor this sprawling complex was dedicated to a trinity of gods -- It was built over many centuries throughout this when most of the great The Great Court is the largest It was used once a year celebrating fertility -- fertility of the land, The Great Hypostyle Hall, is one of the grandest Its forest of columns bulging stems each elaborately carved The many columns once supported a stone ceiling. You can measure the of a society by the distance This was the best they could do The columns were fat making the gap easier to span. Imagine what it took They had to design it, stack them, smooth them, all for the glory Consider the depth This was not for the public. by the royals, the priests, Obelisks symbolically These are monolithic and carved out of a single They were quarried about and then shipped down the Nile. This one's been standing here Like church spires and minarets, There are only about 60 A few still mark their original but more decorate taken there through the ages As you venture farther things get older and crescendo Everything at Karnak that marks the very heart the Holy of Holies. This was the most sacred spot On this pedestal sat a statue Amon-Ra was the god of Luxor, the god of empire, The Nile still flows as it did the lifeblood of civilization Luxor's riverfront is busy The traditional felucca, now hauls vacationing tourists. Anywhere on the Nile, The hand-stitched canvas sail Egyptian boatmen have been for thousands of years. Today, they expertly maneuver as tourists leave enjoying this scene, essentially unchanged Here, where the desert the lush ribbon of green is a reminder of to all life in Egypt. As the sun sets, ensuring memories created Across the Nile from Luxor with some of Egypt's most While most sightseers on a fleet of touristy shuttles, we're riding on the public It's early morning, and these And we're heading for and the ancient tombs. To the ancient Egyptians, to live on the east bank, and bury your dead where the sun dies each evening. While the workers head off, While there are a few Egypt favors group travel, to waiting buses The valley is blanketed with Here, two lonely statues And here, burrowed into is the Valley of the Kings, where mummified pharaohs awaiting the eternity express. This valley was all about And so were the great It was to ensure made it safely Ironically, rather than the pyramids were actually Again and again, and pharaohs were waking up in By about 1500 BC, pharaohs and began hiding These tombs, buried deep proved to be more secure than the intentionally While around 60 tombs in the Valley of the Kings, far more have yet The tomb of Ramses IV It had a long ramp, leading to the burial chamber. This massive granite sarcophagus It protected the mummy Slathered in hieroglyphs -- it was all designed to boost the pharaoh Jackals stand guard, and here, a god presents The burial chamber walls are Sealed away dry, dark, and they're beautifully preserved. Tourists can still clearly see Egypt's ancient elaborate The most famous tomb in the a.k.a. King Tut. Another long passage where you find more surrounding an empty It was one of eight nesting that protected Remarkably, Tut's actual mummy The ancient process ensured that the body was there for the soul to inhabit And, you gotta admit, Tut doesn't look While his reign was of and lasted only a few years, Tutankhamen is the one pharaoh That's because in 1922, this tomb was discovered While pharaohs hid their tombs they built in public splendor, so they'd be remembered This is the Temple the greatest woman pharaoh. In its day, around 1500 BC, Queen Hatshepsut's monument surrounded by gardens and approached The challenges of being a woman Hatshepsut claimed to be but to prove her strength, she Determined to assert her propaganda even showed her Statues show the queen a symbol of royalty. This multi-level temple and surely must have inspired With ranks of imposing it's easy to imagine for centuries after her death. Her formidable army but also carried olive branches, the ancient symbol of peace. History's first great woman for a 20-year reign A short venture beyond takes us into a timeless Egypt The vast majority live along the banks And most of them lead on land made fertile Plowing with oxen... ...sowing seeds by hand... ...and harvesting their crops... ...they farm as they have In some ways, seems to have changed little The major difference -- once essential has been controlled Today, fertilizing is the work of engineers With the Nile now tamed, farming in Egypt is possible Luxor's a busy port Fleets of these provide which have become a standard We're riding one for a look at the most scenic As if on a floating tourists enjoy the deck, the attentive service... and the views from their perch The trip upriver takes you and seemingly ancient scenes interrupted only Long stretches pass by timeless as vacationers and live at the pace heading against the current It's so peaceful until the tranquility pirates? Nope. They're eager who artfully tie up to the model, and haggle... -[ Shouting indistinctly ] -...selling their souvenirs Whether you buy anything or not, you can enjoy their on both the port As the sun gets low in the sky, Scenes crescendo in beauty as they glide gracefully We pass patient fishermen... grazing cattle... farmers at work... children play... villagers do their chores... and minarets call all to prayer After two lazy days, the last major port An ancient garrison town today it's embraced tourism, taking full advantage These days, Aswan is most famous It was built with Soviet back in the Cold War. A game changer for Egypt, it tamed the Nile, and controlling the flow The dam created a huge Its creation submerged many But the most important temple To visit that temple, tourists It's an easy half-day side trip over one of the largest The Temple of Abu Simbel, while originally built was relocated here Abu Simbel was saved from and lost forever Thanks to a heroic effort, this ancient temple and relocated to this spot, high and dry for at least Four towering statues stand sentinel at the entry. Ramses' wife considered less important and, are at his feet. Inside, the central hall is lined with more They're surrounded by reliefs Here, the pharaoh leads riding his chariot, thoroughly And finally, Ramses assumes his place Admiring this one last you can't help but ponder 5,000-year story I hope you've enjoyed I'm Rick Steves. Until next time,