Shinkansen is a fast train service connecting to Kyushu in the south. It has a separate rails as fast as 320 kilometers per hour which is 198 Tokaido Shinkansen. You will take it when you go to to Sanyo Shinkansen that connects to Hiroshima To the north there are shinkansen network going Tohoku and Hokkaido region. Today I'd like to to Kyoto, and show you how to get on the So now I'm at the Tokyo Station From Tokyo you can get on Tokaido Shinkansen which is the next stop of shinkansen. You can get Some machines are just for the use of depends on which train type you get and First, Tokaido Shinkansen has three types of train: Nozomi, Hikari and Kodama. Nozomi is the fastest service and it stops It runs frequently and you see Nozomi is Even in the daytime it doesn't It connects Tokyo to Osaka in exactly two hours The next one is Hikari. Probably most of this one because if you have JR Rass this is additional cost. It makes two or three more and 54 minutes to Osaka, and 2 hours and 40 minutes It's still fast enough. Kodama is a local shinkansen train that stops every station. It waits for Nozomi and Hikari pass by at almost every station of trains. Kodama takes about 3 hours and 40 Now that you decided which train to take, you class car and a regular cars reserved seat called The most common regular seat is 14,170 Non-reserved seat is a little more You need to line up the platform to get seats, Station, especially if you are taking Nozomi you got your seat reserved, you can get on the that on the same day. All Tokaido Shinkansen a Green Car which is first class. For Nozomi, for Hikari, 1 to 5 is non-reserved seat. There is a There are no luggage check-in system on shinkansen, so somehow you need to keep it with you. But from mid-2020, Tokaido Shinkansen started to limit the The total dimension of the suitcase has to you can put up on the shelf above your seat. book the seat with luggage space. You can So I checked with the ticket machine and there case you couldn't get that seat with luggage large suitcases that cannot be put above your One thing is you cannot put your luggage on The space is only for passenger book that seat might charge you a thousand yen, and they will Not many Japanese passenger travel with big increase, it might get difficult to get that seat so you might want to make reservation when you know you after. This reservation page in English so Tokyo to Kyoto and this one - make sure you choose And here's a price for ordinary car. It will be 13,770 yen and surprisingly with a if you book early, and this Green Car of shinkansen And lets view seat map. So since I chose the I guess this is the only row that you have a big suitcase right behind you so you don't have luggage. And the prices start at 13,770 yen you just purchase, but even if you purchase you shinkansen and trains. The only thing it costs five dollars so that's good to know. Now it's a fun part. Let's get some food and get on the train. At Tokyo Station you see people rushing to one meal box. It's common to get this bento of selection from all over Japan. You might They have this oyster bento that you can steam up me smell like oysters so maybe next time. So I get around a 1,000 yen to 2,000 yen. It's a little In this trip, I'm using Nozomi to Kyoto in regular car so I can show you different types of train and get the paper ticket. Since Tokaido Shinkansen is Japanese, you cannot receive this paper ticket at In Tokyo, Tokyo Station or in Shinagawa Station is the typical ticket of Tokaido Shinkansen. It says Tokyo 23. Nozomi 125 car number 13 seat 13 E. I have Hikari is a red one and blue is a Kodama one. Check the platform of the train you get on and they decide the timetable so you don't have to wait This is my seat. Probably you have your And make sure you keep that in your because unlike airplane, you need a ticket to Now let's open the lunch box and enjoy Shinkansen doesn't have a dining car things before you get on shinkansen, sell drinks and lunch box and some snacks Shinkansen opened as a fast rapid transit system Tokyo in 1964. Even though there are highway shinkansen is still the most competitive to Kyoto. It's a big advantage that you Now we arrived Kyoto. As for the Kyoto trip go back to Tokyo with Kodama. This time I Kodama takes time, but if you are not in a rush and going back to Tokyo I'm taking the special for slightly cheaper price than taking normal Nozomi train or regular car it takes so much more time than Nozomi, but when you have time and you to do just sleep on a train and you're not in the because the Green Car is so much better seat and cannot purchase this ticket at the ticket machine , your departure. But you can get on the Green Car of and 12,300 Yen between Tokyo and Shin Osaka. Now Green Car seat is two and two row, so the There is a foot rest, and you have a reading comes out of the machine with your ticket canned beer at kiosk. If you want to try I hope you get some idea on what Thank you for watching. I hope you