This is Mario Circuit 2. And it is one of the most broken tracks in It doesn't have any massive shortcuts to skip than makes up for that. You see, speedrunners will often try to perform And in most games, that either means abusing skipping just one corner of the track. But what would happen if there was a track Welcome to the TAS history of SNES Mario Circuit [Music] At first glance, Mario circuit 2 looks quite Being almost completely flat, with walls on done on the track. However, the simple nature of the track is In fact, it only took 8 months after the game You see, although most of the track appears seemed like there might be an obvious shortcut, probably tried at some point. When you go off the glider ramp at the end to go directly to the left and head straight But there was a problem. The idea was too obvious, and to prevent it you go over the wall, the game will respawn But naturally, it didn't take very long for In July of 2012, a French player called Ridley over the wall, it was actually possible to From there, it would then be possible to stay cutting off a large portion of the track without This strategy, known as pasta, could save so this was the starting place for Mario circuit [Music] Despite the common misconception, a TAS, or by a human player. In Mario Kart 7, a TAS is a speed run that using a tool called savestates. Savestates create a save of the game at any certain sections until they're optimized. Because of the size of 3DS games, it took so even though Mario Kart 7 was released in not happen until March 4th 2021, when a player Loris start's his run by tricking off the doing pasta. From there, Loris then did a trick known as By starting a drift and driving so that only or in this case the wall, it's actually possible able to, which allowed for the turn after Loris then drove the rest of the track as He used mushrooms to cut off the turns after before the glider, and finished the run. Although many of the strategies used had been thing differently to most other runs. For over eight years, ever since the first been used on the track. Mushroom tires allow for turns to be taken both pasta and the U-turn. However, Loris thought that this might not red monster tires. Compared to mushroom tires, Red Monsters don't you down as much off-road. This change allowed Loris to save time on meant that he lost time at the U-turn. But that run was just the beginning, On most take months for improvements to happen. But Mario Circuit 2 was a bit different, and that nobody could have expected. [Music] By the end of the day, the TAS had been lowered faster than the first TAS. Because Loris determined that mushroom tires for all of these runs. But other than that, there were no major strategy Just better driving, and slowly but surely and closer to perfection. It was becoming increasingly clear what the But could that actually be possible? Well, Loris certainly thought so, and the of 20.041. The time was now less than half a tenth away But from a run this short, being half a tenth of time to find. The only way to make sure it was possible One of the most interesting things about Mario switched out for other parts. Each of these parts have their own unique allows for each track to use slightly different is most beneficial. Before now, almost every TAS of the track But to try and make sure that sub-20 was possible, The Beast glider, along with the Super Glider out of any of the gliders. However, their decreased handling make it But if it was possible, the time that would extra speed would be more than worth it. And so, armed with this new idea, Loris started And later that same day, Loris would finish [Music] 19.972. By just 28 milliseconds, he had done it. In Loris's own words, this was the best he After all, the run looked incredible, what This was it. The ultimate goal on the track had been reached, of the story for Mario Circuit 2. [Music] In 2013, one of the most well-known all the ramp shortcuts on the track. And one of the shortcuts in that video inspired By jumping across the track after the U-turn, way until the glider. Now, I should clarify that even though it thought it could actually have a chance of The setup took an extremely long time, and track. For years, it was something that people tried and for challenges. It wasn't until six years later, in 2019, it might be made faster. Cf's idea was to do the first jump the same But instead of driving completely around the the gap to the glider. If it was possible, it had the potential to and nobody at the time even tried it. It would take two years until the While in a voice call with Hgt and a few other idea and decided to test it out. And just two hours later, I had managed to Just eight tenths of a second slower than But the crazy thing was, the run was completely It lost a massive amount of time aligning to the glider also looked improvable. After seeing my attempt at the shortcut, Hgt And later that same day, Hgt made history [Music] 18.393. Hgt had figured out that by using a technique make it across the gap by slowing down much By hopping twice on a ledge while drifting, without slowing down. This saved a massive amount of time compared in proving the shortcut to be faster. After the shortcut had been discovered, it Now, you might think that the process of naming And you'd be completely right. But within the Mario Kart 7 community, pasta is, and it was important to us to continue A few names were thrown around: Cf's strat, video by Ryanator: If Gogoku7 tripped on the But eventually, Hgt made a suggestion that Quite literally being a long type of pasta, part in continuing the legacy that Pasta had However, despite the discovery of spaghetti, Spaghetti was by far the hardest strategy for anybody looking to improve the TAS. Thankfully, this period of inactivity ended thought, thanks to an Austrian player called [Music] Now, although this might seem extremely as to why this had never been done before. As I mentioned earlier, when you fly over It loses a massive amount of time, and it's cut off. But there's one thing about these runs that have noticed it. At the end of the lap, instead of tricking single run has actually canceled their glider, and finished the lap. Although it looks like it should be slower, it actually faster: Bounce Physics. For some reason, bounce pads in Mario Kart that your speed is the faster and higher you This means that on a lot of tracks, it's actually that have these bounce physics. These physics also apply to the yellow bounce slow down before going off it at the end of But what Thomas had realized was that these You see, on most tracks, this is done purely from doing so. But Thomas abused the other half of what it from slowing down to fly high into the air It turns out, the plane that respawns you extend upwards infinitely, and because of as long as you fly high enough to go over And just three days later, the first TAS using On July 29, 2021, I improved the old TAS In addition to the last corner cut, the driving was also a small improvement to the double preparation for it. [Music] Nearly five months had passed since Loris to be the absolute limit for the track. And two major discoveries later, we once again a 16 second TAS. And if history is anything to go by, it wouldn't After all, it only took one day to achieve How hard could it be to improve by just one But as time went on, it was seeming increasingly anytime soon. Months went by without any real signs that around the run looked improvable, nobody seemed As with all of the other TASes following the to inspire someone to improve the TAS. And in November of 2021, one last discovery One of the most important things for any Mario mini turbos, or ssmts for short. Straight stretch mini turbos are done on straights for the next corner. In most cases, ssmts are only faster if performed tires, but there are specific situations where The main situation where this is the case But it turns out, by using the edge of a wall, with a straighter angle. With some precise movements afterwards to a second could be saved. Although it was only a minor timesave, it was enough to inspire me to push for a 16 second lap. [Music] This time, of a 16.858, is where the But that's only one part of the story, and what we've looked at so far. Welcome to the history of the three lap TAS. [Music] We first need to go back to the beginning, The first three lap TASes didn't have any and were overall quite simple. Drive lap one as normal, using two mushrooms lap, and collecting 10 coins along the way. Then, do pasta on laps two and three, and The TAS was improved four times using this 1:07.716 being made on March 5th, 2021, and of months, with no major changes to the strategy. By the time spaghetti was discovered, the And had spaghetti not been discovered, it's to a 1:06. But just like it changed the single lap category change when on July 15th, 2021, I finished two and a half seconds faster than the former Most of the first lap in this TAS was the only change being that only one mushroom was the lap. On laps two and three, spaghetti was done U-turn and aligning for the jump. As this was the first three lap TAS using more of a proof of concept than an actual While I was working on finishing the first work on the first three lap TAS using the When working on the first single lap TAS with landing on the wall with only one mushroom And it was. By the time I had finished making the 1:04.6 was on pace to be a 1:03. But before he had finished that TAS, I was What if it was faster to do spaghetti on all At first, this might seem completely obvious. Of course it would be faster to do the fastest But even after the idea was thought of, it it should be. You see, coins play a big role in the strategies Each coin you collect increases your top speed possible to have a maximum of 10 coins at I mentioned earlier that it was possible to But by doing spaghetti on all three laps, so even though you're cutting off a lot of be driving three kilometers per hour slower Because Hgt was already working on a task while I started to work on the first three Because of the significant difference in speed, hop would be possible so the slower method his TAS first, I would finish first with The new strategy for lap one involved collecting However, instead of using a mushroom to get releasing a super mini turbo and hopping into The gap from the road to the ramp was just super miniturbo would still be active, allowing This then made it possible to jump onto the on lap one and drive the next two laps the plus coins for the rest of the run. But with Hgt predicting that his TAS would was, in all honesty, a little underwhelming. Despite doing spaghetti on all three laps, for a two out of three TAS. And this prediction turned out to be true, a time of 1:03.889. So here we are, time of each run it was still unclear on which The double hop that Hgt was able to do on with the time save of doing spaghetti on the finished with a faster time than the three But despite the final times being somewhat strategy was fastest. And even though the final times of the first the three out of three. So why is this? Well, even though it was just over 200 milliseconds much less optimized. Spaghetti was a new strategy, and although time, it was nearly impossible for any significant Laps two and three also looked a lot more general consensus was that a three out of anything that was possible by only doing spaghetti And this would be proven true the next day, a final time of 1:02.689. Despite the massive time cut, this TAS was the first three out of three. Every part of the run was cleaner, with a to the jump across the track, and just overall After this TAS was made, there was a lot of time to happen, with lots of people wondering You see, everyone knew that the TAS wasn't it was more than two and a half seconds away, implemented and for the time to be lowered But when I said earlier that a double hop it wasn't an exaggeration. After countless hours of trying, nothing had for anybody looking to improve the TAS. In December of 2021, I improved the TAS to Hgt discovered by abusing the bounce physics. But after that, no work was done on the track. Most players were either working on other Time kept going by, and still, nobody seemed But finally, in October of 2022, interest It had been nearly a full year since the last to TASing as a whole had been made. In May, B_squo developed a code which allowed to the player, until whatever point the player This code allowed for TASes to be much more people to collaborate on runs. The other major thing that started being used The default way to steer in Mario Kart 7 is Because the circle pad is only a single input left or right while also steering completely This is most noticeable in gliders, where in a glider to gain more height. But it turns out, by using motion controls the circle pad to steer up and down, it was completely to the right while also holding Thanks to motion controls, several new strategies it was Mario Circuit 2's turn. On October 4th, Hgt sent me a video showing corner on Mario Circuit 2. Although it cut off slightly less of the corner meant that more than half a second could be And that discovery was enough to motivate hop with four coins. But it turns out that going all in wasn't Because of how different the approach the up being quite easy to perform. After performing the double hop, I spent the and then sent the run to Hgt to see if he And although he wasn't able to improve on [Music] This crazy strategy by Hgt meant that it was hop on lap two. And after thousands of attempts, I finally This double hop was the highest one that I able to finish the run. After Hgt did the glider shortcut again at again on lap three, all that was left to do the final time would be when we crossed the This time, of a 59.858, is where the TAS stands And it shows just how far Mario Kart players From skipping just one corner, to skipping 2 is truly a perfect example that if you put Thanks for watching. If you want to learn more about this TAS, breakdown of the TAS, and will be posting bonus content, so if any of that sounds interesting channel there's a link in the description. Thanks, and I hope you enjoyed.