Garlan ago, sir Aha! Steph, film where the spiders are coming from. Eat ~aerosol~ you eight legged freaks Hello Internet, Welcome to Game Theory. We may not be insects, but we sure do bug a lot of people now. Let me say this up front right now. You should play Hollow Knight. This game is long overdue for some attention It is one of the best, most polished games to have been released over the last few years, and yet it's mostly gone under the radar here on YouTube Overshadowed by larger releases or bigger indie hits like cuphead, but let me tell you if you're a fan of Metroidvania style games Where you uncover new powers and secrets over sprawling maps, all while proving your mastery over tight gameplay and massive boss battles, then this game is a MUST play! I love it so much I played every inch of this thing, from the optional side missions to the brutally difficult boss rushes, It was so SO good And when I finally got to the end of the game, I had literally no idea what the story was about Okay, so that's a bit of an over exaggeration, but not by much I think most people get to the end of this thing, see the final bosses title card come up as the Hollow Knight and have a moment of surprised realization as it dawns on them Oh, yes. I'm not playing as the Hollow Knight then :( Interpreting the lore of this thing is like interpreting Shakespeare warily, shall we accept the will of the wyrm? It ~prescience~ shields us... Who knew bugs could speak all fancy-like~? And that line is the easy mode for the game's dialogue If you're looking for God Tier difficulty, then you've also got stuff like THIS: &quot;Thir-Yolk-Aba-Absence-Outer-Shell-O-Gate-Contains-Light-Em-Vessel-Em-Egg-Em-Seal... ...Within dreamer Intwixt-Atwixt (??) SERIOUSLY? Who wrote this in-game dialogue?! Chaucer? Yeah, that is a Canturbery Tales reference in the middle of your silly video game show... because game theorists, we're cultured But in all seriousness, this game hides even its most BASIC story behind secret lore tablets and a layer of literary analysis It's like the dark souls of story... *crowd booing* IT IS! Forgive me for comparing it to a video game that's a pioneer in this sort of storytelling. It's just accurate. That's said... by the final boss, I had been able to piece together a lot of the basics, just from my casual playthrough This is, what you need to know to start off with. The insect filled kingdom of Hallownest gets plagued by some khetlhipovti-gogamaXia vtiG infection and a ruler named The Pale King sacrifices one of his sons to contain it. This is the Hollow Knight, who then gets himself sealed away with the help of three guardians called ~dreamers~ but the Hollow Knight wasn't quite as hollow as intended &quot;It was,&quot; as the game says, &quot;tarnished by an idea instilled.&quot; Which, in turn, allowed the infection he was meant to contain to start leaking out. Our job, then, as the Knight, (not to be confused with the Hollow Knight) *Can't see how that would have been confusing* is to return to Hallow Nest and end the infection once and for all, either by absorbing it into ourselves, replacing the Hollow Knight, OR in the game's TRUE ending, entering the mind of the Hollow Knight and actually killing the source of the infection. A giant Moth god named There's a lot more to it... a LOT, and we'll be digging a bit deeper as this theory goes on but suffice it to say The channel MossBag, did an excellent 45 minute video on Hollow Knight's lore and it *still* didn't cover everything. Long story short, this game is [D][E][N][S][E] kind of like the works of Chaucer Well, excuse me for taking a break from video games to take a minute to appreciate the Middle English heroics of the ykth century peasantry As we all should do from *time to time* Clerk's Tale not gonna read itself after all! In fact no one would read this effing thing if it wasn't for English class. Look at how huge it is! So then what's the theory here? Well, the game would have us believe that we're playing as just this ~random~ knight The infection causes bugs to lose their will and become part of this greater hive mine So to defeat, it the pale King needed to create a completely empty vessel... something with no will, no desire... no nothing that could be corrupted by this infection but, as you can imagine, that's gonna be pretty hard to do and so in his attempts to give rise to a truly empty vessel, the Hollow Knight, from the games title, thousands of other failures are made in the process, Something that we see as we fight our way through the section of the game called the abyss We are ~supposedly~ just another one of those failed experiments *except* I don't think that's the case here. If you stop and dig through the MASSIVE amounts of secret lore hidden throughout this game, it's my belief that we're *not* just some random nobody We are, in fact, ROYALTY. the king...The king, in fact. it's my belief that in Hollow Knight we're playing as the Pale King himself, a pale King who is transformed, whose memory has vanished and who is drawn back to Hallownest to release his trapped son, all in an attempt to atone for the mistakes that he made in dealing with the Infection the first time around. If this is true, it would have *huge* ramifications for the story of this game and so stick around, ladies and gentlemen, we've got ourselves a chitinous case of secret identity to crack The First clue that our knight might be ~special~ happens immediately. Throughout the game, we're presented with Lore Tablets, each one beginning with the words: &quot;Higher Beings, these words are for you alone.&quot; Now, what is a higher being in Hollow Knight? Well, it's a term reserved only for gods or creatures coming close to being gods according to a Reddit AMA with the developers of the game, Team Cherry, They exist above all others in this world. For instance, one of the most important items in the game is the &quot;Kingsoul charm&quot;, which is needed to unlock the game's TRUE ending. It's description reads: &quot;Holy charm symbolizing a union between higher beings&quot; the union it's referencing is between The Pale King and his Queen, the White Lady. So, the fact that we're able to read words that are specifically set aside for *Higher Beings* alone certainly makes it seem like we too might be in the ranks of a Higher Being. But, it's not just our ability to read these tablets that matters. The first tablet of the game teaches the Higher Beings how to use SOUL energy, a special ability that they apparently have. A special ability, which *also* happens to be a Primary gameplay mechanic for our ~lowly~ knight throughout his quest. The tablet even says: &quot;You shall achieve feats of which others can only dream.&quot; Again, setting apart SOUL users, like our Knight, from pretty much every other creature that we encounter throughout this game. So not only are we reading tablets reserved for Higher Beings But we're also using skills reserved for the godlike creatures of the world on par with the Pale King Does it really sound like we'd just be some failed experiment cast into the depths of this world? But let's rewind even further back, even *before* the tutorial section of this game because the clues as to your true identity start at the first press of a button. Hollow Knight is a long game, so it's really easy to forget the things that start off your quest but it's worth noting that when you start a new game, the very first thing that you see, the thing the developers thought was most important for anyone starting their quest wasn't a cutscene...wasn't a tutorial... ...it was a poem. &quot;In Wilds beyond, they speak your name with reverence and regret,&quot; &quot;For none could tame our savage souls yet you the challenge met,&quot; &quot;Under palest watch, you taught, we changed, base instincts were redeemed,&quot; &quot;A world you gave to bug and beast as they had never dreamed.&quot; You don't know it when you start the game, but this poem is about The Pale King Let's break it down 11th grade English style. Shall we? &quot;Under palest watch..&quot; is the most obvious. Hail King-Pale-Watch. Duh. but what's all this about &quot;...taming savage souls...&quot; and &quot;...redeeming base instincts..&quot; Well, it's a reference to how the Pale King was able to give bugs a mind of their own. In the beginning of the game's lore, all bugs were basically a hive mind controlled by the moth god, Radiance The Pale King was the one who expanded the minds of bugs, giving them individuality and sapiens. Showing them, as the poem says, &quot;a world that they had never dreamed.&quot; It's important to note too that this isn't just a poem *about* The Pale King, but it's directed TO the Pale King. &quot;[Y]our name, ... you the challenge met.&quot; and then what do we see appear on screen just moments later? Our Knight. It would be one thing if the poem was just about The Pale King but the fact that it's directed AT him, just seconds before we actually see our character makes it seem like the designers are drawing a parallel between this King of Legend, and our first appearance on screen. We are the &quot;you&quot; in that poem. Speaking of over analyzing text, the first NPC you meet in the game is Elder Bug, the lone resident of a fading town named Dirtmouth, which basically serves as your primary hub for the rest of the game. Elder bug starts the game alone, sadly lamenting the fact that everyone he once knew has descended down into Hallownest and never returned, either dead or with their minds consume by the Infection He says, &quot;Wealth, glory, enlightenment, that darkness seems to promise all things&quot; &quot;I'm sure you too seek your dreams down there.&quot; The reason I call this out is that it's a really clever play on words. The usage of the word &quot;dreams&quot; is important, since at the beginning of this game not knowing the lore of this world, we all assume It's just our Knight pursuing the dream of wealth or fame, just like the Elder Bug says. But late in the game, we get ourselves an item called the &quot;Dream Nail,&quot; which is how we unlock memories of the past and ultimately defeat the radiance inside the mind of Hollow Knight. It's also the tool that allows us to find the Pale King's White Palace. It is a place that is literally *hidden* in ~dreams~ So like Elder Bug says, we are seeking our dreams, in perhaps a very literal sense, which is ESPECIALLY true if we are playing as The Pale King. Elder bug also has special dialogue that triggers if you don't speak to him at the top of the game. If you ignore him and only speak to him after you've already started your quest, he'll say this: &quot;Oh! You're back! You walked straight past me and descended down into the ruins without even saying hello!&quot; &quot;I thought maybe I'd seen a ghost.&quot; If we ARE indeed the Pale King, returning to a land that we once abandoned we would *indeed* be a ~ghost~ from the past. It's another potentially *really* clever play on words that I appreciated. Am I reading too much into this? maybe but again This is clearly a team who has themselves a literary ~flair~ and who like to make you really think about the words that they're using but even Shakespeare had to get explicit sometimes and just spell out what he was trying to say same here with Team Cherry. While the poems and Elder Bug dialogue are a bit vague and open to interpretation, other characters are definitely a bit more explicit. During one of your interactions with the White Lady aka the Queen She outright says to the Knight. &quot;Is it more than [just] a vessel?&quot; &quot;I...feel like...once again I'm in the presence of my beloved Wyrm.&quot; Wyrm being another name for the Pale King. And she's not the only one who gets kingly ~vibes~ from the player-character The White Defender, one of the Pale King's five main Knights, also has interesting dialogue. &quot;Your noble bearing reminds me of our dear King.&quot; So that's two of the King's closest relations being reminded of their dearly departed when they interact with us. But you know what they say, actions speak louder than words. And if that's the case, then these bugs hanging out in the remains of the Pale King's castle flat-out bowing to you when you approach them is just screaming that you're the King. It's also worth pointing out the description for these royal retainers in the hunting log that says that they are &quot;The most loyal and devout servants of the King.&quot; Ten out of Royal Retainers can't be wrong You Are Royalty, Plain and simple. Which means that it's time to talk about the Pale King himself. For as weird as it might seem for me to say that this guy is the same as this guy It is clearly established in the lore that the King has the ability to transform. In fact, the Pale King form is actually his version 2.0 To see his first form, we need to trek into the snowy reaches of the Kingdom's Edge You see that; that's not a cave That's the remains of the King 1.0, A giant ancient worm creature. and all that snow in Kingdom's Edge? It's actually his body just flaking away as it decays. But it'd be one thing to just establish that the Wyrm. became The Pale King It's another thing *entirely* to allude to there potentially being a third form of him And yet, here it is, in a line from the character Bardoon. &quot;This ashen place is grave of Wyrm. Once told, it came to die.&quot; &quot;But what is death for that ancient being?&quot; &quot;More transformation methinks.&quot; &quot;This failed Kingdom is the product of the being spawned from that event So Bardoon knows the Pale King spawned out of the Wyrm, (he clearly says that the kingdom is his doing) but this line of &quot;more transformation&quot; seems to imply that the Pale King's death would only lead to yet another form. Do we think that Team Cherry put this line in here for no reason? I Think Not Speaking of the Pale King's multiple lives, we also know that he was experimenting with a substance known as VOID before he died. Now a quick note here, VOID is the liquid embodiment of darkness in Hollow Knight. It's an ancient force that opposes the blinding light of Mothra over here, and is primarily found in the dark reaches of the abyss. So, it's some ancient, powerful magical stuff that the Pale King was starting to unlock the potential of. In his hidden work room in the White Palace, there is a lore tablet that reads: &quot;VOID, yours is the power opposed.&quot; &quot;But yours is potential, eternity potential, force that could deny Time.&quot; &quot;VOID, harness shall be placed upon you.&quot; This quote is interesting. Based on the clues in that work room, as well as the game's bestiary, we know that the Pale King was using VOID to create soldiers, the Kingsmoulds and Wingsmoulds that populate his White Palace. We also know that he was using VOID to create the vessels intended to trap the Infection. Vessels like the Hollow Knight, which would also include our character. But this quote is referencing him using the VOID for yet another purpose; a third purpose. Not fighting the radiance, not protecting his castle but instead fighting Time itself. He wants to use the VOID to achieve eternal life for himself, for his Kingdom. It's unclear, but it, once again, gives credence to the idea that in his next life he would choose to rebirth himself as a VOID based creature; one not bound by the restrictions of Time... One, just like our knight Making this connection even more interesting are the eggs. Just outside the Pale King's Throne Room is a lore table housed inside a black egg. A tablet, that speaks of the ancient Wyrm becoming the Pale King. It seems to suggest that this egg here is where version 1.0 of the Pale King hatched into its ~upgraded~ form as it were. And *now* look at the birthplace of our Knight down in the abyss. A similar black egg. Could it be we're version 2.0 transformed yet again? Further linking the two is the fact that elsewhere in the White Palace, there's a nursery playing this song on the music box. (tsu***)tsu *music* Which just so happens to be the same song that plays when you die and stand next to the shade from your former life (tsu***)tsu *music* It's basically this game's version of bloodstains. Here's the interesting thing about that detail, The description of these shadows reads: &quot;Echo of a previous life.&quot; &quot;Each of us leaves an imprint of something when we die&quot; &quot;A stain on the world.&quot; So the sound that accompanies our Knight's past life coincides with the same sound from a nursery housed inside the Pale King's palace the existence of a connection between our Knight and the Pale King seems undeniable. It's almost as if the King laid the groundwork for him to be reborn as VOID, died, was hatched of VOID from the black egg in the abyss, was taken back to the Palace to be raised and was eventually sent away from the Kingdom to avoid succumbing to the Infection, Only to be called back when he was older and when the Hollow Knight started losing control. &quot;No cost too great,&quot; is a line that we see repeated a lot by the Pale King and it's thought to be referring to his sacrifice of his children in pursuit of the perfect Hollow Knight. However, there is another interpretation here. That the cost is to himself. Humble in appearance, comprised of VOID, a force that is completely opposite himself, he leaves his regal body behind to take the form of a lowly nameless Knight; our player character. He chooses to reincarnate himself into the form that is most appropriate to defeat the Infection, but the cost is that he loses himself in the process, but it's all in pursuit of helping his son in his Kingdom. That's why we see him thinking the line &quot;No cost too great...&quot; on the throne where he died. It is his last thought as he passes on to his next transformation. It's not just about the cost of sacrificing his children, it's the cost of sacrificing himself. It's a calculated risk he's making. The Knight being a reincarnated Pale King would explain how a nameless faceless Knight is so easily able to accept the Kings brand item, which outright marks him as a King. It would explain how, just like The Pale King snapped the bugs out of their collective stupor during his lifetime, our Knight, as you go through the game, is doing exactly the same thing Waking up bugs from the Infection and getting them to return to a life in Dirtmouth. It would explain how only you and the Pale King are seen to use the &quot;Monarch Wings&quot; item And if all of that wasn't enough to convince you, In cut dialogue that was data mined from the game, if you dream nailed the final boss, V. Hollow Knight himself, it will say this: &quot;...Father?...&quot; Doesn't get much more explicit than THAT So, in short, if this theory holds true, Hollow Knight isn't about some random Knight doing his duty. It's about a King's Redemption. He picks a son to sacrifice to this Infection, but before he can offer him up they bond which ruins the purity of the son as Vessel. This, in turn, gives the Infection something it can corrupt, the desire to be loved; to be with its father. Knowing that not only is he offering up his son, but also that this plan is now bound to fail because of his own weakness, the King is filled with regret and eventually comes to realize that he's the one who will need to make things right. He studies the VOID so that he's eventually able to be reborn with its power, patching down in the abyss, getting cared for in the safety of the White Palace, and then being released out into the lands beyond Dirtmouth, the place where canonically Bugs lose all their memories. This self-exile for a period of years is probably for two reasons. One, his own protection from the radiance, and two, losing his memory helps make him purely Hollow. No memory. No desire. No PAT LIE. He's now an empty vessel. So, that, should have come down to it, he can now be the one to take on the Hollow Knights place. Along the journey, he unknowingly assembles the Kingly items that once belonged to him. He prompts flashes of memory from his former friends and loved ones, who are reminded of him as he passes. And he reignites the will of the Bugs around him, just like he did when he first came to this land. All of it is to atone for everything; his mistakes in handling the radiance and most importantly of all, his mistakes in handling his own son. As he tells himself for the final time atop his throne as he dies into his next life &quot;No cost too great.&quot; And in the end, he's finally able to put to rest his biggest mistake; the son he was forbidden to love; the son that he chose to chain up for an eternity; a son who recognizes him in his final moments of clarity &quot;...Father?...&quot; but HEY, that's just a theory A GAME theory Thanks for Watching (tsu***)tsu subtitles by Luna