Now, a special look at the Fantastic Four. Welcome back everyone It's Charlie, Marvel released a new Fantastic There's a ton of footage here We got our first teaser of what Galactus And he looks way more comic book Evans Fantastic Four movies. There's so much new footage, we'll just start at the beginning of the Trailer WTF moments. And it also sounds like based on what Marvel has said, from their universe to, Because the first time as his Doctor Doom will be in the Fantastic Avengers five is now just being called Avengers Doomsday, if you're brand new to the channel, There's a bunch of Comic-Con Trailers so I'll try to do videos for those like the Thunderbolts Brave New World Trailer. After this two. just starting at the beginning of the footage, highlight reel that was being filmed in universe Like an inside look at the Fantastic Four where they're all going to be getting their powers. This equation not only confirms alternate dimensions, it suggests that parallel Earths exists I don't know if it's going to appear like this in the movie, or they just filmed it like this Like, this will be footage that they play in highlight reels in the movie, because the movie itself The way that Matt Shakman, he talked about it, is that when the movie picks up so my assumption is that they'll either for this or this will be like highlight reels that'll play in the background and they'll just reference you notice the footage. And Kevin Feige also confirmed at Comic-Con coming from the 1960s, 1963, 1964, explaining how nobody in the MCU has ever known They come from a totally different universe some of the footage very specifically points this out, highlighting stuff The real starts with the 1960s looking logo. Remember all this design is meant to be 1960s era. Reed. Richards is in the middle of leading a class, an equation that explains how alternate dimensions exist We actually saw a version of Eric Selby It's kind of his version of this inside Notice the writing on the board. The equations look similar to Eric Salvages parallel Earths exists on different dimensional planes. He explains alternate dimensions, It's something that's also referenced in the Deadpool Careful for spoilers. If you have not watched that movie yet, because we need to talk about some specific connections but during that movie, Human Torch from the original Fantastic Four movies. Also, another universe like not connected to this version of Fantastic Four, but when Chris Evans he says that his version of Reed Richards Alternate versions of Earth. those references, the references in the Fantastic The stuff that we saw even in the Marvel's movie is meant to start paying off the Multiverse as well two Avengers Doomsday, Avengers Secret Wars dimensions, alternate universes, we've started to see that a little bit Multiverse of madness in part of the reason why he's saying this in this Comic-Con Trailer of the team winds up traveling to the MCU universe so this whole information dump here this mock info reel, is the set of concepts they have a funny moment in the Trailer with the kids in the class The movie is supposed to feature Franklin Richards I think that Franklin Richards is supposed to be born will have something to do with Franklin Richards. supposedly connection in the comics, which just goes way back Franklin Richards is supposed to be one of the most He basically has the ability in the more recent version of comic book Secret Wars, to the way they rebuild the multiverse Who wants to see a big explosion blast? Reed Richards fires that the rocket All the kids get really excited. This is an aerial shot of New York City. This super tall structure is meant to be their version The pad in the East They're calling this the Excelsior Launch A lot of longtime comic book fans will remember this. Excelsior is one of Stan Lee's long time catchphrases. part of the idea of the Fantastic Four is that they are. Marvel's First Family is one of Stan The introduced. in the comics, I think the first time that Stan Lee ever used they're using the term in the movie It's meant to mean upward onward to greater glory. At Comic-Con, they gave away these souvenir maps with And it shows you a map of what This is meant to be Yancey Street zoom in enhanced notice. The other really important thing around the city all over the city. Maybe we'll see a version of him this is what the fantastic car looked like. They actually flew a drone powered The reason why you're not seeing any wires as it's flying around the Comic-Con down a governor's Island here on the map. Notice there's a Fantastic Four clean energy facility Develops clean energy in the 1960s, completely I think that's meant to give this version of Earth Like this is meant to be we see footage of them suiting up in their spacesuits, Reed Richards calls Ben Grimm the best pilot That's meant to be a bit of a ironic twist, because he becomes the thing and then thinks he's you probably recognize Eban moss Bacharach. He also played Mike Rowe during the Punisher series. He's also fantastic to make a Fantastic I'm pretty sure that this means that he will not return totally happy to see him as the thing now in the MCU. Like this is a huge upgrade for him. he actually said that they're doing his version motion capture, like they did with beast recently Mark Ruffalo's version of the Hulk and now Red Hulk two, he actually said Mark Ruffalo helped him because Mark Ruffalo has probably done more motion you hear. Sue storm showing them around the Baxter Building, Notice the clothes they're wearing, too. It seems like a lot of the movie will show footage But like I said, most of the movie will not be an origin pretty early in the movie. when he says no matter what. Like we're all here no matter what for family dinner, that feels like a line they'll pay off later in the movie this version of Johnny Storm as big of a butthole That was the whole joke of his character. Deadpool even made fun of it Very different personality during the Comic-Con Trailer. With their spaceship You can see the camera panned Then they have a choir singing the Fantastic I don't know if this is what you think is meant to be a reference One small step for man, one giant leap for mankind. You remember, though, in real life that happened in 1969. This movie takes place in like the early 1960s, just based on the first teaser they released that was published in real life. Like this is based on a real life magazine. After the Kennedy assassination, which happened in 1963. the magazine came out much later that year. then, of course, this Fantastic Four Comic-Con Of course, they would put a post-credits scene showing up outside the windows of what looks like Galactus. Just taking a peek inside the Baxter Building, Voyeur. Galactus. also notice that his day time on their Earth So Galactus is standing on Earth while this is happening. Like he's probably leaning way down. Like peeking inside the building. Like I said, I think part of the idea in the movie is Like, he's the whole reason Here's we get to the doctor doom of it all. Supposedly, Doctor Doom He'll just be reference at the end of the film. But this was before they revealed that Robert Downey Doomsday and Secret Wars. what might be happening is that they reveal Doctor Doom in the background at the end of the movie, under the mask in this or in the post-credits scene, my assumption is that they'll wait till Avengers Doomsday where he actually takes the mask off and all the other See that he looks just like their friend Like, wait a minute, it's Tony. but then they have that big WTF reaction Like who are you talking about? That's not me. My name is Victor Von Doom I've already done a much bigger video and how they're explaining him in Avengers Doomsday into more of a time runs out adaptation in Secret Wars Wars, combined with the old Secret Wars it makes a little more sense what they wanted to do. Like why they think he's so important. And he's kind of like the new version of Thanos Like the overarching villain. That's the big boss that everybody's trying to stop. the difference with his character, though, like he said he said new mask, same task, So the idea, I think is that in Avengers Doomsday, but in doing so, winds up doing a lot of what destroying other universes in order to preserve So part of the idea is that he comes to the 6.6 universe the multiverse to survive in the main, Avengers are like, that's the conflict with his character, with him Emperor Doom in Secret Wars and then having to stop him But this is not right. because it winds up Kind of like the void. don't worry. So once we get more details, I'll do more videos about that, just because there's the Fantastic Four movie is just the self-contained movie They're really only connecting it And like the post-credit scene, but everyone, post If you have any questions or there's any details that I didn't talk about in the video, I'll try to do a video for that Thunderbolts In the new Captain America Brave New World everybody click here and here and see the full Comic-Con announcement. Thank you so much for watching,