Mrs. Master, the lady has found it. We'll start right away Mom and Dad, I'm back I hate the cold. Baby, aren't you afraid that your brother-in-law will let me speak for you? That's fast, little girl. Elder martial sister, don't you work overtime in the company? There's nothing for you to say here, son. Get out of my house. You can do such a thing. Are you still my sister? All the good things from childhood to everyone are mine. Look what happened to you man I think you're spoiled. You dare to hit me what's the matter Mom and Dad, you came here, just as my sister and my fiance have gone too far. Yes, I also said how he is you too much How can you beat your sister for such a small thing? Just a man. If you offer to give up to your sister, will she still want Right? Right? Are you so eccentric and worthy of my efforts? I didn't pay for the house and car in my family, that's what you should do. Do you know you're not my mother's Our family gives you a bite to eat You should be grateful What did you say back then? We 've been trying not to have kids Later I heard that adoption can bring children. That's why we adopted a child like you I didn't think you were really useful. It won't be long before we have our own baby. You must be desperate now This is what you forced me to say Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha This is the best news I 've heard From small to large you eccentric I thought I didn't do well enough. As a result, it seems to be a human being now. Don't be proud of yourself. Your real parents are coming for you I hear they're poor in the mountains. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha Ha ha Mrs. Wang set out immediately to pick up her daughter and go home. Mom. No matter how long you I will let you live a good life Open the box and see if we 've stolen anything from our original price. I don't have a lot of things in your house. I can't do it. Unlucky forget it How many hard days will he have in the future? Don't worry about him, daughter. Mom and Dad Alas, after all these years, even tears have dried up. Today is a happy day Mom. Look at them two hillbillies, driving three rounds. Dirty and worn A look is out of the poor mountain ditch, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha The two are the adoptive parents of 17 These are some native products of our hometown I hope you accept Oh, no need There are plenty of these things in my hometown. Open it and take it Is this a potato or a pickle? This also can take ah This stuff is garbage in our house. This house has enough garbage Oh, the dragon mosquito is over nest Your mom and dad are getting dark and the road is not easy. We're still on the mountain road. good cut We have been walking in this mountain for more than an hour. How long will it take to get home It's already here. From the beginning of entering the mountain, this mountain is our home How big is this 30000 acres of land, mother spent 0.2 billion to buy beans 0.2 billion How rich is my family? Too uncertain Every second is different. Making money every second. Then how do you drive three rounds We wanted to drive Rolls-Royce to pick you up, but we crashed halfway. Afraid of wasting time, I bought the tricycle next to me for 500000 directly. It's here. Is this a hotel? Welcome home in April. This is our home, hello Whoa, God Wow. With so many people, can our family live? There are still more than 20 rooms to live in. Which room do you want to live in All right I'm not dreaming No, oh, oh, oh, ha, ha, ha, ha, lady Isn't this a gift for the young lady's adoptive parents? How to get it back again They don't think it's pickles. Not pickles, that's what have a disease 1000 grams of gold Well, er, er, er, why is there still a stone here? This is the 7 million-valued jadeite Gee, they don't know what they're missing But they don't deserve such a good thing. They are not good to you, do they have to be bad to me? Otherwise, I don't even think it's true that this splashing of wealth has hit me. Miss, you're awake Who are you? I'm your housekeeper It's a good dream to have you. You don't let the dream ah Miss It's not a dream, have you forgotten? Grandpa and wife picked you up from your adoptive parents' home yesterday That's right. The riches of stone skyshatter Ha ha ha ha ha I have to try again Ha, ha, ha, good morning, aunt Honey, Mom bought you a new necklace. Wow. 4 million Well, don't don't don't I also have no occasion to bring Xiao Wang, are you the host of the socialite dance? Today, I took my daughter to your party, which is too embarrassing. There is an occasion next You have to take the necklace Yeah. dress beautifully for the dance today Mom and Dad take you to meet some new friends Oops, I don't like clothes and shoe factories. I like to surf the Internet at home in the circle of friends My foster parents are going too What will the bright moon When you were five, you cooked for their house. I didn't ask your adoptive parents for their accounts. They'll be disqualified today. Hey, I I want to join the club. Give them a surprise. Ma'am, I'll be in charge of your makeup and styling today. My face stays up all night every day. It's oily and yellow. If you feel clean in place, you will really be very comfortable with makeup, ah These are all clothes for you. Please try them on. Uh-huh. My daughter is so beautiful Let's go, hey That's what you two are wearing. I met my parents for a while. You have to clear a suit of clothes. Lockbags ha ha ha ha ha No. We have to dress better You can't lose face for your daughter. You should go first. Wow, this girl is so beautiful May I ask you for a dance Good. I'm sorry. I can't do ballroom dancing How did this unlucky ghost come shameless You 've already been thrown out of the house. Still dare to play the banner of our original family into the socialite dance Is your original name great? I was invited in, too. The famous martial arts meeting held in Huangzhou Only famous families are eligible to be invited Your biological parents were both farmers in the mountains. What kind of daughter are you? The daughter of rice transplanting Ha, ha, ha, I am Jiang's daughter Jiang 17 Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, lie, you come as soon as you open your mouth. Jiang's is the most mysterious prefecture-level giants. Even Wang Lu is a little girl in their eyes. If you don't vote for him 1000 times, you won't be able to vote for their home. If you don't say it, I didn't even know our family was so powerful. You still want er Assistant Gao, you are a red man around Mr. Wang. This impostor actually said he was the daughter of Jiang. Jiang has no surname Then tell them who I am. But I 've never heard of Jiang's daughter. Ha, ha, ha, lie was exposed so quickly It's too embarrassing for me that you haven't learned a little courtesy and integrity in our family. Somebody pull him away Who said Jiang didn't have a daughter? Does it count These two old hats thought they could show off here by stealing designer clothes. The family swindled together It's really a crooked upper beam What's going on? Mr. Wang, you are here We're about to kick these three people out of the party. Shut up. This is a top-tier family, Mr. and Mrs. Jiang, and their daughter. I 'd like to introduce you She is my long-lost daughter, Jiang 17 After who bully her against me It's really annoying, Ji. Do you know who should go now Don't, I I 've been hungry for this dance for half a month. And I'm also the daughter of Genji I am qualified for this ball You'll be disqualified soon. Because the Yuan family is going bankrupt 17 For the sake of the family we used to be, you'll leave us alone. What you said is that after so many years of eccentricity, is it useless? Line For the sake of our family Finally, I'll give you a show. Mom. I'm going to a reunion. Stop. You go to the reunion to carry this Yes I am not afraid of losing the coffee and can still pack it. East Rail It's all because the educated youth's adoptive parents are poor. When you come riding, you have to raise it. Mom, let you live a rich second-generation life again. Mom, I'll take you to spend money first. Hello, Chairman Jiang You must take the money I gave him to buy a bag today. Eight my eight, is this what I can get my hands on? This is good to 200 him I will forward it to you by credit card, thank you 2 million. Oops. It's over. Press the wrong decimal point. Miss Jiang has such a good eye. This bag is the only one in the whole process. I want to make a tremolo to record a good life. My daughter will finally spend Hey mom, you can tremble But remember to put my face mosaic What if anyone knew I had your money? That's not all come to me to borrow money My daughter really low-key roar It's time, I'll go first. Uh-huh. Just 2 million the bag, you can't meet the idea of oil when eating. Pack it up, hey hey I'm sorry. Everybody, I'm late Long time no see Jiang 17, did you come here or did you come by hearse? I heard you were abandoned by rich foster parents His parents are mountain people. It's really a lifetime of poor bad karma Can't have a good day How well did you mix? Look, this is the bag I just bought today. The global limit has only one value 2 million What about 2 million? Ginger 17 What kind of bag do you carry, do you care Your 17 bag is exactly the same as Nana's Isn't there only one in the world? I paid attention to the chattering of Chairman Shoufujiang. His daughter just bought you two today. What's going on? I'll tell the truth, right I am the richest daughter Hand-daughter impersonating me I was too low-key before I'm afraid to scare you Uh-huh. Jiang 17, it's still too late for you to bring me some tea now. Otherwise, your family will not feel better if I move my fingers. This video is mosaic. You said is how to prove it I 'd like to prove to you But you're a mountain man, and I'm the richest daughter. We have different grades We won't have any intersection since the end of the study. Mom. Help me make a tremolo, eh The richest man is trembling again. Say it's going to be a luxury auto show tomorrow. Isn't the richest man your home? If you can take us It also proves your identity. What's the matter? You can't be fake Ah, fake Okay. But you're not allowed to go Ah, right. Why did you make me tremble today? There was a bad classmate pretending to be me at today's party. When the time comes, I will catch turtles in an urn. Tear his true colors apart Nana, thanks to you Otherwise, we wouldn't have had a chance to come to such a luxurious car show. For people of my class, these are small things. Jiang 17, who let you come I came to see the auto show Didn't I not let you come The poor wretch is shameless Well, I'm not relying on you You go ahead, I 'd like to see how you take everyone in. Okay, yeah You guys wait here for me I'll let you know, big brother. You let them in, I'll be your girlfriend Psycho, ha, ha, ha, ha Can Nana enter? That was me off the line just now He said that the auto show was canceled today and he would come back another day. What is canceled, why don't I know Why are you better informed than I am I'm the daughter of a guardian. Is this not the territory? Hey. Your mother called you What are you hiding from? Go My mom's coming soon She doesn't like me being friends with the poor You guys go. I didn't know I had a daughter like you Daughter, mother You are ten gold is the real daughter Face is not stolen. earned it himself 17 ah. I have something big to tell you whether I will go or not. What age is it that you still make doll powder? An arranged marriage doesn't end well, huh? I want to talk about marriage myself. If you don't go, you have to lose it. Don't. How can I remarry? How can we not be stingy Ah. So we are in the same boat Another example is my fake marriage, first each marriage back And then 30 days after the divorce, how about Oh. Achievement Walk Oh, right. What kind of work do you do My family is just doing fake marriage There's no need to tell him my identity is unemployed What kind of work do you do Say a fake identity So as not to cause trouble I sell buns That's when I lost my job I'll go home and pack my things and go to your bun stand to help. I'm sorry I'm late This will take you home This is the car you called How is that possible? There are so many black cars in this place. Go to other places to soliciting I can't afford to ride in your car, walk Hey. Miss Get in the car She called you miss Aha, um Do you think I'll get in your car if you're polite? I'm going to take the subway Don't hurry to go Hmph. Black car Aha, black car Well, I, I'll take the subway I'm going to take the bus Help me rent a steamed stuffed bun shop Master Li housekeeper Help me prepare an apron Tomorrow I'm going to work at the bun stand Use the cheapest apron Uh-huh You work really quick My adoptive parents started letting me work when I was five. The original is so not easy But now I 've found my real father They're good to me Seventeen Seven Mom and Dad, you broke up with the young master of a rich family and came here to bear hardships. He's much better than that rich young master. hardworking, tall and handsome I am not he did not marry Isn't this Master Liu I really like anti-Kang Xiangfu Don't worry about it. It's over. What are you talking about? You can't go back on your word with him. I'll never leave him. It's a deal. It turns out that he is still a rich man But it's good to choose me Isn't this ginger 17? Married to a poor boy who makes steamed buns, all classmates. And I can open a two-story clothing store on Chaoyang Road, opening tomorrow. All the big shots came to join us. Hey hey So many people Then I'll push your door to sell shoes tomorrow. I advise you ah Don't humiliate yourself. Then I advise you not to climb high and fall again. Hey. just this store, ah Afraid of opening a business, we will definitely not lose when opening it. You see why we have so much flour on our faces. Oh, no, no, go to the laundry shop Today we must get back face Yo Zhang 17, you really came Line Then I'll show you my highlights. For a while But there are a lot of big people to help me celebrate the opening, are you sure? Du always came Oh, Mr. Du You are the boss of a multinational group. For such a small matter as my shop, you came in person. I'm flattered. 17 Miss. Congratulations on the opening of your bun shop. Thank you Jiang 17, what is your identity Have you heard of guarding Jiang's family? My surname is Jiang now You say? You are the daughter of the Jiang family Really. Uh-huh I'll explain it to you later. Then I have the rule for you I heard that Jiang's daughter and Liu's master had set dolls since childhood. Pro You're with a poor man who sells buns. If this let the Liu family know What do you think will happen to your family? Go tell him, no need I'm right here. You're Master Liu. Great. The marriage between the Jiang family and the Liu family succeeded Send you a word, brilliant moment everyone has Don't take a moment as permanent You turn shut down IVV27 Mom got you a birthday present Is it Miao's silver hat? Wow. So many keys. Since you got lost, your mother has bought you a suite every birthday. This is the key to Suite 20 Uh-huh. Thank you, Mom, for letting me be a rental woman. But I still want to go there and give it to your processing boss. Good. Then I'm going to make a private visit You are the new ginger 17 The company has a new batch of goods. You move your pot for me Why do you want to do it for me Didn't anyone tell you that my boyfriend is the manager here? What is it? Baby Move goods this kind of thing, somebody else that little milk mouse little milk dog how to do it Let him go He also scolded me Hmph. It's even more disgusting to go to work without going to work for a month. Whoops New comer, you move now Oops, sorry I don't have time either The somebody else want to pull small milk money Kongming You can see it. It's too much. I'm so angry with the baby, baby. I'll just let him go. No. You have to pay him for firing him. I have a way No one needs to order takeout. My baby ordered beef noodles for you He got his brain caught in the door This is not the case for interns. I'll go and see 17 is for you. He offended me, so he didn't have a part. It's okay, you eat I'll order it myself Ginger 17, I want everyone to isolate you Let you stay, move straight I can't believe you're eating a whole bowl alone. Is this human food? Baby, you'll give me one later. Baby, hello I only eat a little Baby, you still need to eat more You are too small People don't want to touch me. I can eat five dumplings at a meal now. a large cup of milk tea I am very fierce Be careful I eat you ah ah ah me, I I uh uh huh Stop it, you really have the power to make mistakes. I can hardly eat I also don't eat Come on, I'll treat everyone to spicy and hot pot. Zombie seven I have many means You give me waiting Jiang 17, tomorrow's live broadcast of C cafe double-tube facial cleanser will be one anchor short. This is our company's most important customer. You wouldn't dare I use this facial cleanser every day. No one knows its product advantages better than me. What do I dare not Hum egg Give me the live broadcast process Didn't you write it yourself? You intentionally Do you know that you provoked me What will happen to you All I know is that if this live broadcast is not successful You'll be fired by the company. And also to compensate the company 100000 wages. Don't worry I'm sure I'll be on time. I see how you play Shh. Sisters Today, we will spit out our wonderful colleagues. I have a colleague In front of men, they just turned 18. No man when called smoking and drinking Let's talk about everything and watch it. Don't play, humidifier roll down for me Some sisters said that ducks are not allowed in the studio. The number of people in the studio broke 100000. Brother, some people say you have oil on your face. It's okay. Everyone usually eats hot pot, do you love oil as much as I do? What is the first step in skin care? Is to do a good job of facial cleaning Hurry up and grab all the inventory after work. I won't let you be so popular Jiang 17 Since you didn't go according to the original live broadcast plan The customer is very angry You're fired. Who said that? Just now the customer called and said that he liked the live broadcast of 17 very much. I don't care what you say You're all set today. I'll have my baby get you out of here right now. Don't you just hook up with a manager Don't be too busy. At least I have men that can rely on you can 17 men here Master Liu, you Gun 17, what qualifications do you have to say me Don't you also rely on men Why don't you check the actual owner of this company first? Actual holder, Jiang 17 This company is yours I don't have to rely on men to get on top. Because I was already on the reign Please don't rush me I'll disappear right now. Stop. Your ID card is missing. Take the clown. Oh, not little milk ugly Ha ha ha ha ha