Translator: Queenie Lee I can make diseases disappear. To be more precise, I can make chronic diseases disappear. You see, chronic diseases like type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, depression or even dementia. There are 15 million people in England who have already been diagnosed So that means looking out amongst you now, there are probably who have one of these Just one of these alone, type 2 diabetes, is costing the UK and I'm standing here before you saying I can make these diseases disappear. See, I'm not a magician, I'm what the Americans call an MD. That's not a magical doctor, that's a medical doctor You see, the reason is because diseases are just an illusion; diseases are not real. In fact, diseases don't really exist, at least not in the way So 15 years ago, I qualified for medical school, I was full of enthusiasm, ready to go out and help people. But I always felt like I started off as a specialist. I moved from being a specialist And I always got this nagging sense that I was just managing disease And then, just five and a half years ago, See, five and a half years ago, My wife and I, with our little baby boy, and she called out to me, so I rushed there, and he was lifeless. I thought he was choking, so I picked him up, Nothing happened, and I froze. She called out to me and said, 'Come on, we've got to get to hospital'. So we rushed there; we were worried because when we got there, The doctors were worried because they didn't know That night he had two lumbar punctures because they thought and he stayed in What actually transpired was my son had a low level that was caused My son nearly died and his father, a doctor, You see, as a parent that is a harrowing experience But I was a doctor, I was his dad; and the guilt that stayed with me, that changes you. So I started reading, I started reading And as I started reading I started to learn a lot of science - a lot of science that I did not learn a lot of science that I thought: 'Hey, this makes lots of sense to me'. So I started applying this science. I started applying it, and I saw the amazing benefits. So then I started applying it and do you know what happened? People started getting better, really better. You see, I learnt how to resolve rather than simply Just over a year ago, I had the opportunity to make where I got to showcase I'm going to tell you a 35-year-old, Dotti, lovely, lovely lady, but she was struggling with her health, weight problems, See, despite Dotti's best efforts, Dotti was unable to make So I went into Dotti's house, and in the first week and I diagnosed her with type 2 diabetes. Six weeks later when I left Dotti's house, she no longer had type 2 diabetes. You see, her disease had disappeared. So health exists on a continuum. Okay? At the top right we've got disease, and at the bottom left and we are always moving Take Christmas, New Year, We drink too much, we probably start to move up that curve. But if we recalibrate we start to move back down it again. We get involved in medicine and give you a diagnosis but things have been starting See, when I met Dotti, You see, you can think of it that's been burning it's getting bigger till it's finally raging out of control. At that point, I can say, And I told her that, But what caused it in the first place? The thing we have to understand is that acute disease and chronic disease Acute disease is something we're good at this. It's quite simple. Okay? You have something like a pneumonia, that's a severe lung infection. So in your lung you have typically a bacteria. We identify the bacteria, typically an antibiotic, The bacteria dies and hey, presto, The problem is we apply and it simply doesn't work, because chronic disease You don't just wake up and there are many different causes By the time we give you that diagnosis, things have been going wrong So when I met Dotti her blood sugar was out of control, because that's what people say, many people say that type 2 diabetes but they're missing the point. There is a problem but type 2 diabetes The blood sugar is the symptom, If we only treat symptoms So when I met Dotti, I said, 'Dotti, you've got a problem Dotti, for the last few years your body has become At the moment, Dotti, your body does not tolerate refined or processed carbs So you've got to cut them out'. So what does that do? Well, it stops putting fuel But then we've got to work out And what was the fuel In most cases of type 2 diabetes, this is something Now insulin is a very important hormone, and one of its key functions is to keep your blood sugar So, let's say you're at the bottom left and you have a breakfast What happens is your blood sugar goes up, but your body releases and it comes back down to normal. As you move up that curve, you are becoming more that means you need to do the same job. And for all those years that raised level of insulin You could think of it The very first time you have a drink, what happens? Say, you have a glass of wine, you feel tipsy; you feel a little bit drunk. And as you become a more seasoned you need more and more alcohol so that's what's going on with insulin. You need more and more insulin but that insulin itself is problematic. And when the insulin can no longer at that point we say, at that point, you have type 2 diabetes. So what causes this insulin resistance that then causes type 2 diabetes? Well, there are many different things. It could be your diet. It could be that your diet has been full of processed junk food. That could be a cause. Or there's something else. What if it's the fact that you Work stress, emotional stress, perceived stress. For me, just seeing that's a stress. See, that raises and cortisol, when it's up, which causes insulin resistance. What if it's something else? What if it's the fact because you are a shift worker? See, in some people, can give you as much insulin resistance What if it's the fact that as you're That causes insulin resistance. Or what if it's something to do with See, inside our body, and the balance of those bugs If you have a disruption to that balance, you can get the overgrowth and on their jacket, these bacteria have something And what that does it causes insulin resistance. You see, the problem is there are many different causes and if we don't address the causes we will never get rid of the disease. That's what I did with Dotti, and that's why six weeks after I met her, she no longer had a disease. What about something else What about depression? You see, one in five people are going to get depression So what is depression? There's no blood test for depression; there's no scan for depression. Depression is simply the name But what causes the depression? Well, we know that are associated with something Now this isn't the same inflammation it gets red, it gets swollen, But this is entirely different. This happens when your body thinks Now, King's College London three weeks ago This is current up-to-date stuff. Patients with depression, if they had high levels they did not respond Take a step back, Because an antidepressant is designed to raise the level But what if the cause of your depression is actually coming from your body Surely, it makes more sense See, what causes this inflammation? Well, your diet plays a part in that, your stress levels play a part. Chronic sleep deprivation. Physical inactivity. A lack of exposure to the sun Disruptions in the gut microbiome. There are many different things. If we do not address the cause, Diseases are the symptom. What about something else? What about Alzheimer's disease? See? We're all living longer, aren't we? But we're scared. We're scared that as we live longer we may have to live with the devastating I'm sure many of us in here with our family. It's a heart-wrenching condition, and we, the doctors, and we're trying to find the cure. There's a professor in San Francisco, who was actually demonstrating He's shown that you can in his patients with dementia; and how is he doing that? Well, one thing he's not doing 'Well, all these patients Alzheimer's disease, what is the cure?' No, he's going the other way; he's saying, with all these patients, he's trying to work out what have been the triggers that have ended up with this patient And he identifies them, and he corrects every single one of them. And when he does that, They are reversing their symptoms, they are no longer being classified It's a brand new way It's looking at what is causing It's totally different. So what factors is he looking at? Well, he's looking at their diet; he's looking at their stress levels, their sleep quality, their physical activity levels, their exposure et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Is this starting to sound See, what if all these seemingly actually at their core See, we need to update our thinking: Our genetics are not our destiny. Our genes load the gun, but it's our environment All these factors here, these are the factors and determine how your genes whether you are in optimal health, or whether you are somewhere in between. Collectively, as a society, I genuinely believe Type 2 diabetes alone Just a 1% saving there I think we can do way better than 1%. In the United States today, the new generation of kids that are born than the generation before them. Is this evolution or is this devolution? You see, we need to evolve We need the medicine of aetiology, the medicine that asks why, This is personalized medicine, this is progressive medicine. And actually, if you take a step back, this is preventative medicine We have got to stop applying 20th century thinking We need to take back control, and re-educate ourselves and right back down the curve Because if we do, together, I genuinely believe that we can not only the health of our communities, but maybe, just maybe we could start to change the health Thank you. (Cheers) (Applause)