Step into the shopping A world filled with exciting ideas. Since they started malls have been the quintessential American shopping experience. Bustling temples dedicated to the wonders and excesses of retail, food the rise of the mall coincided with the growth of the suburbs. The heyday of the malls sometimes referred to as They really thrived at providing some sort of public gathering space, some sort of social life, in addition to actually Over the past few decades before then, lots of developers were building malls, and it kind of coincided So as more people started traveling and interstate started being built, developers really wanted to put something to attract people to stop. Take a look at an average American mall today however, and you'll see a very different picture. Closed stores and empty hallways became the norm in many malls even before COVID-19 delivered them another set of problems in 2020. So what happened? This is the story of the rise When malls worked best, thanks to their anchor stores. Those are the stores that are on the edges of the malls and that are outward So if you're a shopper, you're gonna walk usually a department store. So if you're thinking about those are called the anchor stores. So once shoppers are done shopping there maybe they wander to the shopping at the other apparel shops or even going to buy some food. But you really had to have a reason for people to shop in the first place. Because anchor is they tend to pay very little rent. Around 80% of income from all owners come from the inline Over the past few decades, malls have been facing The first being, there's As early as in the 90s, the malls were beginning We have a lot more retail square footage We have only seven times more retail square footage After the 2008 financial crisis lowered retail spending across the board, malls and especially also had to contend with a new challenge Malls started to suffer in the early 2000s with the rise of online shopping. Suddenly they didn't have who had to go to the You didn't have to get up, get in your car drive and then see a bunch of other people. You can just do it from Department stores overall have become less relevant over the years. Many have fallen totally off and that's Sears, JCPenney. Several bankruptcies in this space have really hurt the industry. But as department stores goes so does the mall oftentimes. So if department stores that means they're usually leaving malls. This is the Greenbrier mall It's in many ways emblematic of the problems facing malls today. It's been there since 1965. So for more than half of a century it's been serving this area of Atlanta that's predominantly black and also as middle-class neighborhood. It started with anchor stores So you had JCPenney and then Riches which was later bought by Macy's. So you had these two national chains. It had the first Chick-Fil-A in a mall like that type of format. So when you think about like Greenbrier had like but now Macy's will be exiting the mall meaning that the mall will which is vital to to come into the stores. Greenbrier then because or a test for all these other about what do you do when as a business decision on their end are trying to just stay how does a middling mall survive? What's their next strategy? Greenbrier is a textbook example of how closely the deterioration of the middle class in the US is tied to the health of its malls. The median income for the surrounding area has reduced by $6,905 to a total of $20,756 per year. And yet residents and store will see better days. Malls are made up of the people and communities that help fuel them. Greenbrier is still a place even if on paper it that make it a thriving mall. Well, a lot of the existing constituents and residents there feel in many respects that they worked hard their whole lives to be able to experience The single family, suburban near a big mall that had a great Macy's. They're very reluctant to see Now that Macy's has gone, Greenbriar may try to take were doing in the years focusing not on shopping but experiences. That was a trend we were seeing in 2016 up into the pandemic pretty much. And by experiences I mean everything as or hosting like concerts other than just to buy stuff. Having Instagrammable moments, making sure your store is pretty that people wanna take a photo and post it on Instagram or Twitter. Historically the mall has always You like to hang out, see your friends and also kind of be seen at the mall. And that hasn't completely changed. Like before the pandemic, so today's teenagers had gone to a mall in a three month period. So teenagers are still going to the mall and they've always been key because they're coming And once you went over teens hopefully you're really winning over a loyal customer for life. But thanks to lock downs most malls at one point or That means no one using American Dream malls indoor to the King of Prussia Mall's Basically the pandemic gave malls what they didn't need. Another problem. What would your net income or net operating income have been in 2022 without COVID and what is it now in a post COVID world? So, our view is it was a roughly 10% hit to net income over that period. That's Vince Tibone from the analytics from Green Street Advisors, from A to D just like a report card. And if malls did have a report card, they wouldn't exactly make honor roll. Here in the US, out of there are roughly 250 malls The B and C quality malls which is the vast majority we think are on a negative trajectory. And it's gonna depend on a lot of the local dynamics around how much money do will determine whether this mall can survive as retail or While there have been a few bankruptcies among real estate investment trusts that own mostly B to D A models really are doing just fine. Some of the most in the country are super high end. So I'm talking about Bal Harbor Shops down in Miami, Florida, there is Americana Manhasset the Grove in Los Angeles. These are places that and have done quite well. A lot of that has to do with So their sales per square but also they've invested 'cause it has to look beautiful, it has to have all the services that a wealthy shopper expects. So what will the future hold for less sought after malls that can't revive their golden years? For many of these malls, and then hopefully conversion. If they can't get a new use to come in, it's expensive but you And there are still quite a lot of sites just sitting waiting. Amazon has been picking building their big fulfillment centers. Also, a lot of communities to redevelop, reinhabit this dead mall to help that community meet the challenges it was never originally designed for. The number one reuse of an It's actually pretty easy to cut a few more windows and turn it into office space. Sort of number two reuse of malls is either medical, Lots of great examples all the way down to elementary And then the third strategy is actually just demolishing Either reconstructing the And that frankly we never in the first place or providing community parks and gardens. While most analysts say post could bring some life back many are not long for this world. Depending on where you live, It might be time to make one last visit, grab some food, do some