- I came to study failure what determines success. There is a deep rooted belief in our culture that success That failure's unacceptable, it means there's something wrong with me. Of course, that's nonsense. We all make mistakes, and failure is part of the My name is Amy Edmondson, and of Leadership and Management My most recent book is called &quot;Right Kind of Wrong: The (lively music) I identify three archetypes of failure, and only one of them is the good kind. The first kind, basic failure. A basic failure is something in known territory where a Sometimes that failure is small. - That's tomato juice. (audience laughing) - No big deal. Sometimes it's enormous. A Citibank employee accidentally instead of the 8 million to transfer to a client. Big, huge failure, simple mistake. I define complex failure as a It's a kind of perfect storm. Supply chain breakdowns during a global pandemic of complex failures, multiple factors from workers not being because they were ill, weather patterns, government all of those factors coming together, creating this massive breakdown. Intelligent failure is It's where new knowledge Intelligent failures are of an experiment, and for calling a failure intelligent. Criterion number one: We don't yet have the knowledge we need to produce a success. Criterion two: it is in pursuit of a goal, whether that's learning a new sport or discovering a new molecule. Number three: it's hypothesis-driven. You've done your homework. It's not randomly trying things And number four: the failure just big enough to learn from. It means we don't waste resources. Whereas I am in favor of and I am in favor of trying to catch and correct all the problems I think it's a good idea to If you want to have more in your life, in your work, essentially, you have to think like a scientist. They have trained themselves but to really welcome the Most scientists, when of their craft, they are that's never been shown before. So they understand that that they will be wrong. - Uh oh. - Gee, what a mess. - They're testing something, they are a step closer to Now, you could be experimenting or you could be experimenting but you're going to experiment with something that you're Here's some questions What is it I'm really hoping to do? What's the progress I'd What do I know currently about What do I not know? That's a gap that you now want So then you ask yourself, what might I try next Now, it is never a good in highly risky environments. So for example, in aviation, with new moves in a simulator, with real passengers. In healthcare, the same is true. We experiment in the lab, we don't experiment at the bedside. So intelligent failures in situations where the One of the things that holds from experimenting is that we are too high. We think if we get it when in reality, if we get Sometimes it's inconvenient. It's almost always disappointing, It's just new knowledge. So we have to remind ourselves of a situation. Low-stakes might be, ah, or disagree with us. Who caress, right? So you remind yourself that and should not hold you back. - I'm going to learn. - Julia Child, the famous chef, during her show as she's cooking an omelet or baking a chicken and and she would just laugh and say. - Well, that didn't go very well. See, when I flipped it, I didn't have the courage to But you can always pick it up and if you're alone in the - She rightly coded the situation of being on a national television program, cooking an omelet as It's just an omelet. Who caress if it falls on the counter? Whereas, I think most of that situation as just catastrophic if we made a mistake like that in front of It is natural to want to avoid failure. But when we avoid failure, we also avoid discovery The only way to succeed in any endeavor worth trying to try new things, knowing full well that many of them will yield failures. We have to embrace those kinds of failures because that's where great (lively music) - [Instructor] Get from the world's biggest thinkers. To learn even more from the get Big Think+ for your business.