A brutal galaxy where fanatically religious aliens seek the destruction of life. one filled with bloodthirsty demons and ruthless it. Where magic and other physics-defying it is hard to imagine that the setting of of the far future of our very own timeline. found itself in such a destructive future, series on Warhammer 40k and Horus Heresy, and Chaos. This first video will explore And this story is brought that being our sponsor Double Blind by J McCoy. This book is a big hitter in the world of LITrpg, stories with video game-like settings. In meteor strike leaves protagonist Matt scheming and stealth in which he must hide the The new world is packed with exotic and the unknown System giving out video-game-style Matt must adapt to survive, build his in-game that if he fails he dies, but if he succeeds, the So, once you're done with the go check out Double Blind with Humanity, driven by the unrelenting started colonizing the Solar After pushing terraforming technology to its and to enable further colonization, massive This era was known as the Age of Progress and factor of this era was sublight-speed travel. This humans inhabited was isolated. To reach another with longer travel lasting entire generations. as a one way signal, that travelled at light The era-changing moment was the invention of entirely different dimension, called the Warp exceeded the speed of light was possible. Humanity As fast as humanity's territory grew, so did Automatons, called Men of Iron, helped This never-ending progress for the the Dark Age of Technology. Humanity forgot why Thought of what more can be invented or Many Technological wonders were built, but so were completely useless inventions Technology achieved such unbelievable levels capable of creating blueprints needed for creating as artifacts of unfathomable worth and used to All golden ages are destined to fade into twilight thousand years, around the 25th millennium. The war that almost wiped out humanity. Hundreds of nuclear wasteland. After this galaxy-spanning and every subsequent attempt to create All throughout human colonized worlds, extensive whom were psykers: men who could draw power from society saw this as another opportunity to evolve powers, especially since development through a disastrous idea. Soon, weak-minded psykers got Consequently, cults, possessions, and destruction upon most human worlds. These two the following era the Age of Strife, but soon, a Due to the decadence of the Aeladari empire, an the Immaterium called the Warp Storm was created isolating all star systems already devastated Few worlds remained inhabited by humans as most of them were either destroyed One of the surviving worlds was Earth, There, tribes of the Technobarbarians were be known as the Emperor of Mankind, an impossibly years old, decided that in order to make humanity To that end, he began the creation First, he poured all his knowledge, skill and soldier. The Adeptus Custodes were unrivalled one was so extensive that few of them could be infantry, they were used as personal bodyguards creation was the Thunder Warriors, who but due to the fast manipulation of human and prone to mutations. After the Emperor united To create a large, mass-produced army, the Emperor he created 20 sons based on his own DNA, each They were named Primarchs, and in order to enhance souls. Because of this, the Chaos Gods saw them strength to scatter the Primarchs throughout the not all was lost for the Emperor, for he Adeptus Astartes, widely known as Space each one started ten thousand strong, but Upon reaching Mars, the first surviving as they called themselves, was a machine cult Emperor struck a deal with them called the Treaty found Imperium with supplies, machines of war, and found technology in reclaimed forge worlds, while The next two hundred years are called the Great 005 m31. Old human worlds were reclaimed from of whom joined the Imperial Army as Imperial Not all humans were seen as friends. Many while others were completely destroyed. During the Great Crusade, the Primarchs were worlds. Prior to the Emperor's arrival, almost Each Primarch took command over the legion created was led by Lion El'Johnson, the third of Emperor's by Perturabo, the fifth of White Scars by Jaghatai the seventh of Imperial Fists by Rogal Dorn, of Blood Angels by Sanguinius, the tenth of Iron by Angron, thirteenth of Ultramarines by Roboute fifteenth of Thousand Sons by Magnus the Red, seventeenth of Word Bearers by Lorgar Aurelian, of Raven Guard by Corvus Corax and twentieth of and eleventh legion Primarchs were disposed Emperor, however, all information regarding In just two hundred years, nearly the entire Imperium. Most of the dangerous Xenos races were still considered a grave threat, the Orks. This called Waaagh under the leadership of their The Emperor decided to eliminate the orkish the largest Waaagh in the Ullanor system. The Emperor, was composed of 600 spaceships, 8 million and a contingent of one hundred thousand space Roboute Guilliam with the Ultramarines The last part of the army was Mechanicum-operated were the biggest Imperial war machines, mass destruction. The Ork army, under Warboss ranging in between 40-50 million soldiers. One under the command of the Emperor consisted majority of the Imperial Guard. The second one supported by about a quarter of the Imperial the outer planets, drawing out most of the Orks Taking advantage of the gap in defences, Thousands of dropships and Drop Pods shuttled provided air support, surrounding Urrlak Urg's landing zones, spilling out of the palace, positions. Horus and the first company of Luna where Urrlak Urg resided. He then took his 10 best his 40 strongest Orks, the Nobz. Brutal melee Urrlak, throwing his dying opponent from the tower Of the ten terminators, only one survived, first company. In the following hours, tens of Marines and surrounding forces were slaughtered. Where the place of every claimant was taken by the Orks than the Imperial army. Methodical complete eradication of the Orks in Ullanor Ork losses were so devastating that the Emperor the Empire. In celebration, the entire planet After a victorious parade in front of the Emperor sixteen Primarchs, the Emperor surprised everyone Great Crusade in his stead, he appointed Horus Soon more changes came, and the High Lords Armies were forced to carry civilians, on board the spaceships. Taxes and levies were The dissatisfaction of the Primarchs only grew public eye, not involving himself with any known and the state. In less than a year, legions almost The Council of Nikaea was to determine the future final verdict. The abolitionists reminded of hundreds of worlds. How occultic practices The defenders of psykers spoke of the they reminded everyone that the Emperor was a librarians: space marines, who also were psykers. education under the Emperor's supervision. This speech of Magnus the Red, the second most powerful Full of pride, he spoke about the pursuit of Everything that could be learned, should be known, Downplaying the dangers of the Warp, he instructed science. He then spoke about Plato's cave, where reality. In such a place the one who saw the real The Emperor was angered at Magnus, as his son, who The Emperor's judgment was to ban psykers, seeing hard for humans. The verdict was followed by if any legion broke this law. Magnus had sworn a promise he never intended to uphold. cracks had already begun to form. The Imperium was ruled by the High Lords of Terra, an equal, not the superior father, who now How will the situation escalate? Find out in the Horus Heresy will continue, so make sure you are see it. Please, consider liking, commenting, and impossible without our kind patrons and youtube links in the description to know our schedule, get and much more. This is the Wizards and Warriors