Hello, friends. &quot;Kitchen Inside Out&quot; is here. In order to make a cake you don't have to knead dough and waste your time on baking. Today I'm going to share 5 delicious no-bake and gelatine-free cake recipes. I have no doubt that everybody will love them. And I'm also sure that everybody can make these cakes. Because it's impossible to spoil them, even you try really hard. By tradition, I'll start with my favourite recipe. The easiest and delicious cake with only 3 ingredients. No need to bake, dissolve, whisk or simmer. The only tools you need are a spoon and a knife. When I have no time, I make this cake for our guests. And nobody can guess the ingredients at first. If you moisture the cake enough it will taste like a banana sponge cake. Here are the ingredients. 0.5 kg of pryanik 500 g of sour cream and 4-5 bananas, preferably ripe ones. Slice pryaniks to about 5mm thick. Put the sides into a separate bowl. And smash them to get crumps like this. Slice the bananas. Put some plastic wrap on the sides and the bottom of a bowl. Any plate or bowl with high edges will do. A small saucepan or a plastic container. What you can find in your kitchen. Put the slices of pryaniks on the bottom. As less space in between as possible. Now a thick layer of sour cream. Mine is 20%. But any percent will do. Now the bananas. A layer of pryaniks again, sour cream and bananas. I don't add any sugar to sour cream. There's a lot of it in pryaniks and bananas. The top layer is pryaniks and sour cream again. Don't be stingy with the sour cream and the cake will be softer. Any pryaniks (gingerbread) will do for this recipe. But they need to be tasty. Take into account that the taste of the cake depends on the taste of pryaniks. Put the cake into the fridge to get soaked well. In about 4-6 hours take the cake out of the form. Just flip in over onto a plate. Some more sour cream. And sprinkle the crumps that we've made before on top. The cake is soft, sweet enough and lovely. It's the easiest recipe I know. Even my children make this cake with no problem. And it's always delicious. And my first cake was made out of regular cookies. I used this recipe a lot when I got married. I had almost no dishes and bowls then. I couldn't bake even a regular pie. And this cake needed only a cardboard box with some foil inside. Soak the cookies in milk. And put in a form. Now some yoghurt. I'm using strawberry yoghurt. You can take sour cream as well. A layer of cookies. In a separate bowl, mix smooth cottage cheese, condensed milk and some cocoa. Mix well. And pour some on top of the cookies. And continue layering. Put in into the fridge for 1-2 hours. Take off the plastic wrap. Spread the top and the sides with some yoghurt or some sour cream. And sprinkle some cookie crumbs. A cake from my childhood. Maybe it doesn't look that tasty, but it always is. But the next cake looks and tastes as if it were cooked in a luxury restaurant. It's extremely tasty and super chocolate. And it will take you only 30 minutes to make. This cake will decorate any festive table. Crush the cookies into crumbs. A rolling-pin will help. Add a pinch of kosher salt. And 180 g of melted butter. If you don't like salty notes in chocolate, don't add any salt. Mix the cookies and the butter. And put it on the bottom of a springform. My springform is 22 cm in diameter. Spread it evenly and press it. I'm using a glass with even bottom. Put the form into a freezer for 20 mins. In the meantime, melt some dark chocolate on a double boiler. And 33% cream. You can take milk chocolate as well. But dark chocolate is still better. Take it off the heat. And add 60g of butter. Stir it until it's smooth. And pour it into the springform as a second layer. Put it into the fridge for 12 hours. Sieve some cocoa on top when it's done. Use a regular hair dryer to take the cake out of the form with no problem. Here you go. Salty notes combined with bitter-sweet chocolate. It's hard to describe how tasty it is. It's delicious! And very chocolate! You can make it beforehand and freeze it. It's really handy, especially before holidays. You won't be able to eat a lot of it. One little piece is quite enough. This cake is enough for 10-12 people. And the next cake is even easier to make. Mix everything, wait a bit and it's ready. And the stove is resting again. You will never fail with this one and it's always very tasty. It's impossible to spoil it. And nobody ever refuses to have some of this dessert. Sweet cracker, nuts, dried fruits. I'm using homemade dried apricots and plums. Cut them into small pieces. You can use prunes along with the dried apricots. Fry and peel some peanuts. Cut some walnuts. Mix 400 g of sour cream and a can of condensed milk. The milk is not boiled. But it looks darker than usual for some reason. Mix it. Put some crackers here. I'm having sweet fish crackers today. Dried fruits, some raisins, peanuts and walnuts. You can also add some candied fruit if you wish. Mix it thoroughly. Put some plastic wrap into the form. And put the mixture there. Press it well on the top. Wrap the excess ends. Put a press on top - a cutting board and a weight. I used two jam jars. Put it into the fridge for 24 hours at least. Flip it over and take off the wrap. Here is the cut. Lovely! And how rich and tasty it is! I highly recommend it. And one more cake. I call it &quot;Lazy Napoleon&quot;. Of course, it is inferior to classical Napoleon cake in taste. But sometimes I cook it for my boys. Mix 3 eggs and 100 g of sugar. Add 90g of flour. Some vanillin. And about half a glass of milk. Bring the rest of the milk to a boil. And slowly pour in the mixture of eggs, sugar and flour. Boil for 1 minute, stirring it all the time. And take it off the heat. You can add some butter into the cream, it'll get even tastier. I don't. You can let it cool down. But I don't. The cookies will be soaked better this way. I'm making a cake right on a plate. First some cream, now some puff biscuits some cream again biscuits, cream, biscuits and so on. It'll take about 800 g of biscuits. If it's too hard, you can soak it in milk first. Spread the rest of the cream and sprinkle with some crumbs. Put it into the fridge for 6-8 hours. And it can be served. Give them a try. As usually, you can find all the recipes in the description box below. As usually, I'm waiting for your feedback. Like and share this video with your friends. Not to lose these and my other recipes subscribe to my channel and hit the bell button not to miss a thing. There are plenty of interesting recipes ahead.