Some say you can't beat the French in the kitchen. But with the shifting sands of From molecular gastronomy to sustainable kitchens. In this video we are looking for an answer, Can old time French cuisine still be that good? Welcome to Hong Kong. One of the most unique cities in the world. It's made up of263 islands, but all the action is First, the Kowloon peninsula. It's one of the most densely and Hong Kong's biggest residential area. Then, there is Hong Kong island, home to the financial district with the iconic Finally, the biggest island - Lantau. Here you'll find Hong Kong Disney Officially, the city is called Hong Kong Technically, it's Chinese, but in this area they have separate legal They have their own currency, their own passport, and much of the official How did that happen? Basically, China and Britain had a rift. In 1898, China agreed to lease In that time, Hong Kong grew into a major In 1997, it was handed back under a Full of both natural and man-made In 2019, over 56 million people came to visit. For that reason, hotels are everywhere. And there is no shortage of high end options. Including The Four Seasons. This hotel is massive. It's a 45-storey building with almost 400 rooms, including 54 luxury suites. In the restaurant department, they score big. With three Michelin starred One of them is our restaurant for today. Caprice. I head to the sixth floor and bump The director of Caprice. Just the man I want to see. He gives me a table overlooking Victoria Harbour and a lovely welcome drink from The interior here is a mix of as well as custom pieces designed for this space. It's stunning and almost I'm a big fan of open kitchens, 25 chefs are buzzing around in organized chaos. It looks amazing. I'm here today for lunch. And I have 3 options. The Set Lunch, the Signature I go for the signature for 350 euro (2,980 HKD). It kicks off with a bread service. Made from scratch of course. I'll take a sesame roll and a mini-baguette. The wine list is magnifique and The wine pairing with lunch is four glasses and goes for just over a 100 The first wine in the pairing is a pinot Klus 177. More and more, Switzerland is becoming That might not be the first but when you see it on a This is probably the first Our first course is a Chef's signature dish. Alaskan King Crab Jelly mixed with fennel cream With a bit of gold to jazz it up. Salty, a tiny bit sweet, and there is Gold or no gold, it's hard to And of course the chef nailed it. Speaking of the chef, who is he? That would be Guillaume Galliot. When he was 12, he was because he didn't like the Inspired by Ducasse and Robuchon, He started by volunteering at local In return he just wanted to After culinary school came a big jump. Working for twin chefs At the Michelin-starred Jardin By the age of 23, he had seen the and started his journey in Asia. In 2012, he got an opportunity in Macau. He took over a steakhouse, and rebuilt It was called "The Tasting Room". It took just 7 months to get the first star here. In three years, they had two. In 2013, Vincent Thierry, the Caprice approached him with the Four years later, things had changed, With an ambitious and competitive In just two years, Caprice 3 Michelin stars. I'm in the best hands possible. I capitalize on the wine list Krug Grand Cuvee 161. It's a blend of 134 wines from 12 different years. With the youngest from 2005, Once it's bottled, It's stays in Now that this one has been in the This channel is like a fine wine. It gets better with age. Hit subscribe so you don't miss a drop. Our next wine is a 2017 Notice the red seal on the label. It's French for Old Vines, and Grape vines don't last forever. As they age, their output decreases Just like us. The oldest vines still used in wine production are around a hundred and fifty years What's in there? We will know in a second, but the thing next to it gives it away. Do you know what this tool is? Our next course is langoustine seared in butter with mushroom and mint in a signature yellow wine sauce. and of course topped with lots and lots The langoustine is just right and this sauce is A rare Madiera wine is next. It's from 1875 but still has lots of life in it. How can a wine that old still be good? A combination of quality, process and storage. and of course a big amount of Winemaking on the Portuguese islands of Madeira Before heading to the New World or East Indies, this was a common place for One of them was wine. But not just any wine. This was fortified with grape spirits. And for good reason. First, it kept the wine from Second, it boosted the alcohol, so the Later, they discovered the heat and movement The sailors loved it, and by the end of This madeira is a malvazia so The server tells me this is the Believe it or not, this is French onion soup. Both hot and cold. Hot soup, cold ice cream. One bowl. My tastebuds go wild. It reminds me of comfort food, but it's not. It's fine-tuned to the max but With the Madiera, it really comes alive. Amazing dish. The server says this next one is a show stopper. Mashed potato and caviar. Surrounded with the chef's He tells us this is our one way ticket to heaven. Interesting choice of words. I've heard this before. At another classic French Inside another Four Seasons Hotel. Can you guess where? That's right. Le Cinq. And these two gentlemen came straight from there. Every person I met who trained has been ultra-professional with Without exception. It's more than a hotel. It's an educational institute in my opinion. Some might not care about the little Take for example, how they dress. Well dressed people. Nice accessories here and there, And bespoke shoes, which colors Turns out, it was true. This is heaven. The pairing of potatoes and caviar is a classic, but its the sauce that made me swoon. The ingredients are simple, but they find balance in the champagne I also enjoy the simpicity of the potato. I'm not sure if they can top this. To go with this course we enjoy a This one is a 2019 vermentino It has bright minerality and gentle spicyness that works well with the I had a chance to visit the attached Caprice Just like the restaurant, they The cocktail menu changes every three months Next is wild caught sea bass in a light Such beautiful presentation. The wine is a 2011 riesling from Together they make a nice light pair. With the main course coming, I am One of the biggest wines in the world. But this is a lush dessert wine. So why is it served with our main course? Often, a wine is chosen to Here, they flipped the script. Our server explains that the Chef created And he changes the dish to according This one is from 1987. The duck comes all the way from France, and is cooked using a French technique which keeps in the blood so Before carving we take a look. It's served with baby carrots, It comes with a duck sauce dressed up with More wine arrives well suited to duck. This one is a 2021 Chambolle Musingy pinot noir. The meat is succulent and tender and the This is as perfect as it can be. Before dessert, another rich At this point, I'm full, and so is my table. Look at all this wine! But we aren't done. Next is a classic French cheese service. From Creamy and extra creamy to strong With dried apricots and Looks delicious but it's just too much for me. The pastry team here at Caprice So you know they are serious about sweets. Let's see if I can squeeze some in. Here it is. 6 layers of sweet indulgence. I love chocolate, so I make I love how they cap this cocoa sorbet Amazing dessert. As we are getting ready to go, Chef Galliot himself! I always like a good chat with people like him. He is in good humor, but you can tell With today's lunch he's proved it. A true professional. As the petit fours come, we know Another home run from the pastry team. These look more like ornaments than food. The bill arrives, and my wallet becomes So can an old time French From the service side, absolutely. This was serious, precise, and You can tell the local people were also They have created a perfect system. Many try, but only a few really can. And those who can will always In my opinion, a classic, elegant French And Chef Galliot just confirmed it. And that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me! If you like this video, hit subscribe. See you next time.