(audience cheering) Dry Bar special number two. Woo! Yeah! How many people have seen my first one? Clap it up if you did. Yes! This whole area. Listen, we're going to have to clear this up right away. I know you're confused that they introduced a Jose and I look like this. (audience laughing) I get it. I did a show once. There was an older lady. Maybe her hearing aid was out. And she goes, &quot;that's the whitest Jose I've ever seen.&quot; (audience laughing) It's OK if you think that. I've got it everywhere. I did a show once in a small town in Kentucky. I can't say the name of the town because the family will know I'm talking about them. (audience laughing) There was one Hispanic family in this town. They owned a restaurant. They closed the restaurant, came to my show. All of them. &quot;Finally, a Latino comedian has come &quot;to my little town. &quot;What is that guy? (audience laughing) &quot;Is he like a vampire Latino? (audience laughing) &quot;Is this Twilight on Telemundo? &quot;What are we watching?&quot; (audience laughing) No, that is my name. Jose. I was born in Cuba, raised in Miami. Where my Cubanos at? One. One Cubano. That's enough to have plenty of safety at a pool for everybody, so that's good. Two Cubanos. That's a wave pool right there. (audience laughing) It is a Cuban name. My last name is Sarduy, and that does not help nobody. I was at a show and this lady was like, &quot;Sarduy? &quot;That sounds like a sandwich.&quot; (audience laughing) And I was messing around. I was like, it can be. You got a friend? (audience laughing) She didn't get it. She's like, &quot;is it a good sandwich?&quot; I'm like, it's not bad. (audience laughing) It is good to be back, everybody. Good to be back. It's been a weird, weird couple of years since I did my last one, right. Two years of wearing masks. I learned a lot. I learned that superhero movies are more fake than we even thought (audience laughing) because in a superhero movie the real thing never happened. Spider-Man doesn't say something really funny or quirky and the villain never goes, &quot;what?&quot; That would be realistic. (audience laughing) It's weird. You learn a lot about a person by how they wore one of these. You guys remember these people? (audience laughing) (audience cheering) Some of you are those people. (audience laughing) And I know you're like, I don't want to breathe my own air. But when I see that I'm always like, that person has bad breath and is finally aware. (audience laughing) I remember when we first started going back to restaurants, you know, we had to have the mask up and we'd pull it down and eat whatever. Some people wanted to be able to put it right back up. A couple of techniques for that. You can do this one right here, which if you have a black mask looks like you went, oh, the Amish, that's a good look. (audience laughing) This is my favorite, the fighter pilot right here. (audience laughing) He's on my six. (audience laughing) And then this doesn't happen in Provo but everywhere else, drunk people. What's up? I can just eat all day. (audience laughing) Six months of isolation and that's the only joke I wrote. (audience laughing) But it is good to be back on the road. And I get to travel now because I've gotten to that stage in my career. I can travel by airplane. Very safe because I used to drive everywhere and that was very dangerous because I drive a car that makes people angry. Anybody guess what I drive? - Prius! - Toyota Prius. That is correct. That is the car. That car makes people angry in different ways. I don't understand it. All I know is nobody on the highway likes to get passed by a Prius. (audience laughing) People start-- I passed an older lady in a Cadillac. She's like, &quot;I love Jesus. &quot;Oh no, sir.&quot; Turned into a drag race. (audience laughing) Gets weird reactions. I was at a red light. This muscle car pulled up. He looked at me and was like-- (engine reving noises) Are you serious? (buzzing noises) You want to hear my engine, sir? Is that-- let me turn down NPR. Do you want to hear my engine? Get ready for this baby. Bring, ding, ding, ding, ding. It's a small world after all (audience laughing) I drive a car that shoots flowers out the back. I'm not racing anybody. (audience laughing) I know it's not a tough car because I've hit many animals with it and they are all OK. (audience laughing) I hit a deer down in West Texas. I heard it go, &quot;what was that? &quot;Something bit me, Bambi. &quot;Something bit me. &quot;Why am I covered in flowers?&quot; (audience laughing) I just did a corporate show for Toyota and they found out I just bought a new Prius, but my Prius that I bought at 2007 had died in 2015 at 389,941 miles. Yeah. Drove it back from Japan. (audience laughing) So after the show they were like, &quot;that's awesome with the car. &quot;Do you want to do a commercial &quot;for the Toyota company? &quot;For like the Prius?&quot; I was like, I'd love to. And they're like, &quot;could you be nicer &quot;to the car in the commercial?&quot; I was like, could you fix some stuff on the car? They're like, &quot;what's wrong with the Prius?&quot; Like, well, I don't know, off the top of my head, could you toughen up the horn just a little bit? (audience laughing) Anyone ever try to use a Prius horn in here? Ha, ha. It's like a happy dolphin. I can't use that in traffic. (audience laughing) I was behind a guy at a red light. He was on his phone. The light turned green. I went ha. He looked up. He goes, &quot;no, we're not going &quot;on that.&quot; (audience laughing) It's worse when you hold it down. Like haaaa. Someone is killing a banshee over there. (audience laughing) I have this vision of going A Team on the car and putting like a train horn on top and some fog lights so at least at night I come behind you like-- (deep groaning noise) You get out of the way. &quot;There's a dragon behind me.&quot; Then I drive by. I love science. (audience laughing) When I bought the Prius, I lived in Texas and so I had Texas plates on it. So I drove around the country in a Prius with Texas plates, and that confused everybody. (audience laughing) And I was thinking of ways to keep confusing them even more. I thought like I could put a gun rack on this thing, but they don't make them that small so it just looks like I stole like a fin off a bigger car. (audience laughing) And it is good to be here. My family is very funny. I think I got it from them. My mom does things that are very entertaining. I don't know if they're on purpose because she went down to South America to visit my stepfather's family. They gave her a gift down there of a live baby turtle, and she brought it back illegally. Like she snuck it on the airplane in the only place she thought would be reasonable to hide a baby turtle-- in her bra. (audience laughing) We named it Nipsey. (audience laughing) For the Dry Bar executives, Nipsey was a name. Nipsey Russell was a comedian. You could use that. It's legal. (audience laughing) I asked my mom this. I asked her a why question. I haven't done that since. I said, mom, why didn't you just like report-- why did you hide it in your bra? She's like, &quot;at least I no hide it &quot;in my panties.&quot; (audience laughing) Now I got that mental image twice a month. Wake up in a cold sweat imagining Ninja Turtles fighting their way out of the waistband. (audience laughing) &quot;Cowabunga, it's hot in here.&quot; (audience laughing) For those that didn't see the previous special, also my family is a very interesting story. We came from Cuba because my dad was a political prisoner. My dad actually protested the government in Cuba by writing a letter telling Castro, I don't like how you're doing your border policy. And they put him in jail for six years. He was released in February of 1977 and I was born in April of 1977. (audience laughing) So I'm either a miracle baby or I was made in prison. (audience laughing) Conjugal visit baby. I don't know. Any other conjees? Where my conjees at? Cuban? No. She's like, no, I'm with you with the pool thing but no, that's-- (audience laughing) Cool thing is I lived in Texas for a long time so I would drive by prisons all the time like, I should call my dad. So it was pretty good. That's pretty good. (audience laughing) Well, my family got taken in here. You know, for those that watched the special, my dad has a phrase that he says when he's very happy. He says, &quot;that's what I'm talking &quot;about,&quot; right? He misquoted a movie and now, &quot;that's what I'm talking about.&quot; He stopped doing it. He came to a show once and he saw it. And after the show people asked him, &quot;oh, you're his dad? &quot;Can you say, that's what I'm talking &quot;about?&quot; He's like, no. He stole that from me. (audience laughing) He put it on t-shirts. He made money. He not give me any of that money. I never say it again. (audience laughing) And then he found out people were willing to give him $1 and go that's what I'm talking about. He made like $100 that night. (audience laughing) Good capitalists. (audience laughing) But I love that phrase. I say it when I'm happy, something good happens your life, that's what I'm talking about. Like for me, I was at my buddy's house. Had to go after him into the bathroom. He'd gone number two. It smelled awful. I went number two and the smell was gone. (audience laughing) I pulled him in there. He's like, &quot;what did you do?&quot; I'm like, I think we cancel each other out, bro. (audience laughing) And I have been looking for a woman like that ever since. (audience laughing) I don't know your criteria for soul mate, but I know mine. (audience laughing) That's going to be useful in a crowded elevator, like-- (fart noise) &quot;Oh no, baby. &quot;I got you. (fart noise) &quot;That's my lady. &quot;That's what I'm talking about.&quot; (audience laughing) All right, that was a test joke. That was a test joke. I wanted to see how farty this crowd was. (audience laughing) All right, let's see how this goes. You ever been in a hurry? You poop, you wipe, nothing there? That's what I'm talking about! What! Look at who's not laughing. That has not happen to them. You're like, what kind of muffins are you guys eating? Married guys won't even pull their pants up in that scenario. Baby! See that? It cleans itself now. You can quit your complaining. I'm going to put that back on the roll. We're going to save some money this year. (audience laughing) There's a lot of wives like, he would do that. He would do that. He is disgusting. (audience laughing) So my parents got divorced when I was a kid and my mom remarried my stepfather. I love my stepfather. Helped me become a man. I just think he's a little too humble. He's a quiet guy. So I went to the United States Air Force Academy. That's where I went to college. Thank you very much. So after basic training and then like in the middle of the semester, they let your parents visit for Parent's Weekend. First time my parents had come to visit me at the Air Force Academy. We're driving around. I'm like, hey Dad, let's go look at the F-86. That's my favorite old time fighter plane. He's been married to my mother for 10 years at this point. He goes, &quot;oh yes, I flew that &quot;in the Venezuelan Air Force.&quot; What? You were a Venezuelan fighter pilot? He's like, &quot;yes.&quot; (audience laughing) How was that? (audience laughing) He goes, &quot;it was fun.&quot; (audience laughing) Did you ever get shot at? &quot;Yes.&quot; (audience laughing) How was that? &quot;Scary.&quot; A little more information, Dad! (audience laughing) So I have been in the Air Force a long time, and that's what I tell audiences because I used to tell them I'm an Air Force pilot, which I am, and audiences didn't know what to do with that. They'd be like, they let the Cubans fly the plane? (audience laughing) Shouldn't he be in the Coast Guard? (audience laughing) You don't want Cubans in the Coast Guard. People going to start talking like Mexicans in the border patrol. Just going to assume it's like, &quot;stop right there. &quot;Oh, that's my cousin. &quot;Welcome to America!&quot; Do you know what I mean? Don't need that kind of pressure. (audience laughing) Been in the Air Force a long time. This year in June it will be 27 years since I joined. (audience cheering) You know what I discovered? We are not considered the tough branch. (audience laughing) I think it's because we don't have a cheer, right? Army's like &quot;hoo-arr.&quot; Marines are like &quot;ooh-rah.&quot; Air Force is, like, &quot;Four,&quot; like, we don't have a good cheer. (audience laughing) It's hard to motivate a room full of Air Force. It's like 80% desk jobs. You're like Air Force. They're like &quot;paper cuts are real, &quot;bro!&quot; (audience laughing) We don't even have an accurate song. The Air Force song says nothing can stop the US Air Force. That is not true. They need to add some words in there. Nothing could stop the US Air Force unless the internet is down and then (audience laughing) we're not as effective at that point. (audience laughing) We had a tough guy. We had an Air Force tough guy who was kind of proud of it. I don't know if you remember. They made a movie about it. There was a gunman on a train in Paris years back, and an Air Force airman tackled that gunman and save a bunch of lives. Yeah! I was like yes, baby. Air Force got our tough guy now. We got a tough guy. Then they showed him on TV with his shirt off. I'm like, you got to work out, man. (audience laughing) Come on. You're our first tough guy. You're all bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop. Come on. (audience laughing) I had to add a part to that joke because I was doing a show in Vegas and three rows back he stood up. (audience laughing) I was like, ooh, you're bigger than TV. (audience laughing) So I just want to say, for the record, in case you're watching, he has amazing abs and eyes you can get lost in forever. He's really good with animals and he loves walks on the beach. And he's sensitive but also strong. All right, so just had to add that part in. Please don't beat me up. (audience laughing) I'm a pilot, which a lot of people don't know much about because they're immediately like, oh, you're a pilot? Like Tom Cruise in Top Gun? Like, no. I'd be this little. Um, yeah. (audience laughing) I can't do that joke in Los Angeles because lawyers and stuff. Yeah, Scientology may not be real but their legal department is definitely real. (audience laughing) No, I'm a cargo pilot. That's the job I had. So if you ever see the movie Top Gun, there's a part when his boss is yelling at him. He goes, &quot;if you screw up just &quot;this much, I'll have you flying &quot;cargo planes full of rubber dog crap &quot;out of Hong Kong.&quot; And that's the part in the movie when I go, that's me! That's me, you guys! That's what I'm talking about. I'm in Top Gun. Check it out. (audience laughing) Because as a cargo pilot, your stories aren't the same. People-- you got any cool war stories? I was like, well, you know, they're either embarrassing or weird. (audience laughing) I'll give you an embarrassing one first. Scariest moment of the Iraq war 2003. We're on the ground refueling my airplane when we got hit by a mortar attack. Listen, in the air I got training. I'm in the Air Force. On the ground I am useless. Like that mortar went off. I couldn't put the clip in the gun. I had the Kevlar half off. I pooped a little bit. It was not a good day. (audience laughing) I heard the mortar and I screamed like a child. Like ah! They found me and the co-pilot hiding behind a crate full of ammunition. (audience laughing) So they're either embarrassing or they're weird. One time they told me I was supposed to carry 600 pounds of cages full of live chickens. I'm glad we didn't eventually have to do that because a bunch of chickens in an enclosed space, I was born in Cuba! I'd have been in the back. &quot;Ladies and gentlemen. (audience laughing) &quot;That's what I'm talking about.&quot; Who's flying the plane? &quot;Whatever, do &quot;the white and the red one. &quot;Do the white. &quot;We call this one Mike Tyson. &quot;He like to bite.&quot; (audience laughing) Told that story during a show, and an instructor of mine in simulators that flew during Vietnam saw the show and he says, I got a joke. You can add this story to your story. Just don't use my name, OK? So Colonel Cooper was flying into-- (audience laughing) flying in Vietnam. They had cages of live chickens in the back. They get to this village where they're going to land and do these like assault landings, and the runway's been bombed out. They can't land. And they can put parachutes on everything except cages of chickens. So they've got a problem. They get a meeting on the flight deck of the airplane and the commander's like, what are we going to do? I need ideas. What do we do with these chickens? We can't throw them on the back in the cages. We're going too fast. All the chickens will die. What do we do? Young 18-year-old airman loadmaster, first mission, goes, &quot;hey, chickens &quot;are birds, right? (audience laughing) &quot;We just chuck them out one by one, &quot;how about that?&quot; The way it works in the military, when you have a bright idea, you got to go do that idea. So they're flying over this village in Vietnam. They got the cargo doors open on three airplanes in formation. And then in what's got to be the weirdest Air Force radio call of all time they said, &quot;drop the chickens &quot;over Vietnam.&quot; (audience laughing) They don't hear anything from intercom in the back. &quot;Loadmaster, did we get the chickens &quot;out? &quot;Loadmaster, hey, can we get a report &quot;from the back?&quot; The door to the flight deck opens. In walks in this 18-year-old airman. Left arm is clawed up and bloody. He's got feathers on his shoulders. They go, what happened? He goes, &quot;that worked &quot;for the first chicken. (audience laughing) &quot;And then the rest of them &quot;got real smart.&quot; (audience laughing) I just imagine the chickens in the cages like, what's he doing with Maria? It's a Cuban chicken. Obviously a Cuban chicken. What's he doing with Maria? &quot;I don't know.&quot; Oh, look, I think we're getting a tour of the deck. They're throwing us out the back! Kill this guy! (audience laughing) I'll tell you the greatest lesson I learned being in the military all this time. I was flying into Thule, Greenland years ago. It was back in 2004. We were taking supplies up there. And Thule, Greenland is in the Arctic Circle. Like the instrumentation goes bad and the run, it's on a glacier. The runways white. The markings are red. So you're landing on an ice pack. And I land this 300,000 pound cargo plane and immediately ice everywhere. I'm losing control. I used every skill I had to land this airplane and not go in a ditch when we were taxiing. It was so icy we let the walkway down and our first crewman goes, &quot;OK, &quot;I'll go put the chocks &quot;in the-- &quot; whoosh, bah, right on his back. And all of us are at the top of the ramp like, everybody be careful. (audience laughing) It's very slippery. (audience laughing) We all walked in like somebody needs a Zamboni, this whole area. This is ridiculous. So I just landed in that and I taxied in it and another person just fell. I was feeling so big on myself. Like, my head was inflated, like-- I just did that. I'm a pilot, baby. I walked in there and the guy behind the counter guy was like, &quot;hey, who landed the plane &quot;that time?&quot; Everybody goes, the Lieutenant did. And he goes, &quot;I've been working here &quot;for 15 years that's the best landing &quot;I've ever seen.&quot; I was, like-- I was like, I'm going to need to lube this head up to get it through doorways. I'm going to need to do more neck exercises if it's going to be this big from now on. I am so full of myself. I walked up there with like the most confident strut. I look that guy right in the eye and I go, that's really nice of you to say. Thank you. By the way, when we're here, is there any place around here we can go to see the penguins? (audience laughing) For those of you not laughing, listen up to this next part because he didn't miss a beat. He looked at me in the eyes. He goes, &quot;that's the South Pole.&quot; (audience laughing) So that's what I learned in the military. Don't be cocky. Eventually you'll look stupid. (audience laughing) So I did my cargo time, and now I'm a flight instructor. That's what they call me. Flight instructor down in Del Rio, Texas. Anyone been there on purpose? (audience laughing) This is great, isn't it? Yeah, you don't need to go, everybody else. We just got a Chick-fil-A like a couple of years ago and they're like, &quot;we're a metropolis.&quot; I'm like, no you ain't. No you ain't. I'm an instructor on paper but my job is really I'm a flight screener. My job is to make sure people that shouldn't be pilots don't become pilots. You're welcome, America. (audience laughing) Because there are some people that shouldn't be pilots. I was getting ready to take off with this one kid. We're sitting by the runway, right? One of the busiest airports in the world. People landing and he's just-- right? We're sitting front to back. I can't see what he's doing. Out of nowhere he goes, &quot;holy crap sir.&quot; Well, we're already dead because you don't say holy crap in an airplane, even if you look out the window and saw what could only be described as holy crap. You see a magical turd floating out there with a halo and wings on it. It's got googly eyes and it's like hidey-ho. (audience laughing) Even then you're supposed to say, &quot;well, that's peculiar.&quot; That's what a pilot says. (audience laughing) I got my hand on the ejection handle, these rocket seats. And I'm like, what do you see? What do you see? He's like, &quot;there is &quot;a big old grasshopper in here &quot;with us.&quot; (audience laughing) Maybe this flying thing ain't for you, twitch. (audience laughing) Finally, this other kid-- and that one didn't make it through the program, but this one did. He just made a mistake one day. We were flying in formation, two airplanes, 10 feet apart. We're getting ready to land on the runway. 150 miles an hour, 10 feet apart, 100 feet off the ground. It didn't look good so I said, we're going to go around. Give him the push it up signal. He's like, &quot;what, sir?&quot; I'm like, give him the push it up signal. He lets go of the controls and goes-- (audience laughing) I got so mad at him. I was like, learn your references. This is push it up. This is raise the roof. Come on now. (audience laughing) That kid flies for Delta now. Sleep tight. Sleep tight. (audience laughing) I'm going to end my show talking about one of my favorite subjects-- love. Who's in love tonight? Clap it up if you're in love. (audience clapping) Look at all the people like, why you got to bring that up, bro? Now listen, I think-- I love the longtime couples. Where are my long time couples at? Anybody longtime? (audience cheering) Right there. How long right here? How many? - 30. - 30. And the man answered. What? She said, we're sitting up front. He's like, let me look at my calendar. I may have to answer some questions. (audience laughing) That was good. Do you remember the first night you went out with him? - Yeah. - You did? Did you kiss him the first night? He's like, look at me, sir. (audience laughing) And that's OK. If you kiss the first night that's fine. I had an older couple sitting in front once. Been married 62 years. I said, did you kiss him the first night? She goes, &quot;I slept with him.&quot; (audience laughing) She goes, &quot;it was 1948. &quot;He said he was going to war &quot;the next day.&quot; (audience laughing) We weren't fighting nobody in 1948. Old guy look at me and goes shh. That's what I'm talking about. You guys were great. Provo I'm Jose Sarduy! Thank you so much. (audience cheering)