[Heartbeat] of flesh... there's really no cure. Not in science by a virus, or absorbed into a hivemind -- once "They're too far gone!" Another character might their humanity digested along with their physical novel by Callum Diggle, would follow the same mutating every person into a warped nightmare I was wrong. 'Humanity Lost' is a stirring tribute the flesh, and with a special edition of the first deeper look at this surprisingly hopeful dystopia... my flesh, it disgusted me." Of all the futures at a glance, like one of the grimmest. Under the little more than misshapen flesh puppets, forced cycle. Like the parasitic Flood species from contagion spreading through the immune system of imagery of disease -- with all its pustules and envisioning a plague transmissible across solar result, these cosmic epidemics instill a far galactic empire. Like a terminal illness, these whose only goal is to spread. But while Halo humans fighting back against the pestilent tide, functionally extinct. Our heroes are, instead, AI's one-time general who defected along with his As former puppets of the AI, Deicide's rebels are plague they now fight against -- a fact that breaks fire]. Decades of science fiction have established who to root for, and who to root against. In human -- whereas the 'Bad Guys' have their humanity literally a different species. Indeed, equating aesthetically monstrous with villainy is a trope mother--" In making Deicide and his mutated forces they battle against, 'Humanity Lost' presents a It's not just the appearance of the fighters that Villainy is also frequently coded into the 'Humanity Lost' complicates our assumptions the same unsettling biological aesthetic. From to the intestinal quality of ship interiors, disturbing to look at. The visual hostility of the context of the game Scorn. In that world, Buttons don't click, they squelch. As a result, world can be downright horrifying. Yet the only and use the tools you are given. The technology prompts the viewer not to judge a book by its as we audience members are, again, used to clashes between factions in sci-fi are even color for the heroes, and another for the villains. biological ships requires the viewer to pay closer themes of aesthetic nondeterminism. Humanity is more primal than just a thematic framing a piece of technology works often appear between to these spreads, recalling the famous mechanical functionally no more graphic than what one of illustration always seemed to me like a kind of was growing up, the most popular cross-sections that both fascinated me, and unsettled me, something skinned. In many ways, these types of illustrations -- artwork that was once, quite sketches also capture a certain allure: the inner workings. Humanity Lost's cross-sections the world to revel in the slimiest biological Lost's bodily specificity, one most evident in the of the world, the anatomy of these aliens doesn't alien aliens, complete with slippery tentacles lifeforms are framed as heroic, working alongside 'Humanity Lost' challenges design precedent, have what's known as "neotenic" or infant-like the villainous denizens of the stars. Indeed, many have big, cuddly eyes, they're out to get you. is Wayne Barlow's Expedition, a field guide to an Lost.' None of the extraterrestrials depicted and though some of those aliens are dangerous, forms of life, their startling appearances just of 'Humanity Lost' are presented with equal instead of an indication of their morality. By detail, 'Humanity Lost' further underscores the sum of its flesh. Even space itself has a... the series, we catch glimpses of The Flux: a particles that clump like blood-cells. Like the the Flux is a deathtrap to traverse unassisted -- travel than an archetypal lightspeed jump. essentially using it as a highway for interstellar the Flux in their own way, extracting its that, like most natural phenomena in 'Humanity expression of the universe. The only faction a churning-blood dimension are the Tandrax -- who that harvest power from solar rays. But even these if to suggest that despite their advancement, the Other inventions of the Tandrax , though, succeed impressive feat of engineering is the Elliptic used to move a solar system across the galaxy. system is one of the most mind-shatteringly vast have more than one. Indeed, the Tandrax empire is so dependent on inertia that the species has yet In this regard, the more clinical nature of of their detachment from the base reality of to get their tentacles dirty. While the Tandrax must wade through the blood, struggling to galaxy. The Ounegg are a diminutive, single-footed of war through their invention of the Flux vessels. While the Ounegg have secured their not all lifeforms have been so lucky. The Bo are advanced than modern-day humans when the AI first remain -- the rest harvested as raw material to womb worlds are planetwide biological factories, troops for the ever-expanding horde of the AI. At already been swallowed by this self-replicating mystery known only through scattered records -- with . . . the AI's Posthumans. Despite the being assimilated, and resistance seems futile. to the AI in 'Humanity Lost' that, for personal The Borg from Star Trek: The Next Generation in this video, but sometimes you watch something and -- Look, the point I'm trying to make is, with the Borg might not be frightening to a modern made the Borg so horrifying when I was a kid. It strip you of your personhood. Up until the Borg's had had some scrapes with, you know, space it out unscathed thanks to the power of diplomacy. that simply could not be dissuaded, could not be with them, let them know that we're not a threat?" a chilling mechanical exactness to the Borg. able to adapt to any deterrent in their unwavering relentlessness is a concept the AI in 'Humanity in the face of such a ravenous epidemic? The can make for hair-raisingly effective horror, but least not... imminent threats. After all, no real humans. No real disease has ever destroyed such a has ever... you can feel the twist coming, huh? Plague had already wiped out anywhere from 30 to the Middle East. But the plague did not simply raised boils like giant fattening ticks. And to who watched the world be consumed in a ceaseless dissimilar from living through an attack from one can feel the effect the Bubonic Plague had just disease. 'Pestilentia,' 'Epidemia,' 'Moralitas' Black Death," or just "The Plague." For many who death, the bodies altered never to return... this the Bubonic Plague wasn't the end of humanity. so did individuals, their boils and lesions is ultimately true in Star Trek for victims of for eight-year-old me. "Resistance is futile," the optimistic vision of the future, this proves to be grimmer interpretation of our species' destiny, it apocalypse is not the end. Deicide's faction has into specific spoilers, there's evidence the same Their flesh might not change, their bodies never suggests, we aren't flesh. Humanity is more an idea that can linger no matter how... shambling a one final unaltered human left alive in the respects they're the sole keeper of the dream of a... meaningful reminder than a last hope. An the same time, the more this human finds allies it becomes apparent that humanity hasn't really story than I can give away in this video. If you hopeful narrative, you can support Callum Diggle for just a dollar fifty. And again, there's a new if you'd rather get your hands on a physical copy for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, consider hitting the notification icon to stay up to date