Translator: Leonardo Silva I'm going to talk to you today We categorize everything and sometimes we do this My favorite quote comes from the comedian George Carlin. He said there are three kinds of people: those who can count and those who cannot. (Laughter) I'm glad you got that. (Laughter) Well, I want to talk about a positive way It's called personality type, and it's based on something called or MBTI Assessment. I'm just going to be able to give you There's a lot more to it So, what this is about is it's about gather information, make decisions Now, this word &quot;preference&quot; is a really So I just want to do a quick demonstration So, let's say you're really skeptical and you cross your arms Just try that with me, if you would, okay? Now, you probably didn't even think, You have a natural preference So, try crossing them in the other way. You can do it, easily. And we're going to be talking within ourselves, and they're really natural habits, for the ways you might like Now, I think it's helpful to know One is, it can help you understand that that other person is not really They just see the world And the second reason is it can help you about things that come things that might take that might be a little bit more difficult, so that you can forgive yourself But that doesn't So, let's start in on this framework. When I was growing up, I thought family togetherness was I'm an extrovert, I grew up My mother thought that my siblings and I didn't. It probably should have been reverse. They needed their quiet time and I would I can assure you (Chuckling) So, this is the first and it has to do with where we direct There's an extroverted way Now, these are not social skills. You can have people and people who prefer This is about energy. So, extroverts want and, when it goes out, it comes bouncing back to them. And introverts want By looking at ideas, impressions, they create more energy. Now, I need to do a quick aside We believe that you have both within you. It's just that you prefer It really does not guarantee that you're good at it. You might need to develop skills with it develop skills with the other preference. That's going to be helpful because there are times when you need If you just do everything it's not going to always work. So, when we look and how it appears in meetings, So, extroverts in a meeting are more If I bring it out, it becomes real, and I may start over here because I've made it real Now, the introvert listening &quot;If they just shut up, Well, they don't understand So, our introverts are taking things in they're mulling it through, and our extrovert looking &quot;Are they awake? And we assume that they are Silences for extroverts Silences for introverts When we think about interruptions, there's also a different way Interruptions for extroverts &quot;Gee, someone's listened They want to jump right in, It's a compliment. But, for an introvert, &quot;I've thought about it inside, I'm bringing up my ideas, I need to stop and think, 'Is that and then I'm going Introverts, by the way, will act like extroverts We say that, if you want to know you haven't been listening. If you want to know you haven't asked. So, now I want to go on to the next one, which is how we gather data and the kind of information The preference pairs here Now, I happen to prefer sensing. I like things to be I just really want to get down Now, by contrast, intuitive types like possibilities, and I want to show you a picture So, if we look at this particular picture we may see pillars, there's an umbrella If we look at this picture we might see an ancient lost civilization, where the wild things are, Now, we both looked at the same picture. So, I use this in a community and we get people into sensing groups and have them look We had a civil engineer once he was in the sensing group - he pointed to the &quot;Hum, I always thought they were liars. I would go to a community meeting I would see them a couple of days later and they said I said things Our memories are just fine. So, now I know I need and find out how they got from my facts So, it's very important, You're seeing the same picture, If we look at well-known figures, we can also start to think about what lens So, let's take Thomas Edison. He's the guy who invented by putting all those little filaments in and keeping checking He's been known to have said, He probably saw the world Now, if we look at Albert Einstein, he said, &quot;Not all that counts He probably sees the world Now, once you have information in, and that leads us thinking and feeling. Now, I know that I'm a thinking type. I look at the world in a logical way. People come to me with a problem, I want to get to the bottom line But I realized there are some people, they just want me to stop and listen Well, I learned that I need at least I remember that &quot;Do you want me just to listen, or do you want me because then I don't get so annoyed So, in this decision-making system, thinking types step back They look at the data that they have, in an objective way. They look at the pros, they make their decision. But feeling types step into the decision. They become aware of, How does this fit with my value system?,&quot; and they're looking for harmony Now you probably that feeling does not mean There is a structured way So, if we think about we may see some different things. For thinking types, being fair means treating everyone or treating people equally. For feeling types, being fair means treating everyone individuals are different, Now, I want to do another that I sometimes do and let's say you're working on a project. This hand represents This hand represents I'm starting, So, I typically ask thinking types, &quot;Tell me when you want someone to give you some for your work on that project.&quot; And my hand will move along and finally, when I get to the end, they will say, &quot;Now.&quot; And I'll ask them, &quot;So, what happens if someone gives you some recognition And they say, &quot;Well, I'm a little worried. They have no sense of standards Now, I ask feeling types the same thing, &quot;When do you want recognition and they call out, (Laughter) All the way through. &quot;So, what does that look like?&quot; I'm a thinking type, They say like, &quot;Well, or, 'Gee, you had some great ideas here.'&quot; And then, I ask the feeling types, if someone gives you some recognition - And they say, &quot;Well, and if they don't care about me, and it affects my morale.&quot; Now, both thinking types and feeling types They just do it in different ways. And it's really helpful for thinking types &quot;How would this logically impact people?,&quot; and for feeling types to always ask, But we need to move on. Our last one has to do with how we like And our words are &quot;judging&quot; and &quot;judging&quot; here But what judging types like to do make decisions, get on with it, and perceiving types and be spontaneous So, I'll admit, I'm a judging type, I love to check off things from the list and I've even been known to put things for the sheer joy of checking them off. (Laughter) True confessions. Okay. Now, I happen to live with a man He thinks I'm nuts. His life is about options, So, you can imagine what happens I'm making my decisions - you know, judging is about, &quot;Let's make And he's looking over the menu, trying to decide what he's going to have, and I'm getting hungry. But, for perceiving types, So, judging types will often &quot;I've finished that,&quot; I've decided that,&quot; and perceiving types &quot;I'm finishing that,&quot; &quot;I'm deciding that.&quot; So, if we look at what's a plan, &quot;A plan is a systematic way and perceiving types will say, &quot;Plans, they're options.&quot; Now, I also have a little activity and that's I'll ask people the next day they have off, okay? And I typically have and I want to know how many plans So, I start giving them numbers and, as we get to the higher the judging types They just love it. Now, when I do the same thing they've raised their hands and I can see they get more and more and they'll often call out, Someone came up with them for me.&quot; So, both can have lovely days off and, in fact, sometimes people coming to me and saying, because on my next day off You heard the word &quot;plan.&quot; (Laughter) So, this is about how you live your life. All of these come together So, we've got four preference pairs. We've got how you gain energy how you gather information how you make decisions and how you live your life So, there are 16 possible Now, we use a shorthand for this. The only trick is we have to use because we've already used Now, of these types, when they come together we say the whole is greater Now, my particular type I'm extroverted, sensing, So, you've heard a lot about my type. I'm also really responsible: and I will follow through to completion. That's how I got into I walked into my manager's office &quot;Jean, everybody in this office is going Yours is going to be the Myers-Briggs.&quot; &quot;Yes, sir&quot; - I said. So, I get to live out my type. I get to write practical I get to train people I get to use who I am. But I want to tell you a story who didn't get to use who she was. I mentioned I do some training programs I would typically find somebody who wasn't quite so sure of her type, but was reasonably verbal So, this was in Dallas, Texas, and we were going through this everything was going really well. And, all of a sudden, we got near the end &quot;I stopped using Now, for those of you who don't remember, making your decisions and &quot;J&quot; stands for &quot;judging,&quot; So, I did my good psychologist nod, and the brilliant statement, (Laughter) Context does everything here.&quot; So, she said, &quot;Well, that my faith is really important to me. I belong to an evangelical church. I work for that church, but my husband came out We have children together. He is a good man, Her values had been clashing. She was stuck, she didn't know what to do. But, suddenly, with personality type, she had a framework to understand and, right then and there, Well, little did I know the same thing would happen to me. My husband came out as gay. It was tough, but I'm an ESTJ. I need to move on, I need to just do it. So, with the help of wonderful friends who gave me love and support and advice, I was able to move on. As the writer Garrison Keillor says, &quot;When bad things happen to writers, And I'd like to add, as a psychologist, it's all just a way of building empathy. So, personality type has been in understanding myself and others, so that I can be more but I remember that it's just preferences. I can act other ways when I need to. So, I'm going to ask that you help me for one last time. And that is I want you to clap your hands So, clap and freeze. Okay. Now, you probably didn't even notice you have a preference for that. So, I want you to practice, It's a cheap way (Laughter) (Applause)