China has a problem: the country's getting While in isolation one is a global challenge they present an issue because of this: the Fix China on its latitudes and move it along shape, and southerness is not all that different Beijing's temperatures closely track with reflect those of Atlanta. That's to say China, like the US, is hot. Much of the US developed in an era of air had their biggest population influxes at a this is a direct contributor to the fact that per capita of any major economy. China's marching down the same path. Two out of every five air conditioning units Simply put, as personal income grows, air of hottest days, some 50% of electricity consumption down buildings. And this is only a single instance of a broader increase in electricity consumption as nations documented phenomenon. Other prosperous regions have found a tenuous gains--Europe and the US's year-over-year plateaued--but China's looks like this: And, most crucially, no country the size of speed of China. Its people are marching up the wealth pyramid is its electricity consumption. This has led to difficulties. China's no stranger to the occasional power effectively represent growing pains. But the power crunch across China in September As in other periods of unseasonably high temperatures, an uptick in air conditioning and fans by uses they could live without. Then they placed cuts on industrial users, likes of Tesla and Apple that factory operations two. While the move put a damper on a Chinese economy shutdowns, a temporary slow down wouldn't Then it got worse. Scorching droughts persisted across central and across the entire country, coal reserves the power crunch became rolling blackouts. For hours, Chinese cities went dark. In Liaoyang, cars stacked up when traffic in the hospital when factory exhaust systems Shops ran by candlelight, cities advised residents asked tenants to take the stairs, while at when power suddenly cut out. The international media called it unprecedented, to living in North Korea. To understand the true source of this crisis--beyond must understand China's electric grid, and this: coal is everything. The two other areas with similar GDPs, Europe electricity with coal, respectively. In China, it's 62%. In fact, about half of the entire world's People's Republic. In context, this isn't surprising. Two or three decades ago, coal was far more mix, but in the years since, there's been natural gas fired power plants. China couldn't do that--at least not easily. One of the country's critical weaknesses domestic oil and gas production. It imports about half of the natural gas it means it doesn't use the fossil fuel for way. Meanwhile, China is swimming in coal. Enormous deposits sit in Inner Mongolia and has more natural coal deposits than anyone Many forms of renewable electricity generation generation, but remember: China has been growing While the overall cost per kilowatt-hour of than that of coal power, there's the question With solar, nearly all of the cost is upfront, With coal, however, the cost is more distributed initial installation cost per unit of capacity, has to be purchased to keep the generation So, when a country is growing at such a pace, add capacity, knowing that more money is coming, knowing the savings will come later--it's centrality of coal in China's energy mix. Now, the companies actually producing power enterprises, but despite reporting up to the these businesses do act with a certain degree similar to how a privately-owned enterprise But this is a unique market. Beijing regulates how much power producers it hovers around eight cents per kilowatt-hour--far The country considers this crucial because, Industry requires power, and just as China thanks to its low labor-costs, it's also costs. But low costs mean nothing if there's no electricity Notably and crucially, Beijing does not regulate and down, just as it does in the rest of the So, companies get paid a fixed amount for coal, changes. It doesn't take an expert to spot the potential So why not renewables? Ignoring, for the moment, the difficulties competitive in cost with coal-fired power up and down fluctuations in coal prices, wouldn't Wouldn't a solar installation producing be a guaranteed profit machine? Yes... but: most Chinese people live where simply aren't. The country's greatest solar energy potential northern border. The same goes for wind--these regions in where the nation's most consistent wind The difficulty is, more than 90% of China's this divide--far from the most productive Even when it comes to the nation's most of the nation's largest dams are located moderately populated areas, but still far Making the most of renewable resources--and infrastructure the central government has of transferring electricity over vast distances, Alongside the massive dams, solar installations, decade, is an equally impressive assortment the sunny, windswept hinterlands to population This is an Ultra High Voltage power-line, home to 34 of them with plans to build more. While standard overhead transmission lines 800 to 1,100, resulting in massive efficiency lines to move up to five times the power of as the key to linking areas of high energy And yet, while these infrastructure investments areas as far east as the deserts of Xinjiang, centers like the Anhui Province 2,000 miles make the most out of their green investments. At the end of 2020, a report surfaced that lines were only running at a paltry 60% of For a country with a still climbing coal habit, but not necessarily an indictment of the physical grid works on a policy and pricing level. China's yet to properly incentivize their They've addressed the supply side, but largely Critical to the full implementation of China's them to population centers, is the willingness another. Because energy rates are set by the government largely in charge of their own grids--have their borders--regardless of its origin--to Why give another province the work that could And because the provinces that need more power they're probably Eastern or coastal and rather than out-of-province renewables. Available renewables then take a backseat, this electricity as capacity insurance during While flexible, interconnected, and national regional, rudimentary, and coal-oriented in Up until today, China's grid has largely rise, but as Chinese coal consumption, consumer variability rise too, the challenge will be And in 2021, it didn't. Given the continued centrality of coal in the middle of 2020 was bold: they banned Australian This move occurred in response to the western the origins of COVID-19, but up until that imported coal. Still, as the world's largest coal producer coal, even when entering winter, could be to manage. Next came 2021, and with it, the recovery: measures virtually eliminated the COVID virus industry roared back. While the sectors signaled signs of life from also put pressure on the grid, as the first from the year prior, and an 8% increase from But as business boomed, under the surface, While China was burning more coal than in Here, in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous region, violations, halting production for months. Here, in Shanxi, coal mines closed for a month in an accident. And at the same time domestic supply hit snags, Indonesia--China's newest number one coal that derailed its export goals. Heavy storms led to record flooding in Zhengzhou, coal into Henan province. But the rain didn't last, and as 2021 progressed, severely hampered hydroelectric production. All the while, global coal prices skyrocketed its average from a year prior. Chinese mines struggled to produce, while at least minimize their losses while producing claimed they were going offline for maintenance Twenty separate provinces experienced some in decades. The global supply chain was thrown into further or shut down production. While the crisis passed, the bedrock of the embarrassment of a system. China's stuck between a rock and a hard The rock is the expectation, both domestic economic growth, and the hard place is the China knows it needs to cut back. It knows this both because of the ironclad its own practical experience. Less than a decade ago, China, and specifically in the world. And this wasn't merely unpleasant: while have attributed one, two, or three thousand air pollution in China. The issue escalated to such a degree that pay to staff sent to the country to compensate existing in China. The largest single factor behind this tremendous and household heating purposes. While in the decade since the country has in improving its air quality, it's still and is still the source of myriad excess deaths air quality crisis served a demonstration a very real, very tangible cost. Simultaneously, the world recognizes it needs worst future of unlivable temperatures, destructive The world, and China itself, also recognize single-largest source of carbon emissions--responsible even if per-capita emissions are lower. And remember, its trend-line looks like this. All eyes are on China to play its part. So, as the world descended on Glasgow for China made a commitment: the nation would neutrality by 2060. This is aggressive. Japan said it will reach carbon neutrality giving itself 43 years, and the EU a full China is saying they'll do it in thirty, higher than any others'. But this is China--this is the country that This is the country that said a mere 300 died This is the country that says all that's of Uyghur terrorists. Can any Chinese commitment be considered truthful? Well, when it comes to climate, it's possible. At the 2009 iteration of the UN Conference its carbon emissions per unit of GDP--a metric to 2005 levels by 2020. According to the United Nations itself, China At COP21 in Paris, in 2015, the country committed by 65% relative to 2005 levels by 2030, and to hit that. So that's to say, based on the past promises, by 2030. But... back when originally setting its carbon intensity was that China was supposedly already on the according to International Energy Agency data, five years after the 2009 commitment relative Again, carbon intensity is a measure of emissions a reduction in carbon intensity was to be to shift from industrial to service-based. The new 2030 carbon peaking goal, however, path, and with just seven years left on the it can get on that path. China's climate commitments came before where the nation's priorities lie. A majority of the world's planned future and just last year, Beijing authorized another to go online, reversing their prior commitments Analysts and observers have also noted a marked bringing up the need for energy security in And in December 2021, at China's annual finally suggested what everyone else already their emissions targets as they focus on their The economic story of China over the past the era of record-setting GDP growth, placing by the continued march towards superpower But it's clearer than ever that China's output, and the carbon output has to stop--for placed by the international community, and change. So what's happening now is a tenuous dance--they but that relies on taking one step back on They can take one step forward on growth, diplomatic stature. China can manage and mitigate, but at the out that renewables can't come soon enough, the pace of growth enabled only by low-cost, It's economy versus climate, social order day after. Having met plenty of Wendover viewers, I know of you are highly-motivated people, continuously they be personal, career, or a mix of both. So, that means that you're probably the and fills it up with work, passions, social So, my question to you is: why waste your Planning meals, driving or walking to the in line to check out: all that's unnecessary Fresh. Basically, HelloFresh is a meal-kit that gives any of the downsides. You select what you want to eat from more on your doorstep with all the ingredients This cuts out the boring bits--shopping and cooking, and in about thirty minutes, you This is all surprisingly affordable and fairly of ingredients cuts food waste down by 25%, their streamlined supply chain means the carbon-emissions that of an equivalent bought through a grocery I've used HelloFresh since 2020, before made hundreds of delicious meals through them I'd really recommend giving them a try, you eat, especially since you can click the use code Wendover65 for 65% off plus free