- There is no hope, Sire. For twenty years, we followed you. You We cannot save Paris. The Austrians are in Versailles. The Cossacks are watering They can hear There are four nations, Abdicate. You will be allowed to retire to the - It is an honourable exile, Sire. You must sign, Sire. Why? So you all can What were you before me? You must abdicate, Sire. Listen to me, Ney. If there's anything I despise, What can I do? What? I sent to the Emperor of Russia What can we do? What can we do? What can we do? We can fight! I fortify Paris. I disengage from We must consolidate and mobilise. There are no men to mobilise. The army does not want Paris Wellington. Wellington? Why is it always Wellington? Wellington. Are you afraid of him France will not follow you. France will follow me to the stars, You have no choice. Oh, Ney. The throne? It's an overdecorated It's what's behind My brains, my ambitions, my desires, And above all my will. I can't believe my ears. You stand there waving a piece of I will not! I will not! All his men? - When? There is nothing left to do. Elba. Why Elba? Marshal Marmot has surrendered to Soldiers - - Of my Old Guard - - After twenty years - Goodbye. France has fallen. So remember me. Though I love you all, With this kiss, remember me. Goodbye, my soldiers. Goodbye, my sons. And goodbye, my children. Your Majesty, We can thank God he is Let us not dramatise yet. Napoleon and his thousand men Marshal Soult, you will keep Marshal Ney... You will be the first - I know you love this man. But I will bring him back How they exaggerate all this. &quot;In an iron cage.&quot; Nobody asked for that. - There's no way around. Present! Soldiers of the Fifth... If you want to kill your Emperor - - Here I am. Fire! Long live the Emperor! Follow me to Grenoble. It was the cry of injured honour From Elba, I saw the rights of France My victory is certain. My eagles Straight? Come then. We will I have come back. I have come back - Bourbons to the compost! I am France and France is me! Napoleon has come back to us! I will never forget your face, Ney, - I did it for France. I understand you made a promise to What was it exactly? I said I would bring you That is what I heard. The fat king must be He has corrupted Perhaps the people will - As they let him come. He is back! The Emperor is back! Long live the Emperor! - He will lead us to glory again! Home! Bring the hero home! Goulaincourt, Molien, Mole, Fouche. When France wakes up tomorrow, Drouot. Let me tell you something. Life's most precious quality And you Drouot, are a rare man, - With all my heart, Sire. Soult. - I see you got my invitation. I understand you are no longer - Obviously not, Sire. Silence! You are to be - I accept, Sire. Madame... Your son Ferdinand was killed when No. Musset must go. We need more Your son was very brave I am sorry, Madame, that fate To my dear Prince Alexis. I did not usurp the crown. I found it in the gutter. And I picked it up - - With my sword. And it was the people, Alexis - - The people - - Who put it on my head. He who saves a nation To my beloved wife. I beg you as my wife and as - Please return to me My son. To the Prince Regent, England. You have been my most generous But now I want peace. Therefore I protest My son is my future. And I would rather see him dead than They have declared me Europe has declared war against me. They dignify you, Sire, Dignify? Dignify? They make it legal that any clown - Still in Brussels, Sire. They started the war. Yes, let 'em bleed. I will discuss Marshal Soult, Sire. It's always urgent. Show him in. The armies of Wellington - Separated? I wonder what history We'll push Blucher aside It will be a bloody day. - Yes, Sire. Everything depends on one big battle, Thank you, Soult. But at Marengo, I was young. Uncle Gordon paraded his whole regiment So I just rode up and down Mama, you chose such big ones. You really are We ladies just have to follow the drum. Where would society be - They are the salt of England. Nothing but beggars and scoundrels. Gin Yet you expect them Out of duty? I doubt if even Bonaparte - Bony is not a gentleman. On a battlefield his hat is worth When we get to Paris, let me look at - Mama admires him. Is it true, that he is a monster? He eats laurels and drinks blood. And when will you He hasn't given me any idea. Cross the river. Tomorrow we - God willing, Sire. - Don't let young Hay get killed. I don't want Sarah to wear black Dickie has promised to get me - Without any blood on it. Where will you stick - Under the right arm, sir. When you meet a cuirassier, you'll - Never mind his helmet. The French Madam, by your leave. I have never seen - Picton can't walk in a ball room. But one dances with them - Who's he? That gentleman - It's Napoleon, sir... With all his forces. - Where? Charleroi. - Do you wish me to stop the ball? All officers obliged to ladies Uxbridge, move the cavalry to Charleroi. Charleroi. May I go with the army? He allowed ladies in Spain. - Madeleine, a battle is no place... What could be simpler than Charleroi? In a night's march, He has gained a victory If Blucher stays in Belgium, On that promise, Blucher would - These four roads here... If we can't hold him there, Charleroi. By God, that man does war honour. A field of glory Nevertheless, 16,000 Prussian dead. Wellington's on the run at - Then what are you doing here? Why didn't you follow him? - Where are my reinforcements? If Wellington's free to choose his Marshal Blucher, the sector is I am seventy-two This steel is my word. I am too old to break it. If Wellington runs for the coast, I do not trust the English. But - I have ordered the retreat to Wavre. But God help us Grouchy. Gerard. You take one third of my army Don't let them regroup or consolidate But Blucher might go Blucher is not a scatter of birds. Enough's enough! Let's not have any disagreements. Grouchy. Gerard. You can go. Go, go, go. We'll beat Napoleon next time! Blucher will win! Blucher will turn defeat Old Blucher. Damned good licking So, we go, too. I suppose in England Can't help that. - It's mad. It's all madness. If Bony kicked the Prussians' arse, A retreating army is never A few shots from the French - I like the cut of your men, Gordon. Meat and eggs from the cradle up, All from my own acres. Some there could call me Indeed. - That must be the whole army. Never interrupt your enemy when he's It's a bad position, Wellington. If they push us back it'll be like a There is no undergrowth there. A whole army can slip through it It's suicidal, You may be surprised to know - And I've kept it in my pocket. Obviously, he's no student of Caesar. He has the trees at his back. Maybe he'll leave tonight. Come on. You're nosing your way There you are! Look, keep quiet Forgive me, sir, but... If you took the troops into confidence, If I thought my hair knew - I'd shave it off and wear a wig. Here comes old Atty. - Your old friends, sir. I hang and flog more of them - Good evening. A fine night, sir. Take off your pack, sir. - Me, sir? - Open it, sir. I knew something queer was Where did you acquire - This, sir? No, sir. Do you know the penalty - Stoppage of gin, sir? Sir, I have to report this - And I'm trying to He knows how to defend a hopeless Play the goat next time, Paddy, I don't know what they'll do to Dirty night. Hard morrow. - De Lancey. If I fail tomorrow - - I hope God will have mercy on me. Why is he standing there? Has he lost his caution? There must If only Blucher could outrun Grouchy, All depends on the Prussians. Why does Grouchy only do The muddy slope will help us. But the roads could slow Blucher, Tell him the roads are - True? Tell him to walk faster. You may fight your battle, - Where is Grouchy and his men? He is not between us. - What is the time, Hay? Muffling, I must ask you Oblige me with a fresh horse, sir. I beg Marshal Blucher to come Don't you see, Uxbridge? And catches the Prussians Then it would be just With such a risk, We have to rely on Gentlemen. Who did you give your watch to, Hay? Somerset, sir. Expecting to die tomorrow? Having them Get your watch back. Tomorrow I will Shall I send for Doctor Larrey? Should I call the doctor? No, no, no. No doctor. What are you looking at? What? Get out. Out, out, out. I mustn't be sick. My body is dying, Will it never stop raining? - We're 140,000 men. That's counting the French as well. Eat your soup Have you seen our new Corporal? - 'Morning, Corporal! Did you have bacon for breakfast? - 'Morning, Ramsey. - 'Morning, gentlemen. This one. - What are you all staring at? That was last night. I've never felt better in my life. I'm afraid this afternoon, We attack at nine. It will not dry before noon, Sire. We've fought in mud before. That's true. - What's that? The priest in Plancenoit Well, he won't have much I'm not asleep, Drouot. Sire, we need four hours. The ground Waiting four hours Wellington won't hold us an hour with - I cannot answer for my cannon. It would be better Battles are lost and won If Wellington were on the move, But he is sitting In his favour? Sir? Uxbridge. In case anything should happen To beat the French. Dramatic fellows, these French. Quite beautiful. You're a lucky fellow, Hay, to see - Your Grace! Over there, near the road! So there's the great thief Napoleon has ridden within range. Certainly not. Commanders have something better Killing is a brotherly business, - Shall I shut them up, sir? No, indulge it. Anything that wastes time Normally, I don't like cheering. But there's always a time Would you kindly announce me? - Who's the lad who leathers the French? I've no need of a white horse - Who gives salt to Marshal Soult? - Who gave Johnny Francois a jolt? - Who will peck Boney's bum? - Who makes the &quot;Parlez-vous&quot; to run? - Who's the boy with the hooky nose? - Who's the lad who leathers the French? - Who's the boy to kick Boney's arse? Come on, get me out. Drouot was right. The only enemy I fear is nature. The battle orders, Sire. There are more orders here than You can tell by the position of his guns He is afraid of his right. All right. Therefore that's where We'll have a diversionary action. We tease his right side. If he weakens - Then I will know the calibre Gentlemen... today's fox. - Clever chap, your tailor, Hay. Remind me of that de Lancey. For the enemy. - La Bedoyere? Do you have children? Yes. I have one son. Very young. And would you want him Yes. - Yes? Why? See me... I have a son. I would give anything to see him. But not here. I wouldn't want him His main strength What he shows me is only a facade. We'll begin the attack there. Well, that opens the ball. Thirty-five minutes past eleven. Thank you, gentlemen. Fire! Battalion, advance! He's committed Foye's division. What he seems to intend - Will be as different as We can move the 95th down, sir. I will not run around like a wet hen. He hasn't moved. This Englishman has two qualities Caution and, above all, courage. He hasn't moved. Now we move It seems he's swinging - His guns move so smoothly. I doubt if Byland's brigade Never mind. If they don't run first. They're coming on And we'll have to meet them This one's going to take Gin up, boys. The French will have it - Dick? Have a sup of gin Remind me to thank him - Would you say there are many of them? It's like the whole of bloody hell Nothing frightens me more than being The 72nd will prepare to advance! Before we go, Uxbridge. Savage stuff, Ponsonby. You don't see its like anymore. An old Jew in Alexandria Blend? My father was killed by the French. His horse got bogged in a field Seven lancers had him - Bad luck, eh, Uxbridge? Yes, particularly bad luck. Byland's brigade has broken. Now is the time for Get your bastards up onto the crest. Don't hurry yourself, Pic. Get forward, damn you. The 92nd will advance! Has Wellington nothing Fire! On, you drunken rascals! Now, Scots Greys, now! Those men on grey horses They are the noblest cavalry That may be. That may be. But we'll match them We're the hard boys! Charge for the guns! Sound the recall! Stop that useless noise. Get back! Sound the recall! Lancers on your left! Look out on the left! Give these to my son. By God, sir, the cannons are calling - Our duty is to... My orders from the Emperor were precise. If you will not march to the sound And divide my force? And maybe France would be right. - La Bedoyere! What's moving there? I see men marching in column. He's right. I see horses now. Horses, but whose? I think it's Grouchy's blue, sir. It's what we feared, sir. Damn it, Hay, your eyes are young. I think they're... Prussians. That's not necessary. But as far as we are concerned, - Is that understood? Wellington wages war in a new way. We'll have to move him off it. Where's Grouchy? La Haye Sainte. The one who wins Where is Grouchy? I need those men. Where is Grouchy? Sire, are you wounded? As your doctor I advise you to come I'm all right. After Austerlitz - - I said I would have Now it's ten years - Listening? After I am dead and gone, It will say you extended Is that all I'll leave my son? He's concentrating his cavalry. Smoke without fire. - A hard pounding, gentlemen. Lord Hay, General Lambert - But, Your Grace... General order. The army retires 100 paces! The 27th will take position It's bad policy to stay near a tree I'll take your impudent advice. Wellington's retreating! Trumpeter, sound the advance! - Le Fevre, are you with me? Fire! Withdraw to square! What's Ney doing? Can't I leave the field for a minute? How can the cavalry go forward Remember your wives, your sweethearts, Think of England! Come on, you bastards! Let me go! For God's sake, - Let me go. We've never seen each other. How can we? How can we? How can we? How can we? Ney requests infantry, Sire. - General Lambert needs reinforcements. De Lancey, move that battery down Get the surgeon over here! The farm house is ours! Soult, write a letter to Paris - What time do you think it is? Tell them that at six o'clock - And won the battle. No. The farm house has fallen, sir. It appears, Uxbridge, Give me night. Or give me Blucher. Wellington's beaten. Now move the Old Guard forward. Sire, if you go any further, - A general should die on the field. I abandon my position on the left. Here. Every brigade, Put every gun to them, sir. Very good, sir. The lads are down to But they'll stand. If Blucher doesn't come through now, Good beans, Wellington. If there's anything I know Sire, the Prussians are in the woods! I should have burned Berlin. Raise the black flags, children. I'll shoot any man I see Onward! On, my children! Now, Maitland! Now's your time! To the guard! - It's Grouchy! Run! All is lost! Run! Why do you stand there What are you afraid of? You call yourselves soldiers! La Bedoyere, the Prussians are too Don't you understand? Wellington I was in this position at Marengo. I lost the battle at five o'clock, Is it Prussians? Up to them! Up to them! Am I to fight alone? Are you French? Stand with me! Are you the Guard? One more hour Don't you know me? I'm Ney, Marshal of France! Sir, the Prussians are here! The Old Guard has broken! Damn me, Uxbridge, if I ever saw - The whole line will advance. Straight ahead, to be sure. Stand firm on the right! Form square! By God, sir, I've lost my leg. By God, sir, so you have. Get forward with him! Stand by the flag! Stand! Sire, you must get out! If I die, it will be here Please, Sire. The enemy must not touch you. - Sire, the battle is lost. Where is Grouchy? Vive la France! You must stay alive, Sire. Stand and form square! We're doing murder, Your Grace. I hope to God - - I've fought my last battle. Brave Frenchmen! You have done all His Grace, the Duke of Wellington, Will you agree to surrender? Merde! Fire! Why do we? Why? Why? Next to a battle lost, You must leave They will chain you - - Like Prometheus to a rock. Where the memory of your