Good morning, everybody, and welcome back TV show on a neverending victory lap. After without letting a single drop of his blood Cossack has taken advantage of the power the ultimate goal of scratching Rockman's paint. Wily? I think you already know the answer. The rules are identical as always: we without ever taking a single point of the run is forfeit and we go all the way we'll be doing this run on the Rockman Classics including Save States, Rewinds, Autofire, it'll be as if we were playing on the original With the rules set: let's route our suffering! this time. First: Toadman for Rain Flush, one of Brightman, who is weak to Rain Flush and gives our arsenal. Third: Pharoahman, who is weak which, while not used as much as the weapon in our arsenal. Additionally, in granting the very useful Balloon mobility tools in our arsenal and all remaining Toadman's stage will actually be one of the failed runs. During this first section, slowly shot before each penguin and firing at them right you can safely slide below every enemy until the too high to shoot. Instead lure them to spawn and you'll be free to chain slides below every be able to easily breeze through the waterways attack pattern memorized. After briefly opening its eyeballs. The bomb is super easy to dodge, to bait them before they're fired. Just before extra damage in and the second to ensure you're the eyeballs will be sent straight forward and of the eyes opening is different depending on after tossing a bomb. You'll need both timings the snail, this time with pits at the edges and overall strategy is the same. Note that Rockman the waterfall. Use that as your default position, snail's attacks. After it's dead, continue onto are mostly easy, though the third can be scary. I offer no tips. He is impossible. With Rain Flush in the bag, we enter Brightman's until the boss fight, since all enemies are buster. The grasshopper spike hallways might look autoscrollers. One note, however, that you should has jumped. Attempting to jump right as its embarassing you for the tenth of a second you have the final room since at first glance it seems if you miss shooting the incoming lightbulbs, Brightman's stage is the easiest in the initial the hardest of the initial eight. First thing's is programmed to freeze you in place when his own worry if you suck at brainthinking, though, Ever coincidentally luckily, if your first for example with a single buster pellet, then so long as you deal exactly 4 damage with each dealt with Rain Flush. We'll unfortunately still which is its own can of bulbs. Brightman has two your current location, or firing a semi-random set go down, one will go up, and one will go straight opposite side of the screen, only the straight with a jump. Brightman actually favors shooting at stuck in an endless cycle of pellets while his though, we need a strategy that beats Brightman in a row he'll end up in the middle of the arena, be able to hit you at ground level. To account for and jump directly in front of Brightman's face. and you'll be able to jump over all three that element of RNG. And obviously, be prepared Once Brightman's burned out, we obtain Flash with Rain Flush in Pharoahman's stage. As I'm unleashing its damage shortly after the missile and during each trek through the desert can touch you. If rationed well you'll have the screen. Rather than jumping down, use Rush with Flash Stopper equipped. Fire Flash Stopper along the surface of the desert, mashing the fire but we need our timing to be precise, and Flash whatever reason, Flash Stopper's countdown making it ultimately last longer. That but on this screen I've timed things out effect will deactivate and be available for spawning scorpion. After jumping over it you'll the end of this path is Item #B, though we won't Rockman will teleport into Pharoahman's pyramid, capable of damaging shielded enemies, so bats along the moving platform corridor. The thanks to Flash Stopper. Use it when approaching place so you can take them out with buster shots. in. Run back and forth to the final mummy and farm 3/4s full Flash Stopper energy before jumping into full, mash the fire button. Since Pharoahman is leaving him open to buster shots. Keep spamming Stopper is about to deactivate to ensure it gets as this is, sorry, but Pharoahman isn't going There exists a relatively rare glitch that can details since this is pretty stupidly specific Pharoahman's invulnerability frames' activation Flash Stopper activates or deactivates. However effectively random, and if it occurs Pharoahman To anticipate this, keep a bit of distance from keep trying to deal damage while getting a be a thin opening to weave between Pharoahman's Once Pharoahman is dead, take a break from You could come here later if you want, but I remaining bosses, and we won't need any more gear launch Rain Flush as you approach Mets, sweeping minibosses aren't immune to Flash Stopper, so kill it before it exists. At the halfway point several items. Don't grab it immediately, though: per stage visit. Leave and re-enter the screen roll. Keep re-rolling and eventually Eddie will in the manta ray corridor while jumping over and one, which you should freeze with Flash Stopper intentionally suck and fall in the next pit like Item #W, a mobility item that we'll barely effort spent obtaining it. After you'll teleport the same strategies as before apply. In the last you stand relatively close-ish, so be patient To safely defeat Diveman, we'll be abusing into a predictable sequence. His only two choice between those two will likely but on closer inspection he's actually only with no random variables whatsoever. If react the same way every time. He begins by then slide away to the opposite side of the he'll now fire three missiles before charging be repeated. Just keep an eye on your distance: if firing missiles to dive towards you instead. Holy crap, it's windy outside too. cuz if anything's gonna make my Holy crap, this has gotta be a new high score chart for longest time spent Hahahahahaaa! Next target: Ringman! Fun fact, in practice I it is not. Sometimes the turret will fire above If it fires below, run to the left to get yourself climb open with Rain Flush to clear every enemy of the turrets get a shot off. Once at the top, and mash Fire. If timed correctly, the Hippo possessed, which serves absolutely no purpose the missiles it fires will, making it functionally the following screen, swap to Pharoah Shot to take while hugging the right wall. The Ring miniboss is wall, and will die from a single charged Pharoah who can be safely demonized. Following along, and defeat the upcoming roller enemies before they use a combination of buster shots and Rain Flush important note: the timing on Rain Flush is If it has enough time to activate its rocket you fire too close to the top of the screen and the rain will stall a few seconds. And while if you scroll the screen too far away After this screen is a second Ring miniboss, hugging the wall. Rather than fighting, jump over nope. Ringman himself has a very simple and easy exception: the very first ring he throws can be a Balloon as soon as the battle begins, then jump Jump over Ringman as he approaches, slide for a shot back as he's landing from his own jump. while he's running towards you, but obviously that Next up in the weakness chain is Dustman. Do not when the stage begins, otherwise a shield will Flash Stopper. For some likely obscure programming specific direction, like the shields, can be the world frozen all the way until you reach these Shot. Not only can you aim Pharoah Shot up and as its own hitbox, protecting you from any enemies with the buster. The trickiest segment is this immediately after a crushing wall, leaving no wall rises high enough, and focus on taking the cieling. Try not to trigger the Met's attack then run forward and buster it as usual. Timing it appears. I've only failed a handful of runs Met early. Using Flash Stopper and Rain Flush, without resistance. Time for Dustman. He'll always four ways diagonally as soon as it reaches your While this can be skillfully jumped over with you can substitute the skill with Balloon. For swapping between Balloon and Ring every time on which attacks he randomly uses, but regardless Dustman finally living up to his namesake, On the first screen, spam the buster in the their bouncing projectile safely. Against turrets kills the turrets and projectiles in one hit. Joe on the next screen. Swap back to Rain Flush entire rest of the stage can be cheesed through stop for a moment in a safe spot just before frozen while you're in motion. Pay very close incredibly easy to mess up. Enter the battle with and take a bathroom break. Skullman, more than any so if the player does absolutely nothing, and shamelessly steal it. Otherwise, Skullman Right while Skullman is awaiting input, he'll presses the B button while Skullman is awaiting pull up his shield for a random amount of time, with the same move three times in a row, opting listen to the A button or down directional input, slides without triggering a response. You can even when the B button is pressed, not released, but the entertainment value. Regardless, since he only plan until you're ready. Bait him into firing, and jump just before the third shot is fired. so you won't have to dodge it after landing. him during the barrage, when he's not paying try to hit him just before he lands. If timed invulnerability frames end. While the initial 4 smaller projectiles a moment after, which can in place for his shield to lower, shoot him with to note he'll start awaiting input immediately you find it safer to run away and dodge the to patiently slide. Whatever you choose, repeat We now enter the final of the initial eight about long. As always, Rain Flush and Flash Important note in this spike hallway, your maximum jump height doesn't actually reach Drillman himself. Drillman was one of the hardest but with that finalized strategy he became one hug an edge of the screen, wait a couple seconds, timing memorized, but the safe window is very need to react to his every movement instantly. location, or run towards you while firing Drill with nearly perfect pre-emptive movement required Pause buffer just as Drillman is acting to see he's walking towards you, swap to Balloon in dodging. You'll still need to return to prior knowledge to time safely. Drillman always and stops firing once he reachs a wall. If he fire four total shots. Otherwise, you'll just on your own memorization of the timing. It takes a relevant knowledge, damageless Drillman becomes dives underground with 1HP and you have some finish Drillman off while underground. It barely With the initial eight down, we have every single the Dr. Cossack stages. Important note, our for the remainder of the game. Since enemy drops each weapon at a specific time can vary wildly. which weapons to refill, and save ammo with opportunity. After Rain Flushing the first set of Skeleton Joe. It's finally time to bring out our unfortunately received a very necessary software but can still be used to skip most of this who you can kill with a hovering Pharoah Shot. Now remember that Pharoah Shot will only expend ammo hovering sun is completely free. Additionally, and holding the button at a time Rockman isn't grabbing the weapon ammo, finish off the rest of until this first weapon pellet, which you should than enough Rush ammo for the remainder of the sure you climb down and back up the lower ladder hazard is predictably timed. Equip Ring Boomerang I'm actually not 100% certain on the pattern its bullets on a timer, and will dive downward at it's never actually dived while I was sliding find evidence otherwise. Your attacks will only so time them out patiently. Don't rush your at you at just the wrong time. Even with cautious In Cossack Stage 2, take the left ladder, drink level design, Rain Flush the upcoming skull Spam buster shots during the journey to take out your elevation, and make a couple stops for energy hold down the charge, and let the upcoming Switch to Balloon. It's not going to make these safer than platforming the old-fashioned way. the spikes are vertical, jump past as they change they turn horizontal. In the upper room, proper single Balloon. Rain flush to the end of the next but screw economics and conveniently ride Rush Jet free and lead to the boss fight against Square simple both to understand and to dodge. If it moves at slow speed, jump and slide inside. It all predictably timed. Jump up with Dust Crusher attack opportunity if you need to get your game where my fight-or-flight instincts kick in, Keep calm and get in a shot every once in a Cossack Stage 3 begins with an autoscroller. Other just two turrets on the top path. Memorize their right when they're spawning in. Important note if you attach to a platform with wire near the you can clear this screen by sipping a latte legally being pushed upward by Wire, and he finds a ceiling, which will probably take you can still cancel Wire as usual. Notice the moved Rockman to the right, he just needs a little Rockman is back on-screen you can grab the ladder and while it's technically safer than platforming, are two large weapon energy pickups along Back on track, Ring Boomerang the sawblades if you stall too long it's possible for the climbing the ladder. The next autoscrolling If you're curious, yes, you can do the more nonviable. Not only would you be skipping and apparently Dr. Cossack managed to get his Equip Pharoah Shot, and very very importantly hold door. Actually, also, double super important demo footage for this video. Hit the boss door holding the jump button. This makes Rockman bop and thus required. This boss comes in two: the while the second moves faster and rotates along try to hit it with your hovering charge. Not only you'll retain your level of charge and can still the fire button. As for dodging, keep as much cockroach is travelling below. When it's so long as you're not standing directly below either, pausing the game now risks messing Once both roaches are dead, you enter the final make sure you make the jump to grab both weapon you fail, your run isn't forfeit, but you in the next room, and don't worry, the top from hitting you, which is enough. When you reach ammo-expensive of the two. From that point on, you Just one note, the spawning skulls make for a low, but if you rationed well this shouldn't be reason and enter the final boss battle against the against the wall, turn around, wait for Cossack to be enough to beat Cossack, but it's basically notice that sometimes you can hit him twice with shot's timing, but please resist the temptation can deal extra damage, I consider it too great Buster shots. Cossack has only two attacks: and an automatic grab if ever Rockman is standing is sliding instead. Play it safe, watch for the or three hits in. Surprise plot twist: Kalinka she was behind this all along! She firmly believes deserve to save the world, convincing her father face as a birthday present! Finally able to stop will insist on apologizing and explain to Kalinka embraced during the length of the most needlessly which incredibly coincidentally lasts as long wash your hands just in time to see the end of dead as an alien zombie! They don't address this her dad pretty please for the necronomicon. Time Wily Stage 1 is full of Mets, in three varieties: hit with either the buster or Rain Flush. Ballet or 1 hit with a fully charged Pharoah or Buster first two rooms, then the buster on the remaining the space to retreat easily and Rain Flush ammo swap to Rush Marine. This might seem unnecessary, are going to be shot, and it's a lot easier to movement. Swap out of Rush when the path drops then use a Pharoah Shot charge to eliminate the can be safely jumped through without item usage, the spike gap, then either Wire or Balloon to if you were lucky enough to get a small energy strategies. On the final screen, use a charged then charged buster shots on the following two one of the most stressful boss fights in the he'll come out of his helmet, wait a random amount into his helmet. Upon landing, he creates and additionally will spawn four Mets from the of two and walk towards the screen exit. Shortly back up and repeat the pattern. Ring Boomerang him before he locks you at the edge of the screen. while dodging its even more giant hitbox. Going question. That leaves travelling above. Stick getting ready to jump away. How to deal with the wiggle room, pause buffer while keeping your know where the Mets will be landing, adjust Ring Boomerang. If you don't have enough wiggle timing its firing to kill the Mets in midair. Once your first Balloon early, but stall the second you. Make sure you're not still standing on the Balloon is technically still legally grounded, good run, you'll only have to pass above Met Wily Stage 2's stage design should be pretty easy already know how to safely deal with. My only equip and charge up Pharoah Shot, sit back, and before the true endgame, letting you sit here appears. While it's not technically necessary to a bunch of guaranteed energy drops ahead, it all exception of the Rush and Wire items which will of the trek to the boss fight against Tako Trash on Tako, who will randomly launch a fireball position. Your goal is to land a single hit on its abandon all logic and reason and literally walk and 100% safe to win the fight buster-only. If I'd love to know too, because isn't this silly! battle with a damaging contact hitbox. For if Tako Trash receives Drill Missile damage, that stopping the player from giving Tako a hug. I'm the keyboard and accidentally copy pasted the hitbox, which apparently is a thing that can just it's incredibly convenient and stupid, so abuse Next up is the second final level, Wily Stage 3. grab the final E Tank, and drop down the left shields below. Hug the left wall while falling to weapon energy, and continue your descent into the be mostly identical to the first battles, but some must be fought before Dustman and Ringman. Drillman is the only one of the three without a is largely decided by RNG. You'll almost always I'm sure you realize the exact moment you leave times in a row. Also worth noting is Pharoahman him harder to hit if you freeze him in midair, encounter his glitch, so this should altogether use all your original strats and pray your fingers drenched in sweat. With all eight dead, equip the and arguably the hardest boss battle in the entire him, charge up the buster, and sip a latte while If you thought I was joking when I said this was this fight has two phases. In Phase 2, Wily's and he'll take to firing energy blasts at a right. These energy blasts will be aimed toward fired straight foward. As you can see, standing zone, but safety is meaningless without a with remaining ammo in our arsenal are capable some kind of danger. Even if we hypothetically had I consider it too big a risk as Wily could back bide your time, sip a couple lattes, and keep ideal situation is to enter the danger zone as of the screen and currently moving to the right space to maneuver Rockman while also giving Wily Wily is moving away from you, his energy blasts Wily wiggles almost as much as his eyebrows, presenting an opportunity, at which point your it might be best you wait until next time. Once the necessary bravery, run out, detonate and slide back into safety. With proper the energy blasts. Unfortunately, there's no Nooooooooo! Agh! *After* I It unfortunately took me a couple embarrassing tight spot, do NOT try to dodge. Instead, pull out will negate each energy blast on contact. This in the series. Be patient and think through every cool-headed player will be able to take down Wily Machine #4 destroyed, Wily will escape into the Wily Stage 4. Side note, no, using Rain Flush to the game. Wily in his capsule is a completely and the former is a completely optional enemy Methodically buster through the final caterpillar final final boss door and get ready for a Wily Capsule is one of the easier damageless to beat him after learning his pattern, either with his aimed electric shot, which or with his direct contact hitbox. The contact visible, which coincides with the energy shot Wily can only appear in preset locations, and the a grounded Rockman is at the dead center reliably dodge both Wily and the electric orb, watch for the orb's spawn location, and escape Nice! Ahahahahahaaa! I was so worried like right at the edge of the screen I thought I was gonna get hit after I With Wily's resurrected ambition the Rockman 4 Mr. Perfect run is Mission Complete! Before heading out, special shoutout to Youtube behind each of the initial eight bosses. The if you're not planning on doing the run yourself they apparently made that video as a part of which is still in development. Has nothing And if you were interested in throwing money at my of preventing the ends of the videos from dragging $10 tier on Patreon on October 1st. To hopefully all commentated videos will become available to lose a few pounds. On a related note, special Charles Surett! Hey! I'm sorry Charles! I-I bet didn't get called out earlier. I just somehow, You're so cool Charles! Everybody say happy video sucks and how to improve in the comments which somehow you managed to comment before this