Finland has been declared the for the seventh time in a row. Saunas. Saunas make people happy. The people are nice and kind and they help It's safe to live here. Finnish people are just kind of casual and What is so special about Finnish lifestyle? It's called &quot;Sisu&quot;. Sisu. Sisu. What is Sisu? What does it have What can we learn from the Finns I traveled to the Finnish capital Around five and half million people live in Finland, in the north of Europe. and forests, sauna culture, the northern North of the polar circle, the sun won't So, how can Finland be the Finland tops the list of the while my country, Germany, is &quot;only&quot; It seems, my happiness could use a happiness ambassadors. They were hired by the PR campaign. I'm interested in learning My first mentor of the day is Lena Salmi. Hi, I'm Lena. The former sports journalist is Besides swimming and bouldering, she skateboarding - a passion she Can skateboarding make me happy too? So, safety first. So, first up is skateboarding. I used to skate quite a while, so let's see if I can do it. And I learn some new tricks as well. Then, how to get street credibility. Ok, street credibility? Not yet, not yet... It is not about your skills, it's about your will. One guy once said, that he's not the best That's a good point in my opinion. What is your tip for other people Just do things that you're interested in doing. Try another one. But don't - don't stay at your home sitting It was a pleasure meeting you. Thank you so much for having me The United Nations' World Happiness happy people are in different countries. positive and negative emotions Finland scores particularly well for its good income, and benefit from a strong social corruption. Furthermore, there's a high level Denmark and Iceland follow in 2nd and 3rd place, while Afghanistan ranks 143rd, But there are also other as happiness researcher Frank Martela points out. Sometimes when we think about happiness, feelings and emotions. laughter and smiling and stuff like that. of emotions, it has turned out that that actually central American countries tend Finland is only 14th or something like that. The reason for such a high average level of extremely happy people in Finland but it's more there are less unhappy people in the country. but the government can remove quite many think is the secret to Finnish happiness. Let's see if Finnish design can make me happy. I'm on my way to meet happiness Art was never my strong suit at school...But as I Tero, what are we about to do now? We're actually going to do So, this is one of my most popular products. I've got to warn you, I'm a little bit clumsy. Don't worry, I think we will survive. Tero is one of a total of five Finnish happiness are supposed to give insights into the Finnish Design is highly valued in Finland. For Tero, his work as a designer is about more What I love in ceramic is also that it is kind of you don't think of anything else, you're not what is happening. You're just focusing the one manufacturing things. And also, it can be and you're actually making something from the that's something very fulfilling and After my rather active making pottery is a great way This is my sausage so far... Ehm, yeah. But actually, Tero did it before so We can say it's your sausage. So much happiness, The Finns must have For many years, Finland struggled But over the last 20 years, thanks in part reduced by around 50 percent. And the image of necessarily true, compared to other European and per capita, alcohol consumption But doesn't the long and dark As regards to the weather, we know that something that affect people's happiness: When And when it's the first sunny day after a long at the same time people are getting used to when you live in Finland, you get used to the too much effect on your Maybe it's down to one aspect of the Finnish It's called Sisu. To quote Mika Hakkinen, it's basically It's just like the mentality to kind Like an attitude that you're not going to give up I hope good things await me at my last &quot;Happiness Hacker&quot; number three, chef Luka Balac. He runs three restaurants in Helsinki with they focus on sustainability Like here, in the &quot;Elm&quot; restaurant. It And how can he make people happy as a chef? Oh yeah, this definitely makes me happy. Cooking for me means, bringing like around one table. And that means So definitely food has a high impact force with us as restaurants that we are in three hours that the customers are with us. So At the end of the day, happiness is different ways. As I learned today, staying and sharing good moments with others What is it that makes you