Over 5,000 years ago a man climbed up through in the Otztal Alps on the border of what is now Italy and Austria. As he climbed he was shot in the back with an arrow and bled to death, and then it began to snow and he was frozen preserved for 5,000 years. That man was Otzi the Iceman and today we know that he ate a last meal of wild goat, deer, and einkorn wheat. So thank you to Hellofresh for sponsoring this video as I recreate the last meal of Otzi the Iceman this time on Tasting History. So the kitchen is still being worked on so I am in my mybar area where I usually do- sometimes do Drinking hHstory but today it's Tasting History, and actually it's not really Tasting History it's Tasting Pre-History because Otzi was around before there was any form of writing. There may have been some writing in the Sumer area and Egypt but where Otzi was in Central Europe no writing. He lived during a time before the pyramids, before Stonehenge but not before farming, and that's something that I find really interesting about Otzi, it's about when he lived because this is a period where farming had come up through Turkey and the Balkans and it pretty much established itself all over Europe, but there are still little pockets of the hunter-gatherer lifestyle that are still eeking out a living in Europe and his last meal has ingredients from both of these worlds and they come together in his last meal, and I find it fascinating that we even know what his researchers have been able to study his stomach and digestive tract and see what it was that he was eating in the hours and even days before he died. And just a couple hours before that fateful Arrow hit him in the back he had a meal of red deer and ibex which is a wild but then he also had einkorn in his stomach and that is a and has really remained unchanged over the last 12,000 years. Now einkorn I got, easy. Red deer little harder to get but I got. Ibex meat I don't got. I could not find anyone who could get me ibex meat. I couldn't even find anyone who could get me wild goat at this time of year so I'm just using regular domesticated goat meat for that. The other ingredient that I'm going to be using is a bit of Fiddle fern. See in addition to the meat and the grain Otzi had small amounts of pollen and different funguses and moss in his Now the fern that he had was a type of bracken which especially because there was such a small amount but it can also be toxic. Now I'm sure he knew exactly how much to eat so he wouldn't die. I don't know that so I'm not going to try it but I do have Fiddle ferns and those are perfectly so that's what I'm going to be using and it's frankly such a small amount that it's not going to really have much effect on on the that I know are edible like the edible foods that Hellofresh delivers fresh ingredients right they have something for everyone whether you're or if you have a picky eater in your house they have family friendly meals. Personally I am all about saving time so I usually opt in for their Quick &amp; Easy meals which can take as little as 20 minutes to make. Now I lost my kitchen recently and it'll be my very last meal that I cooked in that kitchen was a the grilled cheese sandos with sundried tomatoes and I kind of feel like sundried and I don't know why because they are delicious Hellofresh also has a line of appetizers like these delectable bagel dogs and right now when you visit hellofresh.com and use my code TASTINGHISTORYAPPS you will get free apps for life. That is one free appetizer with every box while the subscription is active, that's TASTINGHISTORYAPPS at hellofresh.com for free appetizers for life. Now while Hellofresh gives you well-written recipes so you know exactly how to cook the food Otzi stomach didn't have a recipe with it so we don't really know how he cooked his food but I'm going to start off with the ibex meat, or the goat meat, and it was probably dried. Now you can put this into a dehydrator and basically make he wouldn't have added any like seasonings or anything, maybe some salt, so it will be very, very bland if you do that. He probably would have smoked it next to a fire and that smoke would have helped to flavor the meat so that's what I'm going to do. So I sliced my goat into thin slices and then set it on the grill besides some hot coals and some wood to add that smoky flavor. I also set a tray beneath the meat to catch the fat because we are going to use that later. Now smoking meat this way is actually kind of hard because you don't want to cook it so it needs to be a very, very low temperature about 160 or 170deg F and it's going to take like 6, 8 even 10 hours to dry out. I actually left mine on a little bit too long and it kind of becomes hard and brittle which is not a bad thing it's just I would have preferred more of a jerky texture and so that would have taken less time. You can also put some water in it, near it, and that'll keep moisture in... I didn't do that. Now when it comes to the red deer we could also smoke that and have that preserved but then I'm just really doing the same thing so instead I'm going to put it over an open flame which he might have done, so again I made a wood fire in my barbecue, put the meat onto a skewer, and just set it over that for about five or six minutes so he could get a nice char on it. Now both of those are very simple straightforward ways of eating meat especially because he didn't have any marinades or anything like that what is not as straightforward is how he ate his einkorn. Was it in a porridge that he that he made like boiled or was it some sort of pancake like a flatbread that That's what I'm going to do but frankly we don't know. What we do know is that he didn't grind it all the the way down to like a fine flour. It was very coarsely ground 'cus they found some pretty big pieces in his stomach so that's what I'm going to do so I took whole grains and I ground them down to kind of a flour, but also leaving some big pieces as well, and then I added the melted fat from the drying of the goat. Now of the 300 grams of food that was in Otzi stomach half of it was ibex fat. Unfortunately my goat just didn't give off that much fat I'm pretty sure it was about a tablespoon so I also had to add some water just to make the einkorn come together to be able to form some sort of pancake. Here too is where I decided to rinse some Fiddle ferns and chop them up very fine and add them in to hopefully add some flavor to what could be a very bland pancake. So to cook it similarly to the way that Otzi would have I until it got nice and hot so it sizzled when I added water to it, and then I formed a cake out of some of the batter and set it on. I cooked it for about 3 minutes on one side and then flipped it and cooked it for another 3 minutes. Now again this is just one possible way that Otzi might have prepared his last meal you can only tell so much from stomach contents. What's amazing is how much they can tell from stomach contents and from his digestive tract, other things that they found in there and on his person have led researchers to basically recreate the final hours leading up to Otzi's last meal. On September 19th 1991 two German tourists were hiking in the Otztal Alps at the Austria-Italy border when they came across a body at first they believed that it was a deceased hiker but then they realized it was definitely older so maybe it was a Lost World War I soldier but then researchers quickly realized that it was much older than that. It was the body of a man who had lived between 3,359 and 3,105 BC, over 5,000 years ago. And as his body did not come with a name tag they named him Otzi after the area in which he was found. Now what is so remarkable about Otzi is how well-kept he was. He and many of the artifacts that were found with him, the belongings that he had they were all mummified naturally by the ice and the snow, so yes while he doesn't look great he's actually so well to be able to learn a lot about him and the Chalcolithic or Like typically no clothing from this period survives today but Otzi was found wearing a full outfit. He had shoes with soles made of bare skin and red deer leather, and the upper portion was made with woven grass which was then stuffed with more grass for insulation. He wore heavy deer high leggings with patches of fur affixed to them and the fur was different colors and alternated in a pattern which implies that the man had a sense of fashion. Then over his torso he wore a coat of sheep and goat skin as well as a sort of cape of woven grass that may Then this was all topped off with a bare skin hat. In addition to clothes he carried a sort of backpack, a fire making kit, and a stone disc with leather thongs on which he would have tied birds that he had hunted. He also carried a knife, a sharpener, and Then he had a quiver of 14 arrow shafts, two of which had arrow heads, and a bow made of yew wood, that is the same wood that would still be used to make longbows in England during the high Middle Ages. But perhaps most impressive of all was Otzi's axe. All of the other tools and weapons that he had with him were typical Neolithic stone tools but that axe was made of 99.7% pure copper. Now the blade was small, less than 4 inches long but even He was also found with a pouch that had different fungi and mosses in it that were probably used medicinally, and the man needed medicine because at an age of 45 or 46 Otzi was was not in great health. Tests showed that he suffered from heart disease, gall stone, frostbite on his toes, and an intestinal parasite called whipworm which can cause severe abdominal pain. In addition he may have had Lyme disease though tests were inconclusive but what is definite is that he had a lot of bone and joint issues so he would have had severe pain in his ankles, his knees, his lumbar, and his shoulders. And the man was in his 40s and I'm in my 40s and I got to say it kind of checks out. What's curious is that in addition to all of these ailments itsy had 61 tattoos which were likely thought to be ways of treating the pain. Then he also had three other injuries that he probably sustained very close to the time that he died. One was a severe head woundthat probably would have caused bad brain damage. Another was a cut on his right hand between his thumb and his index finger that went all the way down to the bone. Some scientists think that that happened within 24 hours of his death, others say it could have happened up to a week or more but either way it was still healing. Then there is a third injury that went completely unnoticed for 10 years. It wasn't until 2001 that scientists discovered an arrowhead lodged in Otzi's shoulder, and it would have been shot in there only minutes before he died, and this discovery is what led researchers to determine that Otzi the iceman... was murdered. Now there are just too many unknowns to definitively say what happened, like was he being chased by some villain or was Otzi the protagonist and just getting his comeuppance. Maybe he was someplace that he shouldn't have been, maybe he was stealing something like that axe perhaps or some food. Or maybe he was was defending his friends and family by outside raiders, we just don't know. We also don't even know if he saw it coming, if he was running from someone or it was taken- he was taken completely by surprise. We don't even know if it was intentional, it could have been an accident. These are all questions that we will likely never know the answers to, but what's amazing is that researchers do have a lot of answers, and have been able to put put together some scenarios of what happened to Otzi right before he died and much of that information comes from what was found in his digestive tract. See it wasn't only in his stomach that they found food but all through his digestive tract at different levels of digestion, and it wasn't just food. There were other things like mosses and pollen, and different liver warts that he probably ingested on accident but they've allowed researchers to tell approximately where Otzi was and when. Like based on the pine and spruce pollen in his colon they know he was in a high altitude forest around 8,200 feet about 33 hours before he died. Moving further up the digestive tract there was pollen that shows that he was in the forests of a much lower altitude around 4,000 ft or even lower only 24 hours before he died. It was here that one possible explanation of what exactly happened to Otzi begins to take shape because it was there he received that wound on his hand. Researchers say that it is a defensive wound so was there a fight? We don't know what caused the fight if there was one, we don't know but whatever it was Otzi fled because the distance that he covers in the next day or so is pretty impressive. Now we stayed for some hours at the same elevation moving along the valley floor where at some point he finds some sphagnum or bog moss and uses it for something likely to dress that wound on his hand because one it's very absorbent and two it actually has antiseptic properties. Now it is possible that he didn't get it there, that he had been carrying it with him before but for some reason he was using it. Regardless it's at this lower altitude that 8 to12 hours before Otzi died. He makes a meal perhaps as a way to fuel himself for a rather frantic ascent up into the mountains, possibly being pursued which would account for his speed he climbed and within just a few hours he had reached nearly a 10,000 foot elevation and there again he eats. And this Otzi's last meal, this is the meal that we're making today. Now we don't know exactly where he was going but he was likely trying to head through that pass to get to the other side of the mountains but he never made it because only an hour to 3 hours after he ate Otzi was shot in the back with an arrow and it had an arrowhead made by the people who lived on the south side of the mountain. That arrow head lacerated his left subclavian artery and Otzi began to bleed to death. He fell over and hit his head and we don't know if the fall caused the head injury, or if it was his attacker dealing him one final death blow, but he received that head wound and very soon after he died. Now he might have been dead already or he might have still been living when his attacker or someone else came up and drew out that arrow but only the shaft came, and the arrow head remained in Otzi's shoulder for 5,000 years because soon after he died it began to snow and he was blanketed and frozen, and over the years a glacier came over and covered him and all of his belongings and they were preserved until 1991. Now as I said this is just one possible way We just- we don't know there are too many guesses about the way that he died or the way that Otzi lived but the one thing that they do know is that only hours before he died he ate a meal of red deer, ibex and einkorn. And here we are the last meal of Otzi the Iceman. All right I'm going to actually start with a piece of the red deer that I just roasted. I feel it's the the simplest of all of them Hmm! Actually pretty good. That's super gamey. I like gamey stuff but super gamey could definitely use some salt or barbecue sauce but Otzi didn't have that though. Now for the ibex meat or the goat meat- so it's basically just jerky, it's rather dry. Again I could have left it a little less and It's not as crispy as I thought it would be so Really smoky. Hm! That's actually really good, I didn't expect it to be 'cus usually jerky has like they put a lot of different salt and and different marinades and stuff to give it flavor. This has nothing. I could eat that. I could just snack on that. That's really good. That said it does get stuck in your teeth, it's going to be there for a while. Finally the pancake so this is in corn and goat fat and water, and a bit of the Fiddle fern and you can see actual like pieces of the fern in there. Can you see that? I can. Let me actually try to get one of those pieces. Here we go, bon appetit. More flavorful than I expected. So I don't maybe it adds a little freshness maybe but is mostly what you're getting is the flavor of the einkorn which is actually pretty good, I think. You know if it was just regular modern wheat this would be bland but the way that it is it's kind of chewy. It kind of turns into more gumminess but what it reminds me of, when I was a kid one of the people that babysat me would would give me these granola bars that were like unflavored. They were the most bland things as a kid but that's what they remind me of. They were healthy and actually it's kind of nice, it's kind of like- yeah like granola bar but without any sugar or any of the good stuff. Not bad. So I am very, very grateful that I live in you know NOW where we have a lot more options when it comes to food, when it comes to how we prepare our food, but it is so amazing that people survived on this type of food for eons, for most of human history and you know we're still able to find the remnants in the stomach of of an iceman. I don't know, I find it fascinating. I've always wanted to do a video on Otzi and I've kind of put it off and put it off and put it off but now without a kitchen I was like well I got to cook outside hey Otzi cooked outside, I can cook outside and Otzi didn't have a a Weber kettle grill but I did, and that's what I did. Anyway delicious, and I will see you next time on Tasting History.