Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I am here today at the James D. Julia Auction House up in Maine, taking a look at some of the magnificent German sniper rifles that they are going to be selling in their upcoming April Firearms Auction in 2017. This, of course, is the HK PSG-1, and that stands for, translated into English, Precision Sharpshooter's Rifle. There was actually an SG-1 version of the G3 rifle that preceded this, that was the Scharfschutzengewehr, the This was distinguished from it by being the It was designed for police which is probably why it And this is another one of the rifles, like the Walther 2000, If you're not aware of it, this was of course which resulted in a bunch of civilians, The German police response was the death of all of the terrorists but also The issue at hand was the German police department They had guys with rifles who weren't at night, with iron sights, hundreds of yards ... And part of the issue here is the German constitution So they ... weren't able to call in German military snipers, Now in the aftermath of this, a number of things were And one of them was the development of GSG9, And GSG9 is actually a part of the German border specifically so that it can be used on German soil At any rate, one of the things that Munich made very clear is that The engagement at the Munich incident was at And for that kind of work you really do want a or that wasn't typical police work, where an ordinary police sniper is rarely going to For this sort of capability they wanted a lot more. Hence the PSG-1. So this is obviously But ... in fact a significant number This is not just a G3 with a fancy trigger and a scope, There are a lot of ... what look like minor that really ... contribute to it This is a half minute of angle gun with good ammunition. Now of course it has a price tag to match, when But that's the price in many ways of getting a rifle that is I think there are a lot of people who to get that level of repeatable It is interesting that, like the Walther 2000, (and I have a video up on one of those as well, if you like that there are a number of choices on this rifle And the biggest one is the scope. These It's good glass, but it's the only option the scope is actually fixed to a pair of scope mounts So you can remove the scope if you need to, but unless threaded attachment points at this specific spacing, You can't go to say a higher magnification or something that has a more fancy reticle in it. The reticle here is just a simple crosshair. And that's all you get. It's a very simplistic scope by brightness adjustment and a button. And but apparently you hit the button and it illuminates That's ... an interesting system, certainly it prevents it but apparently they did have trouble with Figures, they do all the work, get a fantastic rifle, At any rate, batteries are only necessary to So a tripod, really? Would it have killed them to allowance for a bipod. There is a rail which allows you to mount a sling ... swivel if you That wasn't included OEM, but a lot of people have And it does come with a short Harris bipod. That being said though, the tripod really does make This is something that you're going to and you're probably going to be watching your target And the tripod allows you to really set this thing in The way this is designed you have a tensioning screw here. There is a rubber coating, a rubber half ring, the rifle's fore-end and does prevent it from sliding. You can move it, but it's not going to slip And then we have this lever back here which, when loosened, allows the front support to This is important because the So if you set this up on uneven ground, you would then use this To actually assemble the bipod, or to We're going to loosen that up, and then And that is the bipod as it packs up quick and easy, just drop all three and then you're all set. Even the tripod is just incredibly German. You'll they're at an angle. And that angle is set precisely on this flat surface and So you don't wear the tips of the tripod legs out. Then of course you do have those pointy and you've got the collars on here The amount of engineering that went into just the Now the rifle itself. Of course on the which are of course PSG-1, serial number here The examples that were imported into the US will have Made in Germany, and then Now let's look at some of the mechanical And one of the most significant mechanical ones And it is basically a forward assist from an AR-15, Those engage with a ratchet in this, and the idea for that is it does allow On a G3 type rifle this can at the very end of travel you ... normally you don't want to just slowly run the bolt So if I run the bolt to there, now I can push this forward and drop the I think in order for it to be silent on this wedge and hold it down, because these tend to snap audibly But that's a major mechanical element with the idea of it allowing you to be sneaky The trigger is another obvious change. But it has this shoe added to the bottom The main changes to the trigger are internal, I will point out however is that it is a latch on Which is nice, that helps it avoid machine And the buttstock here is fairly distinctive. Now this is a style of buttstock that has and now you can find all manner of fully adjustable stocks However, in the early '70s this wasn't a real high level feature on a precision rifle like the PSG-1. So the length of pull and the height You actually have this tool that comes with the rifle, so I'm going to put that in, And now I can run the buttstock out. or all the way in. When I get it to the right position This does also allow you to cant the buttstock, just slightly, Then, in theory, you can leave this in the gun if you or you can leave it in your carry case. We have the same thing up here for the this is under spring tension, so it's going to snap all tighten it back up, and take the adjustment tool out. As you can tell by the name here, this scope is As you can see from PSG-1 being We have windage adjustment obviously for zeroing. And then we have a combination of elevation So you can adjust the set range The PSG-1 does take all The carry case set that these were originally Now let's go ahead and take this apart, because It's going to disassemble just like a standard HK91. ... This is very tight. Oh, before I do that, there are a pair of stiffening bars ... The G3 series does use a simple stamped sheet So adding these bars helps to stabilise the receiver. That's an important upgrade for accuracy. Alright, buttstock assembly comes Now our trigger group is And the ... bolt and bolt carrier come out the back. So the stiffening bars have been added to the receiver, the trunnion is larger to help accommodate That's about a 0.88 inch in diameter And of course we have these two So really actually a substantial number of changes, Looking at the internals we have a number of a commercial G3 import rifle (semi-auto rifle Most distinctively we have the thumb pad and the And then looking at the front of the bolts, you This is the PSG-1 extractor, this is the G3. So the G3 has a much larger extractor actually, You can see it's a a piece here under a tension On the PSG-1 the extractor wraps around the bolt, and it has a spring underneath it on that side. So presumably this has been probably repeatable purchase on the case, while And one of the most significant Now an original standard G3, you'll notice I can and the rollers spin, being, you know, rollers. And this is a very efficient, simple However, what this means is that you because from shot to shot that roller can rotate. Which means you're going to be locking on a That's just fine for a combat rifle that needs That's fine and it's cheap, it's easy to make. If we look at the rollers here, I can't get them We can see why if I snap it into battery, now you'll They have a flat surface on the front. The purpose ... The idea here is that they will You'll never have an inconsistent wear pattern causing Now one of the well-known features of the It's got a long, heavy, creepy trigger pull. allow the rifle to pass a pretty severe And that's again fine for a combat rifle, but it's not Now the PSG-1 grip assembly has It has this trigger shoe which is adjustable up It has a nice thick grip, very wide, fills up Up and down, wherever you prefer to have that. It is semi-automatic only of course, you know, being But most importantly it has a really good trigger, How do they do that? Why don't Well, the reason they don't do it the PSG-1 will not pass the kind of military drop But here's another interesting element. Note that The standard G3 does not. Now if you are going to take a G3 And you can reduce the trigger weight, and you can You are either losing engagement surface on the sear, Or you're reducing the spring weight, which You know, if you have less force on the hammer, But if you have too little it won't reliably fire, and not So how do we fix that? The answer is they've redesigned The initial stage back here has relatively little spring tension However, as soon as the hammer and runs that thing forward That is there primarily to prevent were running with just this spring By having that second stage, oop, right there, you can That ... booster effect makes this a very special trigger This thing has really stood The Walther 2000, we see places The PSG-1, with the exception of the scope they released the PSG-1A1 version which as well as having a couple of other minor tweaks so that it doesn't interfere with the At any rate, the PSG-1 has really and it is every bit as magnificent of a Which is a pretty remarkable If you'd like to own this one, there aren't a whole lot in the take a look at the description text below. You'll find where you can see their complete And if you're interested you can participate in the auction Thanks for watching. [ cc by sk cn2 ]