In 2000, the world's leading mathematicians most important unsolved problems The non-profit Clay Mathematics Institute to the first person to solve any of the seven So far, only one has been solved. In 1904, French mathematician Henri Poincare He suggested that if you have a it can be made into a sphere For example, a blob could be formed into a sphere. But it gets even more interesting than that. To a topologist, a ball and a pillow are the same Similarly, a bagel and a mug are considered making them topologically equivalent, Poincare suggested that anything So long as the object is small enough, it He believed his conjecture to His conjecture was generalized including four dimensions, which was That left the three-dimensional case, Poincare's original conjecture which Until 2002...when a mysterious Within this paper was a solution The author was Russian mathematician Grisha grew up in the Soviet Union in Saint Petersburg, specializing in math. Unlike the other exceptional kids in class, he He even refused to eat his lunch. As his teacher, Valery Ryzhik told author Masha "Maybe his entire nervous system was so tuned to the learning process that At 16, he won a gold medal at the International Being part of the Soviet Olympiad Leningrad State University without The university was notoriously discriminatory, but Grisha's place on the team After completing his studies, he Steklov Mathematical Institute's St. Grisha was accepted because influential Alexandrov campaigned on his behalf When Grisha began his grad work in 1987, allowing Soviet citizens to travel The renowned mathematician Mikhail Gromov arranged for Grisha to give talks in the U.S. Gromov mentioned Grisha to the right post-doctoral work at NYU's Courant Institute of Besides math, his other passion was south Brooklyn to get his special He later moved to the West Coast, to take up a prestigious fellowship Once his fellowship came to an end, top Princeton's top brass was so they approached him about becoming an Grisha reportedly responded: "...why Masha Gessen's book describes how Grisha than a tenured position, whereas the university He refused Princeton's job offer. When Tel Aviv University, where Grisha's him a full professorship, he rejected that, too. He explained he could work and returned to Russia, to the Steklov Institute. What he was working on, nobody knew. Grisha was quietly tackling one of the most How did he prove Poincare's conjecture? Well, he managed to prove another conjecture In the late seventies, American suggested that any 3D shape can be decomposed And one of these eight shapes is the 3-dimensional Thurston never managed to prove his own theory. But American mathematician trying to tackle both Poincare He couldn't prove them but that helped Grisha crack the century-old mystery. Grisha relied on Hamilton's powerful mathematical Think of Ricci flow like heat smoothing out bumps and irregularities over time. As Ricci flow progresses, certain regions Grisha used a process called "surgery" to cut He realized that these pieces shapes that correspond to the structures So by solving Thurston's conjecture, Grisha published three papers totaling 992 pages. When he uploaded the first to arXiv.org, a he emailed about a dozen American This was totally out of the blue. He hadn't spoken to his former colleagues for Mathematicians spent over three years scrutinizing his proof to see if he had But Richard Hamilton was not one of them. Grisha was hurt that Hamilton - whose proof - showed little interest in his achievement. Grisha told the New Yorker: "I had the impression Why was Hamilton so apparently disinterested? As author Masha Gessen put it, "...it took past the point at which Hamilton had been stuck One can only imagine what it must have hijacked and then fulfilled by some upstart Mathematicians who showed more enthusiasm Grisha in person when he was invited to By 2006, it became clear that he had In a confusing twist, two Chinese mathematicians had proved the Poincare conjecture, But the crown belonged only to Grisha. Yet, he declined the $1 million prize. Money never motivated him. He told a Russian newspaper: "I know how to control the universe. So A Fields medal is awarded to Grigori Grisha was also awarded the highest honor But he didn't show up to the I regret that Dr Perelman has Grisha explained to the Telegraph that &quot;I do not think anything that I say can &quot;I know that self-promotion happens good luck to them, but I do not &quot;Newspapers should be more discerning over who This was one of the rare interviews he did. He wasn't a fan of journalists prodding him on his phone, he responded: "You are Despite offers to teach at MIT, Princeton, The mathematician and investor Jim Simons, who top-tier status, reportedly offered Grisha But Grisha refused and returned He resumed working for the Steklov Institute receiving a salary of around $400 a month. Once, when he got paid nearly double leftover grant money after completing a project, he insisted the extra money be returned Grisha lived his life by And then...in December 2005, he As recounted by author Gessen, Grisha "I have nothing against the people I have been disappointed in mathematics Now only did he withdraw from the mathematical Very little is known about what he got up to A picture of what appears to be removed from the accolades he chose not As for what happened to the $1 The Clay Institute used Grisha's prize money position for young promising mathematicians Grisha's story is both inspiring and incredible heights of human intellect and If you've been inspired by his achievements you'll love learning with Brilliant. Geometry was fundamental to Grisha's work, and you can get hands-on with these concepts You'll learn to recognize relationships side lengths, and areas without calculations. I personally use Brilliant for ten minutes It's one of my favorites because it with how real language models There's something for everyone Whether you're a beginner wanting like to brush up on what you already By signing up at brilliant.org/newsthink, you'll That's brilliant.org/newsthink - link QR code on your screen. If you sign up with my link or code, annual Premium subscription, giving Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.