Every year, the most accomplished scientists beginning of October just in case they It's what some of them have been waiting But there's a lesser known award here at SciShow: the Ig Nobel Prize. Instead of recognizing the the Ig Nobel celebrates the weirdest. And quite a few Ig Nobels have gone about our favorite subject: ourselves. So here are 10 of the greatest for research on the world's [ INTRO] One of the weirdest things about people is how Like, they could just as easily go But that's more of an AI version of a beard. You know, one made by a computer that has no idea it just inspired No, beards pretty much stay along the jawline. And a study published in 2020 might explain why. The authors of that publication placed a sheepskin over the top of an epoxy material Then they dropped a weight on that fake As you might expect, it did. Pretty much every single time. But then they covered some of the And the fake bone only broke That led these researchers to theorize that we have beards covering our After all, the bone under your beard is one It might even work the same way by distributing the force of a When they calculated how much versus sheared skin, the So we might have beards over our And if you feel like it takes a lot of self in the face, this next Ig Nobel Apparently, one way to control Researchers in the Netherlands and Norway urinary tract infection, holding in They asked university students, the guinea This was, of course, a ruse Some of them were instructed while others were told to just sip it. Then the scientists had them do some Once they had spent sufficient time they were asked to do some financial planning. As it turns out, the participants and really had to suppress the urge to pee were the ones who could suppress the urge Because those individuals for a larger payout on the Meanwhile, the participants tended to choose the immediate smaller payout. It seems kind of unbelievable that urination But these researchers think that that keep you from emptying your that keep you from making Now, finally getting to the restroom after But nothing compares to the feeling studied by our next Ig Nobel Sometimes, you have a very itchy spot Like, you know you'll just end up doing But it's so itchy!! You have to do something! Well, researchers in Germany figured out another weird thing about people that But to test itch relief, they So they injected histamines into Then, they placed a mirror between When the participant looked into the mirror, So basically, they could see but it was really just one arm and its reflection. Essentially, the person could look into everything that was happening to the looked like it was happening to the itchy arm. And in one of the creepier but the scientists then stroked the participants' The thing is, they didn't They found that sometimes, scratching the I mean, it didn't work as well as But having an image of the seemed to be enough to provide some relief. I guess we're more malleable than we think. Speaking of which... You know those clickers used to train dogs? Where you tell the dog to sit, and when they sit, you press a button to make a clicking People can be trained that way, too. And that's not to say anything because the study that won the Ig Nobel ...Who you'd hope are pretty smart people. The authors of this study trained to tie a knot and drill a hole And the students who learned with clickers completed those tasks more Like, all 12 of the clicker trained students while only four of the It's basic operant conditioning And apparently there's still a lot to Because thanks to the next prize, we know that you have even more When your nose feels a little A study published in 2021 reported on the nasal decongestant effects They were operating on the honor So each participant assessed their immediately after sex, and then after They also checked in at the a nasal decongestant spray And the results were: they're equally effective! An orgasm clears out your Now, the nasal decongestant does last longer. So if you opt for the natural route, you'd need But the orgasm effect lasts for about an hour! Which is pretty impressive! It could be thanks to that exercise you just between your sympathetic and parasympathetic Either way, your nose clears up. And that's quite a feat because Even just the large number of nose That's why this next Ig Nobel winner Thank you for supporting SciShow! Thank you for being a part of this Thank you for telling your And thank you for enjoying the 2025 Yes, I said Complexly Calendars bringing together all of the Complexly shows That means we're showcasing Crash Study Hall, and your favorite SciShow channels. The theme is "a quarter century of from the last 25 years that gives us hope about how far we've come and just Like, one month, we're celebrating mRNA vaccines. And another is all about expeditions But I won't spoil all of them for you. In this calendar, you also get beautiful wall Now, we're only making a limited number of these, so get them while you can or the link in the description. Every purchase of a Complexly So again, thank you for your support! I'll just come out and say it. You've been living in your body for how many years and you still don't know how It wasn't until 2021 that And yes, they really did remove and Thank goodness they did, because now we know Yes, it's statistically the same in the left And, sure, maybe there were more that kept us from getting to the But with your nose hairs as part of your this wasn't as silly of an And just because your nose hairs are symmetrical doesn't mean that everything on your body is. I mean, the left and right side of the Yeah, I kind of gave away the punchline But this finding is weird enough that Researchers in France measured every 2 minutes for two hours They tested bus drivers and postal naked and clothed, and during their like sitting, standing, and walking. And they found that at least when clothed, the left ball is hotter than Now, they're still within range of each other, so But they're pretty consistently The authors of this study think that the left Okay, so they didn't say it like that. But 89% of the time that a man is wearing So it might be an extra blanket of And, again, this is a weird finding. Maybe the study itself is even weirder. But scrotum temperature is So this research matters to a lot of And that journey often starts with finding the The next Ig Nobel Prize goes to a weird Maybe you're on a first date and that you like the same movies or were Whatever it is, you definitely feel connected. That might be because your In a study published in the journal "Nature," what's behind that feeling. So they had participants on blind and wearing spy glasses that You know, normal date attire. From all of that tech, they found and how synchronized the couple's They didn't see that correlation in the the couple were looking during the date, So heart rate might be a someone puts you at ease or gets And this might be the force that In these researchers' previous it's a good predictor for trust and cooperation. It's the kind of thing that often syncs up the greater satisfaction you have with each other, and the better you become at So when you're sussing out if you should listen to your heart. ...Or just look at their eyebrows. Eyebrows might not be the key but apparently, they can help In a Canadian study, researchers called the Narcissistic Personality Inventory that measures how egotistical, With those scores in hand, the And they used those photos to try to figure out what makes a person identifiably First, they asked a different set of when given an image of either just Based on the scores, the top So additional judges came to look like the eyes and eyebrows. And those results pointed to the eyebrows In the end, all it took for these participants And when they put the eyebrows onto the faces of narcissistic people, And that's weird. Like, eyebrows don't seem more But they are super expressive. So that's probably why they matter so much. The authors of this publication said it than some other parts of the face, but The main idea is that more distinct Now, should you go around judging Hey, buddy! My eyes are down here. After all, the point is that how we read an we thought, let alone trying But as weird as that Ig Nobel winner is, this last one will probably When you're walking somewhere looking up at a window in a nearby Even if there's nothing special about that window. A group of researchers wanted need to be looking up at that window They started out with one person looking up. As people passed by, 42% And 4% stopped what they were doing entirely So now there are two people staring at a window. In that case, the number of people And by the time there's a group of 80% of passersby will look too. So as the initial crowd gets bigger, so do the chances that a person will look The authors of the study call it contagious. But how contagious it is or if you completely stop walking to gawk. The graph of people who look at toward their original destination A lot of people will do that And the number grows a bit as the crowd grows. In comparison, the graph of to join the crowd basically For this much commitment from a stranger, The number of people who stop to join the crowd is always smaller than the But when more people join the So yeah, we're incredibly weird. Enough to justify a science prize I, for one, hope the Ig Nobel And SciShow will let you know when Seth Gliksman also serves on Whenever a scientist publishes something [ OUTRO]