A 3D printed guitar. Will it bent over time? Will the sound be terrible because Do we need to use special pickups? Let's find out! The full article on the Prusa blog goes really Here, let's take a look at the of 3D printing a guitar, so For us, the scariest challenge was the tension With a load of around 50 kilograms, the rip the bridge from the body If you look at the most common One of the bridges stands out as Can you guess which one it is? It's - TELECASTER bridge. The other common guitar sometimes held in place with just two screws. However, the Telecaster with up to 5 mounting holes. The leverage on the bridge will metal plate and the underlying printed part. When it came to the neck, the We opted to use a real wooden neck. While it is possible to 3D print it, it's such a crucial and it's worth going for the real thing in order to make an instrument Next, we need to make sure the printed So, the section between the neck and the And believe it or not, it This lets us avoid using any metal which will just complicate a build. So, then the printed part alone must be It might be tempting to print it from a However, in our case, we're specifically and good old PLA is fantastic in this regard. If you want to be able to leave the printed pick a stiff material with a such as any of our Prusaments Now that we have this center piece printed, we can actually go ahead and and try putting the guitar together. But buying the parts separately Prepare for the real kicker of this build. The Harley Benton electric guitar kit T-style. This kit is extremely affordable. It includes all the necessary hardware and it's sold by the one of the largest music This means it has fast worldwide shipping. To test if everything fits, we've printed one copy of the middle piece We attach the guitar neck and the bridge to it, and then attach the strings to And voila, the guitar is functional. It looks rather strange with just the centerpiece and it's missing all of the There is another concern though - material creep. A solid material can slowly deform under the And this concern turned out to be true. After a month of the printed part the part was mildly bent. This wasn't a huge surprise, as the default profile in Reprinting the part with 7 perimeters and It's now been a year, that's how long and it's still perfectly straight. Let's talk about something the guitar's design. The rudimentary unpainted wooden comes in handy as a template. You can take a photo of it from the distance, calibrate the photo's dimensions and trace the position of all holes and openings. With the mounting holes in place it was time to get creative. We used the spline tool in Fusion inspired by a blend of The Fender The typical thickness of an electric This value was used to extrude the sketch. We then extruded all the holes Using the template created before. Keeping in mind that all the electronics we've subtracted a few cylinders from the body to create tunnels between the cavities. This tiny hole is where the We'll get back to it in a minute. A bigger hole on the bottom edge The output jack will be located here. We've also added a big chamfer This will make it much more comfortable With that the basic guitar model was done. Apart from being too big the model still By using - you guessed it - hexagons it will be easy to hide some of the cuts used to split the model into multiple parts. Placing the cuts is fairly straightforward. We just have to make sure that all the parts The last big piece we're missing is the pickguard, which also serves as a mounting Its shape is pretty well defined which are simply inset by three millimeters. Having the body split into several Each part can be printed with a different color. The color scheme here at Prusa you can't go wrong with black and orange. One extra color that we love is the complementary blue or teal. Coloring the small bottom really brings the whole model to alive. And with that, the PrusaCaster model is finished! A lot of 3D printed guitars we've seen looked cool but they were not actually very playable. There are some important things to keep in mind. The bridge must be perfectly It must also be the right distance from Specifically, the 12th fret should be Fortunately, the Telecaster bridge But it's still important to make sure the Lastly the strings need to so the strings don't hit the fret when vibrating but also not too high, otherwise it will be Our design keeps all these rules in mind. The cables in the Harley Benton T-style so it's really easy to One interesting thing about the wiring that seemingly doesn't connect to anything. It's used to ground the strings. You will find a channel in the printed Strip some insulation from the cable, loosen the bridge a little bit, route the cable through the hole and then tighten the bridge Without his grounding, the Wven on fairly expensive guitars there and we're using budget components, but this will significantly help to mitigate it. Guitar strings come in various thicknesses. By selecting very thin strings, such as 9 gauge, we can lower the stress They are also typically a bit easier to With the guitar fully assembled After you tune the strings, you The process is fully explained But in a nutshell, you move until the string is perfectly and played on the 12th fret. Now let's find out how it plays! The guitar plays surprisingly well. The strings stay in tune and Of course, since the components were quite cheap, it can't be expected to play better But for the price, it's a great result. If you want to make your own PrusaCaster, As always it's a free download If you want to create your own design, we are sharing a STEP file which should make it fairly easy to modify. Happy printing and happy playing!