Hi everyone welcome to Tasting History. gonna be making one of my favorite but not just any cheesecake because just great taste. So we're going to be making sambocade, this time on Tasting History. Now the recipe we're using today comes around 1390, and recipe writers at so the recipe just says make a crust. Not What kind of crust did they want? Did Did they want like a fair flour crust Maybe. But I'm gonna be taking maybe a tart crust. It's delicious, it's super the ingredients in the tart crust would So let's get started. First you'll need butter, 160 grams of icing sugar, 6 large whites because those are gonna make an flour ,and just a pinch of salt. Now you the ingredients are in the description both the original recipe and the actually use this tart crust for a delicious but at this point I would put lemon zest or something to kind of give anything extra because the cheesecake flavor, but it's just not necessary now and cut the butter into pieces about 1/2 Now you gotta sift it in because you'll clumps. Now go ahead and beat the the mixer on low. Now I've never done people starting it on high and powdered then they're cat running through it and all the way up to the bed. I've never the sugar starts to become incorporated you smooth, then add the egg yolks and beat Now it's probably gonna look a little go away later on. Also, if you are going is the time, the egg is incorporated add in the pinch lowest setting for about 20 seconds. You as like a crumbly mixture you don't want of parchment and lay it out onto your the dough into two piles, set one aside of an even layered circle. Then place get rolling. Now like I said this tart I love it. You can just roll it out, it's have to get it into a perfect circle, and or anything while you're putting it into sides. It's the best, I just love it. that you want between 1/8 and 1/4 of an pop it in the fridge and leave it there chills, preheat your oven to 425 smash that Like button. Now that's recipe because to paraphrase Pink Floyd if you don't smash that Like button. Now and gather up the rest of your need 4 tablespoons of heavy cream, 150 bread crumbs, and 6 egg whites. I told you of dried elderflower, or 6 tablespoons of ingredient that gives the dish its name. which means elderflower, and lastly the cake the cheese. You'll need 450 grams of or if you want to really impress people It's actually really easy: here's a link and I'll put it down in the description Assuming it's been 20 minutes you can go fridge. Now if it hasn't been 20 minutes the parchment sticks. If it sticks keep it's good to go. for this like cheesecake tin. Now you can the cheesecake won't be quite as thick. anything works. The recipe isn't specific have even existed back then, but it makes your tin with the tart dough, then you you want, and then line it with aluminum bake the crust at 425 Fahrenheit for 10 of the fact that this cheesecake has a if you were an ancient Greek athlete. that we know of came from ancient Greece. 2000 BC made on the Isle of Samos. It was weddings and it was probably served to 776 BC. Makes me wonder if Usain Bolt on carbs before he competes. I'm gonna would have bared no resemblance to the a little closer to our modern dessert we senator and historian Cato the Elder in cheesecake recipes including the first unfortunately for Cato he didn't hire a his crusted cheesecake placenta, and that menus today. But that was probably also legion took up to Britannia where in the sugar. Sweet, sweet, white gold and that is So by now the crush should be done blind the pie weights in the aluminum foil and little raw, pop it back in without the minutes Otherwise you're gonna have a a soggy bottom. Once you are happy with down to 375 degrees Fahrenheit because cheesecake at. Now all the crust cools, Combine the elderflower into the cream, don't relax because while the cheese, and this takes time. Take a bit at a time and press it through with the other side with the consistency of the strainer put it into the stand mixer, Then add the elderflower cream, and your With the mixers still running on medium smooth. Now it's time for a beating... of important step because it is the only your cake, the air in the egg whites. So they don't get fluffy enough then the still delicious but you know a little nice stiff white peaks. Then working cheese mixture until no streaks of white there as possible so don't over mix it. pop it in the oven at 375 for 50 minutes, the center. I would start checking it at actually took my oven to 55 minutes so wait it is, nevermind. Now while the you should have plenty of time to ponder become that cheesecake, hmm? Now the it's a dessert, but it's still not the that is because of the cheese. Around the his sweet tooth with Sambocade, his reclaim the lands lost by King John. (That lovely ladies of Neufchatel en Bray in although these English invaders were kind of cute while they did it. Now they course so they took cheese and molded it de Neufchatel&quot;. They'd give the cheese their love. Ain't that romantic? The cheese stayed popular until it made its way to tried his hand at making it himself, but don't know, but he added too much cream Philadelphia Cream Cheese. Then in 1929 already had a sandwich named after him to make a cheesecake, and that dessert cheesecake. But that's not what we're get back to it. So go ahead and open the along the top and has just a slight should have puffed up quite a bit but the deflation you want to leave it in door open just a crack while it slowly works for custard pies like a pumpkin slowly cool down, and you won't get that about 15 minutes take it out of the oven temperature and then you can either honey, or as I did some fresh berries. So as I said all of the ingredients are as well as links to some of the harder case. Now I'm sure you already have but leave me a comment below and go ahead on Tasting History.