Hurry up , don't be lazy, hurry up, don't be lazy, hurry up, work quickly, squat down, everyone, squat down, chase whoever fired the gun, report the major. A man was found on the hillside observing our fortifications. Immediately notify the ambush personnel to report the location and outflank them. The rest of them chasing me are company commanders. Why don't you kill them? We are only on a reconnaissance mission now. We can't act rashly. We can't expose our position to them before we find out clearly. We don't have time. The Japanese army will be here soon. Don't worry, there are still large troops. I have led them to Luohuapo. I think Shunzi and the others have already arrived at the armory. It's not dangerous to go. I have to find Heizi Cuilan. You can't go in. If you force your way in, Cuilan will be like Shao Feng and the others . Kuroko will be fine. If you go in, he will be worried that I want to be with him. Cuilan is almost there and it may be dangerous if he goes forward. Kuroko Aso, go over there and look at the grenades. Where's the grenade? He's chasing the Japs. What did I just see ? This is your hunting ground below. You have to seize the time and lay many ambushes to drag down the Japs. The traps in the hunting ground are all ready-made. Just a little disguise will do. You two are so long-legged and bald, go over and help me, big cow. Follow me later. Just the two of you. Okay, no problem, let's lure the Japs over and go quickly. The Japs haven't arrived yet. Hurry up. This is the Wolong Bridge. Hurry up to the bridge and bury the explosives. Wait a minute. Where are you going to bury the explosives under the bridge? Under the bridge. , this bridge is made of a single piece of bluestone. If explosives were buried under the bridge, the explosion yield would not be enough to kill the Japanese. How would you know that the bombing would not kill the Japanese? Besides, this is my brother Shunzi's explanation. But your brother Shunzi doesn't know anything about explosives. Trust me, we placed part of the explosives on the bridge, covered it with thatch and put it on the bridge. Do you think the Japanese are stupid? I know the Japanese are not stupid, so they will definitely separate a team from the river. Look, the river here is not very deep, but the current is very fast. If they want to cross the river, they have to go slowly. We will ambush on the other side so that the bridges above and below are within our fire range . In addition, there will definitely be heavy fire when the Japanese attack forcefully. Fire cover, you see, there, the Japanese army will definitely set up heavy machine guns at that high point. We will put the remaining explosives there. When they come, if they set up heavy firepower, we can take it all in one go. The Japanese must leave from the bridge. There are explosives on the bridge. Okay, everyone, let's take action. The three of you, go over there and the others will follow. Hurry up and hurry up. Shunzi, they are almost here. Hurry up. Heisi, are you okay? okay. Get ready. How are you prepared? Don't worry, Brother Shunzi has my long legs. The little Japs can't run away . The Japs will be here soon. Hide and stop. Cuilan should be ready. If you fall into the trap, go back the same way and quickly reach Wolong Bridge. , Go quickly. Whose idea was it to put straw in the middle of the bridge? The Japs must have known there was an ambush here. Longfoot threw the straw away. Wait a minute. It was my idea. I have no time to explain. Daniel, Heizi, you two go up the mountain to look for it now. Cuilan, hide and ambush you and follow me to hide. Are you nervous when the Japanese come? No. I have a point. It seems that I really underestimated these savages. It turns out that everything that happened just now was to wait for me here. But the hunter is a hunter after all. Sir, why do you say that hunters only know how to hunt? But we are professional soldiers. We are fighting a war, and what determines the outcome of the war is strength, not these little hunting tricks. So what should we do now? They must be waiting for us to take the bait in the woods on the other side. Hasegawa arranges fire cover at the commanding heights and suppresses the enemy with firepower. First, send a few people across the bridge. Others will pay attention to you. Is there any trap on the bridge? It's just smoke. Go to the commanding heights. The devils are on the bridge. The devils are on the bridge. I'm on the bridge. Explosives are buried under the haystacks to attack and shoot. Your Excellency, send a team of people to go under the bridge. Others are attacking on the bridge. What are you doing? Go ahead and kill the Japanese. Your fire blunderbuss has a range of only one or two hundred meters. We can only fight when the Japanese are close. The lethality, and the Japs' 38-meter gun can hit more than 600 meters. Are you going to die in vain if you rush out like this? Don't worry, thank you. Aim the grenade at that forest and hit me hard. Run away. The Japs are loaded, right? , the Japanese are getting ready for artillery , please notify everyone, let them retreat, the fight is going well, why are you leaving? You have to leave, you go, I won't go, Brother Shunzi is telling us to retreat, it's terrible, retreat quickly, don't leave, the fight is going well. Why are you leaving? Let's kill as many of the Japanese as they come. Look, the Japanese have grenade barrels that are very destructive. We must retreat. Brother Heizi, why are the Japanese barrels so powerful? Let's leave. I won't leave. I'll keep the green hills here. Don't be afraid. If you don't have firewood , go quickly. You go quickly. Brothers, let's use it this time for Qiu Mi's hunting. Brother Shunzi, this thing is okay. I can use it to fight the devils. I can use it to fight animals. Is that thing edible? Yes, that's right. This shot makes a hole in the internal organs. They're all blown away. If you really had this kind of ability, I wouldn't have called you all here today. As far as I know, some of you still don't understand the firearms in your hands. So today I ask Guobang to teach you for the last time that you must be sure. You have to be familiar with this gun in your hands. You know, good brothers, after Qiu Mi, my eldest daughter and I will leave. From now on, it will be up to you to defend Qinglong Mountain. So whether it is fighting ghosts or hunting. The gun will follow you closely, so we must try our best to be familiar with this gun. Treat the gun as our life. Mark the location of this village for me. Count the personnel. It is best to write down the guns and ammunition for me. This woman Who am I going to tell you today about sniper rifles? Sniper rifles have long range and are accurate. I did n't expect that you trained them well in such a short time. It 's all thanks to you two. Without you, we would still use bows and arrows. Firstly, the gun must be held steadily without any sway. Secondly, when aiming, the sight of the eye and the head of the little devil must be in line. If the devil retreats, the situation has been touched here. It seems that the copycat has been exposed. We must intercept him. Brothers, be ready to leave. It seems that there are only two of them. The Japs did not intend to attack them to find out the information. Being able to find out here shows that they have a certain understanding of Qinglong Mountain. We must intercept them. There is a path from here to the foot of the mountain. Is there a shortcut? Come with me. Wait a minute. Everyone, please be careful along the way. The Japs may be hiding anywhere. Let's spread out. Cuilan can't go. Come back quickly. Can Guobang find the location of the opponent's sniper? We need to let them shoot first. Can it be done? I have to save Cuilan. No, you can't go. It's too dangerous. Are you hiding from Guobang like this? Go and see what's in the bushes in front of Cuilan. There are thin wires and grenades. I understand that this is a chain. As for the mine laying method, I heard veterans who fought in Southeast Asia tell me that in order to prevent the other party from tracking them, they would place a lot of grenades in the woods and tie the tabs with thin metal wires. Once they touch the metal wires, the grenades will explode. This method of laying mines is not only very fast but will also cause very heavy casualties to the opponent. Now we have to kill the opponent's sniper first and then defuse the bomb before we can save Cuilan. We have to find a way to expose the opponent's position and help you find it. I'm going to target. I said no. Okay, stop talking. Guobang is relying on you. Be careful of those lines. There is another one who didn't shoot. Did he run away? Don't be careless. If this person is still here, he must be a master. He didn't shoot just to avoid it. Expose his position. It's getting dark. If there's not enough light, there 's no way to remove the metal wire. I'm trying to lure the other guy out, but that doesn't work. If this guy doesn't shoot easily, he just wants to see who among us is the most important manhole. Mei Kong Mei, since you are so important, we should protect you. It's okay. Just leave this kind of sewing to us women. You men don't understand. I want you to die together. Kong Mei, it's okay. It's okay. What's wrong with you? Why didn't he shoot? Explosive hole Mei Kong Mei, Kong Mei, you must be Yao San, right ? It's just one of you who gained false fame but brought disaster with your quick words. Think about what will happen to the old hunting king of Qinglong Mountain who goes against the imperial army. At this time, do you still want to persuade me to surrender ? No, I respect your integrity very much and admire the courage of your brothers. But I have always known that as a soldier, all the glory and admiration come from the battlefield and from the enemy. You are here. Today, I decided to let you go, but letting you go like this would be an insult to your heroic reputation. The honor of a warrior must be earned fairly. In this way, the two of you as a team can win and draw against our warriors of the Imperial Japanese Army. If you win, I will let you go. Otherwise, don't say that I didn't give you a chance. Seriously, fight with bare hands without using any weapons. Third master and third master are not full and have no energy. How can we fight? This is our only chance to fight with the little devil. Third master, we Fight with them, fight with them, fight with them, fight with them, okay, I'll tell you. Brother Shunzi, brother Shunzi, what's wrong with the little stone? Brother Shunzi, look, does this look like the same word? Then add a little bit of weapon, armory, little stone here. Well done, please let me know. We are setting off now. We have found the armory. Third Master, I will give you one more chance to run up this mountain road. As long as you run out of my sight, I will let you go. Third Master, let's go. Third Master, let's go. Go away, shoot him, and leave him to Tanaka. Wait, this is just bait to catch that big fish. Go and see Kuroko Junko and the others. It's just me. Why, you come and save me alone. I'm enough for you. Isn't that right? Are you here to die? You and I owe you my life. I will repay it myself. I saved you just to keep you alive. You need to leave quickly. Let's go together. I came here just to take you out alive. My leg is hurt so badly now. What can I do? Let's go. Besides, the enemy is in the dark. How can we go in the open ? Well, then I'll turn him into the open. Let's see his shooting skills. This must be Tanaka, the one under Yuichi Sakahara who has the most accurate marksmanship. We can't go wrong if we show our heads, we will be dead. I don't care what Tanaka is blocking my way. I'll give him a black eye. Finally, listen to my brother's words and live well. The Japs seem to be waiting for us in front. Yes, the Japs did come. Many people came to look at them. They don't look like hunters . Fujiwara, a regular force of the Eighth Route Army, led a small team 50 meters forward to outflank the right wing. You guys are following me. Captain, the Japanese seem to be making moves. They want to outflank us from the flank. We cannot give them this opportunity. Don't fall in love with the fight and retreat. Brothers, retreat, pursue and retreat quickly to protect. Lieutenant Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel, retreat, Guobang is our country. Is this news accurate? Listen to Brother Shunzi and it's not wrong. Why don't the Japanese come and wait? I believe Guobang's intelligence is not wrong. It's hidden and hidden. The devils are coming, get ready, they are coming, they are coming, come on, come on, come on, come on, wait, you can look at the whole situation here, it is beneficial to us, go so much, darling, Shunzi, this is a good deal, brother Shunzi, we won a big victory. Fortunately, Qinglong Mountain has you. I can only talk on paper, but if I want to fight in actual combat, I have to rely on you. UUU The third master and the third master are not good. What are the devils coming? Brothers copy the guys and fight with the devils. Let's go. Heizi, there's a fight outside. Heizi, let's go. Heizi. Brother, have you heard of a play called Lu Zhishen's Weeping Willows? If you have anything to say, please tell me. Brother Guobang, have you found the black man? Are you there? Yao San said that the people have left. This should be the gunfire of the Japanese. I just saw it. A group of Japs went in that direction. The Japs went to fight the bandits. If Heizi is bad, he must fight with them there. Daniel, let's go back first and see if Heizi has returned to the village. If not, let's go over there. Let's take a walk. Fire, fire, come on, come on, come on, brother Shunzi, what's going on? Brother Shunzi is in a panic. Has Heizi returned to the village? It's over. The Japanese have gone to beat Yao San. Maybe Heizi is still there. Brothers, prepare to fight. It's my day. Your ancestor, Brother Heizi, Heizi, why are you here? I was plotted by your hundred-handed insect. Yes, this grandson locked us up all night. What little devil ran away, hurry up and chase me. Do n't chase me. Go and see Yao. How is Third Master doing? Will the enemy follow us? Not sure. Then why did we retreat without fighting? The terrain just now was very unfavorable for us and we had to withdraw. Moreover, the group of people who followed were obviously better trained than the bandits. Observe. Besides, be careful. There is an ambush. Report to Colonel. The enemy is following. There is an ambush. Tie Dan, Tie Dan, hide. Brother Shunzi, be careful not to come out. Don't kill him. Give me the gun. Tie Dan, go quickly. Tie Dan, the grenade, Erkui, is going to get rid of the mother's pursuit of Heizi Kong. Mei, let's go over there and see if it's good to go. There's no way here, and there's no Shunzi. How was this battle fought? You're not worthy of being the Hunting King at all. Why do you say that to him? You're not worthy. I'm saying this for everyone's good. You'll understand later. The general attack begins. Speed up, rush forward, hurry up, let me tell Sister Kong Mei. You are watching the sunspots here. Explosive packs. Explosive packs. Explosive packs. Hurry up and suppress the fire. Sister Kong Mei, a group of Japs appears at the foot of the mountain. Oh no, the Japs' reinforcements are here. Come with me. Hurry up. Quickly look at your sister Kong Mei's side. The situation is good. Cuilan, be safe. Brothers, it's our turn. They are working hard on the front line. We can't stay here. Let's go and fight with the Japanese. Sister Kong Mei, why are you here? Old Hunter King, let me help you. You're of no use here. Go quickly. I won't leave. This thing is very important. I leave it to you, Brother Shunzi. You listen to me. Take it and walk quickly. Be careful. I understand. Come on, come on, follow me. Come on, go and click the lead. Don't stop. Rush over to the stone. You're wandering around here. What? Didn't I ask you to find your sister Kong Mei? Sister Kong Mei didn't let me help her and asked me to find Brother Shunzi. How about we go? To block the enemy's bullets, you must light the explosive pack. Comrades, rush with me. Let's go to Nagasami. It seems that you are the hunting king of Qinglong Mountain. You are Igarashi, the supreme commander of the Japanese army who occupied our Qinglong Mountain. I didn't expect it. You actually know how to use the method of pulling firewood from the bottom of the cauldron to break through my impregnable defenses. It seems that you are not a simple mountain villager! The little devil dares to occupy my ancestral hall. Today I will let you apologize in front of my ancestors. Just because of you two, I said that I I want you to apologize in front of the ancestors of Qinglong Mountain. Brother Shunzi, Guobang Cuilan, go and save Kong Mei.