A nation state can either be a Republic or An old hereditary state that has been passed taking control and then holding onto a new The difficulty is reduced if you personally An old hereditary state such as a monarchy family. This is what Alexander the Great did to conquer III. However, states that are used to freedom must For those who are not yet princes, it is possible steps: follow the example of those in the To keep hold of a new state securely, all swift and firm methods, but then benefits A prince must win the favour of the people be truly secure when he can raise his own Mercenaries cannot be relied on. Neither can other people's armies. To be successful, a prince must read history, He must give the appearance of being good, He should not be afraid to be thought of as will lead to ruin. He also shouldn't worry about being thought he can control. A prince should be willing to use cunning He may or may not be loved, but as long as Fortresses are of little use as even though they do not stop you being betrayed by your A prince must be purposeful, determined, and He must clearly follow one path or another. He should encourage art and craft, commerce Entertain his people with spectacles and festivities, Only capable servants should be used by a Anybody who flatters, must be avoided. Machiavelli claimed that the once-powerful misfortune but by their own inaction and indecisiveness. Fortune directs half of our actions, but the hard-work, cautiousness and virtue. Fortune needs to be beaten and dominated. It is often like a torrential river that cannot can be made to control and minimise the damage. Machiavelli concludes by stating that a leader book to conquer Italy and free her from the In 1453, Mehmed the Conqueror was nearing the Eastern Roman Empire. After a 57 day siege, Constantinople fell of the kingdom. As soon as the triumph was complete, Mehmed from Adrianople to the newly conquered city. Constantinople was now under the rule of a religion and different form of government, his position more durable and secure. In fact in Machiavelli's eyes, not staying being able to keep the city at all. In The Prince, Machiavelli declares: and customs from those of the prince are more One of the prince's most effective options By living there, the prince can address problems He can prevent the local officials from plundering The subjects will be in close contact with Therefore, those who are inclined to be good to the prince and those who are inclined to Invaders will think twice before attempting A situation where a business or territory or customs, will bring with it many difficulties. What is needed to keep hold of them is considerable However, being present in the new area is aim. It allows a ruler to regulate, repress and Machiavelli gives some clear advice that is a politician who may have to deal with state pushing in different directions with varying deal with various divisions which have different which have existing allegiances. In these situations you need to make your Not just once or twice, but constantly. Get hands-on, so you can deal immediately Do not risk them increasing in severity by "If one is on the spot, disorders are seen with them. But if one is not at hand they are heard of then it is too late." In today's world, being physically present If you have national or international responsibilities, Being present today means being engaged and To lead, you must make yourself available Many high-flying CEOs are up early sending questions and offering their observations. Failure to be engaged according to Machiavelli, It is easy to get excited about the possibilities be to manage the here and now. If today is not managed well, the visions Machiavelli urges you to live for today - for "How one lives is so far distant from how is done for what ought to be done, sooner Louis XII of France made several mistakes to occupy Milan and other Italian land. Not being present in territory with largely of them. King Louis entered into Italy at the request Lombardy and wanted an ally. By conquering Lombardy, Louis gained the friendship However, instead of allying with them Louis who was far more powerful. He decided to crush the small powers rather and weakened his position. As a politician and leader, the Pope had vastly church and Louis XII had helped him do that. Machiavelli points out that by making others "Whoever is responsible for another's becoming By bringing in a foreign power instead of mistake. Many residents of Milan that were not happy as a result of the hatred they felt against As he did not live in Italy, he could not not establish any colonies there, wasn't Eventually, he ended up losing all his Italian When the King of France, Louis XII was threatening was asked by his friend what advice would Should he side with the French, the Swiss Machiavelli answered that he should support In his view, staying neutral when two others neutral party, as they have left themselves If one side has performed favours for the (as Louis XII was with Pope Alexander VI), side with them and failure to do so could The other side will also feel contempt for timid, indecisive and not an enemy to be feared. As he explains in The Prince, by not throwing you're on, you will be at the mercy of the the loser: is either a true friend or a downright enemy. In other words, when he declares himself without the other. This will always be more favourable than remaining It's fair to say that Machiavelli was not leads to weakness. He identifies indecision as a destructive There is an obvious risk associated with picking unforgivable and eventually fatal in his eyes. Action is often preferable to inaction, even "Princes who are irresolute usually follow immediate danger, and usually come to grief." That's not to say you should just pick any It matters who you choose as friends and as But in the event of your side losing, people stand on the issue. By being hesitant, dithering or just preferring both the winners and losers of a conflict "It will always be more advantageous for war. If you do not declare yourself, you will invariably the pleasure and satisfaction of the loser, or to shelter you." If an issue needs dealing with, a decision or controversial it may be. You have to take a stand, otherwise both the respect for you. A prince is respected most when he reveals enemy. "The winner does not want doubtful friends and the loser will not harbour you because your sword in hand." Postponing a decision should only be done Overusing this tactic however, will soon show Machiavelli recommends bold action as when indecisiveness may lead to finding yourself So when following Machiavelli's general which side should you choose? If you are able to avoid it, he states you than your own. The reason being that, if they win, you may However, there have been scenarios since Machiavelli's as he may have overlooked the value of showing There is a difference between staying neutral by being cautious. In World War II, two fascist dictators made with. Italy's Mussolini (who read and studied decided to adopt an official policy to stay Mussolini's decisive decision was a Machiavellian the war which in turn led to his death. Franco on the other hand, survived the war His discretion when making his decision helped When you have made your choice, whether your be appreciative of you siding with them. If your chosen partner is victorious, they If defeated, they may protect you until you between you will grow stronger. Despite generally taking a negative view of reaction in this situation, observing that not immediately turn on their allies. In Greek mythology, many ancient Princes including Hercules, were nurtured and educated by a This creature went by the name of Chiron and Chiron taught the heroes how to act like men like a beast with a strong will to survive. Machiavelli used the metaphor of Chiron to a combination of cunning and brute force. Failure to use both these sides of nature "You must know there are two ways of contending: The first method is natural to man the second insufficient it is essential to have recourse Therefore it is necessary for a prince to and the man." A good leader must love peace but also be Civilised people use the law to settle differences Fighting by law is natural to men and involves the law does not always work in our favour In such situations, Machiavelli declares it intimidate and frighten, enabling you to get It's all well and good to rule compassionately arms are needed to secure your position. To stay in power, when circumstances demand It therefore may be necessary to resort to "So it is necessary for a prince to know one without the other is not durable." When a Prince is channeling the nature of two different animal instincts that he should He should attempt to be both a lion and a A lion is mighty and brave, so strong that his size and reputation can keep opponents However, it is an error to rely only on the unlike the wily fox. What the fox lacks in strength, it makes up deceptions and escape traps. This is especially important in issues of "A prince, therefore, who is forced to act the lion; because the lion cannot defend himself against wolves." To gain power and thrive, a combination of When civilised debate does not provide you may be necessary. However, too much force will see you viewed Mix your strength with craftiness, cultivate to overcome any number of challenges. This combined skill set of both beasts will the differing weaknesses of each beast are In The Prince, Machiavelli appreciates that on the circumstances. Be cautious when caution is necessary and Adaptability is important. The idea of taking context into account when Machiavelli did not advocate blindly following to absolute moral standards. Machiavelli states that Princes can come into by luck, or through being elected by their But Princes can also gain power through criminal two men who successfully achieved power by Agathocles (361BC-289BC) was a poor, common He joined the military and through a combination through the ranks to the position of Praetor Not satisfied with this, he decided he wanted crucial meeting of the Syracusan senate. Once everyone had assembled, he gave the signal and rich men of the state. This act of cunning and deception enabled but to control the state without any serious He even managed to withstand a Carthaginian A more recent illustration of grabbing power Fermo (1475-1502). Made an orphan as a child, he was raised by He was intelligent, strong and fearless, which However, he too decided he wanted to be a arranged with his allies to take over the Writing to his uncle telling him he wanted with him his loyal soldiers. As part of his homecoming, he arranged a banquet in the town. After the banquet, Oliverotto spoke in praise but mid-conversation his soldiers came out guests, including his uncle. After the slaughter Oliverotto went on to He scared the people into forming a new government terrorise the city into obedience. Anybody that rebelled against him was killed. It was only thanks to the superior political that Oliverotto lost hold of his power and These two infamous rulers enhanced their power behaviour. Agathocles' courage and ability made him eyes), but his behaviour was not virtuous In other words, he got the power but not the true respect and full admiration. Machiavelli neither praises nor condemns the He simply states that this tactic is criminal Ignoring morality and only concerned about good and bad ways to be cruel and sometimes position as a Prince. However, once that has been achieved you must A good act of cruelty has to be done all at need for any further crime. A bad cruelty is one that becomes a messy By continuing to inflict pain and suffering "So it should be noted that when he seizes injuries that he will need to inflict. He must inflict them once for all, and not way he will be able to set men's minds at benefits. Whoever acts otherwise, either through timidity knife ready to his hand and he can never depend and continuous violence, can never feel secure The long-term success and security of the For this reason, despite using a similar method of violence may have been justified, whereas Agathocles ended his use of force soon after and secured the state. As a result, the local population supported attackers. Agathocles' evil acts saved the state and Therefore, for Machiavelli, the ends could Oliverotto on the other hand, continued to Because of this, the people of Fermo did not opposition. By being unable to save the state, Oliverotto's not justify the means. The ultimate goal for Agathocles was the greater Oliverotto's only goal was to better himself. Villains are able to hold power successfully, Failure to act swiftly and decisively will as someone can be plotting against you. Machiavelli's lesson for a Prince is this: That way less overall offence is taken by is felt less. A swift, decisive strike is less painful than Conversely, distribute benefits to people appreciated more. By giving out too much at once, people will "Violence must be inflicted once for all; and so be less resentful. Benefits must be conferred gradually; and Modern politics contains many figures that examples. Many past and current national leaders have maintain their power through deception and In today's world, cruelty and politics still Machiavelli's teachings can help you better their cruel behaviour. However, Machiavelli could not foresee modern state. Cruelties can now be committed in the same technology to easily control and repress the or more. So how should a Prince conquer a new state? According to Machiavelli, he should eliminate This will remove the greatest threat to power. In the Russian revolution of 1917, the Bolsheviks, of Russia, Nicholas II, but also executed family. If you inflict small or non-lethal injuries them but not removing the problem, which in revenge. A prime example of this was the battle in The nationalists had the smaller Red Army The Red Army began a military retreat known They walked over mountains and tough terrain, After the Long March, the survivors set up Mao Zedong acted as a leader on the retreat for the next decade. It ultimately led to the Chinese communist took power and eliminated the nationalists "One has to mention that men should either they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries Therefore the harm that is done to a man should of revenge." This is ruthless advice from Machiavelli. It uses logical reasoning but lacks any consideration His binary choice for leaders of treating realism, as anything in between could create However, I don't think it is always the into account the fact that his advice is specifically Consider the Mytilenian Debate during the The Mytilenians were part of a group of Greek against the Athenian empire, hoping to be The help from Sparta did not arrive in time being put under siege by the Athenians. When considering how to handle the rebellious in Athens in the Mytilenian Debate. Cleon, the general, was in favour of killing women and children, a ruthless, Machiavellian-esque Diodotus argued not to kill the men but to as this was in the best interest of Athens. The votes were eventually cast in favour of Athens imposed democracy on the rebellious Louis XII invaded Italy in an attempt to get Italy at the time was not a united land and Louis first conquered Milan, before continuing Wishing to then conquer Naples, Louis allied the kingdom of Naples with the King of Spain. However, the agreement did not take long to The next few years saw the Spanish fight against the French King. Ferdinand II said of Louis: twice deceived him. He lies, the fool; I have deceived him ten Machiavelli believed that the attempt to take XII. If France could have attacked Naples with so, but if that was not possible then they Louis should not have conquered lands that Machiavelli believed it is natural for us that come with it. No criticism should be aimed at leaders for But when you attempt to acquire something fully deserved. Machiavelli shows his cynical realism by stating regardless of the means used to achieve it Conversely, failure is generally socially your good qualities. In today's world, the press and media dedicate moderate success. This is because it is more interesting to read and more viewers engaged, which ultimately It is therefore very important to know your could result in disapproval. "The wish to acquire is in truth very natural can and for this they will be praised not But when they cannot do so yet wish to do Since most would-be princes cannot rely on must acquire it. Machiavelli answers the question of "how not depend on others and instead rely on his This means that his forces should consist or soldiers borrowed from a more powerful Using armies from other states puts a prince is won, victory is owed to the power of a is to another leader, which presents a dangerous Hiero the Syracusan was a man who followed own arms". His rise to power was not down to fortune qualities. Having begun life as an ordinary citizen, who were persecuted at the time and was later Hiero was a tyrant and not afraid to use cruelty. He replaced his old army with his own soldiers. He realised that mercenaries were of no use them go, he had them all killed. By relying on himself and his own troops, trouble in keeping it. The Roman's move into Greece and their subsequent example of how Machiavelli thought power should They were brought into Greece by the Aetolians. As Machiavelli stated, when a powerful foreign existing hatred or grievance with the ruling external challenger. Despite conquering large amounts of territory, of the local people and keep down any potential Several measures were taken by the Romans land of several countries to their own region. Firstly, the Roman senate set up colonies powers, such as the minor Greek states of time ensuring they did not allow any increase Secondly, they ignored requests of friendship when the Aetolians asked the Romans to help accepted and defeated him, significantly weakening Finally, they did not allow any other strong A few years after defeating Philip V of Macedon, of Syria. The Romans did not agree to letting the foreign and turned on the Aetolians, defeating them overall strength too. The Romans ensured that they did not increase They conquered neighbouring provinces and Machiavelli highlighted: their power do not allow foreign powers to establish a This combination of acts would leave the Romans every other group with less power, or no more "He who is the cause of another becoming has been brought about either by astuteness by him who has been raised to power." So Machiavelli encourages Princes to establish too strong as they can and will turn on you When trying to establish himself in Italy, the strength of one of the greatest powers and the powerful Church. Louis surrendered much of his power through against him. The King had already destroyed many smaller against the Pope and therefore failed to keep Machiavelli depicts power as a scarce resource. By acting in a way that solidifies your own Conversely, by making others powerful is to This is important not only in diplomacy, but Conflict is inevitable according to Machiavelli. Political life is constant warfare and the Attempting to avoid conflict by appeasing is a mistake. Your "ally" will see it as a sign of weakness to them. If you have to fight, do it and get it over When discussing whether it is better to be great military leaders: the Roman General Hannibal. Scipio was seen as a great commander and was they respected him, they did not fear him. Machiavelli said that one of the implications was limited in the range of actions available Some military and political strategies and his reputation, which was seen as spotless While he was in Spain, the troops under Scipio's This mutiny occured because of the discipline Scipio was not willing to punish them for At the time, when Rome was a republic, kindness, virtues rather than faults. Scipio was forced to be merciful in this situation This led to his army not fearing him as much By enforcing some forceful discipline and have brought them under control, but he didn't, "No prince should mind being called cruel Hannibal was described as a cruel leader by was an asset in his position. The general's army was far more diverse distance to foreign lands. To avoid internal conflicts and mutinies amongst like Hannibal was needed. In The Prince, Machiavelli argued that it this regard Hannibal had a strong advantage His ability to instill fear into his men and and an expansive empire. "Among the wonderful deeds of Hannibal this army, composed of many various races of men, arose either among them or against the prince, This arose from nothing else than his inhuman made him revered and terrible in the sight his other virtues were not sufficient to produce Being brave or good at your job as a leader of your workers. Strength and discipline is required to keep Good leaders are admired, but strong leaders Being over-compassionate enables unrest and This theory from Machiavelli has been used Khan to your typical modern-day drill instructor. Fear and intimidation has often been an effective In Machiavelli's era, Cesare Borgia inspired the eventual result was order and peace in Machiavelli points out that every Prince would believed a Prince should not mind being thought Borgia's wicked behaviour was, in fact, cruelty he spared his people the even worse A prince such as Hannibal who enacts cruel to create stability. A prince such as Scipio who shows mercy is disorder to flourish, which hurts everyone. A limited number of severe punishments will being excessively merciful can cause disorder "On this a question arises: whether it be loved? It may be answered that one should wish to them in one person, it is much safer to be Because this is to be asserted in general false, cowardly, covetous, and as long as will shed blood for you, risk their property, but when it approaches they turn against you. And that prince who, relying entirely on their because friendships that are bought rather mind, may indeed be earned, but they are not be relied upon; and men have less scruple is feared, for love is preserved by a bond at every opportunity to their advantage, but which is always effective." That was arguably the most famous statement It is also often one of the most misunderstood. Firstly, in an ideal world, Machiavelli said his realism points out that the two do not Many take his argument that it is better to of context, giving the impression that it behaviour. This has led to centuries of abuse by bullies However, when taken in the context of what goal - to maintain the state - we can see which fear helps to achieve. Machiavelli does not support using cruelty in preserving the state. By using his power to protect his citizens a prince can be feared but not hated. It is important for a prince to avoid being it is deadly for a leader, because hatred subjects. Alternatively, if the people fear their prince, of support. This is due to the people's fear of what To achieve fear but not hatred, a prince must should not injure his people, nor should he The threat of punishment should be made clear easier time of keeping control of his own The people are more likely to comply so long or their land. If he must impose discipline, then there must if lives are to be taken. Machiavelli advises against the taking of of human nature that people would forgive than they would the stealing of their assets. "Men more quickly forget the death of their Girolamo Savonarola was a friar who became While he was in power, he was greatly loved However, once his grip on power weakened, Machiavelli thought that humans are largely They will only support a prince if it provides They will support someone they love a lot declines, the people can soon forget about In other words, when the going gets tough, "If Moses, Cyrus, Theseus, and Romulus had their constitutions for long - as happened was ruined with his new order of things immediately he had no means of keeping steadfast those to believe." The fear of punishment for people is a constant. The feeling of affection is unreliable. Therefore, when ordering rulers by their strength: A stronger commander inspires fear in his The strongest prince instills both fear and So it is important as a prince to behave in involve being cruel), but not to a point so