- This is gonna be quite a short video. - Is this $4,000 of Starbucks? Are you serious? - Hey, LTT, welcome to my crib, let's go check it out. - Sarah, this is the bathroom. (Sarah laughing) That's right, ladies and gentlemen, &quot;Intel Extreme Tech Upgrade&quot; is back, the one and only Sarah from Intel for the ultimate tech makeover, and we are gonna be checking out, not her front door, for obvious privacy reasons, so we used this door. (both laughing) (upbeat music) Hey, Arlo, do you wanna come with us? Oh, come here. (Linus grunting) - This is gonna be quite a short video. I present to you my upgrade. - Wait, what? - So I got, of course, my 12th Gen Intel CPU. - Yeah, got an i-12700K. - And then, a $4,000 Starbucks gift card. - Who signed off on this? Is this $4,000 of Starbucks? - Of course. What do you expect? I get money, I need coffee, like... - Are you serious? I can't tell. - I'm not serious. - Oh, my God. (Sarah laughing) - So this is actually my regular setup, I did install these shelves yesterday. - Okay, wonderful. - Let's go check out what I actually got. - Let's do that, I... - Sorry, before I give - She actually got me. (Sarah laughing) Sorry, I'm still reeling, it's not like it's technically against any kind of established rules. - That's what I thought, I still got the CPU. - I bought a CPU, I put it on a shelf, and now, I'm gonna chug coffee... - Yes. - For the next 10 months. - I literally got everything for the perfect graphic design/gaming and streaming setup. - That is sick. - Yeah. some of these choices. - Like, so many people didn't Where do I keep my laptop? - And when I need my Apple systems, I can just plug my computer in or my laptop into my monitor and ready to go. - The Peach Edition from Red Bull, is this part of it, though? - Yeah, it actually is. - So I figured if I was I need my energy drinks, so I invested some of my funds into that. - I noticed. You are one of the first to go relatively modest in terms of GPU. So break it down for me, what's your intended mix here for like graphic design versus gaming time versus streaming time? - So I just wanna make sure that I can get a good mix of all three, my system doesn't need it just needs to be and Creative Cloud programs, but as well as like run Steam, run some games that I enjoy - I think this will - Yeah, I think so too. - Might be all right. Ooh, maybe not, actually. I'm kidding. - So what... - I'm gonna have to try and get her before this video is done. We're gonna have a crap ton - Yes. like, studio monitors, laptop arm, we better get started. - Let's gather the computer. Oh, okay. (Linus mimics) I am passing the... No, I yap, Whoa, that's a heavy motherboard. - Yes, so everything I except for the power supply, we are gonna use the old power supply from my previous computer. - There's way more stuff are you sure you're within budget? - I am. - I didn't even see the chair. - I bet you didn't pay for this. - No, of course not, I designed it for goodness' sake. - Stolen from work, 100%, is this part of the Intel - So this, I bought myself, but all of the paint and art supplies are part of the upgrade. And as an artist, I really some of the money into buying some nicer art supplies for myself, so I got a set of all new acrylic paints, some new paint brushes, some new sketchbooks, - Ooh. - And of course, how can we forget, the brand new LTT store cable ties. - That's right, now they are and available in a bunch - Yeah, I had to get the - Buddy, that's not your chair. If you hang there, you are - Okay, let's get you all of - All right, I'll stop Oh, my God, there's so much stuff here. - So I've got a new keyboard, a new mouse, a Wacom tablet. I got some merch from my A24, because when you design merch, you also enjoy other people's merch. - Right. (upbeat music) - You got it? Oh, God. - No, I'm good. My nose is flat, I cannot see. (box crumpling) - Originally, I wanted but I think that might take a lot longer than we want to, so... - That's okay, we got all day. All right, Sarah's building a computer. - Okay, let's do it. - New LTT screwdriver. Oh! - I think this is the intended use, right? For this new screwdriver? - Yeah, I think so. Can you tell there's a bit fashion graphic design team and the engineering team? The way they treat each - Oh, my gosh, he wants the thing - I think I have a better I'm not calling you cat fat, I'm just... - Saying he's... of fur weighing him down. - Oh, yeah, it's fur for sure. I'm thirsting for computers. - So is Arlo. - So I know after being an I know you start with the motherboard, so I will get to opening that. - Okay. - Oh. (kitchen cabinet slamming) - Oh, smart. - So I did get the Z690-A motherboard to kind of match the black and white theme that I'm going for. One nice bonus that I don't have on my... (Linus exclaiming) - He just knocked it over. (Linus laughing) You do have... - Wow, it comes with a little key chain, some stickers, this is the who cares about this? (Sarah whistling) That is a spiffy motherboard. - Some really good features We've got support for PCIe Gen 5, along with 12th Gen Intel Core processors. Got the nice little PCI which is super cool, if you ever need to get Got lots of power phases, this is a freaking sick motherboard. - There's the little triangle right there, and see, I've got the - Mm-hmm, go ahead and stick it in. Oh, my God, you're shaking so much, okay, hold on, hold on, - It's not... - No, no, that's not a triangle. So the triangles here. - Oh. - And also there. Okay, cool. - So we gotta flip it - This is actually a really for us to talk about the other way that you can landmark your CPU, because we'd really never mentioned it. So there's the triangle method, right? Where you've got the little and you line that up with the triangle that's either on the socket cover or silk screened onto the motherboard, but Intel CPUs are also keyed, see that? You've got these - Little notches in the side of the chip, and so, you can check that and you can validate that are also here in that you've got it in the right spot. - All right. I did it. - Nice. And now, we close it. - That's... - Am I not supposed to do that? - Not how I would've closed it, but sure. - Maybe took me two tries, but I did it. - You did it. What's next? - RAM. - So I'm taking two RAM - Okay. two new RAM. Don't worry, I made sure so we're not gonna have any issues there. - Two RAM for you, my lady. - Thank you. After doing &quot;Secret Shopper,&quot; I would say I'm pretty good I know to look for the click, - A little pro tip for is you wanna put populate from the camera operator. - That makes sense. - It's okay, don't worry about it. - Arlo, pardon me, thank you. Next, I believe, is the SSD, correct? - Correct, so you've got multiple options in terms of your SSD install, you have a really high performance SSD, we've got a Sabrent Rocket 4 Plus, this is a Gen 4 SSD, so while you could install it here, here, or here... - There's a total of four - Yeah. - You're gonna want this one, yeah. - Awesome. - Okay, SSD. So this part goes in here. (Sarah and Linus laughing) - So what you're gonna wanna do is you're gonna wanna turn this clockwise to lock it into place. - Oh. it's a really cool that ASUS has now. - Oh, I just have... - Wow, what did you do? - I'm sorry. Can we like press... - No, stop, stop touching it. Stop. - I have this AIO from EK. I was promised, there was gonna be a but it doesn't say that, there's one on the box, so I actually am a little nervous that that's not gonna happen. Matt, if you're watching this and you're wrong, bad news. (Sarah laughing) You're fired. - You don't have that power, Sarah. - We're actually making - [David] Don't say that. - (grunting) Knock on fake wood. Is it working? - I think so, yeah, I think we're golden - But not because the was included, so you can - Yeah, Matt's fired. No, that's not what I said. (both laughing) Sheesh. - I'm just gonna move this. Woo. Yes, it has a built-in IO shield, so we don't have to worry you're good to put your motherboard in. - Okay, there we go. - Perfect, like a perceptional. (hands clapping) - Our lo tired from helping. - Yeah.(Sarah laughing) - It's a tough life. - Eat, sleep and poop. What a life? (paper crumpling) Where's my scissors. - Really? Yeah. Totally easy. - Yeah. The easiest. - I do love to like Like if you can't open a - It's just so here. to make it seem like as yeah. Oh yeah. Oh, here you Gohan. Oh, wow. That's crazy. It almost looks kind of cool. This like, - Pattern on here, but yeah, you've got a dust pattern I often get like allergies I think I have some kind of, well, I tell my wife it's (Sarah laughing) That's good. Sorry, Hannah. I really - Can't clean. - Hold on a second. Is his - No, I have no idea why - Your butt is so wide, but cat. I think he has a wider but than me. - Definitely - Get over here Arlo. - Eddie, who I have this GM I really wanted to try So I got all of the pieces here. I decided to go with blue keys because that's what I have in There's more stickers. I love when things come with stickers. If you buy from LTT store, your package will likely - Designed by. - Designed by ma. Now I've noticed this keyboard, like the base of a - Oh wow! Yeah. That's a machined base. - How much has that keyboard? - I actually don't - Thanks Intel. - I don't need this cable like the iconic keyboard style cable. How does this? - So you just take this and - Okay. I've got a lot of these to do. - Yeah. A hundred times. What is he doing? - It's just laying on his back. - Hi, I'm actually like, not far from finishing this machine. - It's nice. It's kind of been like a Other than that one. Ah! Sorry. Everything has gone so smoothly. - You're still doing it. - I'm sorry. - All of my switches are in my keyboard and I guess next I put the - Tediously put a hundred things on. - Yeah. - Oh! I have to do this I didn't think about that. - I mean, you don't have to. - A, B, C no joking. - Oh, we're gonna need to mod this again. Basically there's magnets but you're supposed to hook - Okay. - Because there's a radiator there. - Oh, So these need to come off. Do you have a pair of like - We might have to like heat - I says, pardon. - Well I couldn't find any pliers. And I figure that may - I do wanna point out So if anything bad happens, Sarah's in her own home - We got a little bit of brown on there. I might paint it. I don't know. - Did you wait? Did you ever put the GPU in? - Oh no, I didn't. - I got sidetracked by I always love holographic packaging. Our new sticker packs actually - Okay, we we're getting very - When we got this GPU, I didn't realize that the little are actually like a (upbeat music) - It's a big problem. (Sarah sighing) Hey. - Is that in? - Yeah, Wow! There was almost no crunch. - Wow! That is a beautiful computer. - This is it. This is - I love it. - Are we ready to head upstairs and try and post this machine? - Yeah, let's do it. - I didn't want the I'm not gonna lie. I'm not really. Yeah, I'm not feeling it - Bye, bye buddy. I'm stuck - Is it in there? - I wasn't pretending. I'll totally go to my way to make it seem like as yeah, oh yeah. Oh, here you go, Hann. Holy crap. That is. - We need David. - What are you implying? - I'm sorry. - Here hold on. Let's - You can do it. - Well, Sarah, at least there will be a story behind why your keyboard doesn't match. - Yeah. - [David] Nope. It's impossible. - Let's take this show upstairs, shall we? - Let's do it. - All right. Oh, side panel. You know what? We'll put This Sarah is why you will a white mouse pad again. - Never. I've already spilled on it. Literally I'm not even joking within putting it down two (Linus laughs) These I've borrowed from Now that we're gonna install. - Got it. So this has to. - Yes. - But. - I also have two monitor on - When show's gonna be late - Worth it. Am I right? - [David] Maybe for you yeah. - Yeah. For you. - I've never set up a monitor arm before and I really have no idea what I'm doing. - Well, the first thing you're doing wrong is mixing your parts - Uhoh By the way, Sarah, this Those screws are never coming out. - Oops, I did get this but this one I owned previously. - Cool. - This is a Ben Q 32 inch like SRG, B calibrated design monitor. - Cool. - So this is what I use in - And this is. - This is a gaming and have it look nice. - 2560 By 1440. - Yeah, so I have a tremendous from my mouse to my Wacom So I'm just start unboxing everything. I don't even know where to start. Ideally for a stream set up, obviously you'd want a microphone. So I did get the PSA1+ mic arm. Wow! - You have a lot of monitor lady. - I didn't plan for so we can also move that down. What I want to be able to do And if the PC is there, So yeah, after lots of throughout the office, I was recommended this I guess it's just really So is. - It there LTT 2020? - Yep. - Linus agrees. So that's a good sign. Wow! It comes with a little pouch. - You're impressed by the wrong stuff. - Look at. It's so cute. - So you're not even gonna spend any time looking at like my beautiful - I wish I could, but that wouldn't be a that I'm going for. It is a shame. - I just got dumped in (Sarah laughs) So you just kind of move with where it is. - Okay. I think there, oh wait, these should be like - So does it need to go over more now? - Nope, that seems fine. - Are you very sure? - I'm pretty certain. - Okay. - I like it. - All right. That's awesome. Let's start getting - Yay. - Oh, I wanna know if - Oh, the button, but the one button. - Okay. Do the honors. Okay. I see blowing lights. That's a good sign. - That's enough RGB Sarah? - Oh! Absolutely. Especially 'cause you won't (Sarah laughing) 32 gigs ram, 12,700 K, All we need is a keyboard. - I got this desk pad from Grove made. I'm sorry. I am a trader to &quot;LTT Store&quot;. But I really just wanted something simple. - So what makes a Grove - It's just black. Uhoh, maybe once we put the it'll stay down. Oh my Gosh! It's beautiful. Except for that. But everything else? - I send you to get one thing - Oh, I need the mic arm. - Oh no. That's on here. - Oh geez! Okay, great. Perfect. - We were with the beautiful - That's not why you - Why? - Oh, I don't really care about that. It's white. That's what I bought it for. Wow! I've never felt mouse as light, stark contrast from the keyboard. - It is pretty though, yes. - That is beautiful. - Confirmed pretty. - I almost think it's prettier - [David] Whoa! - I'm joking. - Canto. What made you choose? Oh, like my God. I know the answer. They're white. - [both] Oh! - Uhoh Arlo. One of those - Oh buddy. - Yeah. The top corner on the right side. - [all] Oh! (Sarah laughing) - Oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Okay. I'm so sorry. Come here. Come on. - He's taking it with him. - Arlo, come here, okay. I'm sorry, down you get. - For streaming, the webcam was the C920s by LOGITECH. So that's what I went with. - Oh my God. The N key's not working. (keyboard clicking ) - Huh? - Oh, it's back. That's okay. I have an idea. - Okay. Oh, who needs a keyboard, right? - Gaming stance. Show me - I gotta scooch in a little. - Okay. I'm gaming. - We need to show her Okay, this is your gaming stance. You gotta get in - [David] This close to monitor. - No, I'm kidding. (Sarah laughing) I'm kidding. You don't actually. - You game like this - I'm that advanced. Otherwise it's too easy. - I am really into this - Okay. So we're-- - And I'm talking because I'm streaming. - you don't have to talk. Children should be seen, not heard. - Do you break it wouldn't somebody doing one of these (Sarah laughing) (metal creaks) - [David] Andy's never been the same. - Yeah, of course, if you go with an XLR mic, you're not gonna be able to on your computer. So I'm not actually familiar with this particular - It's white. It looks - Those are all the same thing. - And I've been told it's good. - Okay. Where do you want this bad boy, you're not gonna have a ton of options - There. That's good. - This is a pretty short XLR cable. So-- - Yeah, it's 6 inches, I think. - Close enough. Yeah. - [David] That's 6 inches? - Sorry Six feet. - Is this's what you think six inches is. (Sarah laughing) Wow.! Now is that - Absolutely. - Okay. - So that's it. That's our little buddy. Okay, you know what? It doesn't matter. The point is there, it's there. - I've had this computer and the cable is starting to die. So as part of my upgrade, of course, I just got - Right. - And a new little block too. - It really makes you to make anything white when for longer than-- - I know, right? How much - I think it was around $70. - Because it's from Mac. - Yes. And I couldn't get white, but the black still matches - Oh, yeah. I think you're good. - This is really coming together. - That's sick. This is - It is beautiful. - This is an actual thing you can buy. Does Google actually sell this? - Yes, I have been eyeing Well, they actually came out with one that doesn't glow in the dark, but then they launched the dark mode one and I knew as soon as I found this is gonna be part of it. It's the real life Dino game. - It's pretty cute. I - I find it a lot easier doing work, using a Wacom tablet instead So I also picked one I guess it really does like graphic designer/gaming setup. 'Cause you can use it for - I can't say I've ever heard - Well, they're a film production company. They honestly have produced like Midsommar and Hereditary and some award winners like - Cool. - So I picked up these screen playbooks because I already have some and I wanted to complete my collection. - Okay. - How beautiful they are. I love books that do a with typography and photography and these like really tickle - Wow. What's this now, then? - That's just a blanket. - Oh it's the. - Yeah, it's the ratios. - Oh, that's fun and upside down here. Let's get that fixed for you. - Look It. Oh, it's so cool. - That is really cool. - Those are t-shirts. - Okay. - Very simple logo design. - Oh, cool, okay. - I also got a mug. I already have the and I wanted to pick So I guess we'll put that. Oh no, I'll put it on top of here. - You got a bit of a - I love dinosaurs. If we've got hidden dinosaurs everywhere. - You've got dinosaur faces, - So these pieces actually I commissioned an artist from Saskatchewan. He specifically draw and I really loved his style, so yeah. I commissioned three pieces from him and I thought they would to my gaming room. In order to make this kind of I bought a Diffuser because and they help, kind of create an ambiance. And while I'm streaming, I definitely will get stressed out and hopefully this will help. - I am liking it. I could This is awesome. We do need to figure out why (keyboard clicking) You know what, why don't 'Cause like that's a thing. Whoops! There it goes. Oh, you mushed it. Yep. - Oh, that's why. - This is an amazing set up. - Right? I've got, got everything. - Arlo agrees. (Sarah laughing) I've done an okay job - That's fine. - I'm not gonna say it's And this is apparently I don't care. I'm putting it over here. - At the end of the day, Linus Hopefully they work well. - Oh, Yeah. Right. - A wonderful microphone. A new keyboard, mouse - Are you gonna stream tonight? - Yes, I'll be streaming tonight. It's been a long day. - And it's been a lot of fun. Thank you guys for &quot;The Sarah Butt edition of We've got lots more coming down the pipe. And if you guys enjoyed this, we've got a lot more for you to watch some of my personal They've all been good. Riley was great. - David. - David was great. So jink though, so go watch guys and thanks again to Intel for sponsoring 'Extreme Tech Upgrade&quot;. This setup is flipping amazing.