In 2006, RuneScape released the a chance to build their own homes and show At the high end, into the skill while decorating their house meaning that the most impressive looking only available to a rich few And the rarity of these decked-out 2006 was a much more social time for RuneScape, in the House Party scene. Players would spend hours on end that could be added to a house, or just And, needless to say, it was the most expensive Chessy018 was, at her peak, the richest known but she wasn't known for pinching pennies, oh no. You see, the thing with construction get the best furniture. The race to 99 wasn't a show of dedication or skill, And lots of people didn't stop at 99, by going even further beyond. So, at the time, the front page of the hiscores was a dedicated list of RuneScape's Everyone had their eyes on these names with admiration wishing that they had as But this also doubled as a list of some of the most valuable This is the story of the rise and what may very well be the largest single-account hijacking Of course, Chessy018 wasn't born into the game as the kid of someone who owns an So, like every other player, with only a few low level items in their inventory and a world to explore and enjoy. But she couldn't help but notice all the and wished she had it all too. But it would take a After all, how to make money in 2005 was pretty with useful advice drowned in a sea "pick up bones other players leave behind". The closest thing to an ingame tutorial where the player learns that they can place 10 Which was a pretty rough deal even back then. Didn't stop thousands There's a good chance Chessy, like most players, wasn't for a fortuitous meeting charted the course for her entire RuneScape career. The first was her friend Swamey, who was Before the Grand Exchange, you had to simply You just picked a price She also met a player called Ariston, who was selling discontinued party hats, the most Supposedly, Ariston told Cheesy would never be able to afford one. Going into 2006, Chessy made a humble 20,000 gold the general store. Most players would just keep but Chessy was smart Rather than continue skilling lobsters at a cheap price, and then With the profits, she repeated the process eventually expanding into willow would have taken her to make another 20,000 gold she had turned 20k into 500k. 500 thousand turned into 500 million. Over the course of several months, Chessy coins through tactical merchanting; she was but the massive quantities she was lead to massive profits. She had no intention So, 31 May 2006 rolls around, and Construction her to take the world by storm - but, funnily Cursed You becomes the first player to hit 99 where nothing significant happens whatsoever. At this time, Chessy was nowhere to be seen on But that's because she wasn't And once she had all the materials for her perfect house she wasted no time taking the skill by storm. Practically overnight, Chessy raced past the going from Level 1 to rank 1 in record time. The hiscores images we million experience, securing a 34 million exp lead She had gone from a relative unknown Who is Chessy018? How much money did she spend? How did she get that money? Can we please see her house? God, that must be the coolest house to party in... Chessy's house was rumoured to be a 500 hats, RuneScape's most expensive items, were going cosmetic house - if you had a party hat, at least money back. These millions were gone. How much Fortunately for the public, Chessy planned to to the public, and within days, her house was the house party server. The party never ended at at any given time. Drop parties of millions of the house even more desirable, with pretty much With the game's most expensive house, Chessy could buy, making sure to complete the Surrounded by the masses begging for free gp, and watch them fight for what She finally had power, she finally had fame, Everyone wanted to know how she'd done it. How As to be expected, ever the businesswoman, opportunity for her to use as well. She inviting others to follow the path And like the good sheep they were, the merchanting clan in the game, consisting Now, she didn't just have her own huge funds She had an army. When she told people to buy an item, they all did With the supply practically non-existent, price they wanted when selling it back to she made her many followers filthy rich, securing Trading was quickly about to look very different, Grand Exchange into the game, a centralised without having to deal person to person. At the merchanters - but it was actually just With the vast capital they commanded, they but now they could sell items much more Varrock and Falador spamming the chat. The Grand values of the items - they were displaying Chessy's ego had already received a massive boost even further, as she furthered her fame on as early as 2008, making videos to show off just watched and admired, spiralling into hundreds of With each upload Chessy kept expanding as a public figure. advertising her new twitter account to to subscribe to the Will Miss It channel and more high-effort documentaries. From there, she opened up more and demystifying herself while continuing But perhaps she had grown a little too full and shared too much. Because when hundreds of there are going to be at least a few who *sigh* What's up, Doug? I don't know, it's just... I We all know what experience we're gonna Same with the GE, you just want something, Oh, you should try Bespoke Post! Bespoke what? Bespoke Post is a monthly membership club where you get awesome boxes of to join, no membership fees, you just fill out a only if you want it. You get to preview it swap it for another one, or skip the Just like all my friends! I got this box that contained all these cool I love pouring hot sauce over all the things I spice things up. I really liked the one by Kill Spooky. I also got the hibernate box, which had Just what my feet need after running What sort of things do you do for your I like pouring the sauce into them and hearing them squelch as I walk around. Did I mention that the boxes are only $49, Oh wow, that's like, half price! And the savings don't stop there! To get the description and enter rswill20 at checkout. You know what? I'm gonna go cash in these penguin You know it costs real money, Eh, let him find out the hard way. Three friends: Sly, James, and Chainsaw35, have history of merchanting. They themselves don't they do know a lot about is account hijacking, fellow bug abusers and hijackers Chessy018 might very well be the richest account who is open about it. That makes her Now, real life hacking is a lot less It's not about making high tech programs accounts. It's about social engineering; if you you learn as much about the owner as possible, If you have your wits about you, then you don't since that could be used against you. Now, They gathered what they could, and submitted an They were quickly denied. But that was alright, there, they could try a few alternative answers. again. And again. They failed the recovery They were in. Now, Chessy wasn't completely oblivious to no way she'd have shared enough information from unfathomable wealth was this 4 digit y'know, disable that. You click the button it'll be gone. Of course, you'll be warned about so the owner can know if someone Chessy just had to log in at some point She would log in at least once Sly had taken a gamble that Chessy's busy adult gamble had worked. 72 hours later, and a bank that most kids could only dream fake a screenshot for, or spawn on a private obviously wouldn't believe you. But It was a bank worth 170 billion gold. I really can't stress how insane this number today - but it was a different beast entirely of RuneScape inflation, or how much money there this way - back then, you could sell a million if they offloaded it all to the right people, So, after taking some screenshots the money began leaving the account in Okay, where to begin with this. Well, first, you might be thinking that information about herself publicly. Well, Sly because mere hours later, all of Merchmasters was compromised. And, somehow, they even correctly finding Sly's personal account. with endless forum posts being made And secondly, people like to rib Jagex for being not that bad. Mod Chrisso of the ICU Team, Jagex's due to the magnitude of trades taking place all at a few trades and not expect it to go unnoticed. all the accounts involved in the incident, Their personal accounts were struck They could have dumped gold onto mules, recently also got banned. And anyone any accounts registered to the same IP, banned. All permanent, all without appeal, all to Despite this overzealous ban they actually did manage to sneak some survived the wrath of Jagex. At this point, sharing too much information they shouldn't, so been made public. Definitely not anywhere The RuneScape community wakes up to the shocking found on every fansite, showing just how other forums begin to have large discussions about A few days later, a user on the Tip.it who talks about the aftermath of the incident. form of contact with him, despite furious carrier pigeon. He added that he'd account security system if they asked for Jagex made a statement about account hijacking days, although without mentioning Chessy scare off future hijackers by referring to a Chessy herself was never seen again. She left the game entirely as a result of it. Her back in time of the height of her stardom, and Chessy's username was released some years due to Jagex clearing inactive accounts hijacking. Either way, the name is on occasion surprising veterans To the best of my knowledge, Chessy's hijacking is history. With inflation of RuneScape items, that That's over 1500 years of RuneScape membership, RuneScape has had plenty of other notable forget little Timmy who made it onto the news when employee caused the theft of several billions of with the most extreme case seeing a player have 46 for that one account alone. But all of this who lost it - unlike Chessy's amassed fortune. And second highest profile hijacking in RuneScape decision to leave the game behind, and attempt Thank you all so much for joining me through account security up to date, and don't share If you end up losing tens of billions of I'm just gonna feel sad. And Anyway, my name is Will Miss