(wind whistling) (wind whistling) <i> REPORTER: It's the traffic jam <i> droves of climbers,</i> <i> waiting for their chance <i> REPORTER: With a large <i> the longer wait means climbers <i> in what's called <i> REPORTER: A second American <i> bringing the total to 11 deaths RENAN OZTURK: Locals view and by climbing the mountain, you're stepping on the heads MARK SYNNOTT: I've never The definition is an endeavor where the outcome The Mallory and Irvine mystery like, you can't imagine than what they were facing Climbing to the highest point I think, in those days, wasn't too much different from George Mallory pioneered the The world was shocked when he and his climbing partner They were spotted just 800 and were never seen again. The essence of the Mallory is the spirit What was driving them. What happened to those guys? THOM POLLARD: It's not of two guys who disappeared. It's solving the mystery if they might have been the greatest mountain Back in 1999 I had to go look for the bodies of Our goal was finding or vest pocket camera, they're believed to have carried The hope is that will prove if they actually On the very first day His body appears There's rope around his waist. Can see a boot. MAN: Here, wait, THOM: Really? THOM: Oh, my god. Oh, my god. MAN: See that? THOM: Oh, my god. He was face down in the surface. His face was completely in, Around, especially around it looked like the rope You could actually see the rope kind of imprinted Below his right knee, his leg and it was And up there, there's no way you're And I can remember to be in the presence this icon of exploration. But we had a job to do. We wanted to try So we searched the body We found some personal effects, but the most important thing was of course the camera. Burying George Mallory. We didn't find the camera. We looked fairly hard. MARK: Since then people and I think this is logical, Mallory was the leader. So it would have made sense as his almost like assistant to be the one taking pictures THOM: Can you imagine It's the pot of gold If we find that camera, it's gonna just change things. This is gonna be in the history MARK: History books say the first climbers were Tenzing Norgay and If Irvine took a photo it would rewrite history. THOM: It's out there somewhere, It's there. It just has to be found. MARK: We're on our way who is an Everest historian. He has more knowledge about this and he just contacted Thom and said that he had for the location of Irvine. He did the first expedition to but there was too much snow so they got shut down. And when they eventually he was very close had thought that he would be. TOM HOLZEL: when you have can you figure out Can you get to the conclusion? I think you can. That's what is so interesting Mallory and Irvine In 1960, the Chinese from the north side, and one of the climbers and he said he saw A British? He was wearing braces. All the English wore braces. So that was a fantastic clue. And then in 1995, also took a more direct route So we have now two That means there is So that's when I went at the Museum of Science and I said, &quot;Brad, do we have And he says, &quot;Tom, you've come (film projector running) They flew over Everest and did extensive And they seamed them together and I made You can see the two trails And there's only where the more direct route, passes by these slots. So if he's in a slot, because two people say he is, there's only one place MARK: This is what TOM: Yep. MARK: Thom and I your boots on the ground. TOM: Yep. MARK: What are you giving the TOM: He can't not be there. MARK: So you're saying, TOM: Yes. MARK: Wow. THOM: He has worked for years on identifying the exact and he swears, if we go there, (child talking) MARK: Climbing and adventure is kind of like a compulsion. I've been on a lot And it's just something that Thom Pollard is and I said to Thom, &quot;This is This is the trip that you and I were always meant THOM: Ever since that day this thing has just become part Here we are, 20 years later, to have another look around, RENAN: Mark has specifically because Everest And I think this mystery is his way of connecting He's the chief detective. MARK: I have no idea I've never done But I know what it it will be similar a hundred years ago. RENAN: We can actually see for them back in 1924. Team member John Noelle brought a film camera and he captured of the entire expedition. (cowbells clanging) We're gonna go, through the mountains on Cross the border Up into the Tibetan Plateau. MARK: The focus is on the Irvine but it's the whole journey And seeing the places and putting myself into some that they were in, makes this so compelling for me. THOM: I've pictured finding His mom and dad open and unlocked just in case he came home. And I feel like if I could go they could lock their door. JAMIE MCGUINNESS: out of the vehicle. We can drop it MARK: Jamie is the guide. He's summited His primary job, and getting us is to make sure that we come In terms of what it's like to search high on Mount Everest That's one of the reasons why I'm so enthralled because I just have which is Mallory and Irvine, and following and there's kind Mallory and Irvine climbing a rock face Climbing that high by hiking along a glacier from Then climbing to the top of From there, it's a final all the way to the summit. (guides singing) RENAN: Today is a big day. We're doing our Puja, which is to ask for permission to climb the mountain. MARK: We just crested so we've gained about This is another milestone JAMIE: Final push. MARK: Ah. Wow. JAMIE: It's been a great day. But I think everyone's The last push is...is hard. (wind whistling) RENAN: Climbing Mount Everest has to do with how your physiology of your body (Mark coughing) You can be one of the strongest but your physiology just THOM: It's a slow, cold, It slams you. MARK: What I want to do is I want to chart out and then the point at which and rappel down THOM: Okay. MARK: Here's the second step, and then this is So we have to go to this spot. Our search zone is high in an area known Our time at that altitude The plan is to follow Mallory and Irvine's route then traverse back to find Tom Holzel's spot. And go off rope, searching, across a steep slope with a 7,000-foot drop below. THOM: The sun's just hit, we're moving out of ABC I know I'm not dying because RENAN: It's pretty important that Everest doesn't We've got all of our Sherpas taking all of our and all of the little things we MARK: Off we go. RENAN: Not sure but a lot of vert to climb. 2,000 feet. We just started up the technical I can't believe the conga line. There must be MARK: It's a little scary. If you look above us, just waiting to cut loose Like textbook (bleep) Let's move. MARK: That was burly. My lungs are... RENAN: We're all just hurting, It's just a lot. It was a suffer-fest. We were all suffering, and the hundred-mile-an-hour Charts of the jet stream passing That does not look good. (wind buffeting) (wind buffeting) (yawns) MARK: When we woke up poked my head out the door looked up at the North Face, That was now replaced with Holy crap. (wind roaring) (wind roaring) Ahhh! Renan. THOM: Do you wanna come in here? (wind roaring) (wind roaring) MAN: Oh. MAN: Is everyone okay? RENAN: It threw a tent and nearly killed a few people. I'm glad they were clipped 'cause it threw 'em and they were just hanging limp, (wind roaring) MARK: Pretty windy now, so I'm going next door. Renan's gonna launch the drone. See what happens. (drone humming) RENAN: We can search just through this of what the drones MARK: It was kind of our vision and to photograph the terrain rather than having to put boots which is incredibly dangerous. RENAN: This is good, MARK: It's unbelievable RENAN: Take a photo here. MARK: Yeah. (click) RENAN: And then should I MARK: If you can. RENAN: Just gonna get Gonna really push it. MARK: Oh, my god, dude. You're frickin' right there. You're so there. Yep, get that ledge... and up in here. (click) RENAN: Getting a thumb workout. MARK: Holzel would be if he could see this right now. (click) RENAN: Alright, MARK: Bring her home. We just flew a drone to No one's every done You're in uncharted territory. (drone humming) (beep) RENAN: Okay. First-hand view. MARK: Yeah. This zone right in here, this is where I wanna go, JAMIE: Okay. Let's talk in terms of what we should do with our weather forecasts, It's hard work going down, With Everest, with Chomolungma, it's not a question It's a question of when MARK: Oh, wow. The conga line at the top. Holy (bleep). There's only a few days a year and there was And there was, I don't know, trying to climb Mount Everest Every single one of 'em went Wow. That's really inspiring THOM: Do you wish MARK: Yes. THOM: Let's be real. MARK: I do, I mean. I'm not gonna lie. It feels weird while all the action JAMIE: There are lines and lines MARK: Jamie said to us, This is a bad idea. There's gonna be huge lines, and we're gonna get entangled And it's gonna be a mess. And you're sitting at home and you're looking at the photos &quot;Ah, what a bunch But when you're here, that it's actually something The spirit that's driving is I think the same spirit that We wanna solve the mystery, but this mountain (wind whistling) We were waiting for the crowds to clear, and the day before we went for a little hike and on the way back Thom had some kind Thom, what's going on? THOM: Getting I had this, just before I had this really, kind of almost pleasant, believe it or not, feeling and it moved kinda up MARK: Throughout the expedition I've been communicating You know, he's And I told him He said, &quot;Mm, that You know, it's possible which I think stands it's kind of a miniature stroke. &quot;Numbness can occur from Diamox, but not trouble moving lips.&quot; So you definitely had trouble THOM: Yeah. MARK: Yeah? &quot;He probably shouldn't go up If it was a TIA, THOM: Yeah. MARK: No one would go up, THOM: Yeah, then you're (bleep). MARK: ...you could have THOM: Yeah. MARK: His dream, you know, and try to solve this mystery, it's over. THOM: Oh, my god. That's the hardest thing... in the world. Watching your blood brothers MARK: Five minutes later we were on our way up the trail This was the final push I think we all understood the entire endeavor It was grueling. It's incredibly tedious, and the altitude Imagine what that must back in the day when with fixed ropes like it is now. MARK: To be dressed the way that and all these layers of silk and with their bomber caps And their leather hobnail boots. And their 100-foot manila rope It's mind-boggling. (wind buffeting) We start moving up from Camp 2. And it's windy enough You can't just, like, hang out. You get cold This is the spot where Odell of Mallory and Irvine. And it's kind of fitting because there was squalling and then it lifted out and he turned the corner here... and had that famous sighting. RENAN: Team member Noel Odell was the last person He describes them going for the summit. And then the mist came over and they were never MARK: Everybody's been about Noel Odell's sighting He saw them surmounting And the question is whether or the second step. And the idea is that if they and that if Odell saw them that they probably could have Because it's the crux If Odell says he saw them I'm pretty sure nothing would It's been, uh... (coughing) THOM: The Death Zone There's nothing dramatic You can't eat enough, you can't drink enough. Your body is literally And if you fall asleep you never wake up again. RENAN: It is 10:30. We just slept up here in the Death Zone. Scrounged some random food. And against all odds to try to solve this mystery. MARK: We were working our way and how are we gonna have I mean, we'll be lucky Oh. We get to the first step, This is like a 60-foot-high I'm like, &quot;Holy (bleep), What the hell RENAN: I think we all how hard Everest and the climb I just see Mark and I had a little panic. The regulator on the top which feeds the oxygen And there's dead bodies One of them from MARK: You run out of oxygen, you become one of the dead guys But one thing you realize is that it's kind of every man I mean, I was barely so I couldn't really do RENAN: The severity of the whole And from that point on, I had (breathing heavily) RENAN: Third step. (breathing heavily) How you feeling? MARK: Couldn't have (breathing heavily) (breathing heavily) MARK: Woo! There's no one on the mountain, We had the entire peak And it was RENAN: That was something To feel the power and the energy The same power that drew MARK: After that Mallory and Irvine Odell led a search party And after two days, they marked It was a black cross Whether they made it they probably died RENAN: We went for the summit. And now we're trying Yet to be determined Personally, I barely made it and I just hope to have MARK: Yeah, let's get going. (coughing) We're on the summit (coughing) We're supposed to descend go off the routes across the yellow band. And I thought to myself, I'm gonna find Holzel's spot. I'm gonna find Sandy Irvine, TOM: I've showed them and I hope they follow To me, it's been and the nice thing about you prove your theory But hey, they're MARK: We're getting closer when and if I find this spot, am I really gonna be able Oh, my god. I was smoked, more tired You have to be able to move And if you can't, that's it. Then you're gonna die. And as evidence of that, RENAN: I can see when we stopped at Mushroom Rock with our backs MARK: I'm looking at the GPS and I'm trying to collate things I'm trying to get oriented. And one of the distinguishing was a dead body that we had spotted when we were And then I looked down and all There's Holzel's spot. Yeah, I wanna do it. Where's the ax? RENAN: Here it is. MARK: And it was MARK: It's in right there. MARK: I was off the rope that it was not something MARK: Just an absolute Determination, &quot;I gotta do this, And then self-preservation. &quot;Dude, you have four kids. It's not worth (breathing heavily) Finally I just said, RENAN: He cast off And neither Matt nor I had... had the wherewithal RENAN: I was on the edge wondering what the answer GUIDE: Hey! Woo! (radio chatter) MARK: As I started and traversing on these ledges, to where Mallory and where Irvine And there were spots where I would just fall As I was going, because the two said that they saw the body (radio chatter) As I came to the various slots, I was five foot above the drop where if I slipped and fell I would essentially suffer I didn't see anything. (wind buffeting) (wind buffeting) And that was it. I went to Holzel's spot. There was nothing there. (breathing heavily) I went against the Sherpas, I almost didn't go. But I spent so much time I just had to go there. Even after going to the summit, this is the hardest day I had to get boots on the ground to either prove or disprove I think that's ultimately our... our contribution And I think that Irvine I think it's corroborated And I think sometime Irvine and the camera went And I don't think of anyone ever finding it. Because I looked down there, and And just the way that the sweep would just flush things Never gonna...never gonna (breathing heavily) This was the most dangerous thing that We gave it absolutely and the mystery remains. THOM: People who don't really are very quick to criticize it. What happens when people set is that the people become And ambition is because sometimes it will cause that can bring us Which is exactly what happened to George Mallory MARK: We all have sort of as far as how much risk And I think, I stepped over onto the wrong What I hope people is that everybody that's here, they're embodying the same RENAN: What they did The sheer grit it took and into the unknown and the odds of them and being the first to stand I don't know, man. That's the story (wind whistling) Captioned by