It's a sunny beautiful day here as we are leaving Castellammare del Golfo finally heading towards Palermo for a total food-a-thon today. So, we are ready to eat and ready to explore this spicy city. Traffic in palermo is insane so you need to be just as insane as the traffic in order to survive this city and all the cars. Key tip is make sure you're not doing this by yourself you definitely benefit by having a driver to help you navigate. You Think?! So, we're here in Palermo and let me tell you the parking is just as crazy as the driving. It is not fun, but it's doable. So, you have to park the cars within blue blue lines. To park you need to find a blue machine. So, to park overnight parking it's free for lunch from 2 to 4. And then, I believe after 8:00 until 8:00 the next morning. So, we are good until basically 24-hour parking. We decided to stay at a bed-and-breakfast, at the bed-and-breakfast Amelie. We're about to check it out. This is a pretty old fashioned elevator. So, they do things very small here in Europe. Oh, six. I thought are they, are they and I say if I stop I go in the video and so I better not. Hello! This is Ryan. Nice to meet ya. You know someone parking at 8am, and so I think they are, I show you the room. Ok, great! Actually one is ready. Ok. And you can go right inside. If you prefer this other one, I am still finishing it up. Ok, no problem, this is great! So, our room is really cute. We are at Hotel Amelie which is a bed-and-breakfast, and Angela the owner of this bed-and-breakfast is so sweet, so definitely recommend this as a cool place to stay. It is right in the middle of all the shops and cafes in the area. So, it's a perfect location, really quite charming. So, Ryan and I will be sharing a bed together and our bathroom. Let's do this! As per usual, the morning is starting out with coffee and one very famous cafe that I'm excited to try is Cafe Spinnato. Alright. I got a Caffe Americano which is 2.1 euros and Ryan got a cappuccino which is 3 euros. Salute. Cafe Spinnato. The one thing I'm finding out is that cell phone service is not great in Sicily. It's very hard to get signal and reception anywhere, so don't rely on your phone. We are on Via Ruggiero Settimo which seems to be the big shopping street here in Palermo. The buildings are beautiful the shops are beautiful. There are people in cars everywhere. This city is alive. Everywhere you go in Sicily you seem to see on every street corner like we have Starbucks back home they have Tabacchi which are places where you can get not only your smokes and tobacco, but also drinks. This awesome, incredible feat of architecture is Teatro Massimo, which is Palermo's gorgeous Opera House. You can see concerts here on a regular basis. This is a feat of Sicilian architecture. This is cool, all the balconies and window boxes, the cobblestone street. This is really Sicily at its charming best. We're at the Capo market in Palermo and this place is buzzing with everything from the smell of fish and fresh fruit to all kinds of people everywhere. We are gonna check this out! This is quite possibly the freshest vegetable stand I have ever seen with things I've never seen before. Oh Zucchini. Oh my God. That's a zucchini. Wow! Oh my gosh. Buying groceries like this is amazing here in Palermo. The people are out. This is how you buy groceries here. This is so incredible. Gesundheit? Oh my gosh ,look at all this incredibly amazing salted food. The salted fish, I want to try one, and that salted capers. Can I get just a mix of olives? All right, my first hard core Sicilian olive. It is so juicy, a little bit of heat to it, super salty, awesome. So, this street market puts every other street market I've ever been to to shame. It is one long street of food stand after food stand. Absolutely phenomenal. We came here to the market because I wanted to get a taste of authentic Palermo, and there's no better way to do that then coming to the Capo Street Market. We're walking from the Capo market now to the famous Ballaro market, so I am really excited to see what this is about. I believe it's the biggest market here in Palermo, and I have to tell you the walk is actually quite nice. We're snaking around different alleyways, but the alleyways have these huge stone pavers in them. This feels like a very safe city. I'm not feeling nervous at all, it's just incredibly charming. I am at the famous Ballaro Market here in Palermo. This is the real deal, Palermo's largest market, where you can get an authentic taste of Palermo. I've never seen a clam alive like that before. Look at that! Sardina Sardina Panelle is a classic Sicilian Street food here. It's like chickpea paste that is fried with the melanzane, which is the eggplant. So good! 3 euros And ,how do you call this? Sfincione. This is a classic Sicilian, looks like a pizza, and it is piping hot. Really crispy on the outside. I could tell it's gonna be soft and airy on the inside. Just with a little schmear of the tomato paste and fresh tomatoes on the outside. Wow! Buono! So good! Out of this world! It is seriously hot in Palermo at the Bernardo market. Mmm. Oh, these are the lamb innards I think. Yeah, I think so. Ok, sit down please. Oh my God, we are melting. It makes sense that we're going to try lamb innards in the intestine. So, this is a popular street food here in Palermo, and we're gonna give it a whirl, and Ryan I think you're gonna like it! Sounds delicious! Beautiful beautiful! What's the name of this? Stigghiola. That's the real deal, look at yours! You... You suck dude, I am not. I'm going to have one bite and then throw up. Okay! Oh my God! Hold on. Oh my god, if you can't do it, I can't I can't do it for sure. Oh my god! Oh, he's finally met his match! No, wait a minute, I gotta get you. Uh, no way in, Mark I'm already...no. Ryan, pop it in your mouth. There's no. Mark let me smell it. Just try it. Oh, it smells alright. Yeah, just try it, you gotta try it one little tiny. Here, I... No. No. Ok. Oh my God! You gotta just try a small piece. Hold on, let me go slow. Okay? Here here. Okay! Just chew it slowly. It's not bad see! Good? Yay! It's so hot in Palermo. I'm at Antico Focacceria San Francesco for some authentic Palermo Street food. From arancini to focaccia, we're going to be tasting Palermo. We are going upstairs at Antica Focacceria to get out of the heat and the sun and get a little air conditioning because it is so hot. Alright, so if you don't know what to get in terms of street food when you come to Focacceria San Francesco, you can simply look right on the menu and they have a whole area dedicated to street food. So, we're going to try the arancini and We are going to also try Ugh, that calf lung liver whatever sandwich with caciocavallo cheese. Crispy soft on the inside, toasted sesame seeds on the outside. You see the caciocavallo cheese just dripping out of the sandwich. Smells like liver. Very savory. There isn't a whole lot of ordinary type of flavor. It's um, it's like eating a liver sandwich almost. It's really really good. I would love to try this out in Arincini. Wow, so you can see it's got the black pepper, the ham, the bechamel and cheese, and then the risotto. The first normal thing I've eaten all day. Outside is crunchy, crispy with the coating the breading, and the ham is soft and moist. The cheese is um, just very um, very gooey, and light like a mozzarella almost. Really really good, and the um rice is actually a it spicy. It's got a good seasoning. So, I was just informed by this gentleman here that what I was eating was not the official original Sicilian arancini, but this is the, with the meat. With meat and peas. This is the modern version. That's the modern version because many people like to eat sauce. But this is the typical. Wow. So, when you're tired of walking the streets of Palermo find one of these taxis. These are one of the great ways to get around the city. It's a great city to walk, but when it's a hundred degrees, it's a great city not to. From lungs to trachea, spleens and lamb intestines, it's now time for something a little sweet to wash all that down. So, we are on our way to Pasticceria Cappello for of course, some cannoli. Original, Palermo know. You know. Oh the Cassata. Cassata Sicilian. I'm at Pasticceria Capello because we are trying some authentic Sicilian desserts, starting with the famous Cassata cake, and this is a sponge cake with ricotta marzipan, candied fruit, and chocolate chips inside. Mmm. The sponge cake is so delicate, the chocolate chips are so moist they melt literally in your mouth when you eat them, and of course you cannot come to Palermo without having a cannoli. Delicious and the shell is so crispy, light, airy. The flavor is super intense, very simple, very sweet, and how authentically Palermo. Palermo is a big city and it can easily be confusing especially if it's your first time like it is mine. So, one of the things that we stumbled across was the Ape taxi and for about an hour and 80 euro, you can have a tour of the city and see some of the famous sights, areas to check out and that's what we're doing. Our first stop on the Ape taxi tour here is to Palermo Cathedral and it is absolutely stunning. We are getting directions to Hotel Ambasciatori in Palermo for cocktails on the rooftop. So, we are at Hotel Ambasciatori, which is supposedly the best rooftop bar and view in all of Palermo, so let's check this out! The Sicilian Shepherd. A specialty cocktail here at 7 Restaurants &amp; Lounge which has by far the most beautiful rooftop view in all of Palermo. Sweet finish to a spicy day. We are at La Vucceria to get some hard core so a nightlife. They're selling like hot cakes. We stumbled upon Osteria Dadalia which has incredibly authentic Sicilian pizzas and pastas and I cannot wait to taste the beat of this street, La Vucceria. This Osteria is so cool. The street is full of life. They brought a table out to seat us because there were no other spaces left, and I'm in the mood for pizza and wine. Sicilian wine is so good Extremely rugged grape, because the climate here is so arid, it's so hot, and it's so rocky. It takes a really rugged grape to grow here in Sicily. The wine is earthy and so delicious So, I got the Parma di Prosciutto pizza, which just has a very thin layer of sauce, the Parma ham, and I'm guessing Parma Reggiano cheese on top. And, I can already feel the pizza crust nice and crunchy on the bottom. So, after dinner at La Vucceria we came to Piazza Rivoluzione to Q Vivi for some late night cocktails and let me just tell you we are where the locals are. There are no Americans here. This is all hard core locals. Everyone's out. Everyone's enjoying the community and being together having cocktails, having bites, dogs fighting in the street. This is real Palermo at its finest, and I loved every minute.