Subtitles : DeepL Fattening pig farm - Transformation of the pigsty to improve animal welfare Hello, we're here on the Krummenacher family farm. They are planning to convert their piggery to improve animal welfare. Today we're looking at the old barn before it was converted. Martin, what is the old stable concept? Can you describe it? The cowshed was built 25 years ago. Here, there's a central corridor and then there are bays to the left and right. There are now a maximum of 8 pigs. This is a STANDARD QM barn. In fact, this is how around 80% of Swiss pigs are reared. What does the pigsty provide in terms of occupation opportunities for the pigs at the moment? For the moment, it's already a deficit. They are fed four times a day. And straw in the rack and on the ground. In the trough, you receive more straw cubes. So they can still eat and forage during the day. But otherwise, there's already a deficit so that they can express their natural behaviour. And now, if the new stable is planned, can you briefly describe what it will look like? The sleeping area is on this side. The feeding area is here. And then they can also come out. The existing pigsty is first followed by a paddock. About here. And afterwards, there's a swimming pool to cool off in. Here, after the swimming pool, there is another 5 metre wide excavation zone. It extends up to this profile. So I wish you good luck with your transformation. And we're looking forward to visiting the finished barn afterwards. When is it due? I think about a year from now, if everything goes according to plan. The new stable, August 2024 Welcome back to the farm run by Martin Krummenacher and his family. I'm glad we're able to take a look at what this place looks like today, two and a half years after our last visit. We can see how the stable has developed. Here we are at the entrance to the mast barn. The first compartment is a pre-fattening barn. The pigs are there until they weigh 50 to 60 kilos. Then they come to the back. There are about 50 pigs here. The team has changed completely. We used to have pigs here, on the left and on the right, in two compartments. Now the main course is on this side. Four compartments have been joined together. And we have a sleeping area with underfloor heating and cooling. In this area, where the pigs are lying down, the bedding consists of straw granules. Let's go further back. We have two zones here. 25 pigs each here, then another 25 pigs. Now we're in the exit zone. Before the race. After the race. The pigs didn't have an exercise area until now. This zone is now considered a normal exit. Here we have calculated the fixed soil zone according to the organic standard. There's a valve under the floor. Here we have a faeces/urine separation. He has a slope of 6% towards the middle and still passes faeces and urine every three hours. In this way, we can significantly reduce taste emissions. This is the excavation zone. Here we have about 30 cm of excavation material. Especially the straw cubes. Our experience so far has been very positive. The pigs keep the area pretty clean. You can see that the animals are feeling good. They have different zones where they can express their natural behaviour. The foraging area, to which they have permanent access during the day and which they use a lot, is of course special. The swimming pool too, you can hear it splashing in the background. The animals have come in. It's hot today and it's being used a lot. Concerning defecation and urination behaviour: We had thought that animals should not defecate or urinate indoors. Then, when they come out, they must urinate and defecate on the surfaces of the slots, but not on the fixed surfaces. That's why we made the slot surfaces with a screen wall open to the neighbouring bay. So that territorial behaviour is triggered and they defecate and possibly urinate there. And we've built a second poo corner, a sort of toilet behind the pool towards the digging area. And here too, you can see that they use this poo corner. We have five compartments here. At the front, the foremast and after that, the aft mast sections. In the pre-mast area, I didn't dare install a swimming pool because of the vulnerability to disease. But in the pre-fattening barn, it's particularly important that the pigs have something to do. So next summer we'll probably also be installing a swimming pool in the pre-fattening barn. My assessment of this transformation: from my point of view, it's entirely positive. But what was special was that it was completely new. There's no standard solution. As an independent, private foundation, the Albert Koechlin Foundation is committed to the people and the living space of Central Switzerland. More than 430,000 pigs live in the canton of Lucerne. That's as many or more as there are humans. We took the opportunity to support pig farms in animal-friendly farming.