Imagine you're looking to buy a house - some place house, you're looking for a planet. And it's not This was the mission that faced twelve brave astronauts in Christopher With Earth on the brink of agricultural collapse, planet in search of a new one. The Lazarus mission to determine which was best-suited for a mission launched to explore the three planets In my last video about Interstellar, the supermassive black hole Gargantua, and as promised, we're diving deeper into the Oh, and if you haven't seen this film yet, pause this video and go watch it before I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching 'real estate' of the Gargantua-Pantagruel the icy and isolated Mann's planet, and Edmunds' right or wrong about these exoplanets, their in our own universe, and how habitable they To get started, let's brush up on Gargantua. Gargantua is a supermassive blackhole and a whopping 100 million Gargantua, like most genuine black rotates. It has lots of angular momentum they also boost the rotation of their accretion this is what provides light and warmth to Miller's planet is a water world tidal waves. It orbits incredibly of the event horizon. But wouldn't this volatile to be habitable? Is this kind of Actually, some researchers say it is. They different from planets orbiting stars. Rather they're thought to form in the black hole's collide and fuse. Eventually, they gain enough drawing more and more matter in Ok, so if blanets do exist, what is their space emit a lot of radiation - primarily through hot, orders of magnitude more than anything we could blanet like Miller would be completely surrounded Dr. Thorne, the nobel-prize-winning disagrees. In his book - The Science that Gargantua's disk is comparable so emits lots of light but little to no X-rays is super thin and confined to Gargantua's possible around black holes that haven't ripped so I suppose the film doesn't actually veer off Ok, but how can Miller maintain a stable orbit Like planets orbiting our own Sun, it was going fast enough to escape the Sun's if it was going slowly, it would get The same is true for Gargantua. A be possible if Miller's planet was into Gargantua's immense gravitational pull, Though it seems virtually impossible, Dr. Thorne the centrifugal force of the planet balances However, the real issue isn't the planet's orbit for smaller, slower objects to coagulate together In 2019, a group of physicists showed it is the accretion disk. Dr. Thorne aligns with this that it's actually not possible for Miller's This presents a problem, as in the film, we see disk. It is in the wrong place, as far as the to take creative license and decide on fiction like this one. and suggested Miller's planet's more visually impactful images, like this one. Being so close to a black hole brings out another time on Miller passes 60,000 times slower than would time dilation actually be this I came across differing opinions. Some think saying time dilation is only felt once you're Miller's location. According to Dr Kip, for Gargantua would have to spin at one in 100 possible for a black hole of that size. Incredibly We can't discuss Miller's planet without it is under enormous tidal gravity. Dr. make Miller's planet football-shaped along from the black hole. He also postulates Miller's planet would have to be tidally locked. be able to remain a water world - surely half the But if we continue the thread from earlier, be located in the middle of Gargantua's accretion Speaking of water, let's talk about Miller's subjected to such intense tidal forces gives rise They can be compared to tidal waves our Sun's and Moon's gravitational Dr. Thorne himself admits that the only by making Miller's planet rock back and forth a third body very close by, like another A second theory he proposes is that the leading to enormous tsunamis - but that still Perhaps the best Miller analogue Europa. Much like Miller's planet, Europa has the other Galilean moons tugging on it. and creates tides in its subsurface oceans Overall, Miller's planet doesn't as the crew of the Endurance mission so we follow our protagonists The second planet the Endurance crew visits also orbiting Gargantua - though not quite as time dilation here, but there are other unique As we discover through the course of this film, Dr. Mann falsified data to make his planet in order to be rescued by a future crew. with breathable air and organic material, Instead, the whole planet seems to be network of ice mountains, caves, with frozen clouds in the upper atmosphere. In they have to be less dense than the atmosphere. Dr. Thorne theorizes the clouds are most likely assuming Earth's atmospheric pressure. An to 0.00077g/cm3. No chance of floating dry pressure on Mann is wildly different to where the film doesn't go into any explanations liberty was taken here to emphasize the visual It is thought these ice clouds sublimate, freezing again. It's thought this could be due to which causes the planet to heat up and the black hole. However, such an eccentric unless there's a third body pulling to say it's not impossible, but It seems Nolan took a lot of artistic it's hard to compare it to anything discovered any exoplanets with ammonia-rich exoplanets though. OGLE-2005-BLG-390Lb, an is one of the coldest known exoplanets we know Like Mann's planet, it is not a good candidate for a human colony. Let's turn our After leaving Mann's planet, Cooper and to Edmund's planet, orbiting the star slingshotting around Gargantua at a Cooper jettisons himself to shed weight from the The Science of Interstellar describes the of light while orbiting above Miller's planet. At take 3 years. However, it's unclear how Brand One option is by slingshotting around another Edmund's is a rocky planet with clouds we assume it to also have a surface water gas. This could be from soil bacteria, Earth-based life since the film closes with Edmunds shares many similarities breathable air, arable soil, and potentially either. Some Interstellar fans compare Edmunds We could also compare Edmund's to Kepler-452b in the Cygnus constellation. Announced in planets identified in terms of its potential just like our Sun, and lies in its habitable and orbits its star in 385 days. Though we clouds, or surface water, it seems Kepler-452b is thought to have a rocky much like Edmund's Planet, which is shown as lush vegetation. These features indicate that What's more, both planets are thought to human life. Kepler-452b's potentially water and regulate temperatures, similar to the By the end of the film, Edmund's Planet colonization. Kepler-452b also represents a and settlement - we just need to develop And with that, our grand tour comes to a close. So, which planet is most likely to be able Edmunds seems the only viable option, But I suppose that would've made Overall, the film did a pretty good accurate. A few creative liberties but that's why we go see a scifi The power of science fiction is even though we are very far from Interstellar does just that - encourages Maybe there's someone out there Which planet would you most like to visit? Let me know in the comments. Thanks for [Music] Out in our solar system rocks of pulled Along by the gravity of our star many into our planet's gravity well heating up to of our atmosphere not much makes it to the means that to have a piece of meteorite of your am a big fan of the sponsor of today's video Exquisite rings with unique materials such as the their Cosmos collection meaning you can take a just look at these stunning designs in their inspiration from classic Sci-fi films and games star Navigator are designed to perfectly capture Eternal battles between dark and light gentle harvested and gathered materials to make rings there's free engraving and free lifetime accustomed to rings on fingers or anyone seeking convenient chains as an alternative way follow my link in the description below for an Thanks for watching making this video required only able to do thanks to the consistency and on patreon a huge thank you to everyone who has like this you can join with the link down below video ad free and see your name in the credits thank you from myself and the whole astrum Meanwhile click the link to this playlist for