Get rid of the source of the fishy smell. I recommend sake not containing salt. A tip is to not cook it too much. THE BASICS OF SIMMERED FISH I'm going to share with you the basics of simmered fish using blackthroat seaperch, such as putting sugar first, the ratio of sake and water and ways to suppress the fishy smell. I'm using blackthroat seaperch today, but you can use the same basics for other fish like red bream and sea bream. Basically any fish can be prepared in pretty much the same way. Scale it and remove its guts. You can easily scale blackthroat seaperch with a knife like this. But you need to use a fish scaler for those fish with hard scales like sea bream. I'm going to simmer the whole fish without filleting it, so make sure to scale the head thoroughly as well. You could wash it with water now, but today I'm going to do it after removing gills and guts. The gills are, from outside, attached here, here at its chin and here on the other side. So, you need to cut these 3 points. Open the gill cover and cut those 3 points. Then, flip it over and cut here. Then, the gills are no longer attached to the head. But they are also connected to the guts. So, cut open the stomach and remove the guts. Usually simmered fish is dished up with its head placed on the left. I normally cut the stomach open in the middle from its anus, but today I'm going to cut it a little bit on this side of meat which becomes the bottom when it's dished up so that it will look nicer on a plate. Cut a little bit on this bottom side and take out the guts from here. There's dark-colored flesh where the backbone is, so make a cut in it. Now, I'm going to wash the inside of the stomach with water. As the blood and peritoneum cause the fishy smell, make sure to clean them. When wiping off the water, if the black peritoneum is still remaining, you need to wipe that off too with paper towel. Blackthroat seaperch's throat is covered in black membrane as you can see. Because its throat looks black when you open its mouth, they are called blackthroat seaperch. They are called 'nodoguro' (blackthroat) in Hokuriku region of Japan, but in Kanto region they are often called 'akamutsu.' After washing it clean, score the meat like this. This is not only for making it easy to soak up the flavor, but also for avoiding ruining the meat when the skin shrinks with heat. You can score it in one direction like this or score it with cross marks like so. It's up to you. You could decide by the thickness of the meat or how you want to present it. I'm going with cross marks today. Before starting to cook, salt it overall. This is not for flavoring it but for getting rid of the smell. By salting it, the water comes out from the fish due to osmotic pressure. Since the water contains the source of the fishy smell, you can make simmered fish without smell by doing this. Leave it for 10 to 20 minutes. 10 minutes have passed. As you can probably see, the water comes out to the surface of the fish. Now, you need to wash it off. PARBOIL IT FOR 2 - 3 SECONDS Rather than cooking the fish, this is just for parboiling the surface to do the final cleaning. Put it in boiling water for 2 to 3 seconds and then put it in ice water. Make sure to wash off the slimy texture on the fins and scales if there're any left. We got rid of the smell with the steps before parboiling the fish, and with this parboiling step we need to do the final cleaning, such as for the fins, dark-colored flesh and scales left on the head. That's it for the preparation of the fish. To summarize the steps, first you need to scale it and clean dark-colored flesh and peritoneum. Then, put salt to get rid of the source of the fishy smell. Finally, you need to parboil it to do the final cleaning for stuff like remaining scales and dark-colored flesh and the slimy texture on the fins. These 3 steps are the preparation of the fish before simmering it. Next, I'm going to simmer it. Put water in a pot. I'm going to add seasonings like sake, mirin (sweet sake) and sugar here. People might do it in a different way, but what I add first is sake. Of course you can use cooking sake, but I basically recommend those not containing salt. The ratio of water and sake is 1:1. Now, let's put the fish in and start cooking. The amount of water and sake should be as much as half of the fish gets soaked in. I guess many people think they should have it completely soaked. But one of the tips to make tasty simmered fish is to not cook it too much. This is because if you simmer it for a long time, the flavor of the fish oozes out to the soup. So, you actually only need 10 to 15 minutes to cook it. Once you turn on the stove, add sugar in. The soup should start boiling like this. Then, pour the soup on the fish to cook the whole fish evenly. I put sugar first because the molecule of sugar is bigger than that of salt, so it takes more time for sugar to soak in than salt. It makes easier to balance the taste of the fish by adding sugar first. Fish meat becomes easy to fall apart when cooked, so basically you should simmer it in the same state as when it's dished up. If you place it with its head on the right in a pot, you would need to turn it over before dishing it up. But you wouldn't want to do it, so put it with its head on the left in the first place. If the fin touches the wall of the pot, it gets burned on it. Put aluminum foil in between to avoid that. I've simmered it for about 7 minutes so far. When the whole fish seems to be getting cooked through, add mirin here. This is also for glazing the fish, so put a little more than you think it's enough. Then, keep pouring the soup onto the fish. I've been pouring the soup on the fish, but if you cannot be bothered to keep doing it, put a lid directly on the fish with aluminum foil or something and turn the heat up so that the whole fish will be covered in the soup. So, you can do this if you feel a bit lazy. The thing is it makes it easier for the meat to fall apart because you need to boil the soup to the point where it burbles like this, otherwise the fish cannot be covered in the soup. But it's up to you. It's been 3 minutes since I put mirin. When the soup is getting boiled down, it's time to add soy sauce. Soy sauce is so strong that the fish can get too salty if you put too much. So, put it in 2 to 3 separate times little by little. Keep boiling down the soup until it thickens and that's it. Add a little more soy sauce as you boil it Try the soup later again and add a little more if you need to. Because you keep boiling it down, the taste suddenly becomes strong at some point even if it still seems fine. Figuring out that timing is another tip to make tasty simmered fish. Once you boil it down until it thickens and the fish get glazed like this and to the point where it's nearly burned on the pot, it's done. For your reference, I simmered it for about 18 minutes. How much it can thicken depends on things like the amount of sugar added. I think the fish looks tastier with the glaze and thick soup. Next, I'm going to dish it up. Be careful when you do it because simmered fish is easy to fall apart. You can use a skimmer or turner to scoop it up, or you can slide it to a plate directly from the pot. Do it in whichever way is easier for you. I'm going to add condiments to finish off. You can add anything you like. I'm going to cut white leek into fine strips. Cut mitsuba (Japanese parsley) too. Put them on the side and that's it. I used white leek and mitsuba. But you can also use ginger or yuzu citrus if you like. It would be also tasty if you simmer root vegetables together with fish such as burdock or lotus root. That's it for how to make simmered fish. SIMMERED BLACKTHROAT SEAPERCH LIKE THIS VIDEO &amp; SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS