The beauty is almost unreal, and yet, for South Sudan, in the country's history. The flooding of the White Nile and its tributaries The overflowing river as well as towns such as Panyagor. Only its center remains, more or less. Now, a new rise in water levels to join the 700,000 people The floods have destroyed everything. Now, we use boats to get around. There are no more planes or cars Fortunately, there are still boats. Those who fled trying to save Help me get my last bed into the boat Why are you taking so many beds with you? The boat can't carry everything. The family's beds and the door but she may have to give them up. Be careful, Prices are rising because of the flooding, As an elderly mum, Thank you, to be honest with you, After further negotiations, Nyalkir, is everyone on board? -Yes, everyone is. Everyone has left, the village is empty. There's no one left. The boat sets sail for Juba, 300 kilometers of navigation totaling 48 hours of travel South Sudan It regained its independence but a young nation means starting with the roads. I'm starting to lose hope, On the water, The situation is very complicated! It's very hard to push It's really tiring to open the road Far from the cities, only one law applies, survival of the fittest. The Mundari tribe's huge herds of cows so the shepherds If thieves come, I shoot them immediately. The Mundari have learned to survive However, recently, Famine, locust invasion, and drought but the Southern Sudanese Between their instinct to survive each of them fights a daily battle. There are some trips -Check the handbrake to see if it works. Also, check the clutch Muhammad and his two trucks leave 50 kilometers from home. In dry weather, but when it rains, It'll take them the whole day and at the moment, It's terrible. The rain makes the road very slippery, and even with a four-wheel-drive vehicle, I hope that by leaving early, Bad weather is not On the tracks of South Sudan, When you travel, you are not safe. Everyone has a gun here. Where we're going, There are no police or military, just people with guns. When bandits stop a vehicle, They tell us: &quot;Get out, get out.&quot; &quot;How much money do you have on you?&quot; &quot;Give me your money!&quot; They also steal all our goods. On the tracks, it's impossible to escape. In South Sudan, This is the result of the last civil war between 2013 and 2020. All along the way, only to encounter an issue. His second truck has disappeared. What are you looking for? I'm waiting to see as I can't see it in my mirror anymore. We'll stop here with my assistant. We'll go and see what's happening. Okay. This road is in a really bad state. -Half an hour's walk later... Maybe he got a flat tire. What happened? We hit a rock, we heard air escaping. Look, there it is. Muhammad is reassured for now, but as is always the case, -I can't get this nut off. -No, it's stuck. We have a seized-up bolt. We'll have to cut it off. Fortunately, over the years, Muhammad has learned I've got a generator. I'll start it and cut this bolt off. The operation is far from safe. A bunch of little splinters so I closed my eyes. I'm used to it. Muhammad doesn't have a spare wheel, A piece of rubber I'll put two patches on the tire. That way, The bikers don't bring good news. The rain is coming from down there. A few kilometers away, it's raining a lot. It might be difficult for us especially as it's a long way up. People, don't worry, The earth will absorb the water quickly. It should be fine. The drivers remain optimistic, perhaps a little too optimistic. The White Nile Thousands of people or at least what is left of it. Thanks to a dike, but now they're afraid it will give way. Some have, therefore, The floods affect The south seems to be more or less spared, so the Panyagor refugees Three hundred kilometers where there are many obstacles, Today, several boats got stuck. At this point, the water depth If the travelers want to move forward, Come on, get off the boat. You see, the situation is bad now. It's really hard but this way is very difficult. We want to take this grass away Maybe we'll spend a lot of hours, Some boats carry food for our families, We are strong and brave men. We go out of our way They've been working for two hours, Is this where it got stuck? We're going to push from the back. That's what we have to do. Let's try it and see. -Hold on to the rope so we can pull. Come to this side. People, leave that rope and come this way. It moves like this. The inhabitants can't take it anymore. Every trip becomes a drama. The government must build dikes again Do they do nothing or not enough for you? They think they are doing enough, but we will see We are still waiting. The state lacks money, and across the country, South Sudan's main resources which represents 90% of its budget, so inevitably, Everyone survives as best they can, like the Akwac tribe. None of the members By the sweat of their brow, the men have built Every day, Makesh fortifies To make my island, Then I put grass on it Once it solidifies, you can sleep on it. In the water, like snakes and crocodiles. They are everywhere here. Of course, it scares me, I have no choice Today, the Akwac's main tasks and fish to survive. They've lost all other means Before, our land stretched We used to be able but now we can't. We can't feed ourselves properly. There is nothing else to eat but fish. We eat it every day. We don't have any vegetables. It's fish, morning, noon, and night. Before the water rose, from local shepherds. Today, they supplement their meals which they dry and turn into flour, How long will the Akwacs resist especially since food The travelers to pull the boat out It's hard work under a blazing sun It's impossible for them as the wells of the villages Taking risks We have no choice. I drink this water I have nothing to purify it. Even if I get sick, there is no more drinking water However, These Robinson Crusoes They used to be bus drivers or craftsmen, They sell their fish easily because, their islet is on the way to the capital. Come on, let's go get the fish They fish a legendary species, The king of African fish, They can measure up to two meters long Once we have caught the fish in the nets, we empty them and scale them. Then, the fish is cut in half to make sure Then we cover it with salt. Once the fish is salted, Four days later, -I'm sure all my fish fit in the dugout. I have to take them all. Bring the dugout closer. To facilitate easy transport, Put it here and bring the rest. More on this side. This is the last load I accept, We can't put anything else on. They will sell the fish in markets in the capital, as well as in neighboring countries Thanks to this business, Aliett, was able to rebuild a new life on land. At the market, I get a lot of money so I often come back It's a hard life, but thanks to the fish, and support my family. I hope one day to get back and I don't care I will come back to live on my land. This disaster has given rise to another, tribes that have lost everything Most of them taking all their wealth with them. This area has a tribe called the Murle. They cause us a lot of problems. They live right next to us, I have a friend When we approach they ambush us They also kidnap children and kill women. When you travel, They have another problem. The crew is very late, There are too many to sleep on the boat, and the only island The attacks are not limited The farmers who live with their huge herds are also victims, except they have a means of defense. The Mundari tribesmen for machine guns. I am in charge If bandits come to steal them, I shoot them immediately. Milk is too precious for us, How much do they cost? It can be worth between EUR400 and EUR500. We are here to defend them That's the only time I'll give them up. Among the Mundari, the number and beauty the social status of a man, Cows are only sold almost never. Cattle are mainly used If he wants to get married, It's really hard work. The sun burns our skin. Despite these difficulties, when you are in the bush, you are a happy man. For our cows to grow, they need fresh grass, looking for new pastures. The herders travel along the river for several months but they don't travel alone. The families follow the whole camp, and whatever the age, We left our old spot this morning, and we're ready We have no choice, the cows need to eat, We move all the time. It's hard, but we do it for our herd. Elizabeth travels I like our traditions, but on the road, Since we left, I have not eaten anything. I'm glad I'm finally here. I'm so tired. You rest, I'll take care of the kitchen. The men decided to avoid surprise attacks. You have seen how big our family is. It's too big. Elizabeth's family mainly with porridge. The women cook except for the animals I am cutting poles I am helping her. It will protect me, my wife, I think we'll stay here for a week or so because the cows Why is the tarpaulin so dirty? Grab that corner. I'll take care of the other one. There are nine adults living in this tent. To be more comfortable, with a family on each side. Be very careful with my fingers. In all, there will be 15 of us Very few children go to school, so daily chores I collect the cow dung and dry it, then I burn it. The smoke from the cow dung is used Despite this natural insecticide, Elizabeth and her sister The last civil war ended in 2020, In South Sudan, even impenetrable. It's a plague The transporter's mission from 50 kilometers away. Nothing is easy. In ten hours on the track, and to make matters worse, Before getting stuck, Muhammad has his two trucks fitted Hurry up and install the transmission. Put it on the chain. -Here? It's the 4X4 transmission, Driving was never just a job for Muhammad, He bought his two trucks after being the victim of a huge scam. My real job is not driving. Until recently, I was a shopkeeper, thanks to God. However, one day, I chartered a truck, and they hijacked it They stole it from me, My partners sold everything, According to him, as today he is running Swedish trucks No other vehicle can work. When the rain starts to fall, You can never stop? No, no, no, no. When you stop... Are you stuck? Yes, when the wheels turn in a vacuum, I don't know how to do it, It's raining. It's very bad for us. The rest is not looking good. If they can even finish the journey. This branch got stuck in the axle, It has to be cut. Pass me the machete. He has one kilometer to go Muhammad is on it. Bring me more branches. Every meter is a struggle. It's very difficult here That is our situation here, but now we are trying our best. Muhammad manages Step by step. The driver and his men They still have twice as far to go, but that evening, At the same time, trying to reach the capital The pilot can't speed up. It's getting dark, and they're still far from the only island Go that way and avoid this area. There are too many trees. Can I go over there? No, we're going to use this passage. We're going to take There are small trees in the water, so we're looking for a route Isn't there another way? It's getting dark out there. Passengers and crew On the other hand, in the forest, after 15 hours of driving Stop! Muhammad The wooden planks are there, but for him, Tomorrow, I don't know if I'll make it. If the sun comes back, but if it rains, it's a real mess. Muhammad and his men Now I am very tired. I want to rest. The blanket is there. [Arabic spoken audio] Yes, I can see. Now I'm ready to sleep. The road home is going to be a bumpy one. The skips will be loaded which doesn't mix well with the mud. After a big scare, the passengers on the boat to Juba on this artificial island. Jacob is sore, but as he says, The one you have seen is a long river. There is no dry place like this one. It's the only dry place near the river. This platform, marks the boundary and the White Nile. It was originally built by fishermen Today, it's become or a land of exile You can see the people These are people displaced by water. Displaced people come About 400 people live here year-round This is now the ambient place, and this is the room for doctors who are displaced by water. This is the room. It's rain-proof. People like you can sleep on this side. This mother is now sick It's not a hospital. It's just a clinic to save these people. &quot;Save&quot; is a big word. There is no doctor, just one nurse. All these people where no one will ever come Jacob and his traveling companions hoping to reach the capital The night went by smoothly No cows were stolen. The only emergency in the morning Hey, kid, hold the horns tightly. -Does the calf come out leg first? In search of safe quarters the Mundari are constantly on the move. They've learned To brush their teeth, they use a plant root and removes plaque. They don't need soap and water to wash. Do you wash like this every morning? Yes, every day, every day. I can easily spot a cow When she lies down and stands up, Is this really good for you? Yes, it strengthens my hair. It also discolors it, but the urine is mainly used There is one evil and it's taking its toll on them. Despite their efforts the mosquitoes Elizabeth and her sister Two of my children are ill. What's wrong with them? I don't know. Their bodies are warm. I think they have a fever, You think it's malaria. I don't know, we'll go to the hospital. The nearest health center 15 kilometers away. It's a long way, a three-hour walk. On the way there, we rely on our strength but on the way back, we're exhausted and hungry Like the Mundari, nearly 11 million Southern Sudanese or none at all. Without help from NGOs, a large part of the population They provide food and free medical care -What's his name? What's his problem? He has a much higher fever Come this way, I'll do the tests. Stop moving, it will be quick. I'm giving them the blood drop test This one is positive. It's malaria. It's now detected by RDT. This is a rapid test for malaria. All over the country, the most common disease, Malaria affects the children Also, the facilities are very far away, and they don't have Sometimes, if they felt the baby they used to take the roots of the trees, and then they used to It's a traditional medicine. This month, because of malaria complications. Malaria kills hundreds each year. You give her this medicine This one is for Kidja. Elizabeth, her sister, at nightfall, For the Southern Sudanese, staying alive This is honey. That morning, Muhammad is not in good spirits. I've lost hope, but I can try. Clouds and light rain. The six tons of wooden boards on board However, in exchange Muhammad can count These kids, aged eight to 15, but they don't lack courage. The sawmill, does them no favors with its planks weighing Those people carry timber They carry them on their heads till here. It's hard. The back and arms suffer a lot. I'm sick of carrying these boards. It hurts all over. There are about a dozen of them working, so their compensation This is 10,800. I'm not happy. I'm not happy. It's not much money. It's about EUR6. No matter how much they complain, To get out of this situation, he decided to call the lumberjacks Look at the runway. The truck must be passing by here. I really need to be able We're going to cut the trees I'm going to cut down there too. The wood is pretty dry. In one hour, Branches and foliage It's a massacre for nothing. Stop it. We're going to push. Like the day before, The machine makes little to no progress. Muhammad watches the day pass Seven hours later, Three hundred meters in one go, We are saved. The road in front is still very difficult. Now, we'll join two trucks together. They help each other. We can pass. Go and hang it up now. His perseverance finally paid off. It took one day I'm supposed to sleep tonight and see what comes out tomorrow because people are very tired now. There's no power again, and you see that night has already come. We'll wait until tomorrow. That's it. It will take Muhammad In total, it will have taken him six days It's almost unbelievable. Compared to Muhammad, did not do too badly. It took them two days to cover the 300 kilometers The youngest country Unfortunately, it has already had to deal but its people persevere and hope to lasting peace once and for all.