A Man Drank 7 Liters Of Soda Everyday For At Least 10 BA is a 48 year old man, presenting to the The admitting nurse immediately notices that BA can't stand on his own. He sits BA was a dad living a normal life, but he 30 (years old), he got a new job. This office to drink. The HR lady loved to tout this as a Unfortunately for BA, this availability Over the years, BA's daily soda intake would back of his tongue every sip he took. He thought at his desk and saw empty soda cans everywhere. he had just cleaned up from the day before, 10 years ago, when BA was 38, he he'd wake up thirsty. He'd try to quench that the more he drank, the thirstier he got. In BA had no idea how he was urinating that the amount of liquid he thought he drank. he had a brain fog that would have him BA woke up and he was in the hospital. The most 3 weeks ago. His wife told him that his coworkers diabetic coma. His blood sugar had been sky high the hospital despite not eating anything before had high blood pressure and high cholesterol, as know about BA's excessive sugar drink consumption, normal fact of life. He was advised to pursue BA knew in the back of his mind that his soda but it wasnt so clear to him. He had been habits really weren't great. He cleaned up drinking regular soda, he'd elect for even though he didnt really like it. And BA eventually left that company, and no himself going to the warehouse club consumption. And he'd drink so much that he'd burn an entire case in a single day. One day, BA wasn't feeling well. He thought when all of this started happening. When he stand. He could feel a dull sensation, almost that he was urinating very often, again. He got but he felt his legs go soft as he collapsed to he calls for 911 and he's brought to At examination, the medical team notice BA's it happened suddenly, but he hadn't been feeling record showed his history of diabetes, high all they knew about. But at this visit, A blood test finds that BA has hypokalemia. or more formally Kalium as shown by its and -emia meaning presence in blood. Low potassium it was life-threateningly low. That same blood test finds that BA not only has but that his kidneys are also shutting down. the kidneys, are now detectable in high amounts soda consumption, they're a measure that his but this wasn't his only problem. That BA's muscles have been damaged, and they called rhabdomyolysis. Rhabdo meaning striped of myo meaning muscle and lysis meaning breakdown. This is also life-threatening, and The human body has electrolytes everywhere. electrically charged, just like the plus and so they can be used to send signals throughout of cells is sodium, but the most abundant When muscles need to contract, signals from the cells rush in, initiating the contraction. an ELECTROlyte, meaning it has an electrical causes the positive charge to build up. To balance rushes out of the cell. Then calcium the shape of muscle proteins. When it's done, of relaxation. But in BA's case, it doesnt low potassium presence in blood. This because the signals to contract It can explain why his muscle is breaking down and released from muscle cell for contraction, helping more blood flow to the muscles. But hypokalemia, then blood vessels dont get dilated. less blood gets to the area. The muscles are very and without adequate blood supply, bad things can rhabdomyolysis cause BA's potassium to go up? cells are leaking their contents into his blood. Well, it may be that his muscles haven't undergone or, there's another force inside BA's body, outpacing any amount that could be added by has a problem that hasn't been documented by The medical team tells BA what they want try to then they're going to give him potassium. If his kidneys up" his tubules, then pushing some Intravenous flowing through, and should help "flush out" that They will collect his urine for the next 24 wasting potassium, then this can explain to them to address the root cause of what's happening. As the hours pass, BA gets thirsty. and the patient doesn't drink anything for and throat. This was happening to BA, but not BA was admitted into the step-down unit, in with him in the morning, and, throughout a shift. The hospital was big and busy, and weren't that many people. His condition could but that's why he was being monitored and he was in the hospital. called his wife and asked her if she could bring physician said, he couldnt think of a better way as he drank soda in his hospital room. And BA's headache went away. His dry mouth at morning rounds, the medical team despite getting IV potassium. they find that he had made a total of 4 The medical team had only given BA about a 24 hours for his kidney injury. If the medical team has no idea where that came from. They talk more about this. Persistent, severe a problem called Diabetes Insipidus, which is he was diagnosed with years earlier. The word pass through," referring to the massive amounts as if water is passing right through them. and sapidus meaning "tasty." A pass because back in the 1400s when the word Diabetes they might have diagnosed problems of excess urine we know as Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes today are Latin meaning "pleasant tasting" like honey, Hypokalemia makes it harder for the kidneys manipulation of electrolytes that happens in that correct balance, it's possible that drawing on body water to put into But BA is still weak. The medical to him and none of his problems are his hypokalemia can cause an abnormal heart his heart shaking in place, no longer Over the next couple days, they try giving BA help. They tried stopping all IV fluids and were the potassium they were trying to give him. But his potassium, stop his rhabdomyolysis, One day, the medical student saw BA have a a large case of soda into his room. Given and that he never really asked for any more no one saw or paid any attention to anything he the student saw BA drink every single can that excess to that degree. The student started but he didnt want to go in the room to be residents and fellows around. And after reviewing he saw housekeeping staff get an extra The next morning, the student got to the and printed out some studies he looked up, so this because he went beyond and coincidentally And if you are a student too looking you can work with SoFi, a member FDIC finance company who helps members bank, borrow, and they reached out to me asking if we could can be overwhelming and can feel complicated to "I don't even want to think about how I'm going that medical education grinder for 8 years after I know now, there are opportunities to and SoFi can help you with that. They have of dollars thanks to flexible terms and low origination fees, and no prepayment penalties. to live customer support 7 days a week, and provided that the loans are in good standing. on more exciting financial goals, like buying a path now. You can see your rates in 2 minutes with the link at the very top of the description Soda, is carbonated and sweetened water. Its original formulations in the 1800s contained what are now classified as controlled substances, but some products now have another sweetening, specifically from sugar, and the Sugar is interesting because water will want to flow towards it. In this small water and place it into a semi-permeable tube, and out. I submerge the tube in a pool of and you'll see that water flows towards where In the kidneys, huge excess sugar, from drinking can make it hard to reabsorb water, with the sugar. This is documented to happen chronically consuming excess soda, but we know because his urine was collected for 24 The other problem would be caffeine. it works by blocking inhibition rather than So that's why it's not considered community tab for quiz questions on there's a chemical called adenosine. You have have our cells use for energy. Adenosine is also the adenosine is a depressant. It promotes sleep. flow though the brain and the heart. It can also helping get a normal beat. If caffeine blocks this from promoting sleep, and caffeine constricts and it can increase heart rate. Caffeine is shaped like adenosine, but it's what it does in Caffeine can be a diuretic. There's of medicines called theophylline that's as "the most remarkable diuretic that we possess other diuretics that are used to treat heart it appears that adenosine enables the kidneys under the same principle as the sugar, because mechanism is blocked by chronically large amounts what becomes the urine, throws off the electrolyte to become urine. As the amount of flow increases it appears the kidneys concentrate more and more how BA drinking at least 7 liters of soda every How it caused him to make excess urine, and around in his blood causing his kidneys to shut If excess soda consumption was the for normal bodily function, then the You might hear in the news, and on websites, is bad for you. At best, they'll tell you about would get countered by someone else talking about comparison without giving any why's. Well BA's take my word for it, similar cases have been times. Early insulin resistance can come from all big a problem it is. Depending on what you do Excess blood sugar levels can come from that from excessively drinking massive amounts of soda at once, and from watery stools of the GI tract, where elevated caffeine level for months to years, in but not enough to be a caffeine overload, Insipidus, polyuria, rhabdomyolysis, ending in and the electrolyte abnormalities. This can leading to sudden death if untreated, because And not to mention the permanent kidney damage that would come from the rhabdomyolysis. The amount of people who get sick like this from is not going to be that many. Some people in this setting of gallons of soda every majority. We're never going to have the actual what about diet soda? Then there's no sugar. it did to BA. How about diet, caffeine free at food questionnaire results from the 1970s and they found there appeared to be an the groups that consumed soda. Remember, soda and 80s. From "real" sugar to high fructose likely in different concentrations now the overall formulation is likely different and availability of sodas today than back when this survey was taken. Type 2 diabetes and all its comorbidities like all its consequences, and kidney stones of excess chronic soda ingestion. And think diet. What about those artificial sweeteners? FDA said about it. Consumed reasonably, But the principle remains: if you don't need to put it in your body, don't put it in your body. When the medical team took repeat blood soda in the hospital, and his wife was advised they found his blood potassium levels started return to normal, and his muscle weakness went some baseline function was achieved Thanks so much for watching. Take