Affinity Designer is an incredible, new effective design program This program has been going It's won Apple Design Awards and we're seeing a lot of designers drop completely over to the new software In this course, we're gonna go through and give you a quick start if you So you know how when you are learning you get a little way into it. And then you find that some tool that could of saved you hours, Well, this course is designed to right at the beginning. So that you will be working as efficiently workflow from the outset. Now everything that we go through in this version of Affinity Designer. So there's nothing to following along with every I'll see you in the first lesson. Welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna go through how you can So a curve is anything that So here we have nodes, and these nodes link up to We can select any one of these nodes and Now there are two main ways that you So we'll just get rid of You can either start with a stock shape Or you can draw curve yourself Pencil or Brush Tool. So with the Pencil, you can just jot And then link it up at the end. With the Pencil Tool, With the Brush Tool, You can brush with different types of textures. But you'll still be creating we've still got nodes Or if you don't want to if you wanna start with You can draw our a preset shape, and then you can hit Convert to Curves. So right now, if you wanted to you wouldn't be able to access them, But if you hit Convert to Curves, now you You also have circles, you've got quite a large selection of shapes that you can use to And then once you've drawn these this from its stock beginning point, And then you are free to turn In the next lesson, we're gonna look more We're gonna look at how you how you can delete nodes from a shape. And how you can connect I'll see you there. Welcome back to In this lesson, delete nodes from an existing curve. So let's say we've started we've converted that to curves like Now if I want to add nodes into this make sure I have the little white arrow You can also select that then you wanna hover see that little squiggly bit And then you can just tap right on the So, you can tap as many places as you want And if you want to delete a node you the node editing tool or you can draw You can select multiple And then just hit the delete button. And now we get rid of those nodes. So that's with a closed curve. It will also work the same with let's just knock out So we got our line there and along the lines that we already have, that little squiggly line under However, this node tool is for You can't add new nodes out here with it. Sorry, if you want to add on to this line, you'll need to go to the pen tool. You'll need to select the end and then you can continue adding nodes You'll notice that right now that's the root node for this line. You can't actually add any extra So if I did want to have another going here I would need So I can look for And there you can see that the red this node has now been highlighted. That means that I can now I can start adding nodes Now if I wanna close this shape, until I see the little circle come then just tap, and that closes that shape. So then that can now be filled. There's also another way to close off and Lets get rid of this. So let's say you're working you've drawn out a rough shape and So what you can do is grab the node tool, these ends and then up here you'll so you hit that and Now in the same way in reverse, you can select a node at the point that you can hit Break Curve. And now you've got a new you can start adding extra You can also use a similar technique So, just get rid of this one. And so, we've got curve number two and We can grab the node tool and then click the second shape to select it. Now if we select both of these ends here, And that has connected our two that can be manipulated all at once. You might have noticed that some of working on look a little bit they behave a little bit differently. And that's because there And we're gonna check out nodes are in the next lesson. We're also gonna learn about the different use when you create these I'll see you there. Hi, welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna go through the can use to make up your curves. There are smooth nodes, Each one of those has a different look identify what type of node you're working All right, We'll just grab the pencil and Now by default you can see here we've And when you see those little circles smooth nodes. Now, I'm gonna highlight all you can see that we And you'll see this Convert menu come up any time you highlight We have the three different types So we can convert all of And now you'll see that each of this We just have sharp corners you'll also notice that each one of these So you can identify the circle the square shaped nodes are sharp mode. The third type of node what that does is it automatically of best fit for you, depending on So normally if you have When you want to control the curvature on So, you have to select the node then it's up to you to figure out how these nodes should be placed, in order to give you the type If you use a smart mode, all of that you'll get smooth flowing shapes So if I switch this now to smart mode, it's just smoothed that So if I select all of these curves and You'll see that the icon has changed, it's That's to let you know That's auto calculating the curvature. If you edit any one of these nodes at you'll see it switch from being So watch this node here carefully. There you see it switches because it's no so the dot in the middle of this node has now disappeared to let you know You can actually draw from When you select the pen tool by default, it would typically be This means that you can, if you want, out as sharp mode or if when you click down to add a node you'll also be able to So that's the default Pen mode but switch it away from Pen mode and then as you put down nodes automatically calculated for Now in the same way if don't want to have any curves you then you can switch to sharp And now you know you're not add curves where you don't want them. And the last type of mode with the pen tool is line mode. With line mode you're going to no more to make a single line. So you put down one node and then you It's just designed to you to put down a single line In the next lesson we're gonna Which is a really fantastic tool for easily rounding off corners and I'll see you there. Hey welcome back to In this lesson, you can learn how to round off corners Alright, so, So I'm just going to zoom right in. And so here's a sharp corner. If we wanna round that off, we don't Handles, trying to make sure everything's What you can do instead the Corner Tool which you can also Then select the shape that then hover over the point You're gonna see a little curve come up. It'll be easier if I You see that little curve comes Now, from here, if you hold down and Inside that corner and that circle will determine how Now, once you've done that you And just grab this little red circle here. To change the roundness of the corner But the actual node itself still you're not moving the location So, if you subsequently need to change around the way you have You might need to convert this corner into an editable Bezier curve. And the way that you can do that, So if we click that, now, our node has been converted from And each one of those nodes as you would with any other node. So, we'll just undo that, Now, you'll notice by default this that's just one of a few If you have a look up in the context menu different corner shapes that So, we've got it set to we can also have a straight corner. We can have a concave corner and And in the case of each one of these, you're just moving the little circle, And then with each one of those you still have the option So that you then have nodes that In the next lesson, we're gonna which is a really amazing It's great whenever you need to in a duplicated shape over and over. I'll see you there. Hey, welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna go through using power duplicate, which is a really So first up, there's two ways to You might be used to using Ctrl or but in Affinity Designer Or alternatively you can hold then you can drag the object So we are going to duplicate So I can hold down Alt and drag. Or as well as using keyboard shortcuts, just head into the Edit menu and Now, one of the really, really cool things this is probably easier shown So let's say I wanna make kind of out of this little shape here. So I will hold down Alt to duplicate, And now I am gonna rotate it a little bit. Now, if I continue hitting duplicate I'll start power duplicating. And that means that the transformation that movement and rotation, that same transformation is going to be So then we get this. And that all just happens automatically I discovered this when I completely found it by accident. I created one stair on duplicated it, then duplicated it expecting to have And then I'll just able to go duplicate, the whole flight of stairs was So to recap, that's just, you hold then Alt while you are dragging Then you ahead and create whatever you can move, you can rotate, And then if you immediately hit Cmd+J, all of those transformations in there In the next video we're gonna learn how to embed it in another, and then edit I'll see you there. Welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna learn how to And you can actually embed any type Affinity Designer files. So you can drop in JPEGs, or But, if you drop in an Affinity Designer you can then do real time And you'll see those edits in every place that you have embedded it. Let's have a look at an example. We have two Affinity Designer files here. The first one, you're already looking the second one is a flat image into our first document and All right, so And then we're gonna use this tool here, the Place Image tool, And then we can just place the image in. And now we can manipulate it to Now, I'm just gonna speed this up so you don't have to watch through as I All right, so now we have our three One on each side of our isometric cube. But what happens if we decide that the sides of these cubes look? Or what we can do is double click Now we can edit right here and any changes that we make are going to Now I'm gonna switch into you can see this a little All right so And here is the embedded version. I'll just move this over. All right so now, let's say we want to change the color of the inner most box. Make a different shade. So that you can see, you're seeing the effect in Now the thing to be aware of is, the real going to affect your original document. When you embedded that original document And it's the duplicate So if you were to go back to you can see that nothing The only thing that's changed every instance of that embedded So just a recap you embed any of into your design using this little And then to start doing real time editing, just double click on any of In the next video, you're gonna learn about one of the that is the ability to paint like raster based brushstrokes, I'll see you there. Hi, welcome back to In this lesson we're gonna go through Affinity Designer, and that is Now if you've ever used any other similar application you'll when you paint a brush stroke There's nothing you can do about it. You simply have to undo and But with Affinity Designer, because you can actually In the toolbar here, this is your pick any one of these brushes, just as you And you can see there's various degrees So we'll just pick one, now we can paint just like But the huge huge difference is that we can adjust this brush stroke just I'll just quickly show you So there's a whole different variety you can create. And because of the ability to edit those control that is very, very hard to For example, if you want to create let's get rid of these. Then you can draw your straight line, and then you can delete all of your nodes, And now you've got the ability to perfect brush stroke. You have the ability to curve And this just opens up design that aren't available without And you can also paint If you have a pen, and we're gonna go in a little bit more So in your Brushes panel, you have So if you go to Assorted, You can also choose Textured brushes. So these are great for So that's a watercolor brush, you have pastel brushes, You have Basic brushes, which are just And then one of the most So let me just clear With image brushes you can paint out So you can imagine the possibilities And you can actually create your In the next section of the course, we're with Affinity Designer's interface. And we're gonna start out by learning I'll see you there. Hi, welcome back to to In this lesson we're gonna go through Now there are two ways that you can One is on the canvas, using tools that will come up when you And the other is using So if you've worked with then a lot of this is But it's worth going over because there if you're not sure exactly All right, we'll just start by And over here in our transform panel, you information coming up about our shape. So we're able to use these fields So for example, let's say we wanna make We can jump in here and we could set the position You can also work with rotation. You can see that we're We can change the point of origin for And this can be very handy for making how much of a turn you Now in this square here you So we could skew to the left or Now, something that might not be you want to skew your You might come down here and Let's say we just skew it by 14 degrees. But what happens if you also The transform power will only So if you want to skew vertically look for these little arrows here. It can be a little finicky to So you just need to very finely until you see these two arrows appear. And then you can skew vertically So on top of the ability to skew, if you hover your mouse So that's free rotation, you can also lock the rotation If you position your mouse at directly nodes here you'll have So there you've got free And once again if hold down shift, you'll You also have vertical scaling and So that is the essentials transforming objects in Affinity Designer. In the next video you gonna learn how to you actually have a split screen where modes at once. And you have a slider down the middle that different types of views. I'll see you there. Hey welcome back to our In this lesson, I'm gonna show you that you can have two different types of that you can scrub left and right between So what you wanna do is head up to View, then go to View Mode and Now on the left side, you can have In this left side here, particularly helpful on the right So we can go to View &gt; This is super, super helpful, because And then, particularly when you really your design here, you can zoom right in. And you can make sure all of your them to be. You can have this all it's as though you are just And then you've got that ability to So on top of having Vector and Outline previewing different So on the left side here, I can say, to show me how this design is gonna And then on the right side, just by change up, I can go to View and So there I can get an idea of how the have an effect on my exported graphics. And this is probably more noticeable So as you scrub over, you can see that the Retina View and less so So that's super, super handy. In the next video, we're gonna go through using the Layers a little bit different at first to what And there's actually some really the Layers Panel. I'll see you in the next lesson. Welcome back to In this video we're gonna go through If you're coming from you might not instantly see how the layers So we're gonna step through how objects create them. How you can move them around, how you can create All right, so we'll start out by drawing Now in another application you might each one of these rectangles and then you might expect to select all But then you head over you see that you don't have separate Now that's because every individual has been given it's own child created with every new So rather than layers being automatically in Affinity Designer you need to Even though Affinity Designer does have layers behave in a lot of So I can create a new layer with And then if I want, layer as though I was shifting So shapes can be nested underneath layers, You can that by either pressing Cmd+G the shapes that you wanna group and you Now functionally, But by having both layers and the way that you can organize all of multiple ways that you can categorize And keep everything organized in Now if you need to you can also So we have this group we can head up to the Layer menu and Now the next thing that you wanna be aware the layers panel. When you click and you'll see different drop And the width of these drop you know what level of nesting your Now if I move this item see the width of that drop zone expand. And if I move it to the left So this full width drop zone here it will be at the top level. It will have no parent, If I move it to here that tells me that And if I move it to here, that tells me that if I drop it now, So here, now the item has no parent, it's at the top level. If we move it again, so here, And now we finally have this that will nest this So there's our drop layer. So as you're moving things around of the drop zone and where the item is going to be Now so far we've just been So object layers contain things But there are three other types of There are pixel layers, There are masked layers, that you can And there are adjustment lighters that you map over your design and So to create any one of you can just head down to And you'll find a shortcut button You'll find an Adjustments And then, Now, I won't go into exactly three different types of layers because Now the last thing that I did wanna is these three buttons in the top Each one of these helps you control an object is placed So the first icon we have behind the currently selected item. This one inserts at this one inserts something So let's have a look at how that works. All right, so Now if we press this button to if we start vector painting, rather we should see the brush strokes So let's have a look. So there we go. Sure enough, Now the second option here, will insert So, even though we have selection we should see our new curves added So let's try, that again. And sure enough, this has come up Now just clear that out. And then the last option is to Now if we press this button, we should see our brush strokes only They shouldn't cross So grab our brush again. And there we go. Everything is neatly contained And when you expand, you'll see that are nested inside this rectangle shape. So these shortcuts can help you with you want them to be in In the next lesson, we're gonna step excellent guides manager tool. It allows you to get really fine grain guides in your document. I'll see you there. Hi and welcome back to In this lesson we're gonna Now you can drop guides into your Affinity And the way that you do it is in other applications. You just place your cursor out on one You got it out to the position But you'll notice that as I'm dragging drag it down at a decimal point Now, if you were working something that needs to be pixel perfect, that your guides are down This document for example is 1,400 Now if I want to make then I need to drop this But with these decimals coming into it can be a little tricky for me to put So this is where the guide So if we head up to View, And this shows that the guide that we have And we can just edit that figure and change it to the 100 And now we can put in our second guide to add a new guide. And we can set that to in order to create a 1200 pixel wide or You can do the same thing So we can set a gather at the top And then in the same sense, we can need to by hitting the little Now as well as using explicit values, So now rather than having 100 points and we've got percentage-based values. And then we can change those So we might have a layout that is by entering values of 10% and So that is how you can easily put guides whatever type of layout you are creating. In the next lesson, we're just gonna rearrange studio panels I'll see you there. Hi, and welcome back to This video is just a quick tip Now you have a bunch of panels over here they do things that you would already other graphics applications. So they give you your history, they give forth and you can rearrange these panels. You can drop them in with other sets You can nest them in different locations, you can also close them down completely. Like this. Now one thing that can be a little bit programs is, where you go to bring You might be used to going then looking for the panels so But the menus in Affinity Designer Now where you want to go to is actually to the studio submenu So you hit up here to the View menu and this is where you're gonna find So then we can bring the History tab back, and then we can nest them back We can also use that same Studio So if we've kind of made a mess of things, we can put it back to the default. And you also have the option to So that is how you work with perhaps a little bit different to all very accessible once In the next video, we're gonna learn how Affinity Designer has a really that's very versatile and I'll see you in the next lesson. Hi and welcome back to Affinity Designer has which we're going to go It's quite versatile and things like doing icon design. And it's also has things like isometric example. All right, so we gonna start by showing then check the Show Grid sub menu, Now, to change the way that wanna go back up to the View menu and then Now, by default, So if you wanna change things around, All right, so first let's have a look at Now, 64 pixels by 64 pixels is So we can head down here and we can set And then here we can set So now each one of our squares is the But what we can also do is in between each one of these grid cells. So we'll just up that to 24 points. And now we can fit exactly one icon into Now we can take that even further to By increasing the number of divisions. So, we can make a smaller Let's say that we set the divisions to 32. Now, if we zoom in, we can see that are breaking down each one of So when we are trying to align points in our icons, We can do the same things horizontally. So that we've got a really nice each one of the icons that we produce. So that icon grid layout is just you also have several other predetermined For example, you might be working on So you can hit up here and now your grid will be converted So just drop that gutter and we've kept our grid divisions there. So we've got a really nice framework isometric graphics. Without having to worry the perspective that we're trying to Now, where these grids that we've just own is when they're used in And that's what we're gonna learn I'll see you there. Hey welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna have a look what the different types of Now in order to activate snapping, hit this big magnet button up here. Alternatively, you can hit this just ensure that this box here is checked. Now if you are designing graphics for anything that requires pixel precision, there are a couple of buttons that you're The first is this one here, Now if you don't have this turned on positions that are in between pixels. And then when you export your graphics But by turning this setting on you alignments. And that's going to help you And the second one that you want is, that one is helpful for So when you're moving things around, you're not gonna have anything And you're gonna make sure that nice and crisp. So now that we have snapping turned on, And now we can very easily start And likewise if we now wanna move visual feedback and snapping to And keep them on the grid and Now there are also plenty of are in this drop down box here. Now we won't go through every single one, because there's quite a lot But definitely have Check out some of the presets and some of And experiment with them to see what works In the next section of the course, looking at how you can work with color and And we're gonna start out by Affinity Designer's fill tools. I'll see you in the next lesson. Hi, welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna learn how to So we'll start by grabbing the pen Any shape at all will be fine. So when you first put out a shape you will have no fill and it will just And there are two ways that you can or some other type of fill, and sub context menu up here or Now this context menu here will only using the select tool. The node editor, curve editor, pen, Or any one of these shape tools here. First, we'll add a fill in So you have a few choices here, you have a preset selection of And just tapping any one of these You also have a series of color And we'll talk more about how color a later video. And you also have an option We're also gonna talk about gradients So basically this context menu is the to do something fairly standard, But if you're wanting to get a little that's when you're gonna The fill tools gives you access So up here you can choose what type of So solid is just a flat color. If you're just setting a flat color you tool you can just use that context You also have a variety of gradients so conical gradients. And we're gonna go through edit gradients in a later video. But once you do have a gradient setup with the fill tool allows you to really the positioning of your gradients. So just draw out our gradient to which makes it really easy to tweak and get it running in the exact Now the other extra that you'll find in that context sub menu is bit map fill. So if we select bit map fill, a pixel-based file that we can use as So pick out this wood texture. And now, We have a bitmap acting we can manipulate this bitmap in the same So you can redraw the bitmaps out and to change the way that the bitmap You also have some extra settings up here, So you can change the way tiling works, or you can have the bitmap not tile at all. And these bit maps are really great for adding some more complex Some times you want a flat But sometimes you wanna add in a bit a way that you really do need Now that said, you another non-bitmap way to So just head back, and So make this, say, sandy, Now you see down here So we're able to add noise in and a completely vector based design still maintain the same degree of quality. And this noise can be used in all sorts creating rocky textures, If you use it in the right way, you can So that covers the fill tool, adding texture into your designs In the next lesson we're gonna go through I'll see you there. Hi and welcome back to In the last video we went through in this video we're gonna talk about how The most of what applies to working So we'll just start with now just as before we looked at in the same context menu you have And just like with fill, you can choose And just like with fill, when you're using the move tool, the pen tool, and any of the shape tools. And also like when you're working with It might not seem obvious at first if you select the fill tool and this context sub menu, and choose stroke. And from there, you can work with So that covers how you can set there is also a range of stroke So If we just head back to the move tool. You can access your stroke settings Or by looking at the stroke panel. So, this gives you a range of different So we have the solid stroke, we can also use a textured stroke, and that allows us to pick out a brush, We also get control over And you can then just also control the way the alignment of the stroke, the stroke is drawn in relation to And the last thing that's really good Affinity Designer is that you can from it's original shape that you can work with it And to do that make sure the shape is choose Expand Stroke. Now, if you have a look You can see that our stroke is now a So this means that you can get in and everything with this stroke that you would In the next lesson, we're gonna of color selection that And we're also gonna look at what you paste hex codes into your document or I'll see you in the next lesson. Hi, welcome back to In the last couple of videos, we went over the tools that you In this video, we're going to take the colors that you want to use when For color selection, we have the context fill and stroke and By default, you're going to get this any of these, but you do have the option to choose from But they categorize slightly differently, at one of the context menus or One of the reasons that is good to know about is if you're example, say you have a hex code palette that you already have defined and If you want to paste in a hex you'll need to go up here and You can see all the different color then here, you'll get your hex Now if you're using first you'll need to choose then from this drop down list, Once again, all of the different can be picked from this drop down list But if you're working over here, first you'll need to decide a slider, or boxes for I'll just put that back to the default. Now when you're working with this color the stroke by tapping on this little then you'll be able to change Or to work on the fill, tap the Fill, whichever you're working If you're working with the fill, If you're working with the stroke, And then you can choose your color. Now if you want to use the color picker, then you'll be able to choose a color However, you notice that it's not being applied right away. If I want to actually apply that color, I need to click that color picker one more I've chosen to whichever The same thing applies if If you use the color picker, it's not gonna apply right away. You need to click it again and it would then apply the color Those are just a couple working with the color selection In the next lesson, we're gonna learn how to extract It can be an Affinity Designer file, I'll see you there Hi, and welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna learn how to So here we have this And it's got a very clear color scheme. And rather than going through and manually selecting these colors if this piece, we can have them And the way we do this is If we head up to the little drop down menu Create Palette From Document. And this is gonna pull all of the colors And there are three ways that You can create it as an Application you every time you use You can create it as a Document Palette, it's available just within Or you can create it as a System Palette, anywhere in your machine, So for now, And there you go, all of the colors extracted, so And you can also see that according to the name of the file. So the file is called Concerto, So this is a vector piece, but the process So, over here, Create Palette From Document. Give it a second. And then there's all of our coffee So that's incredibly useful also if you're a client's logo, so you can easily It's great for sharing color palettes if your work goes through a pipeline And it's overall just a great time saver. In the next video, we're gonna learn how to create And that is by creating color chords, and these color chords are based I'll see you there. Hi, and welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna have in Affinity Designer to generate You can do this inside the Swatches panel. Right, now the first thing we're And then we'll pick a base color, which we're gonna create So the first one that we're gonna So head up into your Swatches panel and And here are three different types An application palette, which will be available to any document A document palette that will be restricted working with. And a system palette that you can use art application. So for now we'll just choose And it comes up as unnamed. To rename this palette head back up here, And we're going to call this Analogous. All right now the first thing we need to our little Recent swatches So to do that, and that will add the currently Now, to create an analogous color based go to Create color chord, And now we have extra colors that are give us an analogous color scheme. So, we'll draw another circle and And the pink that's been generated. So, there we have an automatically All right, so, let's try another one. This time we'll generate So, we'll get back to our red color. Delete these circles, and once again w'll create This time we will call it Shades. Add the active color to our palette. Now right-click that new color, choose So there's a whole bunch of different So we can start using these colors, And we can see all the various shades So there are several different types And if you're not familiar with any of then just jump into Google and You'll find a ton of information on of color schemes. So that's a great way to start with generate some color schemes that you In the next lesson we're gonna learn There are a couple of different each one of those ways is suitable for I'll see you there. Hi, and welcome back to In the previous lesson, you learned how strokes. And in this lesson, you'll learn how you can actually So, we begin with the shape that And you'll recall that you can add menu by choosing Gradient. And you'll notice that you don't come up here. If you want to apply a gradient this way, just change the type of gradient and And the other way you can apply So choose the type of gradient then draw out the gradient in the Now one of the easiest ways to start editing your gradient Editing a gradient through this fill tool If you place your cursor you'll be able to add an extra So just hit there and And you can change the color of that So I can do the same thing down here, And I can also change the color And you'll also notice we have These will affect By default these little exactly half way between that means that the color will be evenly But if you want to have more then you can drag these stops, this is great for creating different So just like you add color stops in by finding a spot on the line and you also delete color stops in the same So you just select the stop that you wanna So that covers how you edit your gradients you can also use the context menu just like when we were working So the same principle's apply here. You have your stops and you have these little lines in between The difference is, when you wanna add the left of where you wanna add in a stop, Now generally speaking, the reason that the fill tool is if you want to midpoint values and if you're working with too fiddly to really effectively use So another thing to just when we're using a different type of we're using an elliptical gradient, you And you can use this extra change this shape of your gradient. And that can be great for things like creating lighting You can use this handle to with the curvature of a shape And just like with flat fill colors, you can add noise into your gradient. So over here in the color panel, By default, that slider controls opacity. But if you tap this button here, And then you'll be able to You can do the same thing So choose a stop, and here opacity But if you wanna add noise, then your noise slider is down the bottom. So that's all the essentials editing gradients in Affinity Designer. In the next lesson, we're gonna learn transparency tool which is actually I'll see you there. Welcome back to Affinity Designer, In this lesson, we're going to learn Now the transparency tool is only instead of filling in color, Right under the Fill tool this little thing that &gt;&gt; The way that you can use then we're gonna add some transparency that it shows through some of Just like with the Fill tool, you just and then you can see that we've The way that this works is it's Now if you have a look up here, a gradient that you're working with but all you're setting in this I can grab the very end point here and I can change the amount of opacity that You can see that changing in the right end also just like with the gradient, I can change the shape of By default, but you can also use elliptical, For example, with elliptical transparency, You can see, you have that soft You can use this to create a perfectly rounded off fuzzy edge. You can also, with the linear gradient, you don't have to just have Just like you do with a regular gradient, I can select this first stop, I can set this middle stop then I can drag the first now we have faded our edges on both Also, just like with the gradient tool, can adjust the exact line you can change the distribution you'll notice the transparency This is really, really powerful way to relying solely on things like In the next session of the course, we're gonna start looking at The first of those being we're gonna start out by having I'll see you there. Hi, welcome back to One of the things that makes kind of sets it apart from some other art with both vectors and And what you're looking at here is raster based drawing have So we have, for example this shape But then all of the fine details, some of the shading and lighting are all And this is done through And when you first open start a new document, you'll be And that is signified by But you also have a Pixel Persona. So if you switch into Pixel Persona, you'll see the all the tools you have And what you've done by switching Personas program from a vector based design program And you can switch back and forth between And switch between using vector pixel based drawing and editing. Now a lot of the tools that you see in the if you've worked with other So you've got things that you'll Field tool, you have Burn, So over the next few videos, we're gonna focus on the tools that are And we'll also have a look at things that into Pixel Persona. And we're gonna start with Pixel Brushes. So in an earlier video, when we were in Vector Persona, And we talked about the brushes that you can use to paint out brush Now if you watch here, these are the groups of brushes that But if we switch to Pixel Mode, paintbrush and And you can see that there is a completely have to choose from. And that the categories you have And this is because when you're there's a whole range of different aren't really going to work quite For example in the Painting submenu, we have all kinds of simulations of So we'll just give one And you can see that the type of painting And when you're using you also have different settings In particular, settings that allow And we'll go through those more we're using to talk about pen pressure and So the brushes that you have in the Pixel want to do quite a lot of brushstrokes. If you're wanting to do, say, digital painting, or Because while the Vector Brush Tool If you're building up a great huge it can get a little bit Whereas pixel brushstrokes, you don't need to have any So, it's more efficient for In the next video, we're gonna have a look pixel editing tools and And this is a great tool for every single piece of color in your You'll see how that Hi, and welcome back to In this video, we're going to which is this little one here. Now because Affinity Designer is primarily not think that it would be the go to place ago somebody asked me for a recommendation to start producing pixel art for games and Because when you combine all of the other color management tools, its grid system, a little bit later and all of the rest of when you turn on this pixel editing accessible pixel drawing application of the other options that Using is very intuitive as you might choose a color that you want to draw with, However, what makes this tool I have a grid turned on that's showing And now you can see that it's snapping to this grid perfectly. So you can draw out exactly lines, For any type of art Now I have this set to one pixel in width, the pixel tool but, I can set that So if I wanna start putting down then I can do that too and it's still, Going to have snapped exactly So this is perfect for where you might need to do pixel art. But it's also perfect if you need very crisp lines because as long as you're not going to get any lines that are they're always gonna be perfect. There's also some really great shortcuts So let me just clear out this space. If I draw out one line, and I can instantly connect you can also hold down the command key, making it very easy to draw out shapes and So if you do need to do any pixel-based out the pixel tool and have a play around to work with, and you might just find best drawing instead primarily In the next section of the course we're between shapes that you can we're gonna start by how I'll see you there. Hi. Affinity Designer Quick Start. In this lesson, you're gonna learn about Boolean operation are a type of There are five different kinds of them and you can see all five up in the top-right All right, so let's grab the rectangle squares on the page so that we can In order to use Boolean functions, you'll need to make sure you have Once you do, you'll see that all of that they're available for use. All right, now the first one we'll right now you can see in our Layers If we use this Add tool, So you saw the outline disappear there and now this is a single curve Now one purpose that this is particularly you can have a symmetrical layout. So for example, If we were to create a shape like this and that we had the exact same So we could duplicate and flip that shape, move it over to here and shapes So now we have perfect symmetry. So the next boolean function that So once again, we'll select these You'll see that the icons here of what this function is going to do. So hit subtract and you can see that this Now if you have a look at this is the shape that's gonna be creating So let's say you wanted to create a sort You could draw out a circle, your scoop out, and Next let's have a look at intersecting. I'll draw out two squares. So intersecting is going to find the area. In which these two shapes intersect. So select both of our shapes and Next up let's have a look at So we'll just use some Now the divide operation is kind of It does find the intersecting rather than only giving you this shape and it will divide these areas so that you So now we have one, two, and then finally we have is basically the opposite So just draw out two more squares. Now once more this is gonna find the area it's going to delete it. So we'll have this shape and this shape So that's all five Boolean functions very useful. You can use them in So just keep those in mind as you're going They can give you a lot of shortcuts and In the next lesson, we're gonna as far as shapes interacting with each we're gonna be looking at masking you use it to obscure I'll see you there. Hi and welcome back to In this lesson, clipping in Affinity Designer. Now with both masking and clipping, using it to hide a portion In Affinity Designer, there are two types In each case you can create either you can create either vector or If that seems confusing at first don't once we go through some examples. Let's start with an example then we'll do an example And we'll put those side by side so So grab ourselves a rectangle and And now what I wanna do is use this and there are a couple of ways The easiest one, that is to use this button up here, So if I press this button, and then I draw inside, you can see that the area that's outside our And that's because the rectangle And in our Layers palate, you'll see that the circle has And this is what happens in Affinity inside another. The shape that's above will clip And because you can control you don't have to use this button So if I just delete And this time, normally without having But now what I can do, is just drag this and I get the same effect, so So that is how you do Vector-based masking, on the other hand, So we'll draw out another rectangle and So here is our two shapes And this time, we're gonna right click the top shape and And now you can see that it's the circle that is controlling how much And unlike with clipping where with one just being clicked, And the portion of it that by the shape that you have used Now as with clipping, there is more So we'll just move this So we'll create another square and another circle. And this time instead of using the right instead of nesting it underneath it right inside the layer with the drop just to the right of the thumbnail of So that gives us the same effect. That's just two different ways of So that is our two vector based methods. We have clipping, in this example, So the third method that we're going Pixel based masking works just like But instead of using a vector-based you use a pixel-based shape. So we'll draw out one more rectangle. And this time what we're going switch to the pixel persona. Now creating a mask over the top as just grabbing the eraser, and And you're not actually affecting What has happened is created a layer mask for you. And this layer mask is comprised So once you have a mask layer here, you just need to click on you can then keep on hammering away And you can also use the paintbrush And the way that the paintbrush tool what color you have selected for Right now, I have black selected. So that means that when I use this brush, it's going to continue to add However, if I change this color to white, And I can also use anywhere in between. So that if I just want to make And because this is a paintbrush, that are available in your brush's So rather than just flat opacity, I can add a little texture So as you can imagine, that gives you a the type of effects that you can Now the process that you saw before for creating clipping with vectors is So I'll just grab a different brush, And I'll just increase Now, if I paint out a pixel layer here, make a new pixel layer, and Now, if I nest one layer under the other, working in exactly the same way that you So that is how you work with masking and clipping using either vector or In the next section of the course, effects in Affinity Designer as And we're gonna start first, styles inside your documents. I'll see you there. Hi welcome back to In this lesson we're gonna how to use If you take a look over in your panels, you'll see that you have an Effects So the Effects panel allows you to add your groups, your shapes, any item So you have things like shadows, glows, might be familiar with from Now we also have a Styles panel, they can include drop shadows and things like that, but they also include So we'll just reset our studio panels, and then we'll have a look at some examples So we'll just grab a rectangle and We'll give it a fill color, and We'll give it a stroke, And we'll change the color of Give that some noise also. So now we've just given fill and Now let's apply some effects. Now you can apply effects So just drag this out. And the way to apply affects via this want and check it's box. So apply an outer shadow and have available here to Now these this settings all the settings that you have So if you want to have access to all the now you'll have access to extra access to via the Effects panel. So we'll increase the opacity it a larger radius and we'll just move it Okay, so now we have, Fill, stroke, and Now all of those things And if we want, we can take that style and we can apply it to other shapes So, if we draw out another shape. So that already has the fill just to illustrate things a little bit All right, now if I wanna apply the style that I I can do it very easily by selecting selecting the new shape, and and I can paste the entire So it's a very easy way to duplicate as you're going through and Now if there is a style you think you're to save that style out so it will show And to do that, select an object that the Styles panel, hit the little drop And there's the style And you can rename that style rename it to anything you need. And from that point on, other shape just by clicking on the style So just to recap, Styles include your You can copy styles from one then Shift Cmd + v. You can save styles out into effects to any item that shows up in In the next lesson, your gonna learn with your graphics tablet, And if you don't, we're gonna learn how effects using velocity controllers and I'll see you there. Hi, welcome back to In this lesson, we're gonna learn how you if you have a drawing tablet. Or if you don't, and you're working with a mouse, how you can Or how you can use settings to So first we'll look at working with Now when you're in vector if you the brush tool you'll have the ability to And what you want to look for up in this context menu is the controller So with that pressure controller active, I'll get a thicker stroke, and if I press And then because we are using smoothed out as we go along. So heavy, light. By comparison if we don't have any I press down light I'm gonna get If you don't have a graphics tablet you So instead of choosing choose the velocity controller. And the way that this works is fast strokes will be thicker. So a slow stroke will come out thin and So even if you're working with those flowing style If you're using the vector brush tool stroke thickness and It does work with velocity but So choose the pressure controller and then And we'll slide the Opacity Variance So now, soft strokes will hard strokes will come out darkly. And you have the same types of pressure the pixel personal when you're So we'll just clear the canvas, now the easiest way to activate this brush is to hit this little And that forces pressure control no are preset in the brush. So we'll just activate them and now If, we have a soft stroke, And, a hard stroke, is heavy and thick. When, you use that setting though, that some brushes already have pen So, we just turn this off, and Now with this brush, soft stroke looks like this, So we haven't had to activate in order to get variance So just experiment with the different to decide whether or not you want to have All right, so the last thing that we want to look And this is great for if you really thickness at each point of a line or you're not getting the effect that you So head back to the vector persona. Clear the canvas. All right this time I'm not gonna use I'm going to use the pen, and So we'll just create a line, and now what we're gonna do is head And down here, you'll see there's So open that up. This is a curve you can use to For example, finish thin by holding down the option, And dragging down this end of our curve. So now let's have a look at that. So now that looks like a brush stroke that And we can also curve that to And just like with curves that you create So, you can add a node in the middle, just reposition, Each of these nodes to So now we have it thicker on either So it's a really great way to to give you really, really tight control over the exact Next up, we're gonna move into the final And we're gonna cover exporting. You're gonna learn how to how to export it in pieces. And also how you can set So that when you make all of your exported images I'll see you there. Hey, welcome back to In this lesson, we'll going to learn about exporting And there are two ways you can export the first is you can export the entire And the second is you can export smaller individual parts. To export the whole design, you wanna And here you'll see that you've got a you can export your whole document out to. And notably one of those Affinity Designer actually has a really let's check that out. So, we've just chose the PSD option, and we're gonna hit Export and Now, here is our new PSD, And you can see that everything So we have our one layer, Affinity Designer of having And you'll notice that on this little And that was added in via the effects And that has been carried over So we have a drop shadow here, So that's really really useful if you any processing you need to do. Or if you need to share your work with software. Now, if you want to export your design in you do that through the third persona in To create a slice, grab this tool here, just draw out your slice around And you can then quite easily adjust it, to fit snugly around the area And for each slice that you create a new slice will appear down And from here you can rename the slice, and using this button, you can So you're not stuck with only being able If you just need one at a time, it's very And then you'll get an export option and you'll notice above this panel we have So, here is where you choose the file And you can also set the things that you'd expect And on top of that you also have the So, down here we have by default However, if you are supporting then you can also choose to export even three times resolution And then as well as exporting You can also use this And once again you have the option two times resolution, and And one great feature that you is the ability to do continuous export. So right now, this is our rectangle PNG, And if we activate continuous export, updated anytime we change the design So, to make this work, you have to means of exporting all of your slices. So, we'll do that now. And now that we've done that export. You can see that this check mark So, we'll check that box and we can see what's happening with our PNG. Go back in to vector persona. Now, if we change our rectangle There we go, our slice has And you can now see So once you have an essentially, finished perform tweaks on. That's a perfect way to update of all of the graphics that So that wrap's up the final lesson I'll see you in the last video of Thanks very much for I hope that you learned heaps about that you're really excited creating all your own new We're gonna be bringing you a lot more also Affinity Photo, So make sure you keep an eye on Tuts+ for But we're seeing some really amazing Designer community and I really look So thanks again for taking this course and Hey, I'm Kezz Bracey for Tuts+. Since we originally released this quick And there's been some really the software made by the team So, we are bringing you five bonus lessons that are gonna cover some So I'm gonna teach you how to use art the asset panel. And these are all new But before we get to those topics, we're didn't get to squeeze And that is how you can work with All right, let's jump in. The first thing you need to know Affinity Designer is that there are three And each one of these There is artistic text, So first up you have artistic text, decorative designs. So, single words, headlines, Then you have frame text which So for copying a brochure or And then thirdly, path text is when that you've created to give So to make it go around in a circle or All right, so let's have a look at How you create them, how you work with them, and what the key Now the tool you're If you hold this down, you can choose the frame text tool. So we're just gonna grab the artistic And just click anywhere and Now, let's select all of that and let's give it the, Roboto font family and will increase it font size, we'll change it to, let's go with bold. Move this into center here, Now, let's create some text So hold this down, that'll bring up Now, this time instead of clicking, The size that we want to have takes fill. So in here you can paste in some if you're just working with a prototype, what you can do is go up to the Text So that's really useful when you And we're just gonna do the same thing, we're going to increase the font size, So, the first key difference framed text is how they Artistic text is designed to act much like like a square, circle or a vector shape. So when you resize artistic text, the whole word goes along with And with framed text on the other hand, the text itself doesn't change, what does change is the way that So it affects the re-flowing of the text. Another significant different between in the same way that you can For example, into curves, So up here, we'll just expand don't fit on the context toolbag. You're gonna have the interface So we have Convert Curves here, and now. We can get into each one of these letters. Each one of these is now a vector So that gives you a lot of options for really closely controlling Now we're actually just going that we can keep working on this as a text So basically to sum up the difference acts a lot like one of your shapes that Whereas frame text, behaves more like say, a web design, for example. So that gives you a quick intro Now let's also have a quick So just move these off to the side for Text on a path is pretty It's text that you can make follow So that can be a path on a shape that tools here. Or it can be a shape that you've Any vector path, you can make So we're gonna start out here And we're gonna draw out a donut. Now, we're going to select And then we're going to hover over Now if you look closely, you can see that there is a little And when you see that squiggle that there is a path underneath your cursor. And if you add text at that time in the middle here, there is no squiggle. Right over the path, So we're gonna click there and So we'll just say Text on a Path. Now the first thing you might notice behavior where our text is not And that's because you see these They determine where the text on the path So if we want to make some more space for we can grab these little things and To make more space for our text. It can be a little bit fiddly, but dragging these little markers, then you're gonna end up with I'm just gonna roughly center them and that text and I'm gonna click this And that fairly evenly distributes There are a few different settings that the path behaves. One of those is this You can see right now the baseline but if we change the setting here, we We just undo that, Another really useful tool is this button That's easier demonstrated than explained, I'm just going to hit that And there you can see that the text the path. And that's most useful if, for example, the top of this path here, So then if I grab our little start and And move that around. Now that text is running left to right, which of course is more natural for So we'll just undo that one as well. The next thing I'm gonna look at is how your text. So we have shortcut for it up here. As long as the text tool is selected, you'll get this shortcut in At the moment, you can see that there's a little bit It looks a little bit funny. So what we're gonna do is which is this one here, So by hovering over any you can preview what effect So we'll take ours down to negative 50%. That looks a lot better but And we don't have any more options what we can do is just type our So we're gonna change So that looks a lot better. Just gonna adjust that a little bit. But some of the spacing in between this is where we can use current values. So in Affinity Design the way to do the letters or This space here between the T and And then from this kerning setting here, So just as before, you can either select you can type in a value directly. Or if you want to go with a shortcut, And then you can either hold down hold down the left arrow And this is pretty convenient, because the next space that you want to adjust, you can just sort of get your spacing to a level where Obviously that's still a bit messy but that should give you pretty good idea We've just step through kerning and transform settings. You also have control over your underline your general font settings that you would So we'll just Select All. And let's try putting an underline on it. We'll change the font color a little bit. And then down here in the typography your text to all caps, to small caps, Once again most of these I won't go into too much detail So that shows you how to work with you can use those character whether it's Artistic text, So now let's have another look at bit more information of working with So I'm just gonna close this Now once you have put text on a path, the text will conform to whatever So you can transform the path, so you can see how that And you'll notice that I grabbed this it didn't preserve aspect ratio If you do wanna preserve aspect ratio, then just grab this little And now that's gonna be locked in. You can also edit individual path nodes So let's just grab that pen tool and I am And we are going do the same thing that we line and then we will add in a little And that text is a little bit too big for I'm just going to shrink that down. And I gotta go back into make it look a little bit weird. So I'm gonna take that up to 0. Now, that's a little too big again. So I'm just gonna go with let's say 36 pt. And that's still looking a little points here on our path. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna select these two And then up top in the context tool bar, And now we can get down here and we can work with this path until So that path is going to continue to in Affinity Designer. And you can make your text follow Okay, so we've gone through a couple Now let's also have a look at we're going to go back to our frame text. And you'll notice that this paragraph toolbar here. So I'm gonna hit that to open it up. Now let's have a look at some of For example one of the things you'll often is this vertical spacing value here. So you can select from any of again you can directly type in a value. Or if you want to work with what you can do instead is it will automatically calculate So for example in my web designs, which effectively works out as So, I'm going to select Now, I'm going to type Hit Enter, and now that's calculated You also have other paragraph controls paragraphs, after paragraphs. Your indentation in the first line, on the left side indentation once again those things So, let's just have a quick look at the indentation on the first line for And if you start to miss around you find that you're Word spacing Then you have more controls down here, so for example you have If I change this to left justified, control exactly how the justification So basically, when you're working with it's spaced and laid out, then you'll So we'll just close out of that for now. We're done with that. So now the last thing I want to cover All of those different settings that the paragraph panel can be That you can then use So you find the textiles panel over here, I'm just gonna pull that out to You can see that we have a bunch Now what we wanna do is save this working on here with our little So we just select our frame text and then is paragraph style is to just hit this And we can give our style a name, And then if you look in the bottom right list of all the setting that are being So we're just going to hit OK. You can see that our new paragraph under the name indented. So now we can switch back and forth And all of the settings that are saved And we can do the same thing So, now this time let's We're gonna open up the character panel. And let's just change a few things around. So let's give the text a new color. Give it a blue. We're gonna select, black as it's wise and Now, to create a character style, the second one on the bottom left panel. We could give it a name, Now in my experience, sometimes not all of saved when you created So for example you might have text that's And then when you apply it So something that you can do these settings in the left here and make So we have our color showing up to make sure we get the right weight, And here's our new character style here. And just like with the paragraph style, have the attributes automatically applied. And then we can go back to our blue started. And if you ever don't need a text style is by right clicking then from the context menu here Alright so that wraps up all of the Affinity Designer. In the next lesson, we're gonna move added into Affinity Designer And we're gonna start with Art boards. Art boards are an incredibly They're great for so things like the front or or multiple device sized previews for So we're gonna go through how you can the next lesson. I'll see you there. Hey welcome back to the bonus lessons In this lesson we're gonna go through functionality. So if you haven't worked with art allow you to create something like Let's say you need to create the front And you need those to be Well with Appboards, you can have both All right, so let's go through boards in Affinity Designer. So one of the ways is from the word So we are gonna make a new document. For the type we are gonna choose devices This is gonna give us a space to as an iPad Air. And now we just want to make sure that's Create artboard. So now instead of just making it's gonna create an artboard So let's see what happens. Right so now this is our art board. Now this space works just like But you can create multiple art boards So like in this example we've is designed to be the size of an iPad And we can also add others in at different device sizes. So from here, if you wanna add another art board, And now, with this tool, we can either Or from up here, we've already got our iPad, so And now we hit Insert Artboard, and So with these two, we can have examples of how the same So you'll notice that this one's been this one still says art board 1. So we can rename that by going double clicking and now we can So now, what happens if there's some other What you can do is draw out an art And if you wish you can come down here and you can directly enter So you need to be a little bit careful as we set this to use retina sizing. So we have two pixels every one pixel that we are going So this means it will So we'll just change that So that size can be set into And you can also. Any art board that you draw out, you can you would if you'd just drawn So you can grab the corners, The same thing all basically And those types of transformations can be with the move tool selected. So that's the same thing there. And these can also be moved So you can click and drag them to position your art boards You notice that right now I can click on And as long as they're empty, them in that way but once you have you're no longer gonna be able to select I can still select the other ones but So, once you have something inside you just want to click And you can always select your art boards And depending on the kind of in whatever design that it is that You might want to change This might be too light or too dark. So the way you can do preferences going into user interface. And then here, you can see we have And with this dragger, you can make anywhere in between black and Now another really handy thing if you're if you're using art boards to show is these transformation buttons up here. So let's duplicate our iPhone We'll just move this over. Now, with this art board selected, all I need to do is hit one of these clockwise. So now, we've got the same device shown Now as you're moving around in working on your design. You're also going to often want to zoom working on. To do that, make sure that the art Then go up to View&gt;Zoom And you can also use Control-Alt-0, or So now we're zoomed in on And then to go back to looking with all of the art boards, So now what about Now there are a couple of ways that art boards. One of them is to select the art Go up to File, Export. And now here you see that By default that's set to export the entire But if we hit that drop-down you can see the art boards we have in our document. So in this case we can choose And then we will be able to export that So that's one way to go about it. The other way you can go about it is And here you'll notice that each one automatically sliced. Each one of those slices has been named So to export one of these all you have And there you're gonna be able to export and settings you have setup But what if you don't what if you just need to print an art Well for that the process is almost But instead of going to File&gt;Export, And then in the range drop down here, this is where you'll be able to choose So you can choose whichever one you need that artboard so that you know that So that's it, that's all pretty are when you are working And art boards are a function that a lot in a workflow. So, now you can use them in In the next bonus lesson, we're gonna be going through another one Affinity Designer 1.5. And that is the constraint system. Constraints allow you to control when its parent is resized. So with that functionality when you're trying to reuse And to a degree you can kind of simulate You can't fully simulate it as you but you can certainly get part of the way. So in the next lesson we're gonna go system, how to use it, and what the So I'll see you in the next lesson. Hey, welcome back to the bonus lessons In this lesson, we're gonna go through added in Designer 1.5. Now, constraints are really cool because a child object is gonna be affected So let's just draw a couple we'll have a look at how a child object So I'm just gonna draw out a square or Let's change its color. Turn that down a little bit. And then we're going to Give that a different color, And Just center all of this, because, All right, now let's look at what happens then we resize. So you can see that as we shrink and the child object goes along with it. But what if you don't want that What if you wanted to keep its aspect not in another, for example? Well, this is where the constraint To use the constraint system, So go to View &gt; Studio&gt; Constraints. Now this little interface here represents selected object. So we're gonna select our child object objects, not to parent objects. And now we can start messing So to have a quick overview So these lines here in the center, vertical lines here, these control These dotted lines around the outside anchored relative to each one of And then these two little whether you want your child object to if you want it to be clipped So let's start by looking If any of these lines like these ones on the outside, that means So if we click on this horizontal and what that means is we've turned off So now let's select the parent again and Now this time, you can see the child It will, however, still scale itself vertically And if we go back into our child again, Now it won't scale in either direction, So we'll just turn those both back on for These other lines around the outside here So if you turn any one of these lines one, gonna shift its position relative to that So let's turn on the top anchor and And this time, you can see the top position It's anchored in that one place. You can turn on multiple anchors and going to shift, relative to any side So we'll just turn those off again, down in the bottom right corner here, you the child is retained or If either of these are active, then the aspect ratio of The difference is, on the left, and on the right, So when you have min fit enabled, the the parent, and it will never be clipped, So if we select the parent again, now you could see that we're maintaining And it doesn't matter how we can always see On the other hand, if we go back in and we gonna keep its aspect ratio, but So when we scale this way When we scale vertically When we scale in both directions, you'll only see all of it as long as the aspect But if the aspect ratio doesn't allow it, These two options are useful for Min fit, where you make sure the child is good for things like icons or where no matter what you don't want any Max fit, on the other hand, is good for You might need to make sure that that parent so that you can avoid letterboxing, even if that means that it has So you got both of those options exactly what it is that you're designing. So that covers the constraint system. You can use it with any child object but it doesn't have any In the next bonus lesson we're gonna Affinity Designer environment. Now symbols are another thing that And they came to Symbols are really fantastic for creating reusable items inside your edit multiple items simultaneously by So in the next lesson, we're gonna go through how to use I'll see you there. Hey welcome back to the bonus lessons In this lesson we're gonna go through how into infinity design in version 1.5. The symbols are really really they let you do a bunch of And the basic process of working with you know you're gonna wanna You save it as a symbol, and then place instances of your And then any time you make an edit those changes are going to be reflected So let's go through how this works. We're just going to knock It's probably not going to look great the functionality here. So let's say we're working on a button. That's probably a little bit too big. Let's give it a gradient. Go with some red. Gonna grab the gradient tool and And we are gonna give it, A little stroke. All right, so that's a rough, quick job. But that gives us something to work we wanna turn this into a symbol so that we can easily use it in multiple So what we are gonna do is So we go to view. Sorry, studio, and now what we want to do is convert this So all we need to do is select it and then That has automatically turned So now we can drag out as many If I decide that I wanna change all I have to do is first make sure that So, that's depressed, And then, I can change my button here. So let's say I decide I actually don't So what I can do is open up the symbol. Inside, you'll find nested the shape Now, we can edit this one and it's gonna So if we change this fill color to blue, you can see that it's simultaneously Another thing that you can do with symbols attributes of a symbol from the original attributes different to the other The way that you do that is then you're gonna turn off so we'll go inside the symbol, Now let's say I want only this symbol to You'll notice that only this instance has the silly border. The others don't have the giant border Now I can turn Sync back on again of this instance that we separated from But for these other instances, if we change their borders, So now just this one instance has However, at the same time all of So now if I jump into the gradient for I start tweaking it, all of these So with this approach you can decide don't want connected to the source symbol. Now let's say you don't want to have the original symbol. So for example you might want to So you might drag it out. And now if you notice here, this is a with a symbol but So now, This button can be changed to anything we want and instances of the symbol that So as you can imagine, You can use it to put icons easily update the look of those icons. You can use it to give yourself So if you have general shape and then you can detach them and Or you can fall somewhere in-between where independent enabled to be altered So it's a great time saver and All right so in the next lesson which we're going to go through how And that is another addition that came So what the assets panel allows you to do you've created while you've been And access that library from So you can build yourself up a bunch of and icons, and anything else that you Not only can you create that for you can also share these asset collections So in the next lesson, you can use the asset management I'll see you there. Hey welcome back to the fifth and last bonus lesson in In this lesson, we're gonna go through how that Affinity Designer Now this functionality is really cool a big library of all the different Any time you make you can put it in your Asset Library. And then if you want, share it with other people and Other people can share their So, this is a really powerful and All right, so, let's go through, So, the way to access the Assets panel, is to go to View &gt; Studio, By default you're gonna see that there's you can use. This is just a UI kit that comes with it lets you have a look at how So we've got a bunch of And inside each of these categories we you can drag and drop into your designs. So for example, We can just drag and drop. And these assets can be regular objects, We can see here it says Symbols, so we know that what we've just And if what you have is a symbol, then you have access to all the same type like being able to change the color And all the different have them synchronize So let's have a look at how you can how you can add to them. So the way that these assets are organized So right here we have iOS 10. This is a category of assets. These little sections here So if you wanna make your own collection, button on the Assets panel and By default this is gonna be called Assets. So then, you want to rename We'll just call it test category, Now to add something into all you have to do is select then choose the subcategory that Hit the little menu on the right of it, So then they can see turns to green is in our test category. Now if you wanna start organizing your then it's back up to this And then click Create New. So I create subcategory. And then to rename it, click the menu to hit Rename and So now if we wanted to add Let's say we have a new shape. Now we can just select from this one. And now that object is going And you can actually also reorder the So we just got a couple in here so And if you decide you want to have in the line here, Then you can drag and you can drop the assets into So it's fairly straightforward to organize it with the subcategories So now let's say that you've built up And you have a colleague that you wanna sell a set of assets online, You can actually take all of these and have them exported into an Affinity To do that, all you've got to do is click the assets panel here, and There's a specific Affinity Assets you just give it whatever Hit Save and then any other Affinity Designer user And it will open up in this panel in saved it out. So let's have a look at that in action. I'm gonna import the Grade UI asset purchase of this software, so you might So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna hit Import Assets. And this is the grade UI asset kit. So I'll just select it and open it. And now here is this entire collection of And all of this stuff can get dragged and And these are normal Affinity Designer just like anything that you might create When your assets start getting bigger, it way around them and So there's also a little For example, we can search for check to find all the check Or we can search for input. And that gives us a bunch of And now, there's just one more thing that with asset collections. And that is, that what whatever is specific to the computer that So just because I've imported Grade UI computer, it doesn't mean that that I would have to import it over again. Or if I'm working on that's helping me with the project, unless which is Embed in Current Document. So if I embed this category it won't matter which All of those assets are gonna continue All right so that's it, short and sweet. That's how the Asset Management That's how you can add your own how you can import collections that How you can organize those collections, embed them into your own documents. And that wraps up our five bonus lessons. And it shows you some of the really added into Affinity Designer since we So I hope you really enjoyed the new Thanks for joining me and