All right, where the more effort I put into drawing, the more effort GTA It's GTA. Alex and Pete wanted to get and so we've come up with a terrible idea. I'm going to send them of various challenges as well as the cars As pro-board creators, to make me hate myself by taking Alex said the worst my drawing is the harder Let's do this. This is like, if I was supposed but all I had to use was Photoshop. I knew I needed because that's always the best way Oh, wow, this thing is huge. That's always the best way to get Here we go. Oh, this is a ramp into a landing. All right, and the pad I think Oh, this is harder than it looks. What was a checkpoint? Also, while I'm falling to my death, you get to see just I love how because I'm lazy and a terrible drawer, The tower does Stay super, super in the middle. We're going to yee off this. You lean forward for extra momentum, Oh, yes, this is a perfect landing. This is a perfect landing. I lied. Oh, third times the charm. Now what I did here is I wanted because I don't know why, but I seem to constantly It's probably some kind of wind shear. I'm still drifting over to the left, but this time I can stick to landing, The second picture I drew, I wanted to use the scramjet and there needed and I didn't know what else to do. He's given me the scramjet, I feel because I put a lot less effort into this drawing We have a tight rope, and the scramjet Jump over the obstacle. Keep getting tons of regenerations Well, I don't know. I don't really know Oh, my God. You have to land it on another tightrope. Also, I don't know if you saw it, Look at how far away it is. I'm not going to lie, I may have given myself a death because of how unbelievably All right, we're going to have to do a gigantic boost off of this, and I need to make sure because I need yet to get a lot of height, and now I've got to land on this. This is insane. All right, no joke. Oh, luckily my other car is still here This is one of those instances and give him a different drawing. I've done a lot of challenges in GTA. Oh, man. Trying to land this thing on that tiny little platform The thing that's really concerning is even after we land this, No, Oh, here we go. Oh, yes. Okay, is this just another, is this just another gigantic jump, Oh, my God, there's four of them. There's two more. I think there's three more. Thank God the rest of my drawings All right, I need to line this thing up by the pixel. It has to be perfect. All right, are you ready for this? Oh, yes. Oh, I already screwed this up. I already, I didn't have the patience. Nevermind. I totally got the patience. Oh, let me have this, you. I might boost. I'm not boosting. We're not boosting. Easy landing. Now, we do the boost. Now, we're jumping. Now there's a-- Oh, my God. Do you have to-- Is that where I'm supposed to land? What is that? Is that an eyeball? I'm going to be doing this a lot. I can already tell. Yes, for this one, and then I need to point because we need to get Then I need to get Wow. I really need to get this upward. I have to mention too, Alex told me, that I was going to see That's that spaghetti, huh. That's that spaghetti I guess they were trying and they just ended up with [chuckles] I love it. It's just like-- It's basically just art, Oh, there we go, there we go, there we go. Here we go, here we go, here we go. Up, up, up, up, up, up, up. I think I got this. I think I got-- Oh, my God. Is that a teleporter? Whoa. Is it a checkpoint or is it-- Oh, it's a person. Ow. I can see the tank. I already know what drawing this is. I got really hungry and I love waffles, I love waffles with chocolate chips, so I drew a bunch I feel like I always use the same car, so I decided to draw Looking at this, I'm curious how they made Meteors or rockets? I'm going to choose the Rockets. Oh, why do you want rockets for this? How is this an assistance? Why did you turn my waffle What? Okay, so is this-- Wait. Some of the-- Oh, hold on. I think I know why this is an assistance. The rockets as they hit the ground-- Okay, so some of the platforms Yes. Okay. See how that rocket That means that my choice Whoa, whoa. Okay, I am on fire. I am burning. I am burning alive. Oh, this was not real. Maybe it didn't hit All right, I'm still going to use Does it randomize, Okay, so this is real, so that means Otherwise, I wouldn't be able to progress. Now, it's either left or right, Now, I need to wait one of these platforms Okay, This is turning out to be pretty good. I'm also glad that I chose a tank because at least it could take This is real. I lied. I was wrong. All right, I'm using rockets and meteorites now. This way we have all the stuff and I'll really know This one's real, This one's real. Now at this point, this one's real. Okay, this one. Some of the meteorites are really big. That almost compacted my entire body. Not supposed to be a pancake Alex, Okay, this one's real. Now, it should be one of these two. Whoa. Okay, that one is real. This one over here. What kind of topping Pain, please. In fact, I'll take extra. I think this is-- Oh, okay. That's another way Yes, this one's real. Where my meteorites at? I was just Never mind. Oh, my God. Is this one real or fake? I can't tell. Roll under the pink. I feel like a hamster Oh, I have like one rocket I feel like a hamster caught I don't know, cardio. All I'm getting is death. Oh, my tank is on a lot of fire. I am currently cooking tons of hamburgers and hotdogs inside of this thing. The ambient temperature is now-- Well, the ambient temperature is tossing That's fine. I'll do this on foot. Never mind. Double assist was an insane mistake. We're only going with meteorites now, Oh, my God. By the same token, Oh, this is a new personal Oh, yes. Oh, I can already-- Okay, so that one's 100% fake. I got to see the meteorite Now, it's left or straight, That meteorite helped a brother out. This front one is real, This front one is real, Oh, no. The amount of hatred I have for drawing now is beyond all rational comprehension. All right, we are very-- Pucker factory 9,000. Yes, this is happening. This is a real thing. We're going to get there. I know this is real. This one's real. This is real, and I'm pretty sure-- Oh, yes, there's a checkpoint. [cheering] There's a checkpoint. where you have to drive so I decided to draw a thing but it's also like a violent nose. The fact that this turned out so well is-- Is it winking at me? Oh, I just saw it. It's one eye is moving. Oh, my god. Oh, wow. That is really fast. What are the RPMs on this nose, Alex? Because oh, my god. Also, I gotta say to you, I ended up windmills with Oh, 10 times horsepower, probably. I ended up screwing I started to draw it pink, and then I ended up with I'm glad it gave me this multitone car. This freak of nature it's exactly Wow, my car is still on there. If I didn't get thrown off, Look at how big this is. Yes, the old Pinocchio death run. Doesn't Pinocchio's nose Yes. Someone was like, &quot;Gray, I was like, &quot;Of course I am.&quot; How long is this? All right. No more Mr. Nice Gray. We're just pushing through this. You know what? Watch this. Full flip, backwards 180. Totally fine. The only issue I have with this car, besides the fact that it's murdered is the fact that its traction I can't believe I'm still alive. I'm still on the nose. Look at this. I'm on the nose. I'm riding the nose. All right, here's the plan. We've got to stay in the middle. Oh, my god. There is no way. Oh, wow. No, no, no, no, no. That was the first time Yes. We're finally here. I don't know where here is, All right, so we're going to slowly Is that a checkpoint? Oh, the signs are rotating. The big sign is rotating. All right, Checkpoint. Good. I was about to say, I did another game with a bunch and I wanted to bring them back, This is going to be awesome. Oh, those are some killer croquet mallets. I want to get hit by one just Also, way in the end, if you see there, I'm glad those are back too. All right, so this is not that bad. I think I can just race What is this? It's like a teleporting trash can. Oh, it's like a teleporting ramp. All right, so how do I-- no joke. I think I need to do this in one go. It's the only way Now I've got a bunch of flying Is there a checkpoint at the end or? Oh, these are not-- these are totally staggered of Kidney death Just keep the speed, Gray. Go, go, go. Now it looks like they're all in one nice static motion. I almost got to the end, and when I can see How did-- oh, never mind. I was gonna say how did it miss Victory is close at hit. Wow. I cannot make that jump. Here we go. Boom. Six to landing. How are these things timed? Patience. There we go. Patience. Look at it. Beautiful. Oh, my god. I think I've got the pattern here. Oh, why I lied? You know what? We're going to roll this way because I am not losing I'm not missing this chance. We're not screwing this up. There. Yes, we have a checkpoint. Jump into Pinocchio's nostril. I knew I was going to have to do a thumbnail hole, and this is one that I did not put a lot of effort in. Here was my thumbnail hole. I really didn't know but I knew I would need it for an episode. It looks like not only but it's rotating. Oh, my god. I should have known. I should have known. The thumbnail hole Honestly, How am I going to land this? Maybe I can. I love how the creature whose nostril You know who's not smiling? It's Gray still plays. I need to time this. Okay, so I was late. Let me have this Alex. Let me have this. Let me have it. Right there. I am inhumanly close I might have to lean Now I overshot it. Speed. Wind resistance. Incredible throttle control. All the things Just this one time though. Oh my God. Tell me there's a checkpoint here There's a bullseye. Thank you God and we have a checkpoint. Am I falling perfectly on something? Yes, there a-- Oh my God, I think I know what this is. Hold on. Let me see if I can actually stick Do I have space? Oh, I have space. Okay, sweet. I drew a giant crying face. This is supposed to be me around the entire head and then there would be the checkpoint The final checkpoint. Let me start Start. Oh, no. Are those bumper cars? I drew little grey spots Oh, wow. That barrier is chasing you and then you just fall through the board. I am running across my entire head which has been turned wheel while also trying to navigate. Oh my God, no. While also trying to navigate and the wall is closing Oh, the barrier is chasing me. It is very close to swallowing my soul. In my drawing, I had the-- that's not good. I'm dead. In my drawing I think what's going to happen this thing off to the side maybe. What is this? Oh my God. Why? Back to the beginning. You can see him right there. They're perfectly positioned so that while you're driving This is going to appear on the left. Here we go. Go around it. There we go. Watch out for the wall This is the weirdest challenge That bridge right over there. I think that was our dollar board. Way back when that bridge no-- that's where we need to go. We can do this. We can do this. I have this now. I have the perfect speed Look at this. I have complete I've also been hit They've been backhanding that one I don't actually Two, I have memorized where they all are. This is basically like playing music, I've memorized all the notes. I can DDR this whole board now. Oh, yes. Okay, this is it. This is the thing Do I get all the green? What is this? Green. Then oh, it's [?] Yes. Yes. Yes. What is this? It's a giant [?] Oh my God. Please let this end. Do I keep going on this? I think I'm meant to keep going on it. I don't know anymore. I would have seen a checkpoint if there was going to be a checkpoint Also, there's another platform over here so I feel like maybe Platform. Oh my God. [?] Let me roll this thing over. That's my last picture I became an artist and it was the most painful Anyway, of GTA until next time