Dr. Charles Stanley: When you personal Savior, immediately the to seal you as a child of God. That's the reason we know that It is His work and not our to God. And in the process of doing so, about the fact that the Holy to do whatever He's called us Many people will live out their in life, heard lots and lots of understand that God never Christian life. He didn't, He intended for them lives within them to live out Christ. So, we are not only equipped us to do whatever He's called He's--whatever He has made us to So, when you think about your challenges you face, remember empowered by the Holy Spirit to any circumstance of life. He didn't just save us and let So, when you think about your you face, when you face you're a patient person? And the truth is, all of us that it's difficult for us to think or what we'd like to do. But patience is a gift from God, work up. It is a gift of God through the When you were saved, He sealed He began to release in your fruit of the Spirit: love, joy, what I want to talk about. I want to talk about this whole that you and I experience God's affects every single thing Timing is absolutely essential And so, when we have the Holy sometimes He's going to say, Or He may say, &quot;Not now.&quot; Or He may say, &quot;Tomorrow,&quot; But God gave us a compass: the He gave us a sense of direction and I would not have to go mind and making decisions that So, I want to talk about this because the Scriptures says So how many of you know you're All right, hold them up now. You know you're saved? All right, how many of you know indwelling you? Well, the same ones should got saved, then you have the And one of His primary walk patiently in our Christian So, listen to this, Psalm &quot;Wait for the Lord, be strong yes, wait for the Lord.&quot; Well, why would he say that? Because to wait for the Lord, and we have to take courage. Because sometimes pressures are in our life. Husbands and wives, families, He says wait. In the thirty-seventh Psalm in times, &quot;Rest in the Lord,&quot; in and wait patiently for Him, do So, I would ask you, how many of Well, I've got five honest Well, why do we fret? We fret because we don't feel don't feel the freedom to buy have this relationship. And so, we fret because we don't doesn't give us His approval The fortieth Psalm says, &quot;I And He inclined to me and heard Look at that, &quot;I waited inclined to me.&quot; He bent to--He heard what I was answered my petition. So, patience is very important So, how would you define &quot;Well, explain--just define What would you say? It's the quiet, uncomplaining annoyance, or long-tempered. So ask yourself the question: when things don't go your way? And let me give you the simplest Listen to this: patience is the That's all you need to know. Patience is the will to wait. That is, situations come our and yet, there are times when we when God gives us a check in our decision. Will I wait for God's direction, Most people don't want to wait. They want God to act on their Think about this, we would omniscient, He knows everything. We would acknowledge that He We would acknowledge that He And yet, we come to those wait and we don't want to wait. And so, we come up with all the to wait. We look at other people and they and why should we have to wait? Because God in His infinite love certain times in our life, That is, God created us to do To live for Him, to serve Him, He created us to live out the Whenever I want something He insist on having it, I'm being Whenever we push God, &quot;Well, it's time for me to have what I Watch this, God is your greatest When He says no, listen, don't you, it's God doing what? Protecting you. When God says no, it's a word of We oftentimes think, &quot;Well, God, have this, that, and the other.&quot; It's the will to wait. Now, doesn't mean that you won't All of us, probably at times, now?&quot; When God says no, He has a saying no that is to our And so, oftentimes we say, to pray about this, this is a And here's what I've discovered those simple little things is lays out before us. Because God has a will for our He knows exactly how to enable If I insist on having what I who I want before I should have then I'm just asking for And this is why many people are in trouble in their marriages, circumstances, situation, in a Because instead of waiting to waiting, they got to have it We have a whole society of sexually-oriented because Got to have it now. And as a result, we have a many ways, and much of which is what they want. If you have to get in debt over ever pay it off, but you got to They live in bigger houses for stay in there. They buy a big car, can't keep They buy clothes and take them three months. And on and on they go. And so, they make decisions that So, ask yourself the question: patient person? Now, just think about it a Would you say that you're a That is, that you calmly places in your life when He You come to Him for something God for your life, you ask Him here's what happens. You ask the Lord about it and And you ask Him about it and you say, &quot;Well, God hadn't--well, tell me I couldn't.&quot; Don't ever go that route. If you say, &quot;I'm going to do I shouldn't,&quot; what about waiting should? And so, we can manipulate the circumstances in order to oftentimes they are handicaps They're the seeds of destruction willing to wait for God. Listen, would you agree that God Would you agree to that, say Well, some of you do, some of God does love you, and let me You love your children? Come on, now. Do you love your children? Okay, if they ask you for going to hurt them, do you want Well, why do you expect God to You ask God for something, and Then here's what you do. Oftentimes people say, &quot;Well, find out what God says,&quot; I've And so, they'll go in the Psalms and they'll look around, they'll see here, now they'll look and &quot;Well, surely, God must be And they'll find them a verse interpret that God says yes, and do it.&quot; That's not the way God operates. Listen to this, when you were you as a child of God, lives day. One of the primary purposes, Lamb's Book of Life, having forever. He lives within you to direct To give direction for your life. &quot;The fruit of the Spirit is That's part of what He does in So, you have within you the compass, the one who's going to every single time you ask Him. That's who He is. Because God knows how He didn't just leave us here He told His disciples, He said, Jerusalem, until you be endued &quot;You can't live out the life Spirit.&quot; And so, that's exactly what They waited till He came and When you were saved, the Holy sealed you as a child of God. You're always a child of God, Once sealed by the blood of But you can certainly mess up the Holy Spirit who came to live guidance and clarity at every So, when you think about that, and circumstances that you face, question: am I willing to calmly We don't question God on the one really bad. And then we say, &quot;Well now, God, Now, think about this, you have everything, everything. Does God care? Yes. Is He willing to answer? Yes, He's that kind of God. He's given you the indwelling order to give direction, protect decisions, giving you patience every circumstance of life, if God loves you enough to give you Should you marry this person or You don't make a decision by You don't make a decision by You don't make a decision about You don't make a decision about decisions, what's the will You say, &quot;Well, is God what I do and look?&quot; Yes, He is. Because He's interested in all He's interested in our And if I keep that relationship relationships right in life. So, patience, patience is Listen to what He says, &quot;The you can expect the Holy Spirit following ways: &quot;Love, joy, So that you have the One living you in every circumstance So, let's think about it for a What's required of us to have We have requirements, and I've seventy-three years. And you know what? God has never misled me. Have I always made the right No, I haven't. But you know what? Every single time if I made a face it. God, You tried to get my And after a while, you learn His will and you walk in His So, what requirements do I have patient? First of all, I've got to have I have faith in God to believe single time, whatever I need, promised to do so. Second, I must have the spirit If I have an obedient spirit, I I may falter in that by missing is there to enable us to give us To follow Him. Then, of course, here's what's The discernment of God's timing. The Holy Spirit will show us Oftentimes, we will ask Him for the moment. It's not His plan right now, but And what we have to do is be if it's not Your will or if it's grace to wait until You give me with whatever it might be.&quot; Then, if I'm going to be If I don't love God, I'm not If I don't love Him, I want If I don't love Him, I want want them when I want them. And yet, if I'm going to be In other words, if I love Him, I If somebody says, &quot;Well, I love No, there's no but. If I love Him, I will be If I don't love Him, I don't So, ask yourself the question: husband, your wife, your do they see you as a patient Now, there're only two answers. Yes or No. Yes, they do. And that's because of your your character around them. If love myself, if I love more than I love God, I'm going But God wants the best for His There's not a single person who the best for me.&quot; Yes, He does. &quot;Well, if He did, He'd-a given No, the reason He didn't give you. Because God's love for us has no And that love is so powerful When He knows that what we want make it known to us. Now, when you pray and you ask you this uneasy feeling. And you say, &quot;Well, you know, Let me ask you a question: what ask Him for something and He What do you expect Him to do, In other words, what does God Should it not be the impression Should it not be that you're this very uneasy feeling? If you want to know how God says feeling. Sometimes even a scary feeling That critical, He will give you heading in the wrong direction. Why? Because He wants the best for And I think about people, if we And many people love God until they don't want. Or deprives them of something And I think about all the people for God's leadership. Never asked for God's guidance. They make big purchases, not They make relationships not the relationships that fit them for know, God understands.&quot; God is living within us for our guidance and direction in every Think of anything that you ask He may not say yes, but if you will give you direction for your unconditionally, and He sent the very clear. And He's waiting for us, what should I do about this? What--how--which direction shall Should I buy this or should I Should I date this person or Should I get in this business or In other words, God is always direction for our life. Now, we read all kind of &quot;Trust in the Lord with all your understanding. In all your ways acknowledge We read that and do what? Because God doesn't direct us we just ignore the passage. Watch this carefully, you follow the Word of God only at something that agrees with you. You know, people say, &quot;Well, I'm Well, you can find a passage, about God oftentimes turning a Our heart is to be bent toward We're to listen to Him. For our own good, we listen The fruit of the Spirit is when necessary. So, you ask yourself if that's Now, it takes courage to be It takes courage to be patient think back in my life at times coming to the edge over here, soon, I'm gonna fall off the What? Do you know who's on the other Almighty God. You're not going to fall off the There are times when God will what we think is an ultimate, He's always there. He's a God of love, of in our life. It takes courage to trust Him; determined to wait. Now, I could give you a lot of years that I've counseled to going to purchase, wait about wait about something about their decisions they're making about Every single time that I can counsel and chose to do it their intended. You know what? Because God wants the best And He says, &quot;I will guide you you should go.&quot; Watch this, we started off by the Spirit. It's a gift from God, which the capacity to make wise The fruit of the Spirit is The Spirit of God will exercise you, through you in your behalf for us, that we follow His will, And God knows that there are situations that we face, and to do. He's there to show us what If you're a follower of Jesus, trusted God in your life as your ultimate, ultimate, ultimate, single solitary situation in He will direct you. God would not withhold truth He's not going to withhold wise If you don't have wise counsel, Him. He's--why? Because He loves you He wants the best for you no So, the fruit of the Spirit is That is, we have it within us if So, ask yourself the question: do I have the will to wait? I don't know what you're facing peace about it. You don't know why you don't Are you willing to wait? And oftentimes, your question wait? Until God in His wisdom and love That's how long you wait. And so, if you're sitting here marrying somebody and you don't don't want to hear this. You're getting ready to buy the you can't afford it, you don't And I can just go right down the a--it's not a popular subject. You know why? I'll tell you why, because we it, how we want it, that's it. And when we can't have it, we why we can't. I understand that. Jesus had the same thing when He People didn't want to hear some that's okay. So, let's think about it for a Why do we say that patience is best? Number one, it's essential to a If I'm going to obey God, I got I must hear Him and I must obey If I'm going to obey God, I must personal desires and opinions at says. That's God loving me. Watch this, whatever you're praying about it, and God says says no to you, what is He Here's what He's saying: I love God's no is I love you. And somebody says, &quot;Well, no, angry.&quot; No, when God says no, He's Then think about this: it's relationship with other people. That is, patience. If you're going to have good with them, and I don't need to have to have patience with each Wherever you work, you have to It is not only a gift of God, get along in life with your with your wife. If you live with somebody who very difficult situation. All of us need to express be able to express that patience other people make mistakes. Sometimes, when somebody will about this and God said yes,&quot; never say yes to that. So, what do you do? No. You do your best to help people When you see, for example, one grandchildren heading in the say? Do you say nothing, or do you know as an adult is a wise If you just say, &quot;Well, they'll God has given you wisdom. He's given you counsel in life And so, we're to share God's illustrations in our own life things. We can all get impatient if But you notice something? Impatience never cures anything. It doesn't. You have within you the Holy direction about anything in your Anything! Any relationship, whatever it And think about this, timing is Timing is important in sports, in relationships, important in Timing is very important. God is always there within you Have your Holy Spirit within direction in any and every willing to wait for Him. &quot;Wait upon the Lord.&quot; Does He give you clear direction Oftentimes He will, but a major have to wait until God tells you Are you willing to wait? Do you treasure the wisdom of Do you value the wisdom of God? Do you prize the wisdom of God? Do you desire the wisdom of God very clear what you should do? And I've seen so many people they shouldn't have made. But here's what I hear three months. Well, I waited for six months. I waited for two weeks. I waited and waited and waited. Nothing ever happened, so.&quot; So what? &quot;So I did my own thing.&quot; God loves us. He only wants the best for us. When God says wait, here's what That's what He's doing. He's loving us when He tells us Remember we said it's willingness to wait. And when we wait, we see God at And oftentimes, I've watched Having to wait and wait and wait God finally bring it to a Over and over and over again, my Jesus. Thank You, thank You, dear God, Thank You, Jesus, that I didn't Most people today probably are refused to wait upon God for their life. Many of them don't even know Many of them do not believe that And yet, they're living in this that I got to make up my mind about that, what should I do Listen, the last thing you want trouble what you ought to do going to get a good answer. Or if you want to live a godly who's living an ungodly life You ask someone who's living a need to ask someone. But listen to this, don't forget speak to you personally, either somebody else or through the He's willing to show you what You don't have to live in doubt decisions, sort of &quot;Well, here's what I'm going to I would never say that. &quot;I'm going to make this works out.&quot; No, God is clear enough that you until you're certain, don't Lot of people are in deep didn't wait. How many times have I talked to said to me, &quot;I knew I shouldn't Why did you do it? &quot;Well,&quot; they'll give me some Or, &quot;I made this decision in my asking God.&quot; What I want you to see is one created you, He has a purpose You may not know what the You may have lived two-thirds of about anything. But I'm telling you, He loved purpose for your life, a plan it clear if you will ask Him and Don't push Him. In other words, you say, &quot;Well That's long enough. That's long enough from your It's not long enough. Watch this, let me ask you a Say amen. congregation: Amen. Dr. Stanley: Well, is He congregation: No. Dr. Stanley: Then why don't If we say He's perfect and He's I'm on time. I'm waiting till God says this I'm telling you with all of my Never, never. Now, if I were about twenty-five you'd forget it. I can tell you at eighty-five And I've been in some of the difficult situations, traumatic Never, never, never, never lose And I can remember one occasion. And the pressure was on from &quot;Well, Lord, I've lived this I'm going to trust You now. Not--I'm not budging until You Worked out perfect. That's the way God works. He--you see, just because you mean He doesn't love you. And I know there's some people &quot;Well, I don't feel God loves If He doesn't love me, why would He does love you. He will direct you, but you have The willingness to wait. Are you willing--well, listen to Are you willing to wait for Are you willing to wait for Are you willing to wait for this direction and guidance for your You can never go wrong listening Him. You can never go wrong. Then why not? Trust Him, listen to Him, wait happens. Well, if you've never trusted this'll work, won't work. And so, I'll simply say this to life and make many mistakes and Christ in your life. But if you're willing to ask Him surrender your life to Him, you omnipotent asset, the Holy direction, and perfect timing, And I would encourage you if Christ, settle this issue and the master of your life, life's Listen, don't live a life to do so is live outside the Father, we love You and praise make a mistake, always perfect. Your timing is perfect to the We pray the Holy Spirit will here, that we all examine the degree of patience we have You know who's seated right decision this afternoon, or before the week is over, God, I pray that You'll give they hear clearly from You what confident that You will always everything. We love You and we praise You Amen.