Wood, insulating material, a few electrical machines - but above all manual skills are required to convert a van into a camper van. (rattling, jingling) It should be comfortable and practical, the bus for traveling and staying overnight. Preferably expanded according to your own wishes and of course with plenty of storage space. Converting a van into a mobile, small apartment is quite a demanding task. And a time-consuming one at that. It takes a few weeks. Aaron Steinrock's VanWeekend company in Limburgerhof specializes in the conversion of camper vans. Meeting with the team. 1.40 meters. Extendable table. Kitchenette here, tall cabinet to the side. On the driver's side there is also a hanging cupboard above the kitchen. Both hanging cabinets should be open. Basically, in this case, the customer gets a complete expansion. That means: in the rear area a cross sleeper bed, in front of it two seats. Under the bed there is a pull-out table with a fridge, two wall cupboard systems and here, where we are about to install the window, there is a kitchenette. So I'd say we start with the window here. That we go here, then put the 800 window in here in this area. Then we go back here and do it completely in the middle again here ... in the run then ... the roof hood. The expansion begins: Jonas Gerber shows us how the windows are installed. To do this, he has to cut openings in the body. First I'm going to flex out the spar here. You have to be careful that you only cut off these four edges and never cut into the outer wall with the flex. (Machine noise) The strut is carefully detached from the body with the cut -off grinder. The spar has to be removed so that we can later insert our window here. The craftsmen use a template to mark the window section. In this case, it should be placed in the middle. (Drilling noises) Jonas drills holes in the four corners with a step drill so that he can position the jigsaw. (Machine noise) It is very important that we have a jigsaw that has a lot of power, i.e. not a cordless tool. The battery devices are usually a little weaker. Then it can happen to us that you don't have enough power when cutting, then the sawing would not be clean, but there would also be setbacks. Then a nice long saw blade to get a nice clean cut. (Drilling noises) The side window will measure 80 by 50 centimetres. Next, the edge is sanded down, then rust inhibitor is applied to it. Yes, and because these noses also run down here, I always pull the brush from the inside out. This prevents the anti-rust agent from contaminating the paintwork. Let's continue with the roof hatch. So here it is very important that we don't catch any of the struts when we later cut the hole. Since we don't see where the strut is at the top of the car. Jonas shows us a trick that solves the problem. (Machine noise in the background) Now here we have our drilling, which we made from below. If we set the framework now, we only have to convey it. This means that we have the same distance to the front and to the back. Then we're also sure when we cut the hole in that we won't hit one of the straps under any circumstances. First, the cut-out is taped so that the paintwork is not scratched by the jigsaw. As with the side window, the craftsman first puts holes in the corners and then cuts out the sheet metal with a jigsaw. It is important to cut slowly. (Machine noise) Now we can try whether the roof hatch fits in here as well. Yes, it fits very well. Before the final insertion, however, preliminary work is still necessary. Because the body of the vehicle has a maximum sheet thickness of two millimeters, we have to build a spacer that we can line to screw the interior. Originally, these windows were planned for sandwich construction, that is, for classic mobile homes. And in order to increase this distance, we are now building an adapter frame from wooden spacers. (Loud sawing noises) The spacer frame is made of impregnated slats - to protect against moisture. Jonas Gerber pre-drills holes and then screws the frame parts together. The spacer frame fits. Now I'm going to clean the roof here, around the interface, because that's where the sealing compound comes up. It is very important to use sealant, not glue, so that the windows can be removed if necessary. The sealant does not harden completely, it is just for sealing. Then the roof hatch is assembled. The boss glues the adapter frame made of wooden spacers from below. Aaron Steinrock puts on the inner frame. Tighten a few more screws - done. I have a good impression, the window dressed nicely everywhere. You can also see that the sealing compound has pressed out evenly on all sides. What we still have to do is clip the frame from the inside, where the roller blind is then located. And then we're done here. So, there we have our roller blind. And once our fly screen. Now the installation of the side window is prepared. Jonas sprays on the sealant. A spacer frame was also made for the side window, which is glued. Top right? Finally, the inner frame is screwed tight. (Drilling noises) Any more or... - Nah, looks good. Pulled everywhere, settled it nicely. The next important step is the insulation. So, let's start with the insulation from the vehicle. We have already built templates for old vehicles so that we don't have to fit them every time, but instead use templates that already fit the different vehicle types and can then cut the insulating mats to size. In this case it is an Armaflex material. This is a rubber-like insulation material from the refrigeration and air conditioning sector. Which was actually not intended for buses, but is now preferred by almost all do-it- yourselfers if natural insulation is not required. Such a cozy and warm one as workshop dog Oskar has. After the surfaces have been cleaned with petroleum spirit , Aaron applies pressure to the insulating material. It protects against both heat and cold and keeps condensation outside of the vehicle. The whole bus is insulated with foam, including the floor and ceiling. The insulating material is lightweight - this is definitely an issue when expanding camper vans. Of course, we make sure that expansion is as easy as possible. This is of course a financial question. If I want an ultra-lightweight construction for off-road driving, I have to use different materials than for a standard construction, where the customer wants a spruce top or wooden wall panels. The next day the bus is completely insulated. Aaron Steinrock shows us the progress. We insulated the walls, insulated the floor, we've already put the slats in, where the basic framework for the floor will go later. In the meantime I'll continue with the electrics and Jonas will do the floor. We cut the floor panels, which are made of 15 millimeter OSB panels or also coarse particle board panels made of wood. I'll take it over with me now and lay it out on the PVC. Then I can cut my PVC. The chipboard made of wood serves as a template for the PVC covering. The panels are built into the bus. In order to be able to screw them exactly to the substructure , of course, precise measurements must be taken. The base plate is now loose in it. We're just raising them again so that we can mark the roof battens where they run here. Then I would put the laser on the back so that I have a straight line here, where I then know where to screw the floor. The cut PVC can be glued to the floor. In fact, most people want PVC. For one thing, if something is dripping down, cooking, washing up, whatever, it's easy to wipe down a PVC. And then of course there is the question of weight. We've also had people who would have liked to have laminate or something like that inside, but we advised against it. It doesn't really make sense to put in a heavy floor. This is a normal glue for carpet and PVC. The only thing you have to be careful of is that the glue goes all the way to the corner, because those are the places where the whole thing would come loose. Otherwise it is simply glued over the entire surface and pulled off once in both directions so that the excess glue is gone. Then it is pressed on, so I made something myself from a leftover piece of wood and a bit of Armaflex, where I can later push all the air bubbles out of the PVC. Wood is processed again. Jonas Gerber tackles the interior paneling of the bus. Next we build the substructure here, to which the wall will later be attached. We'll just pull wooden slats in here. The craftsman cuts the slats out of spruce wood on the circular saw. He also needs several small pieces of wood to underlay. There we have our spacer, one goes at the bottom, one here in the middle. Then the slat is screwed here. Down here we just go with two self tapping metal screws to attach this spacer. Then we can put two wood screws in here again. The spacers are there so that the wall doesn't bulge too much or is crooked afterwards. But of course you always have to pay attention to the space. If we were to put a straight wall in here, we would have lost almost ten centimeters at the bottom. (drilling machine noises) The substructure for the interior paneling must be attached in a stable manner. Furniture will later be attached to it. Yes, that holds. Here we have self-tapping metal screws for getting into the metal. That means they have the tip at the front like a drill head. You don't need to pre-drill a hole, but the screw with the screwing movement drills its own hole and then turns the thread in, where it will later hold in. In that case they get a very light and thin wall covering. That's why we're definitely going to put a substructure in the middle now. That it is then ultimately held at three points. Next, the boss takes care of the electrics. We put armored corrugated pipes in the cavities in the vehicle so that the cables don't chafe from the vibrations while the vehicle is driving, which could result in a bare spot somewhere. Or if you want to retrofit something in the vehicle at a later date, so that you can then put it in the cable duct. At least 60 meters of cable. The interior lights, refrigerator, water pump, everything that is powered here in the vehicle, which means everything that goes to the secondary battery is routed in here now. And also professionally tested. Because the electrical system is permanently in operation and is also relevant to safety, we actually have an electrician come to take a close look at the whole thing and make the final connection with a test report. Aaron needs two full days to set up the complete electrical supply . We have now pulled all the cables we need into the walls and laid the basic structure of the electrical supply. That means a charging system that also supplies the vehicle with energy while driving, a large solar module, where the control unit is right here, all the fuse boxes, the wall power connection for the external current and a large 100 ampere hour battery. Jonas Gerber takes over the next step in the expansion. He shows us how elaborate the interior paneling of the camper is. The plan now is that we clad the first wall. Then the whole wall part is first felted and then screwed to the substructure. I'll apply the spray adhesive here now. This is a contact adhesive, which means that it is applied to the felt here and then to the wall part as well. So the glue only works when it comes into contact with another surface that has also been sprayed on. The cut part of the wall paneling is placed on the felt and pressed firmly. The material: a medium-density fibreboard. In the vehicle, the felt is first glued to the metal with spray adhesive. Then the felt-covered wall part is screwed to the substructure. The piece of wood serves as a marker for the craftsmen. Yes? - Yes. Jonas now cuts the window section for the side window into another part of the wall that has already been cut to size . This gives our cutout for the window. I used the plunge saw before. If I drove into the corners with it, I would simply already have a cut in the wall, so I switched to the jigsaw and am now cutting it free. Once again it is checked whether the dimensions fit exactly. Small things often have to be corrected. And back out of the bus with the good piece - back to the workshop: It's being felted. After that, Jonas can finally install the wall part with the window section in the bus. The craftsman fits the last part of the inner lining and screws it. (Machine noise) In the meantime, the company's carpenter has started making furniture. I'm building the substructure for the bed frame, which is attached to the wall over the wheel housings. If you can put something together beforehand, we'll do it, but sometimes you have to adjust the curves on the wall, and that's done on site. Meike Gobel firmly anchors the frames for the bed substructure in the wall and on the floor. (drilling noises) I now screw the construction to the slats where the wall panels are also screwed, so that it has the greatest stability in the end. The camper gets a so-called transverse sleeper bed with a width of 1.40 meters - space-saving and with plenty of storage space under the bed surface. The bed goes over there, it's across the bus. We actually get 1.80 meters out now. Because we don't have any wall panels, the wall isn't as thick, and then you gain length. For the slats, the carpenter cuts spruce frame wood on a circular saw. First, the outer wooden slat is screwed to the basic structure. Two screens are attached to it, which Meike Gobel cuts to size with a hand-held circular saw. (Machine noise) A few work steps are necessary before the screens nestle perfectly against the bus walls . The corner fits. However, the walls are not straight, so the bezel must also be adjusted on the side. This contour is precisely marked with the contour gauge. Now I can just cut along the line with the jigsaw and it will fit perfectly on the wall with no cracks anywhere. For the panel we use nine millimeter birch plywood. Because it is glued crosswise, it is very stable and can withstand a lot of stress. The carpenter installs two panels in the bus, which separate the rear area from the living area and are used to attach furniture. Time for the next step: the ceiling. We first screw the substructure to the ceiling. Then we start to insert the corner panels piece by piece. The wall cabinets will later be attached to the spruce strips . In the rear behind the roof hatch , a slat also has to be drawn in, which is a bit more complicated. We now glue in a piece of the roof batten here. It is then held for about an hour with the spreaders pointing upwards. And then we can screw a longer slat there again. Simply that we have a point here at the end where we can attach the roof panels. This is the final ceiling covering. We'll fit them in now. And then the holes for the lamps are made directly. That happens - of course - with a hole saw. (machine whirring in the background) Jonas and Meike are now mounting the spruce wood panels on the ceiling substructure. Another touch to you. The boards are put together using a tongue and groove connection . That requires precision work. We still have to drop out at the front. - Yes. There's also a corner to go back here. Hold on there. - Mmm. Wait, you have to get out a little more. - Yes. The last panel doesn't really want to. We can't get it in the groove with the spring, so let's unhook it now. Then we hold that down and try to get up with the last board like this. A piece ahead. Yes, yes. Does it have to be at the back for you or does it fit like that? Here we are at the felt. We can't go any further. Okay, shouldn't fall out. A few days have passed. The boss tells us the progress. I'll show you what we've been up to in the meantime. You can see at first glance what happened. We finished the ceiling completely and inserted the ceiling spotlights. Then hung up the first wall cabinet - something special. The customer does not want the wall cabinet to be opened with flaps, but rather it should remain open. He wants to think about something himself that he can also work on the vehicle. The cool box: Meike has already built the enclosure. The first bench has found its place, where the auxiliary heating has already been connected. What we're doing today is making the second seat on the other side. Then we'll have a look at the carpenter. This is now a standing panel saw. You can put entire panels on it and cut it down in a relaxed manner. In the workshop, Meike Gobel cuts the wood for the second bench. The furniture in a camper should be one thing above all: practical. The bench I'm building now will be just like this one. The area is used to expand. Then you have a left and a right side, the front and a lot of storage space in the seat chest. I'll now transfer the finished measurements so it's the same size as the other seat, and then cut that to size. After cutting, the parts are extensively sanded. This is an orbital sander with 120 grit on it to sand down the edges. Then a drilling template is used - for a very special type of drill hole. Next, I drill some sloping holes so that the side panels can still be screwed into the wall and floor. Meike fastens the drilling template with clamps so that it does not slip. The slanted holes come in handy for installing the seat, as we'll see shortly. The parts are now sanded and drilled. That means I'm screwing them together now. Then they are put on the bus. The carpenter connects the side parts with the wooden strips. And the seat is now ready for installation in the bus. The screws are fastened to the floor through the slanted holes. Meike has already prepared the front of the seat. Next, the flap needs to be adjusted. Unfortunately, nothing is at right angles on the buses. That means you always have to put it on top and then just see that you find an even gap. I always use... old meter blocks to bridge the gap. Then I simply trace the contour of the wall and then cut it off like this. I even need two now because the joint is so big. The gap has to go. The bench should fit perfectly against the wall. So back to the workbench with the flap. The carpenter cuts along the marked line with the jigsaw. The flap now fits seamlessly to the wall. Nevertheless, she has to get off the bus for further processing . Because it is now divided: At the back, a strip is cut off with the plunge saw. Make two out of one. I always put a meter block in between. I need the air so that, firstly, the flap opens and, secondly, it doesn't rub anywhere on the sides. Now comes the last step. We screw the strip on the back, the hinges on it and then the flap. And then it's done. The furniture construction for the camper is very complex. The carpenter needs about five hours to construct the bench alone . Go on. Next I'll make the templates for the wall cabinet that's going to be above the kitchen. We still have templates from an old bus. Unfortunately they never fit. We always try very hard, but each bus is unique and it is never the same. And now I can use them as a guide. There's still a pretty big gap up there. The templates must be adjusted to the unevenness of the ceiling and wall . Sometimes I have to trim four or five times before it fits properly. So, the contour fits. Now we have to shorten the depth of the template a bit. If the cupboard sticks out that far , you'll hit your head when you're standing at the sink. So back to the saw. I now cut the template with the plunge saw so that the front edge is straight and the bottom of the template is also. With the jigsaw it always gets a bit wavy. She needs three templates before construction can begin. That alone takes four hours. I just cut the template. It was a bit more complex because you had to cut out the carrier. But it fits now. Meike Gobel can start building the wall cabinet. She chooses suitable wooden panels and traces the finished templates. The customer can choose wood look or these white coated panels. And if he wants, he can paint it in other colors. The side parts of the cabinet are cut out with the jigsaw . It takes me two days to finish it completely. So, this is now the first suitable part of our wall cabinet. From these sides I have to make two more and a bottom. And this is what it looks like when it's finished, the wall cupboard in the kitchen. But the carpenter has done even more in the past few days . We fitted the panel in front of the bed and installed the refrigerator. You can now pull it out to the front. And we fixed the tabletop too. Also for undressing. In the kitchen, the first thing we have to do now is fit the sides. It gets two outsides and one middle. There are two drawers from the top. On the right there is a flap in front of the water canisters so that they can be taken out. And on the left there's another shelf with a door on the front. I have to cut out this corner now because the heating hose is still running down there. Otherwise we won't hit the wall. So there is still a lot of work for Meike, although she has already prepared the side parts for the kitchen body. The plate now fits through the recess around the casing of the heating hose. Now the contour of the second cabinet side has to be transferred and trimmed with the jigsaw. I cut the strips to act as spacers. Then we're ready to screw the cabinet together. She already pre-drilled the holes. Finally, the carpenter attaches the second side part to the struts. One half of the kitchen cupboard is now prepared so that it can be installed in the camper. The cupboard is screwed to the floor through the sloping holes. The body is attached to the side of the adjacent bench. The water canisters go in this part of the cupboard. They are... pushed to the rear and then secured with a lashing strap around them so that they don't move while driving. And at the front there is also a vent from the heater. Here, where I marked it, I drill a hole so that I have a guide for the hole saw. And then the outflow comes through. Now quickly assemble the vent for the heating hose. Then the second part of the kitchen cabinet can be screwed. Building a camper van kitchen is labor intensive. It takes about eight days for the carpenter to add drawers, cupboard doors and a worktop to the body. I'm going to connect the loose strips here with the middle wall with angles. And then I screw everything to the floor, and then the kitchen carcass is pretty much complete. The strips are the stop for the drawers. And now I'm going to see how high we have to be to get the water canisters in and out. That's only enough for one drawer here because the water tanks are so high. Since last time I've made a door on the kitchen. We have provided it with a push-lock lock so that it does not open while driving. At the back there is a shelf with an edge so that the pots or plates don't slip out. And the light now works here via the panel. And we built the tall cabinet. With flaps and doors. Let's continue in the workshop. Here we have our beech worktop. We've already adjusted them. Next we need to make the holes for the sink. We need the drill so that the handle from the sink goes through the worktop. And then we have to mill out this ring again with the router so that it sinks into the plate. And at the very end we drill a hole for the water tap. Then the worktop is done. With the hole saw, the recess for the stem of the cymbal is first made. Meike uses the cymbal as a test. Then comes the router. I have to be careful not to cut too far beyond this ring with the router. Because you see that in the end when the washbasin is in it. (Device whirrs.) When milling, you should also not remove too much material at once. (machine whirring) The sink now fits perfectly into the kitchen worktop. Next we drill the hole for the faucet. The carpenter uses a Forstner bit for this. With this special wood drill , holes with a large diameter can be drilled. The sink is now glued in place. We have strong adhesive here so that it doesn't fly around while driving. It uses an elastic adhesive that is commonly used in RV construction. (Rolling sound in the background) The sink is carefully inserted and then secured with a ring from below. Meike Gobel has been working in the company, which was founded in 2020, for a year. Finally, the faucet is screwed tight. (clattering in the background) The worktop made of beech wood with the washbasin and the water tap can now go to its destination on the bus. Aaron Steinrock planned them according to customer requirements. The kitchen as such is a very simple module, so it was very easily chosen by the customers. For example, we placed great value on lightweight construction. We don't have an extra-large water tank, no underfloor tank, but a mobile canister solution. There's something special about cooking. The customers have opted for a mobile cooking solution. This means that you can cook both in the vehicle and outside of the vehicle. So there is no fixed connection plate, no ceramic hob or induction and no fixed gas connection. What is still missing are the drawers for the cupboards. The camper kitchen gets two of them. The next thing I have to do is measure where I'm going to screw these pull-outs to the drawer. And then you can hang the drawer. To mark the position of the screws, the carpenter uses a tool: a drawing pin. This hook just has a point. Then you can pre-mark the point where you want to start with the screw. (She rummages for screws.) When all the drawers are attached, Meike can test the drawers in the kitchen cupboard. What is still missing is a lock. To do this, the carpenter makes a panel with a lock in the workshop and screws it to the drawer. The drawer can be securely locked with the push-lock furniture lock. The right cabinet door is installed next. I now need to screw the straps to the side of the kitchen cabinet. And then we can turn on the door. The carpenter sanded the edges of the closet door beforehand and installed the lock. We only connect the canisters and the electrics for the pump once the worktop has been oiled. To do that, we have to take them out again. The worktop has to be returned to the workshop for the oil pack. I now use linseed oil varnish for the table top and let it soak in for a good hour. If you see that any areas are drying, feel free to lubricate again so that the fiber is completely saturated with oil and no water stains or red wine stains remain on it afterwards. Linseed oil varnish is used for biological wood treatment. After drying, it forms a water-repellent protective layer. A few days later, the expansion is coming to an end. Aaron Steinrock shows us the finished rear end. What we did here in the rear area is relatively easy to explain. We have the storage box here, where the freezer is underneath. The rest is pure storage space. By the bed - it's a very simple bed frame in that case. That means the mattress goes on top here. This is a simple cover from the bed so that the mattress doesn't fall off. Everything back here is electric. The kitchen is already finished as such. That means we've already packed the drawer systems in. The door including the partition is inside. What I'm going to do now: I'll finish connecting the cables for the water supply here. Means: I put everything in the junction box, wire the water tap to the pump and to the on-board electronics. (Background discussion) Then I'll put the cover back on. Perfect. Then we are actually done with the complete expansion. Always happy when the project is finished. Jedes Projekt hat seine Eigenheiten, Unterschiede zum vorherigen Projekt. Wir wachsen auch mit jedem Projekt. Wir freuen uns, wenn die Kunden den Bus mit einem Lacheln abholen. Der frisch ausgebaute Campingbus ist bereit fur seinen Besitzer. Individuell ausgestattet mit vielen praktischen Details und gemutlich eingerichtet. (Maschinensurren) Ein Wohnbereich mit Ausziehtisch und Sitztruhen, eine Kuchenzeile, ein Bett -- alles da. Na dann: klar zur Jungfernfahrt. Did you like this &quot;Craftsmanship!&quot; favor? Then write us your opinion about the film in the comments. And don't forget to subscribe to the channel. SWR 2021