Can you hear that? I can hear it. That's the sound of every former British service And it's so loud you can hear it over the internet. Thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian, I'm here today at the Institute of Military Technology taking a look at this L85A1 British bullpup rifle. Now this is, probably more so than any other firearm We'll start with a little bit of the history of this rifle, and then These were originally developed in the 1970s. And the British government knew that it would need to And they were looking at a whole bunch of different and the early versions of this rifle were actually And one of these days I'll get my hands on some of But as it turned out of course NATO decided and so that became the obvious de-facto cartridge to use. So the rifle was redeveloped, or tweaked, to accommodate ... The development process really was in the late And there was also a companion ... light machine gun, the It's basically the same gun, but with a longer barrel, and in theory it was to provide more Now the British went with a bullpup here, &quot;Ah, they just took the bullpup they had Actually they didn't, the EM-1 and EM-2 bullpups (the EM-2 just after World War Two and then very that rifle shares nothing with the If anything the EM-2 was basically a .308 bullpup G43. This is basically a bullpup AR-180, Now after these were adopted they went into These were actually the last gun to be developed and produced Now production did eventually move to a new facility at RSAF They had a lot of new machinery that they were using This rifle was not a reliable gun in pretty And ... they managed to kind of bury these and For the government anyway, not necessarily It wasn't that big of a problem until Desert Storm. And the British had a substantial combat and the guns really performed poorly in the sand. And there was a report that was written detailing in the aftermath of Desert Storm. And this document basically said, &quot;These and you got to do something to fix it.&quot; And of course Well, the MOD ... (Ministry of Defence) didn't make &quot;Everything, it's all fake. Can't trust any of it.&quot; But it wasn't fake and it stayed in the news. &quot;Well, OK, maybe it's not fake. But And that didn't take either, and a little while &quot;Well, OK, it's not unofficial, but it's only like They just kept stonewalling this problem. And finally in 1997 they couldn't stonewall And they actually hired H&amp;K to Now there was of course consideration for just scrapping presumably the M16. That was They figured it would be substantially cheaper to fix And there were some things that they had Primarily they wanted to replace the Sterling submachine This is the part of the same rationale that the The idea being if you have your combat you can effectively substitute it for the submachine gun, it's gonna be about the same overall length when Whether that works in practical reality is another issue. That was part of the reason they wanted a Now a lot of people joke about the fact that Well, it's worth noting that at HK was actually a subsidiary owned So while yes, HK is a German company, they They were actually British owned, which gives that choice So the Germans at HK went through the rifle. And they In the rebuild they either replaced or redesigned the the hammer, all of the springs, pretty much all of and the charging handle, and probably a They basically kept the receivers as a shell And from 2000 to 2002 they rebuilt about 200,000 of these for the cost of about 92 million pounds. ... You know, the problem here is because these they will probably never overcome that reputation. You know, they had far more and yet still to this day we hear about because of some limited issues that were actually Well, the L85 had much more substantial And even though the A2 appears its reputation is dead forever So we'll take a look at some of the external differences But first a couple of the things to consider, reasons why the It is a bullpup, it makes no Most bullpups, like the Steyr AUG, the French FAMAS, the The L85 cannot. It's right-handed and if you are a lefty, So not ... not a lot of sympathy there. The scope that ... is on these is a 4x power Sighting Unit Small Arms, Trilux, It's like a 2 pound scope and base. All of the So it's a very rugged scope, you could probably But with the scope and with a loaded magazine You would think part of the idea of going to a They didn't. It's basically like carrying a So on full-auto it tends to bounce The magazine release on these guns, I'll ... show you here, the magazine release is completely unprotected. And because you have to shoot this which means the mag release Which makes it pretty easy to bump it on web And one of the regular complaints about the rifle was drop your mag without realising it, and then when you need Not a good thing to have happen. So I think that pretty much covers the external stuff. Let's go ahead and take a closer look at this, and I'll show Alright, so one of the most distinctive ... differences When HK redesigned the gun they replaced this with And the reason was when it's fully cycled That was one of the whole litany of changed radically as the gun heated and cooled. So they fixed part of that by having a deflector Now other controls here on the side. We do have a manual hold open here. We have a dust cover which pops open when I charge yeah, push this down I can lock the bolt open. On the other side here we have this little button which down. Push that down, drops the bolt. We also, in an interesting choice, we have the &quot;R&quot; for semi-auto and &quot;A&quot; for fully-auto. you're kind of going to end up picking Now here's that unprotected It really does kind of stick out, and it really is So the A2s have a bit of a shield around Trigger up here, of course. And then this is If I push that in, now it's on safe. Flip it over, safe to fire. Now because this is reasonably ergonomic control. Although I think troopers Now taking the rifle apart is fairly simple. And then there are two main cross pins, That needs a little persuasion. There we go. And a second pin right there, that one I can get with my thumb. Put that over. These are both captive pins, which is nice. Pull them out, and then the lower assembly pivots off the gun. I should point out here something I keep One of the other, other, other problems with the Especially in cold weather, but even in warm weather. So we have our trigger mechanism here, with the actual right there, to connect the Then the upper receiver is So we have a pair of dual guide rods, It doesn't actually run on the That was part of the basis of the AR-180 design is you and you didn't have to worry really about wear on it because Now on the AR-180 each of the guide rods (by the way, SA80 means Small Arms 1980, these have a single recoil spring in the And this guide rod and recoil spring So that pin is currently pulled back far enough I hold on to it and then pull that pin the rest of the way out. Once the guide rods are out then the bolt can come out. handle comes out, and then push the bolt out the back. Disassembly of the bolt itself is ... Basically to get the bolt out you have to take the cam pin out, to take the cam pin out you have to you have to take the firing pin retaining You would normally do this with the tip So that pin comes out, then Then I can pull the cam pin here. ... You can see the little hole there, the cam Now the bolt comes out. This is a multi-lug rotating bolt And there is our AR-180 style bolt body. There you go. Not a particularly complex bolt. About the same as the AR-15 in terms of complexity and the Thank you for watching guys, L85s are quite hard to come by here in the United States There was some talk about bringing in some the 1989 US assault weapons The British attempted to make export sales of So it's very cool to be able to They were gracious enough to let me pull it So if you're interested in doing more small arms research They're not generally open to the public, If you like seeing this sort of thing on-line well I would appreciate it if you might It is the subscribers there who make it possible for me to Thanks for watching.