The so-called pre-Columbian civilizations in Central and South America prior to the arrival The best known and Maya civilizations. However, since the capital Tenochtitlan and covered The site of Teotihuacan, is the last remaining vestige The research on the civilization Books painted by the Aztecs themselves, like Herman Cortes and chroniclers Most of them were made They depict objects, in line with the very specific conventions Here, for example, the billow emanating symbolizes speech. What we know about the Aztecs They settled in the Mexico Valley From their capital, they erected an empire and forming alliances Aztec civilization was a latecomer and its own culture The Aztecs arrived in the 13th century according to the translations of the text. In fact, it is a group of migrants who probably came from the Through their war-like qualities, and a system of alliances they came to establish themselves and take power. This is a small group of migrants and pass the capital city of Tula, They stay there for a certain time. This trip to Tula is extremely important because the Aztecs are able to obtain Like the Teotihuacan, Aztecs themselves They arrived from the north of the Basin and will enter a valley This is a region that is very favorable It has been highly populated They try to find a place to settle. They will clash Some of these cities to take advantage That quickly turns bad since the Aztecs This is what the texts say, and for practicing For these reasons, they are chased and they are forced located in the center of Lake Texcoco. This is where they will discover a sign Huitzilopochtli, God of the sun and war. This sign is an eagle perched according to the traditions, which is a symbolic representation The Spanish tell us that it is a serpent, in Western thought. They decide that it is here that the gods The Aztecs believe called Quetzalcoatl, who descended and sprayed the bones to bring them back to life. It is known for excavations before the arrival of the Aztecs. Certainly not very popular, but the Aztecs did not move The city, Tenochtitlan, the Aztec capital This will cause challenges of the level of the lake's waters, because it is a region On the other hand, with the due variation of life The Aztecs will develop and aqueducts and construct a lakeside city, will amaze the Spaniards and the organization of its neighborhood. The Aztecs used writing, knew how to make paper Trade was very developed and the capital held huge markets. At first, they control very little. Indeed, they are surrounded by enemies. As soon as they create their dynasty, they request that one of the cities This is a way for them in the basin of Mexico. After that, but also through a system of alliances, they will gradually succeed There was a major turning point in 1428, A mutual aid agreement the City of Tenochtitlan, on the western side This military treaty signed but allow the expansion of the empire The Aztecs will quickly take the lead practically to the point The purpose of the Aztec expansion as it will allow to benefit from a certain prosperity. The Aztecs will develop From the founding to the beginning of the basin of Mexico. They're forced to rely on other allies up to the formation of the Aztec empire The Aztecs claim a double origin, The Huntawoi is in the north and the sedentary farmers This represents the two great social categories, They're the warriors Gradually, the Aztecs will take control and all the areas of raised fields or Chinampas Thus the Aztecs practice which is not based solely but economically. From 1420 or 1430, the Aztec expansion and does so by a policy. It seems highly calculated. The Aztecs take control and the conquests accumulate progressively That is to say that the Aztec policy an entire collection of territories like cotton, cocoa, marine resources, etc. The expansion That is to say, Tenochtitlan, the two other allies We are facing an expanding empire At first, we talked about an Aztec empire, saying that it was a more and to speak of an empire The latest works seem to show that is quite organized The capital, Tenochtitlan, with more than 200,000 people. Progressively, the city-state on the central plateau of Mexico. It first dominated the Mexico Valley, from the Gulf of Mexico The Aztecs, to affirm the superiority assimilated They claim In the legends, the Toltec are said They are called the Master Builders. The later Aztec civilization as their predecessors, on both an intellectual Immediately before the Aztecs We know today between 950 and 1,250 at least, Historical tradition makes it of the Basin of Mexico as the great founders. At the moment, when the Aztecs at the beginning of the 15th century, there was only 100 years During this period, which values the ancient cities and their continuity. At the same time, their community and just say The Aztecs took over This site is the only physical trace and was not even built by them. Only Tenochtitlan, the capital, but it disappeared At Teotihuacan, which is the most famous it is clear that the word Toltec When the Aztecs arrived here, Its ruins are located about 50 kilometers The city reached its peak glory It then had a population of over 150,000. Teotihuacan civilization and strongly influenced the populations like the Aztec. Teotihuacan at the moment is already the fruit of a long history They've become great farmers with an economy Little by little, which in the space of one or two centuries the greatest political The city was designed the avenue of the dead. On either side of the avenue stand It is divided into four quadrants. It is the symbolic representation Note the absence and fortifications within the city. Teotihuacan perhaps following a revolt We are well aware that this city and has known many changes. Do not think There are monuments that are built, and others that are destroyed. The cities moved, operated, What remains a great mystery is the way in which it collapses, during the seventh century What is striking is the urban plan, and east, west access. It is structured around major monuments, including the pyramid of the moon It shows a very strong political power capable of gathering in a pre-industrial economy Above all, certainly very strong, so this urban plan We are facing a flourishing city in the third and fourth centuries. From the sixth the city will collapse, Many causes have been suspected and disappearance of such a power. Currently, archaeologists attribute it saying that a long drought possibly of the region of Teotihuacan We talked about foreign policy In fact, at the end of Teotihuacan, we see a certain number However, even here, strictly speaking, that was powerful We also talk about internal problems. One could imagine elites or other groups of the city itself to the point In the end, it is certainly a combination Economic problems linked to the drought, and possibly some foreign aggressions that make it so that effectively This is how the Aztecs at the time when they arrived They will discover it in ruins. Like many other political stories they will finish by writing and mythology on top of the previous site. They will give birth to their God which is one of the subtlest ways to join these new peoples We see fascinating things. The Aztecs themselves as they will unearth including a very blue mask characteristic They will recover the Teotihuacan, bring it to the current location and hide it away in one like a relic of some sort. Coming from Tenochtitlan, their capital, the Aztec found enough to satisfy their ambitions. What must have increased on the land that are turned back into hills, in the middle of a plane They knew perfectly well and temples. It was very close to their home, It's completely logical of their origin myths It's from Teotihuacan the sun and the moon The Aztecs were the first to find offerings for the Templo Mayor because a certain number of the objects and were probably recovered In any case, the Aztecs were eager which had a strong symbolic connotation of the inhabitants of the region. The Aztec thus took over the site, as well as all the techniques and integrated them into their own culture The pyramid is the support for a temple. That is to say, the summit than the Egyptian pyramids, where a number of rituals are practiced The symbolism of the pyramid The churches are considered vital places, and are particularly honored The city stretched out It started being built around the year 300 B.C. The Pyramid of the Sun To the north, the avenue of the dead 46 meters high behind There are two pyramids, Names that were given They were built The recent excavations, in the north of the site, We could see from tunnels dug In fact, Each one a little larger than the last Building upon the first small pyramid, Then the third, the forth, which is the one we can see today. These constructions were spread between the beginning of our era Recent excavations are shown of these new constructions. The second has human and animal sacrifices as a kind of inauguration The digs also revealed caches. Pits in which, in one case or buried with their hands Elsewhere, we could find the skeletons and raptor, All these accompanied obsidian knives, statuettes, and masks, which makes this discovery for the archaeological world, on the level of understanding these signs In front of the edifice is the moon Plaza, lined with platforms The pyramid was devoted The pyramid of the sun The pyramid of the sun thus towards the setting sun. On the other side of the pyramid to a long tunnel that goes deep and ends at a chamber designed with four limbs which is located at the summit of the pyramid. It is therefore thought that the pyramid which was the original site Unfortunately, notably by the Aztecs. We find Aztec ceramics there. The Aztecs themselves probably so we don't know Were there funerals or high-ranking people Was there a spring? We don't know. It is a place but it is certainly for the rituals practice underneath the pyramid of the sun. It is worth mentioning that grottoes in the Mesoamerican religion. They symbolize fertility, and also represent access At the intersection and the great East-West Road that archaeologists call the Citadel. From 150 AD, the Citadel became It is the point that oriented the entire city crossed. It is located in the southeast corner This is a great set of platforms in the center, in which there is the pyramid which itself is bordered to the north The results of the digs they were the homes of people Gradually, with time, this citadel was surrounded On these platforms, there are a series that were certainly topped by temples. Between the pyramidal bases of the top, along with the evolution of the city The complex occupies and forms the surrounding wall giving it the appearance of a citadel, At the back of the Esplanade a step pyramid The Citadel is a hollow space. It is roughly the same size but it's hollow. It is round on top and a center in which the temple This is where we find the famous frescoes and the God of thunder, who the Aztecs would call Tlaloc. These are the most well-known beliefs This decoration is specific The heads of reptiles alternate with sculptures in geometric shapes. This work required considerable means. Each head weighs no less than four tons. In the time of the city's glory, The Aztec practiced human sacrifice They sometimes ate their enemies The skulls of the victims There was some practice It was definitely something and must have taken place and in very specific circumstances. One had all kinds to avoid resorting to human sacrifice. However, human sacrifice It existed before The sacrifices and so the Aztecs left on expeditions However, victims could also be taken with their consent. For it was believed that the sacrificed The text describe the recurrence According to Spanish sources, for the inauguration of a great temple, We always consider the number That said, archaeology shows us In particular, we find toes on the floor of hemoglobin that the floors were regularly watered Each divinity had its own specific rite. Some victims had their hearts ripped out Children were drowned Some were skinned in honor of the god and their skins The Aztec worshipped the sun, Their religion was a mix of polytheism, inherited from the more ancient It was a combination and the agrarian religion of the sedentary peoples The Aztec pantheon though the Aztecs That is to say that they conquer very easily which is also a manner The principal treaty deity is called Huitzilopochtli, The sun at its zenith. Huitzilopochtli This is a God On the other hand, of other divinities like Tlaloc, Offering divinities linked to water Death is also present as in the image through a human skull Furthermore, there are portrayals of the feathered serpent God, or Tlaloc. For example, one can even find them made of ceramic or stone. Quetzalcoatl, is this animal with a covering of feathers. It is at once both a land animal which shows the relationship and the underworld. It is a portrait where can be found in murals that show an animal painted The tropical bird We also find it portrayed on monuments, in particular on the pyramid in the heart of the Citadel where several dozen Notably having the head of a feline Another important god whom the Aztecs later called Tlaloc. This god is also portrayed in numerous Where one recognizes him by his two large This God which is the source of agriculture. This rain god, Tlaloc, is also the god of thunder, hail, In some way, in a way that honored the ancient Aztecs. In general, Mesoamerican civilizations The movement of the planets, no longer had any mystery Their calendar system and even gathered They were great astronomers. Furthermore, we can see calculations in the division of the city What is incontestable is the degree In the movement of the planets Those of Teotihuacan in particular and rival the knowledge that one The Aztecs had the same character The same way of counting time along with a Venetian calendar. The two principal and the ritual calendar of 260 days. For a given day, which is an extremely precise way and therefore all ritual events For each month, each day, for whom one will practice We have very precise information, especially from the work He recorded a great deal of aspects in particular, but also domestic lives. Social organizations, He described the markets, etc. We have an enormous amount of information. However, is everything The organization of rituals and brings us essential information which celebrations Writing in Mexico It was used to register economic data Scribes wrote deerskin, and beaten bark. Thousands of codex at the time of the conquest. The writing of the Aztecs With the Mayans, It is true writing. For the Aztecs, that are both visual and phonetic. Here as well, but which probably serve The essential myths, transmitted from generation to generation as stories were told before crowds In fact, this writing is a code for the transmission The Aztec empire reached its peak under the reign of Moctezuma. He had been an emperor for 17 years, when the conquistador Hernan Cortes in the spring of 1519. The arrival of the conquistadors Cortes first allied himself The Spanish arrived before Tenochtitlan, Moctezuma greeted them peacefully Then doubt and hostility set in and ended and the death of the Aztec leader. The city was then reduced to ruins When Cortes arrived, He knows of the existence His objective is to conquer. We are no longer in the age of discovery. He arrives at the head of a small army. Generally, Cortes arrives on the coast where the Indians we call Totonacs of the Aztec empire. From the beginning, these people will see in the arrival of the Spaniards from the yoke of the Aztecs. They will rapidly ally themselves or provide them with the troops Cortes will quickly climb up He was received by Emperor Moctezuma, Moctezuma received him Cortes and his troops in the heart This is a great Aztec ceremony Human sacrifices are made inside Then the Spanish troops and massacre a good portion who have gathered in the center This is the Noche Triste, the sad night. Through his diplomacy and prudence, a kind of status quo He began to amass the gold This will be the beginning of the war The Emperor Moctezuma It was an extremely hierarchical cut off the head and everything collapses. The Aztec resisted, of this political structure It takes about two years to the full fall of Tenochtitlan. The capital city is destroyed. In its place, Colonial power is directly established and the whole structure For a long time, knowledge of the Aztecs and on accounts of the Spanish They came into contact with these living civilizations We have an enormous amount mostly written by the religious from the time of evangelization. Archaeology is much more recent. It had been hindered by the fact had been covered over by the modern city. However, over the years a lot of information, North of Mexico City Central Plaza, a number of Aztec buildings form It included one pyramid and also a college, The Templo Mayor with a pair of stairways Two principal deities were worshipped. They were at the top That is to say, they're various deities. There was Huitzilopochtli, the God who guided them Then the traditional god, for the most traditional the god of rain, Both are associated with the summit. The Templo Mayor, like many It is behind these pyramids It overlooks the place It was surrounded by buildings. Excavations have taken place in the center In fact, they started the excavations thanks to the discovery at the foot of the Southern access It portrays the goddess of the moon, the sun god, Everything that was in the same area, which were often historic buildings shows that there was Thanks to the excavations along with nearby construction projects or in blocks of colonial houses. We begin to reconstruct a map For example, acquired by the Spanish which is just next to the current In doing this work, They excavated what was underneath, and there are buildings They dug on the ground The excavations of the Templo Mayor to the understanding and even the rituals themselves. Now, testing is carried out, After the Spanish conquest the Templo Mayor was destroyed To dig the site of the great temple, archaeologists had entire buildings and cut into one of the main roads Digs have brought to light notably that of the pyramids In the colonial era, Native Americans against the conquistadors and the Spanish The Spanish arrived in 1519. They build a colonial capital The city is destroyed and they build The modern city of Mexico is built The Spanish were not used with a variation in the level of the lakes During the 16th century, there is a series and pestilence arise. The Spanish, could not know how had the idea of draining the lake. They would take a long time to achieve it, of the 19th century that they will be able by digging a canal Today, there are virtually able to expand The modern city is superimposed The excavations They are done for occasions or when there are restorations which allows the excavations Of the marvelous lakeside city The tentacular expansion The Aztec empire went by in a flash. In less than 200 years, became the masters of the Mexico Valley The Mexicas, as they called themselves, loved recounting the glorious epic The empire they quickly developed and the submission They found legitimacy in the belief by the sun to lead the world. Today, the descendants of the Aztec of the Mexican population.