It's never been easier to create the website, app That's right. Just the English language and a developer environment No need to install anything It's a brand new product You can get started. Either by entering an email and password Once you've authenticated, where you can just type in anything So let's see now here I'm going to say the text creator magic some magical things, that says Join Now, which magically Now, before I hit I can also choose to enhance my prompts I'm going to enhance the prompt And then I'm going to go ahead And here it goes. It's starting to create that engaging it's writing out the code It's also going to install all So I don't need to install anything. And I can create something Now it's telling the commands but actually it's doing it all for me. As you can see down below in the terminal. And it's loading up the website And here is my result. Creator Magic Unleash your creative potential with our Now button that does glow and get bigger And that was one single prompt. right now when I click join now So I'll say when I click join now a form should pop up asking for name and email. And boom, it's made the edits. It's restarted my server. And now if I go ahead and click join. Now look at that join creator It's as easy as this to create It's good having a form. But if it doesn't go anywhere, So I've actually said to my beehiiv account, So name an email from Let's click to go Okay. So when I look over what it's done And it's asking me to put my beehiiv Now, I can do that by going into the code section over here This is where Now, with that done, I can just go to my beehiiv account and Then. Now I can click join Type in my test Mike test at mrc dot fm. Submit. And boom! It's done. And if I go back to my beehive account. Yes. Look, that test I've created a landing page, within seconds using this cool AI tool. But it doesn't stop there. Maybe you've been sitting on this idea Not able to build it. Now I can assist you like and subscribe my newsletter down below so you never miss what do you want to build? I'm going to go a little more advanced. Make an app that scans Google Maps for the best coffee based on review, count Input it by the user. It will show the results using an algo that favors high reviews and weights So I don't get loads of five star places I'm going to enhance that prompt. And here the coffee shop finder is All dependencies are being created Okay, and Coffee Shop Let's try London. Okay, now you can see it's pulled in So this is a prototype. At the moment. I need to work a little bit closer First of all, there's a problem here. And yes, Google Maps Essentially, I haven't put my API key in, in the instructions bolt gave me, to replace your Google Maps So I'm going to switch over the code view which is right here. And this is the point where I need So let's do that. Okay. With that done So that bolt goes ahead and cleans Okay. Everything's been fixed And I've got my coffee shop Let's type in London. Wow, look at that. Not only is it generated by a map, Some of these have zero reviews, So it's not kind of perfect yet. So let's dial So I've said it's returning some results Search API with most review places Okay. And. Yes. Look at this. Coffee shops with lots of reviews is exactly what I'd like to see I've created my own landing page, anywhere in the world. And finally, yes, that's in your mind with this app. How about creating a game? So I've got an idea The character is a wizard who needs And as I set it off on its task, it's going to think about what it needs This is all thought for me, And then the code is all being written So in moments I'll have a playable game. And look at this. Now it's installing I don't need to worry about this. It's starting up my server, and it's taking me right to the web page Okay. And here's my magical wizard. And look, I can shoot by using space, Oh, but, I, I got killed quite quickly. Let's play again and see if this time Let's try and shoot that lightning bolt. Come on. Yes, I got a lightning bolt. That's cool. I scored to that time. So you can see Create landing pages, whole websites, apps without the assistance of AI, and I really wonder Let me know in the comments down below and I'm happy to assist you about the new bolt, new, let me know No coding with the use of AI.