Professor Donald you today about the beginnings as we know it, that the further back in history knowledge, especially at the you are in a truly prehistoric That is before there is any in which you are interested. derives chiefly from which is before writing--mute interpreted and is very and is far from secure. which is so critical for approximate, as is just about every single next few days. usual subject to controversy things. approximations as best we can Well, we begin our story Age in the Aegean Sea area. place about 3000 B.C. down about another century to Precision is impossible; And what we find, Age--and I use the word time, Age--there is nothing that we Civilization involves the dwelling areas that we call Agricultural villages will have the late Stone Age, as it is known. the critical difference is that people who do not provide for That is to say, They need to acquire it from Instead, they do various things and are bureaucrats, non-productive activities that That's the narrowest definition with cities we typically find a characteristics, Well, that's what we see for area on the island of Crete. by the archaeologists right at century. an Englishman, work that has revealed that He was captivated by it, convinced himself that he was a civilization. He named it after the legendary Greek mythology by the name of So he referred to that civilization. mean the civilization whose home It spread out beyond Crete what we might want to call an Mediterranean, It is a Bronze Age culture, civilization we know in the What we find in the Minoan place we can learn about this Knossos, of Crete where a great palace available. beautiful site, you can see quite a lot there. site and draw the conclusions examining it, all of the Minoan settlements, seem very much like older in the Ancient Near East. of the kinds of things were modern Iraq, Euphrates Valley, and went up into Syria and It, too, was very similar to but apparently a little bit Egypt, deal more than we know about the as you know, scholars discovered how to read in Egypt and in Mesopotamia. something approaching history about. because, although they had a us tablets with those writings deciphered the language written Therefore, we don't have that So barring that, what we see reminds us very early civilizations. we talk about how the Greeks which gets us to the Greeks. Strictly speaking, somebody is Greek? language, not one that he's but the one that he learned as was Greek, some version of the These are linguistic terms. the people who spoke them, tended to be part of a people, other chiefly, cultural characteristics. the language is only a clue. will be speaking about something they spoke a certain language. there was a lot of talk about There were people who spoke or similar races, science of anthropology and It's been determined that those They suggest there is something characteristics of particular that is certainly not true. We're talking about a culture Greeks, which is most strikingly is spoken. things out from the evidence we Greek-speaking peoples came down Sea, about a thousand years later civilization at Crete. they tend to down date it by so it might be around 1900 B.C. about these early Greek We begin to know more about the road, when there appear world later inhabited by the as we know, to which we give Now, that derives from one Peloponnesus called Mycenae, in the poems of Homer, Odyssey, the man who is the leader of is Agamemnon, region and his palace and his and that's why we call the the Bronze Age culture, perhaps as late as 1100, That's what we mean when we the Mycenaean Period. they are Greek speakers; confidence, something we didn't twentieth century, available on a bunch of clay baked in some conflagration in The same thing is true of and perhaps a few other sites Not at the same time, written evidence at all is that conflagration that produced a pottery. clay dissolves and disappears, erased. this was not meant to be a future. These things that we discovered in ways that I will tell you So, anyway, that writing--let When Evans found writing at he actually found seven, be significant--two kinds of I shouldn't even say script; nice cursive line. Because he couldn't figure out he called one Linear A and the because he could tell by different, and he could tell Linear A is earlier and it clearly the language used by the other places. but it is clearly different and that comes mostly from but we can also tell because but by no means simple. these are syllabaries, syllable; typically two letters rather That's a nice step over having and loads of symbols which is true more of Linear A but it's still--we're talking sixty symbols in a syllabary and is to learn to read when you're and how few Americans do learn the paper--it's not an easy It's not a simple matter. if you had to learn about sixty Well, of course, is that ordinary people did not. from our decipherment of Linear which was done in the 1950's by who loved solving problems of he was able to discover that and that he could essentially At first there was doubt and completely gone away, this writing have become able, to be confident that they know So, the fact that this was a in the Mycenaean Period tells us Mycenaeans were Greeks. a lot was known about these syllabary was deciphered. about that, because I want to that you may have and what you you, wrong we are about all kinds of I would say, universities in the world, in the 1850's and you went to and you said, about these places, can you tell me where that was?&quot; &quot;You silly fellow, that's mythology, There never was an Agamemnon, there isn't any such thing.&quot; a German businessman by the who had not had the benefit of didn't know what a fool and how believed Homer, for Troy. thought Troy might be and he and before you know it, with cities, which he believed And after the usual amount of there seems to be no doubt that So having succeeded with that, now that I've seen Troy, Off he went to the northeast he thought it might be, account--I wouldn't be telling and you know the outcome. excavation of the site of by the excavation of other sites it possible for people to talk even before they could read the The culture is marked by Let's take Mycenae, of the whole culture. for what we're talking about. a town or a city, built on top of a hill, a formidable hill, anybody who comes walking along, that would make a very nice That's, indeed, On that citadel, rocky fort or citadel, as the royal palace, That was, I should point out, sea. are so far from the sea; but what it's important to say on the sea. miles. that the early times in which all kinds of dangers coming, the least suspected, you overnight came from the sea. would be hearing rumblings about were spread out, the sea on a ship, morning and you don't know So the idea for security and far from the sea, see the Mycenaean civilization for its wealth upon trade and more than by land. surrounded by farmland, you cannot live in ancient surrounded by farmland, from the soil is essential for trade to provide it to you with Later on when times are more as well for everything else, place in the first place, bringing it to you. people working it, themselves. farmland surrounding it, which is the Mycenaean kingdom. Schliemann found when he dug at circle of graves, down into the soil, to this day, and then in other places not they found even more remarkable tombs. in which let's say, that might be as much as fifty and these were built of heavy stones and very well Here's the marvelous thing. was that beehive tombs, were buried. centuries of neglect, built in order to be buried. it was some kind of a big where the king--it was the cost of it was so enormous; of that kind. closed forever and yet built at kind of labor. general way of what we find in the hill at Mycenae, is the people who ruled these at least locally, and wealthy. did the work, of them, and you had to feed them, So, we are talking about a and of course, Schliemann almost amazingly was that we've been talking about, things buried. death masks made of pure gold on but also jewels, and weapons of very high That's what, were royal; few of these graves over a large So, you must imagine these are buried in this, sacred soil. talking about a wealthy at least in which the rulers and in which the rulers, Now, what we learn, references in the Linear B engaged--these cultures engaged degree. tools, other things, certain kind, You find it in datable places some kind of date, The Mycenaeans had regular We find Egyptian things in and also presumably, Mesopotamia; the Western Mediterranean. was not shut in on itself, entire Mediterranean region. selling were aromatic oils in Think of them as some I better say something about so that you get a grip on The ancient Greeks had no Think about that for a moment. Yet, they wanted to get clean to take oil, typically olive spread it on themselves, a metal scrapper, what was underneath the oil. they would take their bath and clean. olive oil is a great thing. The olive itself, some people just put oil on I, myself, can't stand it not all. crush the oil from the olives that's a nasty smell that it So if you're going to use it it's not going to be good by You've got to put some nice in order for it to be useable, pretty horrible without any So it looks as though what the with wonderful olive trees and from those olives. various forms, for this purpose. Mediterranean wanted it for the and obviously these Mycenaean needed. by the way, that they got much outside of Greece. from northeast Africa, You remember the Queen of Sheba I say that, but I shutter to the Bible, but anyway, the interest of King Solomon, wonderful, frankincense and myrrh, available--useful for this So they had to import that to they wanted and so on. Mediterranean and most Mediterranean, more sophisticated, and that's where wealth was too, west. trade. cultural unity, within the Mycenaean world It is evident that these all throughout the Greek world, Sea, were in touch with each One of the things that's can see pottery styles that you came from one end of the if they're of the Mycenaean culture. local variations, unity. the situation in Greece after and I was going to say not just themselves, but over the entire Mediterranean. Period, roughly from 1600 to you are dealing with a largely What is it? like these days? Globalized world; except it was a little piece of But they didn't really know or the Mediterranean area. have spelled out, that they were engaged in degree and that they were a were in touch with one another they were already similar to before them in the ancient In those places, and in Mesopotamia at first ruled in the same way as talking about now, a monarch, a one-man ruler who commander of the armies, power in the state, all the economic activity that what I'm about to say is in Tigress-Euphrates Valley. from his palace, bureaucrats directed the economy Agriculture was overwhelmingly the most important activity of of any area. the king doled out seed for exactly when to plant, what to plant there, did. didn't need to because the In other words, centralized control of true, of a wealthy monarchical power. Asia. same but in a special way in whole Nile Valley--because I Valley--became totally under the rule of one man, and he commanded the whole It took longer for anything Mesopotamia, although it When we get, down to about 1750 B.C. Babylonia, which is at that the area, the same power as a Pharaoh It's also worth pointing religious authority for their In the case of the Pharaohs of god, and insisted on being In Babylonia, and this I think was typical, but as we know, that he left, The law code of Hammurabi is preface to it in which he should obey the rules that he And his answer is because the Marduk, appointed me in that wants me to do, him, and that's bad news. So, this is very important. sense that both--we in America church and state, thing in the history of the The normal situation in civilized as well is for there things and non-religious things, a single individual who is the religious sanction as well as and through the legitimacy of That's the normal human way of You should always be aware, are. history of the human race, pattern, that because there's nothing that has come about to be When we find people challenging of time and human experience on guys got it wrong. about the nature of the society Mycenaean world revealed both by learn in the records provided by The remains and records of that the political organization monarchy. at Mycenae rather, another important site for the and at Thebes, was somebody that the tablets and that is the same as a later at the beginning, As we shall see that word in individual, but it doesn't mean the boss, the single everything. belonged directly to him, size and wealth. officials; he recorded royal goods, most of the tablets are lists of things that exist in king. have to do with instructions people from the palace. in any of the tablets--I don't that because the tablets limit of things that maybe it doesn't but in this case, There is no reference to law. objective or anything other than administration of justice. &quot;It is natural to infer that controller of the all seeing possessed supreme authority and law enforcement. its detailed and all clearest picture of the power monarchs of the Mycenaean Age.&quot; here are particularly They cover only one part of a of thousands of transactions in These files, are both sweepingly inclusive For instance, different places for the swords, smiths in each place are active Cretan sheep are enumerated to I'm sorry, that's not right. 25,051, and we learn that in a two nurses, one girl, We are told how much linen is Rion. estate of a man called What a guy name Dounias owes The answer is 2200 liters of 468 of wine--I hope you fifteen rams, one cow, and two bulls. two oxen owned by Terzarro: The records make it perfectly and Knossos were bureaucratic in Greece, some contemporary and earlier Mediterranean. associate with the Greeks, existed in the Greek world, want to make. Greeks, they are ruling a different from the one we will semester. you have a powerful ruler who There is a palace economy, there is a bureaucracy, agriculture under the central That economy and that society as I say, about 400 years Then a bunch of terrible that shake the security of this down. about 1200 B.C., are going on around the various civilizations of which Egypt experiences a number of Chiefly what we hear about is right there on the Among those attackers, are attackers from Libya, attackers that are simply called the sea people attack. dominant empire in Asia Minor, who are called the Hittites, hundreds of years in security We know that because they also read, and it speaks of it as remains that show attacks are going on against Palestine, which--it's always land should be called at any but I call it Palestine because attacked the Nile around 1200 in Pelest, is the same name as came to be they ruled it, And you will remember that when it refers to a people called These are thought to be all the So since they ruled it Samson took them out with the I think it's proper to call it Cyprus, likewise, and so far west as Italy and Something is going on. of course, is what scholars continue to disagree about, will not permit any confident mention a few of the theories a few among many, many, many. fashion these days, long the fashion lasts, somehow these monarchical areas, the people must have risen up I think this reflects hopeful than any reality, people have done in history. revolutions come typically when the people don't like the fact they already have. that's one theory. wonderful to have scientific handle these problems, any fact for whatsoever. but not too much. investigations of earth spores, call that stuff that floats Pollen. So as a result, in these areas throughout that tremendous unhappiness and Other people have suggested I keep waiting for somebody--I somebody to come up with a warming. the middle of the Aegean Sea, blew up in a most enormous kind back there in prehistoric days, explosion on Thera that caused that it can explain what went The trouble is, explosion took place, periods in this general area in which something big takes place, it turns out their explosion at different It's like a moveable feast; you need it at any particular I am making light of it and I because the evidence is just so It's just that I think it's fun but we shouldn't take it too Now, let's go back to a the virtue of being very old, believes it anymore. happened in the Mycenaean world, elsewhere, tribes, of ethnic groups who region, period and say in 1600, Usually, the picture is that or the northeast and pressing I have to believe that whoever first time was aided in coming of the Roman Empire, that did happen. tribes, who were largely located came down--I should say not Empire--came down and ultimately And of course, the fall of the Roman Empire the Mycenaean world. this was a very interesting the return of the They are the sons of the who was a Peloponnesian figure, sons of Hercules were expelled promised that they would come conquer it. hundred years later and and since--this is the link historical Greek times, B.C., the people who inhabited speakers of the Greek dialect It was thought that Hercules' Peloponnesians no doubt spoke and so this was referred to as century, not by the ancient as a Dorian invasion. another kind of Greek. area before the fall of the what were they called? names for them, The most common and the most another one is Danaans, Argives comes from the fact Argos in Greece. clout historically is Achaeans, Hittite kings, people--I'm trying to think, I want to get this right, this is the Egyptian or, unless that's the Egyptian Anyway they are called by names one among the Hittites, it's so easy. &quot;w&quot; dropped out of the Greek Period and the Classical Period, these people were as achaiwoi, they are achaioi, them. original Greeks who came in, that when these disturbances true, or dominated them, them, away, wiped out the use of the their own Dorian language upon And supporting such an is that if you go to the Peloponnesus where it's awfully there is a region called, mountains, on the northern is a place called Achaea, So, the theory might well be their old homes in the southern and went up to the northern Then there are the people in also don't speak the Doric driven up there to escape. helped people decide that the sons of Hercules, what we find after the fall of are some of the following typically found in the Mycenaean First of all, not bronze ones. your cloak together, unknown in the previous The building of buildings in called a megaron, which has a hearth in it, and a back porch which will be are built in the historical That appears for the first time Mycenaeans. buried their dead by inhumation, those great graves, outside them are buried in whereas, in the historical cremated rather than buried in That's what we see. forward in the nineteenth were a less civilized, harder fighting people assisted weapons which were superior came down, defeated the them where they could and drove and that explains how things That has been attacked and days for a whole lot of want to trouble you with right I do not think we can believe It is too simple and there are account for and there are too it's not correct. nothing in that story, most strongly by my colleague, now retired, Archaeology guy. nuanced and sophisticated and it He suggests that there were, north who spoke Dorian dialects, period attempting to come into world of the Mycenaeans. go away for hundred years and but rather they came down in and so on, exerting gradual pushing in when they could, and so on. good--whether or not you accept should find attractive the idea invasion, period of time, and then retreat, flight, all that kind of stuff Mycenaean centers all reveal for they're scared. strengthening their already the sites that we see, important fact. attacked and besieged, by an invader, anything else a water supply, have good water supplies in such So, we see the building of there's a very striking one. don't miss the cistern that was on the hillside, period. flashlight because it's as black But they spent a lot of time, that they would have a supply of siege. that something of the kind is when this culture comes to an it is accompanied by people Mycenaean world. Athens, which had the good destroyed, Mycenaean places that is not So, for some reason it was safe Athens. settled on the islands of the For others, it was necessary to west coast of Asia Minor, this is a great period of Greek Asia Minor. moment where there was a final attempting to overthrow these succeeded, every place. thought to be around 1200 B.C.; years later, and other places I think it's very important to that were big in the Mycenaean and not settled again by the Buried, lost, they were, that's extraordinary. something very, from an inhabited site. Pollitt's analogy to the fall of That is, more or less, world and I don't see anything happen in the Greek world at the I'm trying to figure out; ten until 1:00, Right, yeah, okay. important aspect of all of this of all of this, You have the destruction Bronze Age culture. it again. the ancient Near East. Egypt. very, very long time. tremendous discontinuity. you got to go into a new room. for a long time, There is no writing in Greece until the middle of the eighth rough date 750 and then the completely unrelated to the They get it from a different The letters, comes, in fact, from--almost certainly from the land that is now called was for that script was Semitic Hebrew is close to what's but they don't take the They borrow the characters from quite close to an alphabet and number. the ones in the Semitic about roughly twenty-five. ballgame for an alphabet such as The Greeks borrow that with They do the big step of don't have to remember anything. is made, and they produced their But their alphabet has got this is a new thing altogether. illiterate from around 1100 to Another characteristic of these as the Dark Ages, the fall of the Roman Dark, in the most obvious way, writing, no record of them. It's dark. in the sense of gloomy, this is a hard time, a wretched time, These are dark times. term, Dark Ages, fall of the Mycenaean world. that old connection that the Mediterranean in general, with the East stops, excavations we make of Greek find implements, anything from Egypt or that. do you find Greek things in The Greeks are isolated during Of course, everything I'm I'm sure there must have been everything, but we're talking And not only are the Greeks of the world, which used to be an area of where people could go from one localism now comes into the The unity is broken. know something about the early simply cut off one from the kept or made, to another was a strange and because nobody was in charge. control. were in the Greek world. you can see pottery, remember this largely unitary You can tell if you're at all if you go--let's say to the You can tell if a pot comes Pylos, or--not Pylos it was or someplace else because they which are perfectly obvious. seeing each other's goods; They're simply working within That's the kind of a world that Something less easy to say I think, is the whole legacy of lost, not fully though. we call folk memory that has a which may have truth to it, or it may have only an element and it's always very hard. usually what we call legend, who rejects legend across the is just dead wrong. an accurate account of what wrong. where the truth is, But in any case, units in the Greek world. argument, sounds too urban, Small, that means to say small because the population surely since the capacity to grow that whole system that depended palace and a strong king running running production, it's gone. When that's destroyed, So, the population surely have supports that. poor, weak units, situation. they cannot rely as human doing what your parents did, that functions, going. The survivors had to figure out didn't do anything new in a This all came hard and at the of a lot of human life and a But what comes out of it is Now, I jumped though. memories lasted. was an earlier age. period always thought there was better than the age in which an age in which men were heroes. they were stronger, they were faster, they lived longer. and then there's us, That's the picture that the The legends, generation, changed, retaining certain elements of Then, finally, there's no escaping, thing that provided for memory, tradition. will find a highly developed grips with the fact that it was poetry, the length of time that must creating of it--we'll turn to issues. clearly accurate depictions of that show up in those poems, written down for the first time, or so, then you must realize tradition, a poetic tradition of the way to the Mycenaean Period. there were people creating and and changing a poetic tradition world and lasted for the rest of Now, the legacy from the later is very limited. is very important and no part Homeric poems themselves. that emerges, emerges from the ancient world what you have is a rare human The creation almost of a clean argue than the disruption that because there's one big The fall of Rome did not important tenacious and culture, which remained and became the culture. the Mycenaean world. something that's almost entirely The Greeks had no choice but to uninfluenced as Mycenae was Egypt; anything-starting from the to make a living, and to shape a world which was anything else to guide them. the Dark Ages and the world of