Hello, everyone, I am xing fu de yan lei Today we are going to make a zebra pattern chiffon cake. First separate the egg yolk and egg white Placed in two basins The bowl of egg white must be oil-free Add milk to the pot of egg yolk Add corn oil Stir them with egg Then sieve into low-gluten flour Stir in low-gluten flour after sieving If the flour has granules, you can press it with a scraper like this. Put the matcha powder in a small bowl Pour boiling water that has just been boiled Stir well Matching the tea powder with hot water is not easy to defoam when mixing the batter. Now come to send the egg white Squeeze a few drops of fresh lemon juice in the egg white to make the cake go Electric egg beater opens Whipped egg white When it comes to the egg white, there is such a thick bubble. Add 1/3 of the fine granulated sugar first Continue to whipping When the big bubble becomes a fine bubble Add 1/3 of the fine granulated sugar Then continue to whipping When it hits the grain Add all the remaining fine sugar to it. Continue to beat with an electric egg beater When you hit the back, you have to check when you feel resistance. Prevent protein from being beaten Lift the eggbeater and see the protein on the egg Can stand upright and present a big sharp corner This is done. Then put 1/3 of the protein in the egg yolk paste. Stir by means of chopping or mixing from bottom to top When they are completely mixed, they can't see the grain of the protein. Just pour him into the rest of the protein Continue to mix him evenly The scraper cuts in from the middle of the pot Mixing from the bottom up Turn the egg bowl while mixing Know that the batter has become very delicate and shiny And can't see the particles of the protein Just like this now. Then dig a little batter in the matcha powder and mix well. Divide the already stirred batter into two portions Can be evenly distributed, or one more, one more, one less This depends on how much you want the pattern at the end. I suggest that you still divide one more and one less. If the pattern is too much, I don't think it looks good. Then put the matcha batter in a little batter Continue to mix them evenly with a spatula This time you can preheat the oven Up and down fire 150 deg C, preheat 10 to 15 minutes Look at this matcha powder that is picked up with hot water. Did not cause batter defoaming The batter is still very thick Next, we have to start creating patterns. Dig two scoops of white batter in the middle of the mold If the batter is too thick, use a spoon to flatten it. Then put a green batter in the middle of the white batter Also want to flatten him Then continue to put a white batter in the middle of the green batter Just like a layer of white, a layer of green is alternately placed Every time it is placed at the center The batter I cooked today is thicker. If you look at me this way is not very good operation Don't hit the hard when you can beat the protein. But after the hurricane cake in this state is made, the pattern will be clearer. And the cake is also relatively soft I want to emphasize it with everyone here. If you want to make a hurricane cake, you must use the anode mold. Never use a non-stick mold Non-stick materials will affect the height of the hurricane If your technique is very high, then what kind of mold can you use? If you are a newbie Just use the anode mold to make a hurricane cake. This time, if your batter is getting higher and higher If you don't fall naturally, you can be like me. Gently shake the mold Let the batter slowly fall and flatten Then continue to batter Until all the batter is put into the mold Next, drop the mold on the table a few times. Falling out of the air Then put it in the bottom layer of the oven Bake for about 1 hour at 150degC. The specific baking time and temperature should be adjusted according to the oven of your home. My oven is baked at 150 deg C for 1 hour. chiffon cake will grow slowly as it bakes After reaching the highest level, it will fall back and flatten. Wait for him to bake for another 10 minutes. Almost on it At this time, gently pat the surface of the cake. If the elasticity is very good, it will be released immediately. After coming out, shake it on the table twice and shake the hot air inside. Then hurry down on the drying rack Must wait until he is completely cool and then demould Use your hand to press around the chiffon cake Let the upper layer of cake and abrasive tools separate Then gently push your hands up from the bottom This way the cake can be separated from the mold. Push the bottom of the cake from the outside to the middle Rotate while pushing Slowly the cake can be separated from the bottom mold. This chiffon cake has been demoulded successfully. After cutting, you will be pleasantly surprised to see the beautiful zebra pattern. That zebra-patterned chiffon cake is finished today. If you want to view and collect more detailed graphic recipes Can pay attention to my WeChat public number: xfdyl_food If the little friends made this cake Welcome to my Sina Weibo @Wo Jiao Jiao Zuo Ye ~