Just give me one more chance to prove it Mr That's all I ask. Stanley Kubrick is widely regarded as one and not without good reason. His resume is simply incredible. Paths of Glory, Lolita, Dr Strangelove or: Bomb, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange, Shut. For Kubrick it was one powerhouse effort after And of course, one of Kubrick's most famous This was a situation where Kubrick adapted it into a cinematic treasure. Indeed, The Shining is arguably the greatest of the horror genre. No offense meant to Stephen King. He's a very gifted author. But in the case of this adaptation, Kubrick a way that resulted in a truly profound viewing And for the record, for the purposes of this the 144 minute US theatrical release, although to the 119 minute international version. Over the years I've heard many fans complain that it didn't stay true to the source material, vision to be constrained because of a book. This was a pattern for Kubrick throughout In the case of the Shining in particular, material if you don't have any ghosts in the Yes, the fact that there aren't any ghosts The Shining: Nothing supernatural happens Absolutely nothing! And that's part of the genius of the film. Believe it or not, it's spelled out right For some people solitude and isolation can This is exactly what happens to Jack Torrance Everything in this interview is a blueprint There was never any need for ghosts when Torrance solitude and isolation. Furthermore, early in the movie we learn exactly to such madness. The only thing that can get a bit trying up of isolation. And then he had an injury so that kept him Yeah, I guess that's about the time when he I'm outlining a new writing project, and five On this particular occasion my husband just arm. So we know that Jack once injured Danny in that Jack had a drinking problem. We also learn that Jack is an aspiring writer, The Overlook will provide him the peace and Most importantly, we learn that Danny first Tony shortly after he was injured by his father. All of these details are extremely important, Regarding Tony, it's important to remember No! Tony is nothing more than an imaginary friend fears. We see evidence of this very early. Do you really want to go and live in that Sure I do. It'll be lots of fun. Yeah, I guess so. We can tell by his tone that Danny doesn't This is reaffirmed by Danny's imaginary friend I don't want to go there Mrs Torrance. Well how come you don't want to go? I just don't. We also know Danny doesn't have many friends. Such children tend to like safety and security. Danny never wanted to leave his home to go do with him recognizing the vibe that Wendy The power of suggestion. When Danny has his initial episode, the following Do you think Dad will get the job? He already did. He's gonna phone Wendy up in a few minutes Jack phones Wendy moments later confirming This would seem to suggest that Tony is more But when viewed from the perspective that fears, what are we really left with? A 50-50 chance that he'd get the job, where towards change. Even the good Doctor suggests as much in her Mrs Torrance, most of the time these episodes They're brought on by emotional factors. They're more akin to autohypnosis. A kind of self-induced trance. Before we dive in any deeper, I think it's "unreliable narrative". The key to this idea can best be explained We see a model of the hedge maze, we see Jack the next shot is a point of view shot of Jack But in fact, this is actually an overhead exploring it, after Wendy was previously warned task. Kubrick is telling the audience that you cannot is a key to understanding that there are no The biggest objections to the no ghost perspective #1 Danny has visions throughout the movie #2 Danny is able to communicate with Hallorann "shining". #3 Danny has several encounters with the sisters, #4 Jack sees actual ghosts! Not only does he see them, he converses with to murder his wife and son. #5 Danny telepathically calls out to Hallorann The Overlook to save him. #6 The Ghost of Delbert Grady warns Jack about also frees Jack from the Storage Room. And finally #7, Wendy herself sees evidence These are the things most people point to but each of them is a red-herring, an idea if you look underneath it doesn't really add Nothing supernatural ever happens, and even absolutely zero impact on anything in the These examples of ghosts being present can - where the audience receives unreliable visual conclusions. But there is never any proof that any of this Let us tackle these objections one by one. Objection #1 Danny has visions throughout Does he really? No! None of his visions amount to anything that that can't be explained in a rational manner. He sees a vision of blood pouring from the but if you remember that Tony first appeared very easy to accept these visions as the byproduct by Danny. These visions aren't literal, as described They are manifestations of Danny's inner fears. He's afraid of change. The blood from the elevator symbolizes Danny #2 Danny is able to communicate with Hallorann "shining". This never really happens. There is one line where we are led to believe of Hallorann having some inside information This happens when Hallorann seems to telepathically And the other example is when he calls him Wow! Who could have guessed that a child might And the name Doc? Well, as Hallorann himself declares. Well anyway he looks like a 'Doc', doesn't Nah! What's up Doc? OK! So Hallorann called Danny 'Doc' and he also kid might like some ice cream. But what about all of the things Hallorann Hallorann may have guessed that Danny might flavor. He needed to ask him what flavor, and Danny He didn't know that Danny doesn't like lamb, was french fries with ketchup. But when Hallorann asks Danny how long he he's a nutjob. Hallorann doesn't know who Tony is, and he Danny. Hallorann also proudly reveals. My grandmother and I could hold conversations She called it "shining". Yet we see absolutely no evidence of this There is simply no evidence that Danny ever None whatsoever! Hallorann claims to have been able to have but no such thing is happening here! Hallorann probably believes he does have the no proof to the viewer this is the case. He may have been right about ice cream and wrong about lamb, he didn't know about french he didn't know how Danny communicated with with Danny without speaking to and questioning That makes Hallorann's tally 2 out of 8 - at 2 out of 9 if you consider the fact Hallorann #237 until Danny himself brought it up. Resuming with the primary objections, #3 Danny Danny is abused by a ghost in Room #237. Does Danny actually ever see the sisters? Nope! Apparent visions of the sisters predate his Symbolically, like the blood pouring from Danny seemingly sees, the sisters represent to happen to him at The Overlook. But the more important issue here is Danny First, prior to entering the room, Danny can A ball mysteriously rolls in his direction, #237 has been open. There is a key in the door. Surely a ghost must have rolled this ball room. But wait! Look at this! When Danny first sees the ball roll into frame, him. The next two shots we see, it's pointing in This is a playback on the key from earlier It's not unlike this point of view shot where at the model. What does this mean? I suspect it means that Danny himself found Danny was often seen wandering about on his hotel landscape. Danny had a fascination with Room #237 for He never had any visions pertaining to that about the room or the history, but we can him. The shooting of the scene clearly indicates the audience about the "unreliable narrative". In other words, we cannot trust what we're But what we do know is that Jack is an abuser, a creepy sequence where it seems he might Danny asks his father if he would ever harm Jack becomes resentful, and asks if his mother One important thing to understand is Jack By the end of this discussion, Jack looks grabs Danny's left shoulder. This is the last time we see Danny with anyone. Then Wendy hears Jack yelling in agony, he terrible dream where he killed Wendy and Danny Wendy tries comforting Jack, and that is when It's his left shoulder and the left side of where Jack had his hands when we last saw Wendy immediately blames Jack for hurting He never denies this. Jack instead still looks as if he's woken Because he's just come to the realization son after losing his temper. Something that was brought on when Danny fed The power of suggestion set Jack off. This directly ties in with Objection #4. Jack sees actual ghosts! Not only does he see them, he converses with to murder his wife and son. Note that Jack never supposedly saw any ghosts him of hurting Danny. There was no evidence of Jack seeing any ghosts After Wendy becomes aware that Jack hurt Danny, a drink in a moment of self-reflection. This is when he first sees Lloyd. Jack thinks he has two 20s and two 10s in He doesn't, but his credit is good. This is almost certainly an indication that Jack then proceeds to bitch that he never him as a "son of a bitch". He then begins calling Wendy a bitch, complaining did. Jack describes the injury he inflicted upon Wendy was using earlier when she was doing temper that resulted in their son being harmed. By the end Jack is cursing about what Danny There is no ghost here, however. This is all about Jack's inner struggle where quite literally just did the same thing again!. He hurt Danny again, and after 5 months of The exact vice Wendy suggested was the real Only, this time, Jack wasn't drunk when he Suddenly Wendy busts in frantically. Note that Jack's entire encounter with Lloyd the mirror behind the bar. There's a crazy woman in one of the rooms. She tried to strangle Danny! Are you out of your fucking mind? No! Whoa! A crazy woman in one of those rooms? Was Danny abused by a ghost after all? No. He was not. What happened here is typical of the type Danny made up a story because he didn't like Wendy, desperate to believe her husband would the ridiculous story. Even Jack himself is amazed that Wendy would injury. But there is another interesting reveal in Earlier Wendy noted to the Doctor that Jack since he injured Danny. Jack repeats this point when he first sees his first in five months. But in that same conversation, Jack also says That was three God damned years ago! That little fucker had thrown all my papers All I was tried to do was pull him up! This strongly implies that there was more a pattern of abuse. This acts as further confirmation that Jack crazy woman in Room #237. The next time Jack sees a vision is when he He sees a beautiful woman emerge from the She then transforms into a gruesome old hag One must remember that Jack resents Wendy! The evidence of this can be seen throughout Specifically it began in this moment. It's just a matter of settling back into the Yep. That's ALL it is. Then we see Jack angered when Wendy intrudes Whenever you come in here and interrupt me You're distracting me! And it will then take me time to get back Understand? Then we see the moment when Danny asks Jack Did your mother ever say that to you? That I would hurt you? No Dad. Are you sure? Yes Dad. And there is more evidence of this afterwards. I can really write my own ticket if I went Couldn't I? Shoveling out driveways. Work at a car wash. The language here reveals EVERYTHING he always All of his resentful attitude explodes out TRUE feelings about Wendy, and how she ruined O have let you fuck up my life so far, but He blames Wendy for not living a better life. Jack never had any real skills. He thought he could be a writer if he had the hotel would give him time to write. Jack seems to believe he deserves a better and he blames his family for his failures. Hence the past abuse when he got rough with towards Wendy. Jack can't write for shit! And looking back at this shot representing It's somewhat ironic here, that while Jack writer's block, as Jack struggles being creative find the maze center through patience, trial The exact type of attributes Jack lacks with When Danny lied to Wendy to cover for Jack, in the room. Jack again sees a reflective surface, when This, again, is Jack imagining a better life to Wendy, he is with a beautiful woman. But Jack is suddenly brought back to reality a ragged old hag, which represents how he A monster. There was nothing in Room #237, and Jack admits Then Jack, realizing Wendy is now desperate flips the script. Once you rule out his version of what happened, Is there? This is a very important quote that we will Jack returns to the Gold Room and this time This time Jack has money and he is much merrier. But his money is no good there. The fantasy of how awesome life without Wendy He has the money, but is so well respected Jack again has a reflective surface before Jack looks ready to party, but the Butler And that leads us to Objection #5. Danny telepathically calls out to Hallorann The Overlook to save him. Except this never happens! The closest we see for evidence supporting suggested that Hallorann and Danny are communicating But once again the power of suggestion is Hallorann is chilling in Miami! There is no evidence he had any concern about the point when Jack injured him. The real reason Hallorann became convinced news weather report. That's it! Hallorann simply ran with his imagination The weather forecast triggered an idea that ran with it. This was amplified by the phones being out, and sheer paranoia! Larry, just between you and me, we got a very care of the place. They turned out to be completely unreliable Objection #6, the Ghost of Delbert Grady warns for help, and Delbert also frees Jack from Once again Jack's so-called "conversation" surface, but there are a lot of problems with that this is no ghost. It's another moment of self-reflection. What do they call you around here jeezy? Grady. Delbert Grady. Mr Grady. Weren't you once the Caretaker here? Why no sir. My predecessor in this job hired a man named Delbert Grady? That's right sir. Charles Grady There was never any mention of a Delbert Grady The former Caretaker was earlier identified But more concerning still, Charles Grady supposedly his family in 1970. But Delbert Grady, Lloyd the bartender, and They were never mentioned previously in the is that Jack is having another moment of self-reflection, his madness. When thinking back on the horror story at wrong in his little day dream fantasy. But he remembers the important detail about suggestion, Jack has made the decision that and Danny - the two individuals he resents mechanism for the fact Jack sucks as a writer What about Delbert specifically mentioning I think that's easy to explain. By this point, Jack already knows that Wendy It's not unreasonable for him to think they took some kind of interest in Danny, so he It's also important to note that given the unclear if these scenes really happen as Kubrick Jack never acts on the information that Danny It isn't until Jack hears the radio. That's when he acts. It had nothing to do with any perceived warnings the call coming in on the radio. And by that point Wendy was onto him, so it and the snowcat at that time. Jack didn't do either of these things after He did them when he heard the real world physical After Jack had been clobbered silly by Wendy, This is one of the biggest objections to the a huge issue if you follow the real narrative When Jack is freed from the Storage Room, him. We hear the voice of Delbert Grady, but we During this conversation Jack begs for another Just give me one more chance to prove it Mr That's all I ask. The language used here is typical of an abuser of his abuse. The answer here is obvious. Danny is the one who freed his father from Because there are no ghosts here, and we know Danny is the one who set Jack free. And this is consistent with everything we his son and his resentment towards his wife. As well as Danny's desire to keep the peace Once you rule out his version of what happened, Is there? And finally Objection #7, Wendy herself sees Except, she doesn't. There are no ghosts here. By the time Wendy starts having hallucinations, rollercoaster! First she discovers her son was once again Desperate to find a reason to deny Jack did about a crazy woman in Room #237. She then listens in disbelief when Jack suggests reveals his true feelings about how Wendy She then stumbles upon the terrifying discovery done all of this time he was supposedly writing. Then she is physically threatened by Jack She locks Jack in the Storage Room. Jack again exhibits language typical of the fact. He makes a last plea, she exhibits strength Jack disabled the radio and the snowcat. After all of that, she has the absolutely axe, where she is once again saved by her She sets Danny free, and fends Jack off with Wendy is then relieved that she has gotten of it. She abruptly comes to the realization that Danny. This is when Wendy was overcome with madness. And not unlike Jack's descent into madness, to Wendy, too. The power of suggestion strikes when she heard weren't working, and she sounded awfully lonely We never see Wendy on the phone, but it's was lonely. After all, remember, the first jump cut we is one full month later. And at that point, the family still seemed Jack and Wendy even joked that they've been What really set Jack off was when he perceived So when Wendy has her ghostly visions, which dead body, she is effectively suffering a order. The horror she endured during that short stretch The fact that Hallorann was murdered almost his long journey, if that doesn't dispel the I'm not sure what does. Most individuals who claim to have any type into two groups - they're either con artists In the case of Hallorann, I think it's clear Recall his piss poor track record from earlier. And at the end of the day, his delusions accomplished On the contrary, they led him directly to Back to Wendy's visions, it is mighty interesting time any one of them had any visions of so-called There was never a shared experience where same time. And indeed, the only shared vision was between This, again, is not meant to be taken literally. Wendy is having the same symbolic vision Danny And at this point, in the midst of a fit of Danny's well being. There are no ghosts! If you don't believe me, think of this another original book The Shining itself, the ghosts in that location, like a man murdering his The ghosts are the spirits left behind, but of the so-called ghosts that appears is mentioned The two Grady's are not the same. There is no murdered bartender or the mention There are no twins either. And he came up here with his wife and two 10. And who the hell knows what was going on with A visual taken from King's book, that has Instead, we believe they're ghosts because in such a manner where it's difficult to separate fantasy of the characters. This power of suggestion is obvious when everything then plays out with a different twist where presented. The whole idea of isolation leading to madness physically abusive is in the second scene. That's exactly what happens to Jack, but it strange about the hotel and when you finally the dude that killed his family, despite that was in 1970. In a similar manner, the picture of Jack at What possible explanation is there for that, Jack isn't a ghost. The film makes no mention of reincarnation. Jack doesn't see himself anywhere, even when public area! Wendy didn't see it and neither did Danny. Kubrick puts it up there clearly to confuse what they saw in a way that's incompatible What do ghosts have to do with reincarnation It only makes sense if you assume that Kubrice that didn't happen, cutting between things sets and spaces in ways that don't make sense. He even gives us one final clue: If you watch clap, get up and walk out. What does that mean? We're watching a movie of other people watching It's the ultimate mind-fuck, and it wouldn't really made a movie like The Shining before When you examine Kubrick's stellar body of statement about humanity and the human experience. Lolita provides the viewer with a thorough 2001 explores the nature of intelligence and A Clockwork Orange is a comprehensive examination Barry Lyndon is an epic take on how a person's through time. Full Metal Jacket centers around the idea and violence. Eyes Wide Shut delves into the realm of sexual All of these movies make a profound statement elements that focus on the darker sides of believe that The Shining is just a simple HOGWASH! Nonsense. Three final points. 1. Kubrick was a master filmmaker working with Therefore, you can assume that any inconsistencies, it's fair to ask why he chose to introduce 2. Madness often manifests as the inability to Therefore, they are unable to perceive events They are essentially irrational, meaning that continuity errors, etc. in their day to day own unique mental state. 3. The book is not the movie! While it may be interesting to compare the only what he wanted to and made it his own and Barry Lyndon; looking at details from To reiterate what I stated earlier, Stanley King ghost story into a cinematic masterpiece. In conclusion, if you eliminate the fact that book about ghosts, and you view Kubrick's no ghosts in Kubrick's film. In other words, if you eliminate Stephen King's Once you rule out his version of what happened, Is there? Thanks for watching everyone, I hope you enjoyed, Little pigs, little pigs, let me come in. We got a very serious problem with the people They turned out to be completely unreliable I recommended that little cocksucker to those asshole. Let me out of here and I'll forget the whole It will be just like nothing ever happened! My grandmother and I could hold conversations She called it "shining". For some people solitude and isolation can Here's Johnny! I saw it on TV. See, it's okay. He saw it on the television. During the winter he must have suffered some He ran amuck. My husband had been drinking, and... Just give me one more chance to prove it Mr That's all I ask. Yes Dad.