Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. This is Earth as And if you look closely, ok, see this This image was taken by the Cassini Coordinated Universal Time. The thing is, of when it would be taken, which means ever taken from space that some people on looks so small, insignificant, fragile. 1's upcoming &quot;You, Me and the Apocalypse&quot; thinking. In the show, the characters find a comet smashes into Earth that's likely different interesting ways, but what were only 34 days of human history left? Ok, my first priority with my family. But after that? I don't really have a I would want to spend my last few weeks that I would then send far out into vaporization. The list would contain that if libraries and monuments and record would still exist somewhere of what and who we were. Like a stone causes last long after you vanish, generations, the books you donated inform your stone that vanishes, but the entire pond? getting cosmic messages in a bottle out archive and gives a better chance for left of humanity, to find out that we to show what we learned. Maybe even to warn we didn't prepare for. We have already there, beyond Earth, and if Earth is be all that's left of us. What are they? something for the future? I mean, found for millions of years or billions. that's completely different, not only in they can't see or hear or feel or taste What if their bodies destroy the very material do you even write it in? Well, in general, math same everywhere in the universe, messages in. Like the Arecibo message, written by was blasted towards the M13 star cluster number of binary digits conveying some center-ish of the M13 cluster in about point, if something intelligent lives and their response will return to us around for that. But Earth has also been into space. Currently it's about 200 Milky Way, it's about this big. Aliens within programs we sent out through our bubble expands. Across very large impossible to tune into. Maybe a physical time capsule would be Earth if Earth is about to be ravaged. like LAGEOS-1, a satellite put into orbit laser measurements of positions on Earth, which is written the numbers 1 to 10 in the binary, and the arrangement of the Earth's continents 250 million years ago, today and their estimated arrangement the satellite's orbit will be stable. Drag caused by the thin atmosphere up where it orbits and influences like solar activity will eventually cause it to fall back down time capsule - a message from us today to intelligent here on Earth 8 million years in the future. were only built about 5,000 years ago. humans on the Earth. The latest common ancestor of 8 million years from today, when LAGEOS Earth look like? If Earth's surface is will be alone. But what about orbits are far enough out that they're could remain above Earth much much These satellites are our pyramids. They're civilizations, but impervious to anything surface of our planet. If alien years or so, these satellites may be what picture for the humans article. So far we of these geostationary monuments. ceases to be operational, it takes a lot out of the way and fall to Earth to burn up in usually pushed into what's known as a A shell around the planet where they can important operational satellites. orbits because tombs are often the most civilizations. These graveyard orbits are machines. Junkyards that will out-exist the largely define. Luckily, a few contain also contain a record, like EchoStar XVI, geostationary orbit in 2012. Aboard it is a Paglen, containing 100 images of EchoStar XVI will likely remain in orbit safe from discord and change down here. solar system is lost? Or what if life out system? Well, in that case, we have sent far, there are 11 distinct human made solar system into interstellar space. Pioneer 10, Pioneer 11, Voyager 1 and that recently made a Pluto flyby. Over the next ten thousand, million, to other star systems, maybe even planets, intelligent life forms. We had the these probes. The Pioneer plaques are launched in the early 1970's, ever be sent on a trajectory to not just system entirely. If discovered by other Frank Drake and Carl Sagan, we exist,&quot; or, depending on how long &quot;Hello, we existed. This is what we were.&quot; But will humans scientists have had trouble what they say. At the bottom is a map of Pioneer probe itself and where it came criticized for being human centric. that this depicts a path and not some an arrow. Arrows might convey this way developed pointy projectiles. Anyway. aliens about humans or Earth by using because we made those measurements up. transitions to communicate distances and time. intelligent life forms who find this atom - one proton, one electron. Hydrogen is universe, so hopefully its properties Now sometimes, if you've got enough the heap transitioning between particles spins. Now, whenever this transition released with a period of about 2.7 21 centimetres. It's hoped that two units of measurement. For example, these units tall. 21 centimetres times You would think that putting would be enough to show our size, connection. This diagram is meant to show The direction and proportional length of A tick-mark near the ends of each line front of the plaque, that the line should period of each pulsar. Again, in the make this connection they could possibly pulsars in real life, triangulate our position and come say hello. Also, since the period of a pulsar observed periods to date back how long the plaque works. It kind of feels like science homework to space, but how else something that might not resemble you in heading out first, the Pioneer plaques are not the first interstellar. That title belongs to Voyager 1. the most far-out thing humans have ever made. Literally. In about 40,000 years, two light years of other stars. humans find them, a golden record is attached to humanity. The record is made of gold containing some uranium 238. Given its to determine how long ago the record was the makers of music All Worlds All Times. as audio and video recordings of humans, five languages. Printed on the record are us. The hydrogen hyperfine transition included on the Pioneer plaques, but the platter to play it. Instructions for using picture of the stylus being used transition units, the record tells the the record once every 3.6 seconds total should take about one hour to do so. are given in a circle. The first video it right. Also included on the record is a message Jimmy Carter. There's something delivered to an unknown recipient, into the darkness &quot;Is anyone there? Hello?&quot; This is what it says. &quot;We cast this message a billion years into the future, when our the surface of the Earth may be vastly changed. Of the two hundred some, perhaps many, may have inhabited If one such civilization intercepts recorded contents, here is our message. world. A token of our sounds, our science, our feelings. We are attempting to yours. We hope someday, having solved the galactic civilizations. This record determination and our goodwill in a vast enough? Should we send more? Well, why not send Library of Babel. It's a website built by Jonathan Basile has been or could be written. Seriously. Divided into pages, it is built character combination of English letters has organized it all into hexagon-shaped containing five shelves with 32 volumes Everything's arranged in a pseudo-random feels like a treasure hunt. Each page is given a unique sequential page is encased inside this number. An algorithm Basile created uses the unique big number. That output is then represented using every letter in the the space and the period. This is what sure that the algorithm will produce page number will create the same output Which means that what is on each page is page already exists. And here is the really mind blowing converted to base 10, sent through the exact page number they're found on. It's a find the permanent location for any 3200 library the description of your birth, every poem, every joke, every lie, can be found on this site. This thing blurs the line between invention that thing if its description already existed? pages are offered by the Library of Babel. in the observable universe. sure enough in this hexagon, on this wall, there. Hello. But deep down, we feel like there's a permuting something unknowingly and saying it because they wanted to with to say things. For that reason, a library of symbols can be made, doesn't need it has been said. That is born too late to explore the world and stars, but we were born at just the right to explore language. To explore what can be What should we send out to space. What that And as always, thanks for watching. To watch the trailer of You, Me and the Apocalypse to see some other cool things YouTubers you can also click right over there. Colin Furze is building a giant for real. It's huge. Also, The Dictionary of out and thanks for watching.