- Hey, y'all! Come on in the kitchen. Welcome, welcome. It's a beautiful day, My Aunt Peggy, is in this kitchen with me, so you know, I'm happy as a clam in sand. So we are trying to share that you might be looking You know Peggy, it's funny, Grandma Paul she was not a bread maker And you remember, she would bake loaf after loaf after loaf of bread. She just fell in love with it. But grandma's biscuits were on the side of the counter. That was grandma's biscuits. And you know, you just got to Now, Aunt Peggy's God bless Rosa's heart. She made the finest biscuit and I can see Rosa I can't do it, I've tried So anyway, I can talk while I cook. Now, I'm starting with four and I'm putting two teaspoons of sugar and about, that was And this is just a classic, and there's a lot of recipes out there, but I tell you what, I hate to say this, but the Paula Deen baking mix, it just makes the best So I don't make too often, I use my pack because it's just good. All right, now I have, one cup of ice cold butter cut into cubes. And I got rid of my pastry cutter, Eddie, when we moved in over here. So I'm gonna have to just cut this thing in with like a knife and a fork. I wish I had not thrown I threw it away because it hurt my hands, it pinched my hands. But I think I could appreciate because that butter is so cold. In fact, you need it that way. You need your butter to be real cold. All right so I'm just gonna - - [Aunt Peggy] Did you have this, just wanna know, a biscuit cutter? - Yes, I might got biscuit cutters, but you know that round pastry cutter, with all those little arms on it and you just roll it in your milk, you know, and you don't want You know, I still have - [Aunt Peggy] Oh! That Oh, well, it's here somewhere. I'm gonna try breaking this Yeah, that's gonna work better. And that butter is so good you know that every piece of that flour has got butter in it. You want this, when you get through y'all, to kind of look like course Doing it by hand though I can and that feels good in my hands. All right, Eddie, I've got it. Can you see, can you tell It looks like course meal. Okay, I've got a one and a and I'm going to just just like this until all And like I said, I want because I definitely I remember back in the olden days, I mean, I wasn't alive when they but you know, those little, They'd have a sifter built in, - [Aunt Peggy] Yeah, damn! - and they had a drawer And the flour always And they would just start making biscuits Yeah, Passe for a Hoosier. I think they call them Hoosiers. Okay, we're about to get this. Getting to the bottom of the flour. All right, let's see what we got. Okay, Eddie. I'm gonna spread out my tablecloth. I have a tablecloth, y'all, that I like to do any of my breads or cinnamon rolls on and I just take it outside and shake it out and put it back in the So you want to make sure you have plenty, plenty of flour because we gonna And in order to knead it, you got to have that flour Did I swing some on you? All right. Here we go. We are in it to win it, y'all! All right, so you want to knead Like I said, you don't And I'm just going to pat it down to the height that I want my biscuits. Some people like flatter biscuits, some people like real tall biscuits, but personally I could eat a All right, so we're going very lightly, kinda do that, and I'm Reach back in here and All right, now, these are our choices on a Cathead Biscuits right there, because it's the size of a cat's head. I kind of like the middle size, but you know, once in a while, the kids kinda like these but I think I'm going and that is gonna be. Do I have a cast iron pan to- We had to stop for a minute, y'all You know, with us just moving in, we still have a lot of All right, so now I've got my Because I don't want my biscuits to stick and I'm like my biscuits touching. For some reason, I just think that they get like they can't spread out, you know, so there's no way for them to go but up. They're beautiful. I've got where the older I get, Well, these gonna be some fat biscuits. Fat like the baker. And Aunt Peggy, I've I saw Grandma Hiers do it, so I do it, but I never asked her why we do it. All right, I wanna get one more in there. - [Eddie] Do what? Oh, I'm fixing to show y'all, I'm fixing to show y'all. Grandma Hiers always took her knuckles and did like that on top of her biscuits. I don't have a clue why. - [Aunt Peggy] Mother, did do that. - Did grandma do the same thing? - [Aunt Peggy] Aha, yeah. - All right, now I'm going - [Eddie] Right here on the - Oh, good. - [Eddie] that needs to - Well, that's way too hard. - [Eddie] Yeah. - I'd tear my precious little biscuits up. All right, let's see. Here's some soft butter. I'm just going to put a little And y'all see that I've still because the pan that I on is a lot bigger than this one. So I'm going to very gently and cut them and put them in So, maybe that's why they did Great, great new thing. These little dents gave it when you put that on top of it. All right, so I'm going while we're waiting on So I'm just gonna knead Like I said, you just sure don't wanna, you don't want to over mix them. So just like that and I keep doing it until I don't throw anything - [Eddie] Do you wanna try - Yeah, I can put these in the air fryer, that's a great idea. - [Eddie] There's that little square pan in the bottom drawer for the air fryer. - And you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to just open that right back up and I'm gonna put a little I think I might put a little sugar in it, and a little cinnamon, How does that sound? There's so many things that you can do to a biscuit, y'all. If I can find my cinnamon. - [Eddie] You know, I think - Oh, that's right, I did. I'm working to kinda get needs to be y'all and All right, cinnamon and you will just see how this works. If I'd known I was gonna do this, I'd have dropped a little We'll see what we got. Oh, I should've put some Why didn't I do that? Oh, well, we'll see if this I'll do it next time. You know, It's fun to just because the worst thing that can happen is it tastes like poop and you try something else. Here we go, I am gonna set this on 400. For about 10 to 12 minutes and we'll see what we got. Our oven should be hot now, right Eddie? - [Eddie] Yeah. - So we can put this beautiful See that beautiful pan of biscuits? And we'll cook them for maybe 15 minutes. We'll cook them until I'm still trying to get This was an oven that I had years ago here and I'm having to figure out just exactly how it works again. How it cooks, I can't because you set it on So we were burning everything as fast as we can get When we first moved back in here. Okay. I'll see you when they're ready. It's been 15 minutes now, y'all. So let's take a look, see what we got. Oh, I'm gonna turn that oven off because I believe these Ooh, it's so heavy. That's the only thing The older you get, the heavier it gets. Look at that. - [Eddie] Smells amazing. - Doesn't it smell amazing. Let me go and shut this oven back. All right, Cathead Cinnamon Biscuits. All right now, just took They cooked a couple of minutes quicker than the ones in the oven. I'm just gonna kinda, this just gives it a pretty glossy look. So I'm gonna kinda let that melt on it. Yeah, our cinnamon biscuit Oh, I wanna show y'all something. The last time I was in Albany, y'all. Aunt Peggy said, &quot;I'm gonna start cleaning Uh oh! This basically blew up. It blew up, it's so big. I had to press it back But anyway, Aunt Peggy said, &quot;I want you to have some of this stuff&quot;. She said, &quot;I want to just So, I want y'all to look at this. Can you see what it's saying? - [Eddie] I can, no - - Paula Deen Cruise. Like I think it was in 2010, Eddie. 2011. And I thought, what is this? And I finally figured it out. You put your butter in there, You run it up over your corn So I was gonna see if this The biscuits aren't exactly but I just thought that And of course, I was so I didn't have time to But we hadn't had corn on the cob since I brought this back here with me. But I thought, well, what a neat idea. So I just wanted to share it with y'all. Y'all run up on anything that Does that look good or what? Whoa! All right, let me check on the blown up. You know, I didn't see Wow! When I was putting it back together, I didn't seal it up good But I'm gonna taste it. And I did sprinkle this while it was baking. That looks pretty good, doesn't it? Looks pretty good. All right, Eddie, name your poison. You want butter? Honey? Cane syrup? - [Eddie] Definitely the cane syrup. - You do. Oh my god, look at the lightness Let me get the crane syrup. I brought maple and I brought honey. This syrup right here, and it'll put hair on your chest. It's so good. All right, I think I'm going Oh gosh! It's delicious, Eddie. - [Eddie] That looks good. - You Know what? Next time I do these, I'm gonna roll the dough in little balls and roll them in cinnamon sugar, and have them just like that. Oh my goodness, gracious. It's so good. All right. See, I just love the way the Aunt Peggy better get back down That cinnamon sugar All right, you know what The older I get the more I love honey. So I'm gonna have a Ow, that biscuit is hotter than fire. But I'm gonna taste it anyway. - [Eddie] You can do all kinds of things with the biscuits today, - oh, you could do so many- - You know meats, cheeses. - That biscuit is so light, and don't over work them. You're gonna touch them with soft hands. Oh my goodness. Mikey? - [Mikey] Yes, Ma'am. - You want to a biscuit? - [Mikey] Yeah, I'll take one. - Come and get some hot ones. What you want on it? - [Mikey] Plain. - Plain? - [Mikey] Yes, Ma'am. - Uh oh! It's a lot, They're so hot. - [Mikey] I appreciate it. - They're so hot. - [Eddie] You could try it. - Let us look at you. - My favorite thing to eat. - I think he said that it was Its pretty good, ain't it Mike? Wow! And now, tonight for I will split them, I'll cut and put them in the frying pan. And oh, you talking with a dip egg, it's heavenly. Loving best dishes. Don't be afraid of a biscuit. If it don't turn out good, throw it away, try again another day. Okay.