- Carbon dates are not infallible. When we hear carbon dates which appear to conflict we need just to check for a moment and think what assumptions Dinosaurs are supposed to have died out 65 million years ago. No way could there be any and yet consistently there it is. To find carbon-14 inside a diamond means that the diamonds cannot possibly be billions of years old. - So we could say that and diamonds are all a - Absolutely. - So, how do evolutionists (tense music) Could carbon dating actually I'm speaking today with Dr. Mark Harwood from Creation Ministries International. You've worked in the aerospace and you have a PhD in electromagnetics. Mark, you believe carbon dating Why do you say that? - Well, I say that, Bronte, because it turns up in at least that shouldn't be there in the evolutionary understanding of the history of the world. And the reason that's can't stay around for very long, so it discredits that idea of millions and millions of years. - It seems like a strong between evolutionists and creationists, particularly around the age of the earth. - That's true, and in fact, that's, I suppose, one of in this whole debate today, but to be able to is a friend of creationists, I'd like to do a few things, if I may. First of all, we need to and then to talk about some examples where it's actually failed in relatively recent history, and some attempts people have made to use carbon dating - So that's really interesting that people have used carbon dating to try and discredit the Bible, how have they tried to do that? - Well, there are a number of cases, one that comes to mind quickly, and we'll discuss it in There was an archeologist in the 1950s who was and she did some carbon dating on some of the things they found and concluded that the had happened some centuries which she claimed showed of Joshua fighting the Battle And Egyptian artifacts have before the biblical date of and if that's true, of history once again would be wrong. So, these are cases where carbon and discredit the authority - Okay, let's get into the science. What is carbon-14 dating - Well, carbon-14 is produced through high energy gamma rays coming into our upper the atmosphere consists about 78% of it is nitrogen. And you get a high energy and it changes it into a carbon atom. And what defines the, what an element is, is the number of protons in its nucleus. So nitrogen has seven, So if one of those protons is knocked out, then nitrogen becomes carbon, and it acquires another neutron, so it becomes carbon-14. Now, carbon normally has so it's carbon-12 is the Carbon-14 though still so it reacts with oxygen but it's radioactively unstable because its nucleus is too heavy. So over time, it decays away and it becomes nitrogen 14 again. So the way it works is that the carbon in the upper so we have some carbon dioxide, which most of it actually but some of it is C-14 with oxygen. That carbon dioxide is absorbed by plants because carbon dioxide and so and animals eat the plants, they get some carbon-14 as well as carbon-12 into their bodies. Now the carbon-14 is always but it gets replaced as the And then of course we eat plants, or we eat animals which have eaten plants, so we end up with carbon-14 and carbon-12 in our bodies as well. - So we have some carbon-14 in us? - We do, right now. Now, very little though I should say that today there's for about 1 1/4 trillion carbon-12 atoms. Now, a trillion is like a So it's very, very tiny little fraction. Now all that's well and good, but let's say now a living a person dies. Now they of course are they're no longer eating, so they're not replacing the so what was there at the time So by very careful measurement, how much carbon-14 be it a fossil or a bone or whatever, and the principle is how long ago that organism died. So it only applies to to animals, to people and so on. - So can carbon-14 be used to date things as millions of years old? - Well, no, it can't. That's a common misunderstanding. You often hear people say, &quot;Ah, but the earth is because carbon dating proves it.&quot; Well, in fact, it can't do that, and the reason it can't back to nitrogen-14 quite rapidly, rapidly relatively speaking to other radio metric dating methods. So for instance, it for half of the original to decay to nitrogen-14. So after another 5,700 years, you would have a half So you're now down to a 11,400 years, I should never do arithmetic on the fly, but you get the point. So every 5,700 years, you What that means is it will be undetectable after about maybe 60 to 80,000 years. In fact, one of my if you had a block of carbon-14 it would all decay away in So then you think about that, as a size of planet Earth, and it would decay away to nothing unless than a million years, so there's no way that are millions and It's only in the order - So that's quite incredible, you're saying that carbon-14 as millions of years because - Absolutely, yeah. The process is too fast So it only applies to living things, and it only works for tens - So can we trust carbon-14 dates? How exactly are they calibrated? - Before we continue, a quick heads up. Stick around until the because we'll be offering &quot;The Creation Answers Book,&quot; patched with biblical answers to over 60 important evolution, and the Bible. You won't wanna miss it. Now back to the interview. - Well, that's a very good question too. With any dating method, you have to know whether or not the results you're getting so how do you test that? Well, what we need is a time in history which has a known date that we're very, very confident about. So, there's a couple of One is that human about 4,000 years, so we don't have anything that's further back than that. That's the first problem. So, scientists look at They look at things like and by counting the rings on a tree, they believe that these occur annually. So you can count backwards in time, and there are various patterns that reflect different whether they're very or what have you, and you can match those reasonably well, and so they try and overlap and further and further back. Unfortunately though, it's and one of the reasons that tree rings are annual - So it's not necessarily true? - That's exactly right, because a tree ring actually reflects differential growth rates in the tree. So if you have a particularly wet season, for instance, it might If you have a spell that's very dry, it'll not grow so much, so the density of the wood is different, and so the tree ring is really Now, a colleague of mine He was a dendrochronologist, that's a person who looks at tree rings to provide dates and so on. And he had a record over which showed tree rings with an average of about four every year, simply reflecting different growth rates. So the assumption that they're annual is a questionable but then trying to overlap them to get a continual record of tree rings for many thousands of years is problematic because the scientist then has &quot;Well, that one doesn't really or, &quot;Here's one that seems and so subjectivity - So even though people do using carbon-14, there involved in those calculations. - There are, there are assumptions made. There's another method that is used, and by the way, I'm not trying they're genuinely trying 'cause they want to get Everybody does. Another approach is to look but there again, it's problematic, because corals, you know, a lobe of coral can grow over another one, and you get diebacks So once again, it's a challenge to try and do the correlations, and there are also marine effects which have to be taken into account. Coral experts, marine biologists point out that in fact this is and assumptions again. And there's a third method which looks at layers of sediment in the bottom of lakes, one particular lake in Japan And scientists have taken a and they believe they can count up to 70,000 annual layers of sediment. Now, that's extraordinary. If you think about it, It's defies credibility that this would've been a calm environment for 70 years without any disturbance. I mean, 70,000 years, I mean, an earthquake would surely Also, once again, we have the assumption of annual deposition of these layers, and the layers don't extend Now, there's one really because two of these and there were separate volcanic eruptions that took place certain But in one core, there were as they're called, between than was the case in another core, so that tells us that it isn't so straightforward an arrangement at all. So, one has to call in as 70,000 layers in such an environment. Nonetheless, a lot of work goes into trying to make these fit, but there's a problem here, because what the scientist is trying to do is to cover many tens of that these tens of thousands So there's, if you will, a a set of lenses that they're and that lens is the belief of years of earth history are true, and they're looking for in the case of carbon dating, many, many tens of thousands of years. - Mark, I've heard of a 'calibration curve'. Can you explain to us what that is? - Well, what the calibration curve does is takes these different the coral growth, the varves in lakes, and tries to incorporate to transform a radiocarbon date, and that's what comes out of and the calculations associated with it, transform that radiocarbon 'cause at the end of the day, what people want is a calendar date. You know, when when did this thing die? For instance, was it in 1232 So that calibration curve is Now, if it was a nice it would be lovely, but it's not, it's quite complicated. There are parts of this calibration curve which wander about, and in fact, for one radiocarbon date, possible dates, because the It's not a nice straight linear curve, so not only do you get in some for one radiocarbon date, but It's around 400 to 800 AD where the curve is almost flat, which means you can get any And this is really unfortunate, because in that period, we the divided kingdom of we have the exile, we have we have the Persians, Assyrians, major events in Greek history and carbon dating is completely useless. So it's a great, not an embarrassment, but it's an inconvenience this method simply doesn't work because the calibration curve - So there's almost, you said 400 years? - Something in that - So Mark, is there a calibration curve that - Well, the one that I've just described, it's called the IntCal20, and, but it is reasonably good for the last couple of thousand years, except there are still factors that have to be taken into account, An interesting one, for instance, Back in the 1950s, various nations were testing atomic bombs in the upper atmosphere, and those nuclear explosions produced a tremendous burst of energy turning those nitrogen and carbon-14 atoms, so there's a big spike in the and that's now settling down. But if you don't account for that, you will get the wrong results from a carbon-14 dating exercise. But there's another one too, and that is at the beginning you have the Industrial and large amounts of fossil putting a lot of carbon But carbon dioxide, which because it was taken buried presumably in Noah's So that would've decreased the ratio of carbon-14 to carbon-12, so these factors need to sharpen up this calibration curve. - Mark, would you trust ages derived from this calibration curve? - I would with caution, and I say that because even with all those factors it is still, there are still assumptions and one of the most c-14 ratio is known at time of the death of the creature concerned. Now, there's a fascinating where the carbon dating got it wrong, and it was really interesting. There was in around the late 800s AD, around 870 something or other, there was a group of into Derbyshire in England and that's a matter of People observed it and they wrote it down, so we know that's when it happened. Now, a mass grave was like 250 to 300 different and people did some and discovered that the a couple of centuries So they were pretty sure but something was wrong because there's no historical being in Derbyshire in 600, but there was an historical record of them being there in the 800s. So this great debate ensued, were the historians right? And the scientists said, &quot;No, no, carbon dating It gives accurate results.&quot; So they stood their ground, &quot;But there's no record of but they were there in the late 800s,&quot; and then somebody woke up Turns out the Vikings have Interestingly, fish, have less carbon-14 in them than land-dwelling animals and plants do, simply because of the rate into the oceans and So the diet that these Vikings had was actually deficient, which made their bones look older than they really were. - So their diet affected - That's right, so we get a carbon-14 date couple hundred years earlier but there's a very important and that is that the authority always goes to the historical record, not to science. And if you think about it, science is about observing So we can understand but you cannot observe the past. So in a very real sense, dealing with historical events is actually outside of the He has to be able to do which are always done in the present. So when you're dealing with the past, the scientist has to make assumptions, like we know the c-14 to c-12 ratio when that particular specimen died, but maybe we don't, as in So the historical record is always in authority of an experiment when we - So Mark, you're saying using carbon-14, we're before we can calculate the age. - That's right. Even with all the efforts to try and limit those and something can come up that So history is always the reference point, the historical record. Now I believe that in the Bible we have a written historical record of what God did right from the which is why the Bible's record of history is the authority I believe, and we need to apply that to all of our scientific thinking when we are addressing things in the past. - Now earlier you mentioned that carbon-14 is the friend of creationists, - Well, it crops up in and let me give you some examples. Coal is supposedly tens to in the evolutionary paradigm, So, no doubt of course there because as we've seen for tens of thousands of But a range of samples of coal were tested for the presence of carbon-14, and people can find on our website at creation.com. Interestingly, every one of had significant levels Not just background levels or impurities, but substantial amounts which gave quite accurate within the capability of the equipment doing the measurements. - So that would imply that than millions of years? so they can't be millions of years old if carbon-14 is still there. Even more dramatically, a for the presence of carbon-14. Now diamonds, in the are believed to be anywhere between one and three billion years old, thousand million years old. I mean, no way could carbon-14 be found inside a diamond if that were true. Now, bear in mind, diamond is the hardest of carbon that we have. You can't get impurities through natural processes. So, of course, no one for carbon-14 in a diamond, 'cause obviously it Until some people took and sent them off to Every single one had significant that proves that the diamonds cannot be billions of years old, so it completely upends the whole idea of deep time, if you like, - So you would say that in coal or in diamonds, that this is much more in - Absolutely, because for those objects down to and that's the extent, if you The Bible, if we take it as it's written, would indicate that the age of the Earth is about 6,000 years. In Genesis Chapter Five, it gives us a list and it when the son next in line is born. And you can just add those and discover that from to the time of Abraham from the time of Abraham is also about 2000 years. And from the time of of course, is about 2000 years. - So according to the Bible, here we stand about 6,000 years later. So the whole of the history of the Earth is only measured in terms according to the Bible, and there's another place where carbon-14 turns up embarrassingly for the evolutionary story, and that's in the bones of dinosaurs. Now, dinosaurs are 65 million years ago. No way could there be any and yet consistently there it is. There are many secular reporting the presence of carbon-14 of soft tissue, blood vessels, red blood cells, collagen all sorts of things which cannot survive for millions and millions of years, and there they are in dinosaur - Is that because they would decay? - Exactly, they would fall apart, and all the laws of physics and chemistry tell us that they won't Now, by the laws of physics the things that we can do in laboratories that we can observe, we can measure, not stories about the unobserved past, I mean observable science, and it all tells us that they won't last anything and yet there they are. So, carbon-14 is a very for the whole idea of millions - So we could say that and diamonds are all a - Absolutely, that's a - So, how do evolutionists - Well, of course they find, first of all, they push and say, &quot;No, no, impurities in the measurement,&quot; or, &quot;Something went wrong,&quot; or whatever they look to discount the young ages Those things actually are to the laboratories that because these people are professionals and they do an excellent job, they don't allow impurities They take extreme precautions to ensure that does not happen. And so when that fails, then they've come up with some ideas. &quot;Well, maybe there's some mechanism that we don't yet know about that preserves these soft And someone suggested of the element iron might do that, but every attempt to build a model for how iron would actually doesn't pass But even if there was something like that, that doesn't answer because that just decays away at a half life of 5,730 years inexorably, so you can't prop that up by some kind of preservation mechanism. So the other method is to just dismiss it, and there's a very interesting article in The American Biology Teacher, I think was the magazine or the journal, and they made some outrageous statements. They were trying to for how to deal with students who would come into their &quot;I've just discovered that carbon-14 has been and what they said was along the lines of, &quot;Carbon-14 dating gives notoriously and is an unreliable method.&quot; And that's just a bold but it's an outrageous statement. If that was true, the whole should be up in arms because they make a lot And then it goes on and says, Mesozoic, meaning dinosaur age bones regularly give false radiocarbon dates. But that's no help to anybody, And as I said, that just flies in the face of all the work that - So we see that carbon-14 is actually giving much younger dates than what evolutionists are hoping for, but it also seems to be than perhaps creationists are looking for. How do we reconcile that? - Well, that's a very good question. And the source of dates we get are often 30 to 50,000 for instance. Now, there are two key factors that I don't think are taken into account, one I know definitely isn't, and the other I doubt is that which must be taken into account. The first of those is the fact that the earth's magnetic field You may be thinking, what on earth has that got But the earth is surrounded by like a protective magnetic field which deflects those gamma rays and deflects most of them away. So that reduces the number which are impacting our upper and producing carbon-14. Now, because the Earth's and it's doing so by the way at the rate of something it's weakening in its intensity. So to put a perspective on that, if you went backwards the magnetic field would be about two and a half times If you go back to the time of the flood, it would be probably seven And you go back to the time of creation on the biblical timescales it would be somewhere around 15 times more powerful than it is today. So as it decreases in intensity, more and more gamma rays That means we are producing so the carbon-14 to carbon-12 it's constantly climbing. Now, that's a very important factor. And if that's not taken into account, then ages which are derived from carbon-14 will appear to be longer So we have more carbon-14 today, and because the sample it will appear to be The second factor, which is that true history of the So, let's take a look at what it says. We had the creation about 6,000 years ago. The Bible tells us it pretty reasonable I think to assume there was no carbon-14 present in the biosphere right Man rebels against God, God withdraws some of and we find now that universally entropy or disorder is increasing, and that's a reflection of the curse that God put onto the earth so it seems reasonable then would've started to increase. Now the flood was only about so by then there still in the atmosphere, not much carbon-14 therefore So all the fossils that we would have started with very very small compared to today, so the ratio of c-14 Now, that of course when would make them appear to be much older than they necessarily are. After the flood, or an enormous amount of vegetation was swept by the flood waters and buried and then encased down under sediments and rocks and so on. So, much of the biosphere was removed and the carbon was buried, and that is what we now find oil and gas and so on. That would've removed at the same time a substantial amount of carbon We still have approximately because that's coming, remember, from outside the earth, the gamma ray's impacting but less carbon-12, so that would've led to an increase in the carbon-14 to carbon-12 ratio. And then with the decaying magnetic field, we see a continual increase in the rate of production of carbon-14. So today we would have to carbon 12-ratio than immediately prior to the flood, so that has the effect of So that means that dates in from carbon dating would into that year-long flood. - So Mark, the two factors are the decay in the and also the inconstant rate of carbon-14 to carbon-12 - Yes, but the latter, which involves belief in biblical history, so if the secularist rejects the Bible, which they generally they're going to account for the flood in their - So let me take you of Jericho and of Egypt can you talk to us about them? - Well, Kathleen Kenyon back in the 1950s used a carbon date to claim happened earlier than the thereby discrediting the Bible. Now in the 1950s, this It was really only developed in the 1940s and a lot of the had not been taken into account, not the least of which is the decaying earth's magnetic field, and certainly not a belief But, you know, had she taken her ages would've contracted, and I suspect she probably went out on a bit of a limb rather too early, because now I believe you would find those dates would in fact line up. But as an interesting because we know when from the historical record, so we have an historical anchor point. So that, if you like, is that is if you believe But what's happened is we've inverted it, we've elevated the scientific process, the carbon dating to having rather than the other way up, So when you start with the that historical account with which we could calibrate If you start with you end up saying, &quot;Aha, and that's what came out of Kathleen Kenyon's work in the 1950s. Similarly, the Egyptian obviously there could be that predates the flood. The Bible makes it absolutely clear it was a total devastation and when we look at the geological record and look at the stunning depth it's clear confirmation of exactly consistent with the So if you take that into account, there cannot possibly be anything to do with Egyptian history or So once again, we have a data point from the biblical record to calibrate the But if you start with the then you say, &quot;Aha, the So, it is what do we Is it God's word, or is it man's attempt by making observations in the present? And as always, when you make you rely on assumptions, unprovable assumptions about the past, and therein lies the whole of the debate between long - So Mark, what would you from our discussion today - Well, I think one of is for people to understand that carbon dates are not infallible. That when we hear carbon with what the Bible says, we and think, well, what really is the truth? What was really found? What assumptions were I believe that the Bible of what he actually did right therefore it is in fact the truth, and that becomes our reference point. So when we apply that to we can, if you like, because they cannot produce ages of things which are older than the But here's the problem, what You see, if the millions of evolutionary history are true, that inevitably places the and misery and so on for millions of years before mankind even appears on the scene. So what that means is that when Adam and Eve were in the or even if they existed, because most people don't believe they did because of the evolutionary story, but if they did, then would've had no effect because suffering and death so why then did Jesus The Bible makes it very plain, he went to the cross to pay the price for our rebellion against What was the rebellion? Adam and Eve rebelled, and into an otherwise perfect death, and disease. That's why the last Adam for the first Adam's sin, so can you see that these like the age of the earth actually impact onto the And that I think is the the authority in all because God's word makes and the account of the fall and the flood, and then Jesus coming to is what the gospel message - If someone listening was intrigued by what you shared today, where could they go for more information? - Well, the best place of information on our and it has an amazing which gives you access to something like 14,000 different articles that cover every aspect of this debate and the evolution It covers historical aspects, philosophical, and theological, so it's a wonderful resource - If you've enjoyed watching this, you're going to want to check out &quot;The Creation Answers Book,&quot; patched with biblical answers to over 60 important evolution, and the Bible. And if you want to get a follow the link in the description. - Mark, this has been fascinating, - You're welcome, Bronte. (gentle music fading out)