In 1941, Hitler's empire covered Europe to the east. Berlin rode a wave of euphoria while the German army I've always argued was one the world has ever seen. What could stand in the way How could Hitler's lightning Perhaps only by the mania of its creator. In June 1941, Hitler tore up the non-aggression pact invading by surprise across and attempting into submission. Some of his most important came to him before he invaded Russia, and they said, &quot;We do not have the resources.&quot; However, Hitler listened and said, and then went and invaded Russia. Led by a deluded belief that racial superiority Hitler took on a vast land and people The Hitler-Stalin conflict is something There, Hitler's soldiers writhed the ruins of Stalingrad, Everything was freezing. The guns were freezing. The clothing was freezing. The men were freezing. It is absolutely brutal, Humans seize up the tools of war. Seize up. They were attacking They were attacking out of cellars. It was a savage battle It's wrong to talk as if it was a conventional war in which rational military considerations These people only take power and then, out of that chaos, they build something that looks They build a monolithic state, and then, of course, This vast invasion crashing down around him, stretching resources, manpower, This is Hitler It's always been a British conceit to believe that Britain In truth, going back to the 1930s Hitler's designs were always in the East. It was always in Russia and the Ukraine that he envisaged Hitler and a lot of the Nazi ideologues of room to live, The whole idea of this future occupation, involved killing by starvation This was called the Hungerplan. They were particularly interested and in keeping enough Russian and peasants for the German Reich. Hitler thought of the Soviet Union as a vast mass of subhuman peasants loaded over It's an extraordinary view, and he was not steered How could they possibly do that? In fact, he launched However, that was the Nazi view, He thought defeated their armies, then it would all collapse because the great masses of Russians, and others were just simply It was a profound misconception. However, that is what he believed, and you can see this emerging many times and Hitler's overconfidence However, in August 1939, the world was stunned by the news had signed the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact From Moscow on the 22nd anniversary Stalin's Foreign Minister served notice in Europe's game of power politics. Loudly, he denounced France and England and branded the US For six long years, every Russian worker was the Soviet Union's deadliest However, today, are bound by a treaty of non-aggression. A reciprocal trade agreement of millions of dollars The relationship between Nazi Germany from the beginning of Hitler's rise In the background, in fact, which were quite intense. Solzhenitsyn said that Hitler was probably I think that's going too far, but he certainly trusted him Maybe it was a lack of judgment, There was a moment when Hitler decided At the night of the Long Knives, Stalin is reported as saying, &quot;Clever man, that's the way In fact, his own purge of his opposition, began shortly afterward. It may not be a coincidence. Under the dictatorships of Hitler Nazi Germany in the Soviet Union in September 1939, The country was carved up in just the way in the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact. By 1940, Hitler had reached Paris, and the Allies Britain was now under direct attack, and the German war machine With his sights now set on the east, Hitler had his chance when he launched Operation Barbarossa. On the practical side, which in this case, of course, saw little problem with it. This is the campaign they knew This is the campaign that you could say they would have regarded This is not the dilemma they found themselves confronted with when essentially confronting Most of the senior officers that even if the Luftwaffe crossing the channel which was immensely frustrating Now, all of a sudden, all they have to do and that's the thing they do. They come with a new tool the Panzer Division, which essentially is capable on the field of battle. German agents had been working for some weeks before the invasion. It was the fact that the Russians and reported it to Stalin that Stalin but also absolutely refusing to be taken in the forward areas. Hitler had managed Stalin was somebody who was one of the greatest tricksters yet, he fell into this trap that the Nazi-Soviet pact When Hitler started sending aircraft Stalin felt that this was part to force the Soviet Union They did not know They did know Already, you saw all the way enormous concentrations of troops, in many cases hidden wherever However, Stalin even believed the story that this was to avoid bombing and this is why they'd all been moved Thus, when on the day the first German unit and when they first signaled on the other side to come and talk, and, of course, were mown down, The Russians were taken by surprise even more dramatically than the Americans that the Russian forward areas to take any of the precautions if they'd observed all the warnings that Marshal Zhukov had urged on Stalin, that Soviet intelligence and Stalin absolutely refused to accept. He had many warnings, indeed, both from the British but he kept on thinking to get him to start fighting the Germans. They had a very difficult time when suddenly This was one of the reasons and such panic on the Soviet side. Operation Barbarossa would be the largest military campaign The sheer scale of the fighting proved to be the turning point At the start of World War II, the Soviet Union had invaded and occupied the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia, all as part of an agreement The Soviets had attempted but were met with fierce resistance. However, in June 1941, they were now on the defensive and German forces marched The West never had good agents in Nazi Germany in the course of the war. Stalin had fabulous human resources, and they were all the time reporting back to Moscow Yet, Stalin refused Thus, all his forces in the forward areas and the Soviet aircraft Hundreds of Soviet aircrafts. In the first hours, you had the German pilots during the campaign in France, and suddenly couldn't believe However, there they are on this first day, where all these Russian aircraft for them to machine gun and bomb. The troops, of course, were simply easy meat that were storming forward. Remember, Stalin had shot most He shot his superb Marshal Tukhachevsky, who had had his own philosophy and had worked out a way Partly because Stalin was afraid and he might have been right. The military might have taken over. The Red Army was demoralized, Most of the people of the rank or in the camps and crippled, very humiliating against Finland. The great Red Army was nearly defeated by a small group The Finns did have to make peace but to lose to a tiny nation like that that they had no confidence, before new figures appeared. Stalin himself seems to have gone not knowing what to do, what to say, and even wondering He was terrified. Here, all his predictions, all his promises, his promises to his own closest members and all the rest of it, that Hitler had launched that his armies were retreating in chaos Stalin thought that those around him were going to do and have him shot. We have these few days at the top in Moscow, almost sitting there for his executioners to arrive. He does nothing, he says nothing. There are no public statements. There's nothing that comes out of Moscow. He is amazed when so craven was the mood among the leadership So terrorized after all the purges, coming to their leader who's betrayed them &quot;Oh, Comrade Stalin, what should we do?&quot; They were so accustomed that Stalin suddenly found that he wasn't going to be shot. Instead, he remained the only man whom everybody turned One of Stalin's first moves was to sign a military alliance the Anglo-Soviet treaty. Inside the Kremlin that immediately preceded September 1st, there is today another meeting, Molotov is there, and also Sir Stafford Cripps, Molotov signs The agreement means supplies but probably from America Perhaps that's why the camera catches Stalin's smile as his son Yakov Dzhugashvili was captured He'd been serving during the Battle of Smolensk It was a significant blow to Stalin, and the Germans quickly took advantage that encouraged other Soviet citizens Bringing the propaganda weapon the Nazis vainly hoped by loudspeaker appeals to surrender. Very few experiments convinced them [German spoken audio] The Germans advanced So far, fighting necessarily the Soviets can go back a long way. Russia is a vast country. She can afford and more blown-up bridges The German army and Air Force generals would have drawn strength from the fact had already served in World War I, which is when armies of the Central Powers something that the Swedes of their military proficiency. This is something Napoleon failed to do. Essentially, the Imperial German Army is the only army in a main theater of operations. On top of which, based on what happened in places the German senior officer corps feels far more formidable What took them three years this time would probably take them They were moving about 50 miles and this went on right from the Baltic all the way down an enormous thousand-mile front. It was a stunning success They were surrounding the Red Army and capturing hundreds of thousands It generated a sense of euphoria and in Hitler, of course, too. At this stage, Hitler was still regarded by most of the generals and most Germans as a result The previous year, in a plan he devised had been accidentally betrayed He was still regarded, I think, a natural, instinctive genius like the Prussian generals had but who broke the rules There's a general sense of elation When the invasion started, One can tell all this Many were optimistic, thinking In fact, &quot;You'll be able to go on leave Hitler came up with this phrase, &quot;Kick in the door, &quot;will come tumbling down.&quot; However, that was not the case in the end, they found that soldiers when they had expected them all Some Russians resisted They fought literally to the death, and they took just in isolated pockets at first However, some German officers who saw this and saw the ferocity with which, some committed Russians fought, of doubt in their minds, They began to think that if more Russians started to fight we were going to have a problem. These historic pictures of the Battle of Russia. The defense of 180 million people against Hitler's The film was made during the first few weeks of the war. The largest battle was unfolding in the summer of 1941. The Soviet Union but its incredible resilience in the outcome of World War II. With the launch of Operation Barbarossa, the entire landscape Germany was fighting and Britain now had a formidable new ally. From London, Winston Churchill himself Broadcasting to the world the prime minister says. Hitler is a monster of wickedness, insatiable in his lust Now, this bloodthirsty guttersnipe upon new fields of slaughter, Poor as are the Russians peasants, he must steal their daily bread from them. Hitler's reaction, was enthusiastic, and essentially, They felt that essentially the doomsayers, or the handful of critics had been all wrong. Essentially, he is telling the Japanese ambassador, &quot;Listen, we will probably wrap this up Then, of course, when Soviet resistance and they do not exactly inflict they just slow them down. They slow them down, and this initial slowing down process to the east of Smolensk By the very first day of September, both the HQ staff of the Army Group Center were starting to be seriously concerned. General Voroshilov, Marshal It is noteworthy that no great masses but significantly only small groups. Likewise, the Western armies are deployed in great depth, The pictures of Marshal Budyonny's forces still reveal another significant fact, the apparently excellent service of supply with really modern guns Right from the start, on the Soviet Union. Hitler had insisted on one of the prongs partly for psychological reasons, he insisted that it was vital to dominate so that wasn't entirely clear. The central one for the Army Group Center However, Hitler had a curious, that he shouldn't exactly because then the same fate The third one, of course, which was going into Ukraine over the breadbasket of the Soviet Union and then head on towards the Caucasus The German Army's professionals were some of the finest the world has ever seen, They knew how big Russia was. They knew how limited and, above all, They were appalled It was almost a contest on incompetence Hitler's insistence on dividing forces and going in two whereas the German Army &quot;You decide where your Schwerpunkt&quot; &quot;and your main axis of attack Of course, the professionals always You go for Moscow, and once you've got it the rest will come gradually, The army generals They are very traditional. They all look back to Clausewitz, the great military theorist Clausewitz said, &quot;The way you win a war &quot;engage it in battle, exterminate it, That's what they wanted to do. They wanted to go to Moscow, where they saw the Red Army, and they wanted to do that. Hitler had a broader strategic vision. What Germany lacked was, above all, Hitler divided his forces, advancing toward Kyiv, Now, the generals didn't think They still fixated on this idea and for Moscow. Eventually, the Nazis scored and they look as if motoring through the Caucasus without encountering so the forces are reunited The problem is that time has been lost. The planned German offensive was named Operation Typhoon, which launched on the 2nd of October 1941. Just over a month into the assault, Stalin chose to hold to stiffen Soviet resolve. However, it was forces outside his control that proved decisive Winter comes early. This has always saved Russia. Napoleon didn't believe Hitler didn't believe Whatever's wrong with Russian machinery, if you've ever had a Russian car, and a German car does not. The same applies to tanks, Hitler had also reckoned like Napoleon had reckoned There was no winter clothing. In fact, fur coats The Nazis, Hitler, and the military in the autumn, they publicly declared, &quot;We've defeated the Soviets.&quot; It's a complete illusion. The troops didn't have winter clothing. They were still dressed Goebbels realized Organizers had a big appeal Bring us your winter clothing. Let's have your fur coats, please, but it's all too late. I've always argued was one of the most remarkable that the world has ever seen, However, the incompetence with which the advance and, above all, the absolute lack which anybody who knew any history at all, Napoleon's army in 1812 knew that the Russians To send these men to attack Russia and to attack Moscow and I have met German veterans describing to me these dreadful moments under their tunics they had to light fires to get them started in the morning The guns were freezing, the clothing was freezing, The one thing that the Red Army not very surprisingly, As winter descended, because of this unbelievable series However, when the winter came they got one but of course, Despite the terrible conditions, German armed forces still attempted where the two invading forces If you capture Moscow, and if you do it efficiently you capture all the leaders. In theory, if you capture the leaders, as Hitler planned then the whole fabric collapses. It would have worked, or if autumn had been warmer There's a lot of evidence to suggest that even soldiers were ready to give it one last go to go for a high-risk late autumn offensive in order to grab Moscow There's even a staff officer that's the bizarre thing, He writes things which would have, at the very least and probably worse. He's basically saying, &quot;We need to give it a go.&quot; &quot;We're this close.&quot; &quot;We can't drop it.&quot; This is the do-or-die moment, and this is somebody who is not sold or anything of the kind. There's this feeling of, my God, we are this close, and we may only have 16 days or so, That's what keeps many of them going. Then, of course, you get to December 5th, which by coincidence and the temperature drops. It literally goes from minus 15, which for much of the time to minus 13 places. However, there is another factor, would move in from the other end, and they could then meet in the Urals However, that the Japanese They were so busy holding on to China and mopping up the remnants and the Dutch Empire around the Pacific that they had no interest What would they want Siberia for when the rich picks and Burma are available? This is what saved Stalin, that it was safe These were the only Russian troops They had fought the Japanese in Manchuria, and they came properly equipped When they appeared in Moscow, the Germans realized to the center of the city. They got to the outskirts, and they even got to the tram terminus but they could get no further. Berlin predicted, that Russia Today, American news agencies and that less than one-fiftieth These pictures show them the beginning The successful defense of Moscow for the Soviet Union. For the first time the German forces they were being driven back. In December 1941, the German armies planned but it failed German troops had to try but you've got deep frozen ground. It's very difficult. The supply situation is okay. They're not starving, but they're not able to withstand and all the letters home and there are stories of how soldiers are found in the morning standing, It's hard to exaggerate the depth, and power of the Russian winter. In this context, of course, everybody starts thinking which was met with similar circumstances. Met with deep cold. He met with Russian troops, and everybody said, Ironically, this is just like Napoleon just the previous year, he'd made a special visit to Paris to pay his respects I think, feeling, and now here Napoleon said, &quot;I've not been defeated &quot;I've been defeated by General Winter.&quot; You could say the German attempt to get to Moscow and it died a slow death, around December 3rd, 4th, and 5th. Then you can say the operation ends, and they are left more or less frozen but not close enough. Then you've got the second phase which is the Russian counterattack. I would stake a claim around Moscow were among the decisive moments maybe more so than Stalingrad, which happened more than a year later, because this was the moment at which the Germans not only but they find themselves Now, again and again, tactically, They'd win little success. They'd inflict devastating casualties but the Russians and Stalin was completely indifferent, as were his generals, Although he was a disastrous warlord, a disastrous director of operations until he reluctantly handed it over he gave his commanders around Moscow for them to be able to organize these counter-attacks. This is where Stalin Hitler never understood and that he should stand back Stalin knew from the start He proved when he made some terrible mistakes. After the defense of Moscow, he stood back He withdrew all the party officials censoring them, and forbidding them He gave people like Zhukov and Koniev and he even took advice from them, He stopped arresting generals. That was the cleverest thing was to leave the job to the professionals, is where Hitler made some very, Out there, Russian counter attackers of a German invading force. The city is strategic Tula, and these are the first pictures The heroic defense of Tula helped destroy and here's how it happened. Town after town These are actual battle pictures The evidence of blitzkrieg in Mozhaysk, Nazi dead testify How Mr. Hitler can explain but no mystery of the tireless Russians. Hitler always distrusted the generals, especially those he thought He had a tremendous chip on his shoulder, especially as he probably knew referred to him as that bohemian corporal He was determined to prove them wrong. He much preferred to sack them and he was a micromanager. At times, he was even looking dictating where even companies, should be positioned and getting This obsessive micromanaging He would not give and in this particular case, after Moscow, he was determined to ensure they would have liked to have in deciding Hitler moved southeast, he didn't try again. He didn't even make Napoleon's mistake, he was considering They let Leningrad go on being besieged It had no military importance anyway. What he decided he badly needed on the Caspian Sea. That change meant heading for the Volga and heading for a city that used which Stalin had renamed after himself, Hitler's planned offensive and would begin just a year The German attempt and the legendary Battle of Stalingrad as the most decisive turning point One of the oldest things is that in Berlin, the clever staff officers were much quicker to see than anybody was in the West. That well into 1942, in fact, all the smart money in London the British generals still thought They still thought that as the Germans on these huge offensives, They thought, &quot;the Russians have lasted However, the archives are stuffed as late as August and September 1942, &quot;We think these guys However, in Berlin, In Berlin, from the beginning they had this cold feeling, having failed to make having inflicted this horror story of 1941, '42, In part two, we cover how Hitler's obsession led to the most both at the Battle of Stalingrad Having survived a relentless onslaught, the Soviet Union would eventually drive and all the way back where Hitler's obsession