Hello everyone! Welcome to China's street food tour. This time I came to Shanhaiguan Road in Wuhan, Hubei. Here, almost all local breakfasts are gathered. Let's take a look at what delicious food there is. Crispy rice cake. Crispy rice cake. The main raw material is rice flour that is fermented and then added with sugar and other seasonings. There is also one that adds fermented glutinous rice wine. It will have a wine aroma and a different flavor . The tool of the stall owner looks very interesting. Pour the rice milk into the mold for approx. It takes about 7 minutes to mature. The skin is crispy, the inside is soft and glutinous, moderately sweet, and very delicious~ Such rice cakes cost 2 yuan (CNY) a pair. I saw a long queue. It was a shop selling tofu skin. Sanxian in Wuhan Tofu skin is one of the most popular breakfasts. The main ingredients of the batter are a mixture of wheat flour and mung bean flour. It is called Sanxian bean skin because it contains fresh meat, fresh eggs, fresh mushrooms or fresh bamboo shoots . The key to delicious glutinous rice is here. These are the braised dishes, which include mushrooms, diced pork, and dried tofu. Each portion costs 10 yuan. I couldn't taste it because there were too many people queuing up. This is a fried food stall that mainly makes noodle nests and chicken comb dumplings. Chicken comb dumplings are named because they are shaped like chicken combs. Chicken comb dumplings are stuffed with leeks and meat. Chicken comb dumplings cost 3 yuan each. There is a small fried food stall next to it. Youtiao is a breakfast found in most parts of China. The names vary from place to place, but the recipe and taste are similar. Wuhan Hot Dry Noodles are the most representative delicacy and a unique way of eating breakfast . This is the menu of this store. I was shocked by so many noodles. The stall owner is making these noodles. They are all cooked and just need to be heated before eating. Add the sauce. This stall's cooking method belongs to the new school. The old school method does not add soup. You can add various side dishes, glutinous rice and fried dough sticks by yourself . This is really a combination of carbohydrates and carbohydrates. I used to I ate one when I came to Wuhan. If you eat two of these for breakfast, you won't feel hungry as a whole. Diaozi simmering soup is a traditional way of simmering soup in Wuhan area. It uses a special simmering utensil - Diaozi Diaozi is a kind of simmering soup. Dark gray coarse sand jars usually have been used for many years, and the inner wall will be soaked with bone oil. This &quot;old Diaozi&quot; is considered the pride of the merchant. Diaozi simmering soup plays an important role in Wuhan's food culture. This kind of soup usually uses powdered rice flour. Adding lotus root to various meats, I found a stall that makes lotus root powder. Honghu lotus root in Hubei is very famous. Just like the Honghu lotus root used in the Diaozi simmering soup I just watched, various dried fruits are added to it and stirred to make them uniform. It is considered a dessert. ~ This is a shop that makes braised meat. It mainly sells pork trotters and pork knuckles. I know that many countries do not eat pig trotters , but in China there are various ways of making pig trotters that look so tempting. I am drooling~ Paste Soup Noodles Youtiao is also Wuhan's unique breakfast soup noodle. The &quot;noodle&quot; is ordinary round rice noodles. Its uniqueness lies in the fact that the fish used in the previous &quot;soup&quot; is not fresh crucian carp but collected from the vegetable market in the evening. In order to remove or cover up the fishy smell of rotten fish, fish offal, and fish heads that cannot be sold , a lot of pepper is added, and because most of the customers are coolies working as porters on the docks , workers eat a bowl of fishy fish on winter mornings. Thick soup noodles that are hot, spicy and can temporarily satisfy hunger. It is also a kind of enjoyment. However, now that people's living standards have improved, they will no longer use rotten fish. I thought I saw a whole cheese~ but it is indeed A very thick cake called &quot;chopped bun&quot; by the locals. It looks a bit like cheese. This is a steamed stuffed bun shop with a lot of people queuing up. Soda buns are also one of the traditional Wuhan breakfasts. Before I came to Wuhan, I had never thought about the inside of steamed buns. You can make glutinous rice. After watching the delicious food, let's take a look at this wet market. It's the season to eat river crabs. Thank you for watching. If you like to see Chinese food and market tours, remember to subscribe to me. It's very helpful to me. Helpful~ See you next time~