- Hi It's me Tim Dodd, Space X just experienced the first failure of landing a Falcon 9 in We've gotten so used to first aid landings that we forget that they've actually failed ever. The last time the Falcon 9 itself failed was June 15th 2016 on But they also had, of the Falcon Heavy failed to land. But this is the first time we've seen a landing failure in a long time. Now the important thing was actually successful which is a resupply mission for the international space station for NASA. And the primary mission and getting it on its way to is and still has been successful. So, that's the important part Don't forget that, that's Now, before we go any how this is supposed to the Falcon 9 to get it down on we are going to dive down So, this is a Falcon 9 Rocket. A really high detailed model Now, you'll notice of course after a good two and a half the first stage is about and it lets go onto the second stage. So, the second stage fully and sends this dragon capsule up to the international space station. That's how rockets just generally work. The first stage typically depletes itself and falls into the ocean and Space X though, has different plans and they've done this we've forget how hard it actually is. But here's what happens, that's approximately 45 meters And what it does its that using some cold nitrogen gas thrusters in the inner stage of the vehicle. Then, it lights three of and performs a boost back its horizontal velocity and begins to point itself back towards This case was LC-1 at Cape Then, after it does that boost back burner it begins to open up its grid fins and it has four of these And what these are, they've used titanium on that's the newest variant of the Falcon 9. And these grid fins open up like this and the camera you see is looking down the rocket, you see there's you can see a pair of them and then, what happens don't really do much So, the cold nitrogen gas thrusters still continue to do their thing. Then, once it gets near the atmosphere as it approaches the what it's called a re-entry and it lights up three of and it slows itself down it really hits the thick This is so that the atmosphere doesn't tear the vehicle So, then the vehicle's now and thicker and thicker atmosphere and that's when the grid fins And really quickly we can see in the video That as its beginning to use it starts to wobble and pretty violently and they cut the feed supposedly by isn't too ashamed to show their failures. So of course within an hour And here's a shot from my out there on the Cape, he Twitch on his Kerbal Space So he actually was watching thousands of people who tuned in and witnessed this down in Florida. I wish I was down there for this one. But yes he actually has footage of it and you can see it doing this that the vehicle was still I mean look at, even though it looks like it's going completely out of control. It gets itself under This is amazing, this is impressive. It's amazing that even the vehicle was still able to control itself to the same degree. So, great footage from Das Valdez, make sure you check him or Kerbal Space Academy as well on Twitch. Awesome footage Das, you nailed it. Okay so now it's time what went wrong and we got the answers from &quot;The grid fin hydraulic pump stalled, so falcon landed just out to sea. Appears to be undamaged Recovery ship dispatched&quot; &quot;the cutaway was a mistake. We will show all footage, good or bad.&quot; Which they have now, this booster for an someone asked if it could still Yes, it probably could still be reused for an internal Space X Space X apparently is getting with reusing things that are in the ocean, as Elon casually mentioned that they're maybe going to reuse a from the ocean recently, Then now, here's the deeper explanation here so the &quot;pump is single string. Some landing systems are not redundant, as landing is considered but not mission critical.&quot; So then he says, &quot;Given this event, we will likely add a So here's what he is talking about here. So previously, the grid fins used to be on what's called And that's where the hydraulic fluid which is Helium pushed through the actuators that control the grid fins into the atmosphere so it's wasted. After, I believe after the CRS-5, Space X changed to a closed loop system because they had a failure when it completely ran out of hydraulic fluid and then closed it and made Now he's saying that meaning there's a single all four grid fins and now that they're going to just And add another pump and so that it has some redundancy here. And this is where we have the conclusion, this is why failures because some day, Space X is with humans on board for their star ship. It's only a failure if you So here we are this is a to take a failure and and make a better rocket and guys, this was not at risk of falling on anyone's house, or head, or car, or dog. They purposefully missed the landing zone at Cape Canaveral by a decent amount and then the grid fins are last little bit and dog leg So, no one was at any risk here that's an important thing to note. So, there's no humans involved, this vehicle flies itself, and it did an amazing, you can tell it begins and does an incredible despite having a pretty That just goes to show how and the fact that it didn't out of control doing anything crazy. It landed right where's its supposed to considering the circumstances where no one is at the of course any launch, any rocket launch there's a whole exclusion even kayaking near by they So, you don't need to at risk here this is Although, this was a People are going to learn from this, Space X engineers are Make a better Falcon 9 of course, the important was still completely three years ago today, would have been throwing So, just to keep that in no one had ever landed of a liquid fueled orbital class rocket. On Monday, they reused a reusing using it making So, don't forget just a few how awesome they are So, just remember today's was a brand new booster But, hopefully we'll see it fly again potentially which will just be crazy. This will be one to watch, If you need to know more about that you can kind of keep track. I'll let you know which booster cord is that flies on my website and so go to prelaunch previews on my website. Everydayastronaut.com/prelaunch-previews and you'll be able to keep track So just kind of remember that in your head if you see 1050 dot next if it flies again it will be dot two. Remember, this one had a I really hope it does get to So, that's what happened again don't take this out of context. Yes, it was a landing failure It performed phenomenally the mission was still a success and again Space X will and make a better, more robust system. Thanks everybody, that's I'm Tim Dodd the every astronaut bringing space down to