[Music] [Music] Hello and welcome back. I'm Joseph Today we are learning how to play a new I'm on my digital piano again so we can Here goes. Mouse, mousie in the housie, hurry, hurry do Or the kitty in the housie will be chasing you. First let's figure out the solfege of we'll only be using DO, MI, and SO, three notes all a step apart. Let's practice singing that together DO MI SO. Good, now let's come back down. SO MI DO. That's called skipping down. Now try this one. DO SO. Your turn. Good, now this one, SO DO. You try. Super. first three notes and you try and tell Here goes. Bah-bah-bah. what would that be in solfege? Can you say it? Listen again. Bah-bah-bah. If you said SO MI DO, you're correct. Let's come over to the grand staff and try drawing those notes. Here we are on the grand staff. The are SO MI DO, and since we're going to be in the C you'll remember that G is on this line treble clef swirl. We have SO, MI is a skip down, and then we need to skip down again so we'll need a ledger line here on DO. Together that Can you point with me and sing the solfege? Ready, go. SO MI DO. Good, now the next part of &quot;Mouse in Bah-bah-bah-bah, what would that be in solfege? the correct answer is SO SO MI DO, almost the same pattern, but this time SO repeats. We have SO, repeat, skip down, skip down, or SO SO MI DO. Now can you point with me and let's sing the solfege of the whole thing so far? Ready, go, SO MI DO SO SO MI DO. Good, now let's figure out The next part of &quot;Mouse in the House&quot; goes The correct answer is SO DO. So I draw it like this, SO DO. Now remember in music we have two kinds of languages. We're learning the solfege language, also we learned letter If you forgot the letter name of this note, this would be G C, because here we're on the G line and then we come down to middle C. And what comes next? We have bah-bah-bah, three repeating notes, so we'd sing DO DO DO, or if we are doing letters we Like this. Now can you point and sing the solfege with me? Ready, go. SO DO DO DO DO Now let's sing the letter names. Ready, go G C C C C. Great job. Time to practice moving our Ok let's hold up your right hand with me down pattern SO MI DO. Let's try it together, ready, go. SO MI DO. Good. The next part goes SO SO MI DO. Your turn. Good, then we have SO DO, your turn, then DO DO DO. Your turn. Good. Next we have SO SO MI DO. Your turn. Then another SO SO MI DO. Your Good. Next, SO DO, your turn, then DO DO DO. Great job. Now let's come to the piano and give it the C major pentascale, although later on major pentascale. Remember we only need DO, MI, and SO for this song, these three notes, then you play it back. SO MI DO, your turn. Good. SO SO MI DO, your turn. Good. SO DO, your turn. DO DO DO, your turn. As you're playing make sure you have great piano posture with curved fingers, especially on your pinky, finger five. Let's try the next part with lyrics this Your turn. In the housie. Your turn. My turn again. Will be. Your Chasing you. Your turn. Then on the word run we're going to do sounds like this. Run! We turn our hand upside down and using we glide up the keys to make it sound Every pianist does a glissando at an angle like this, because this part sensitive and it could hurt, and so you your fingernails touch, and do it a it doesn't really hurt you because only Now I'd like you to press pause and beginning all the way to the end with when you're ready to hear me show you So from our website if you purchase the able to play &quot;Mouse in the House&quot; with I'm going to show you what that will tracks that you can get with the clicks in &quot;Mouse in the House,&quot; four clicks hear click click click click and then on So let me demonstrate what that would along with me or just listen, but remember wait for the four clicks Here goes. Great job learning &quot;Mouse in the House&quot; I'd like you to practice &quot;Mouse in the Try it in both your right hand and left also try transposing it to the D Major download the complete materials for Unit plus you can get the rock accompaniment and I'll see you next time. Ok let's just get one thing straight Just one syllable please. And I live in a house, a home, casa, not a My little sister she has a little roomy And last thing I am NOT going to go stand my ground. I am not afraid of any... MAH! Oh, T Rexy It's you. Please don't sneak up on me Sorry I was just coming by to say that time to go back to your housie for Nappy nap time! Oh goody I love my nappy nap time. Thanks T Rexy. Kissy. Mwah. Time to go back to my housie. Bye! Happy nap time. zzz zzz zzz