Transcriber: Phuong Cao For the past 20 years, I've been helping Malaysian to speak better English. And through training I've discovered a very surprising truth. I've discovered that how well actually has very little to do It has a lot to do There are people out there and they can communicate very, very well. One of them that I remember was a student, He was a factory supervisor - English level very, very low - but this guy could just sit very calmly, clearly, and then he could respond, absolutely express at a very low level of English. So, today I want to share with you what is so different How do they do it? And second of all, why is this so important not only to you, but to your children, to your community, And third of all, what's one thing you can do, if you want to speak that people like Faizal have. First of all, what is so different? How do people like Faizal do it? To answer that question, I'm going to take you back I was training staff at that time, and my daughter, at that time, And I started to notice between my daughter's attitude and a lot of Malaysians' thinking First of all, I should tell you my daughter absolutely hated piano, hated the lessons, hated practicing. This is my daughter This is as good as it got. This is the real thing. And she dreaded going to piano lessons because to my daughter, she was filled with this sort of dread. Because it was all Because like a lot of piano students, to both my daughter and her teacher, her success in piano was measured At the same time, I noticed that a lot of Malaysians with the same sort of feeling of dread. This sort of feeling by how many mistakes and whether or not Now, the second similarity My daughter, she knew Because we've all heard good piano. And she knew what her level was, and she knew how long And a lot of Malaysians, I noticed, had this idea of what good proper English and what their - I see a lot of you nod - and what their English sounded like, and how far they And they also felt like they were - bad piano player, My English not so good, lah. So I could see these similarities, but I still couldn't figure out, okay, what is it about these people that can just do it smoothly, One day, I discovered that answer, and I discovered it quite by chance. It was a day when my computer broke down, and I had to go to a cybercafe. Okay, it was my first time, and I discovered cybercafes They're really gross. They're smelly, And they're all playing noisy, They're just disgusting places. But I had to go there. So I sat down, and I started noticing this guy beside me. And I became very interested Now, this guy is playing this game that is basically, it's like And that's it. That's the game, right? And I'm noticing In fact, he's terrible, right? Because I'm looking, and ... not much dying, right? (Laughter) What really interested me was behind this lousy player sort of standing there watching him play. What I really noticed was even though this guy was terrible, even though his friends were watching him, there was no embarrassment. There was no feeling of being judged. There was no shyness. In fact, quite the opposite. This guy's totally focused smile on his face. All he can think about And I'm watching him. And I suddenly realize: this is it. This is the same attitude that people like Faizal have just like this guy. When Faizal goes he doesn't feel judged. He is entirely focused and the result he wants to get. He's got no self-awareness, no thoughts about his own mistakes. I want to share with you of somebody who speaks English and someone who speaks English And this is a true story. It happened to me. A while ago, I was in a pharmacy. I had to buy omega; my doctor said I should get omega. And I go to the shelf, there's tons of omega, there's omega that's high in DHA, omega that's high in EPA, and I don't know which one to buy. Now, the sales rep happened to be there. And I saw she's like I walk over to her, this sort of - it's a look Her eyes go all wide. It's sort of that panic: Oh my God! I've got to speak she's going to judge me I go up to her, which omega do I get? And she starts explaining to me everything about DHA and EPA She speaks very quickly, And when she finishes, no idea what to buy. (Laughter) So I turn to the girl behind the counter. Now, the girl behind the counter, I heard her before, But when I walk over to her, this girl, there's no fear. In fact, she's just looking at me. You know that look? Like...Yeah? (Laughter) Yeah, I've been in Malaysia a long time. (Laughter) So, I go up to her and I explain She looks at me, she says, &quot;Okay, yeah. &quot; &quot;Ah, EPA for heart.&quot; &quot;DHA for brain.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Your heart okay or not?&quot; (Laughter) So I said, &quot;Yeah, yeah,&quot; I said, &quot;my heart is really, She says, &quot;Your brain okay or not?&quot; (Laughter) I said, &quot;No. No, my brain She looks and says, &quot;Okay lah, you take Omega DHA!&quot; (Laughter) Problem solved, right? So we've got two different We've got the one who's got a high level, but totally focused on herself and therefore, very ineffective. We've got another one, low-level, totally focused on the person Effective. And therein lies the difference. Now, why is this distinction so important but to the future of Malaysia And to answer that, let's take a look at who actually is speaking English So, if we looked at all of the English taking place right now on planet Earth, we would see that for every there are five non-native speakers. And if we'd listen to every conversation we would notice involved non-native English speakers - only 4% of those conversations This is not my language anymore, this language belongs to you. It's not an art to be mastered; it's just a tool to use to get a result. And I want to give you a real-life example real English today. This is another true story. I was at a barbecue a little while ago - this was a barbecue for engineers, engineers from all over the world. And they were making hot dogs. Some of the hot dogs and some were these cheese hot dogs, A French engineer is cooking the hot dogs, and he turns to this Korean engineer, and he says, &quot;Would you like a hot dog?&quot; And the Korean guy says, &quot;Yes, please!&quot; He says, &quot;Do you want the cheese?&quot; And the Korean guy he says, &quot;I no see cheese.&quot; The French guy says, (Laughter) The Korean guy So the French engineer tries again. &quot;The hot dog is ... making Korean guy still doesn't understand. He tries again, he says, &quot;The hotdog is coming from - No, the cheese is coming (Laughter) Korean guy cannot understand. Now there's a Japanese engineer turns to the Korean engineer and he says, &quot;Ah! Cheese ... integrator!&quot; (Laughter) He understands, okay. (Laughter) Everybody understands. So, this is what English is today. It's just a tool to play like a computer game. Now, the challenge is that we know English is not really being taught It's still being taught And students are judged Some of you might remember Does everybody remember in school when you'd get a question you'd have to read And then answer a question And this may have happened to you but you got a big X because you made Like this student. This student clearly But no, not correct! Because he left the letter N But in the real world, what would matter? In the real world, what would matter is or did you understand your customer Now, the problem that I see here, over and over, is that people take the attitude and they bring it into their adult life And if you're in a stressful situation, and you're having a conversation, and you're trying to give a result your brain multi-tasks, And what I see is And you may recognize these three symptoms The first one is that your listening goes. Someone is talking to you, about how you're going to respond you don't actually hear And I can see a lot The second thing to go is your speaking. Your mind sort of shuts down, and that vocabulary you do know and the words don't come out. The third thing to go is your confidence. The worst thing about this is you may only be [un]confident because but to the person talking to you, they may misunderstand this as a lack of confidence So if you want to speak English here's the one thing that you can do. When you speak, don't focus on yourself. Focus on the other person Imagine a next generation of Malaysians, all with that wonderful confidence at any level of English. Because let's remember that English today it's just a tool to use to get a result. And that tool belongs to you. Thank you. (Applause)