He was the King of Kung Fu - the deadliest ever seen. Bringing a new level of excitement to the the first oriental super star. Billed as the fittest man on the planet, he Then, suddenly, he was gone - dead at the In the almost 50 years since then, his legend In this week's Biographics we go beyond Early Years The was born on November 27, 1940 in the Jackson His mother, Grace Li was accompanying her the United States with the Cantonese Opera Grace named the child Jun Fan, meaning 'Return nicknamed him 'Bruce.' The Lee's stayed in San Francisco for five But the heat and humidity of Asia did not He became a sickly child, with his mother Grace had already lost a child and was determined As he grew older, Bruce became stronger. In fact, he became so active that his mother The only time he stopped running, jumping up in a corner with a book in his hands. His long hours of reading into the night caused he required reading glasses. Bruce grew up in a crowded little flat. Along with his family, there was that of his were squashed up in the chaotic household. Still, the Lees were among the wealthiest Along with his Opera income, Hoi Cheun received Bruce spent much of his time amusing himself He showed little interest in school and would with local hoods. By the time he was ten he had developed a These started out innocent enough, but soon Once when he pushed his sister Phoebe into his head under the water until he promised From that day on, he promised to never go The Rising Star Bruce's acting career begun at just three in the local entertainment industry. His first real acting role occurred when he He played a rebellious street kid in the movie In that film he had the first of many on-screen He was billed in this and a string of films Dragon. Bruce loved the life of a young actor. Often, he would be picked up at 2am, leaping door. In his later films he played teenage rebels scene. From the very start he developed certain trademark - the admonishing finger, the thumb wiped By the time he was 18, Bruce had appeared The Orphan, his only leading role. Street Punk At the age of twelve, Bruce began attending His teachers there found him to be lazy, stubborn The Chinese students of Bruce's school felt who attended King George V school up the hill. Bruce became the leader of a gang that hung of the rival school. The boys would shout taunts at the British fist fights would break out. The rumbles were often broken up by the police. Phone calls and visits by the police became Hoi Cheun was furious at the wayward course on him. But he was not home enough for them to have With fighting becoming a regular part of his most of the time. He later recalled that he always fought with But what would happen, he wondered, if he back him up? Could he protect himself? He decided not to take any chances and became to be trained in the most effective of the Fighting Crazy Bruce's father had taught him some Tai Chi little help in a street fight. At the age of thirteen, he began learning Bruce threw himself into his lessons, practicing Yeung was so impressed with his young student older man named Yip Man. The master decided to take on Bruce as a personal At first, Bruce was only interested in learning Yip Man introduced him to the finer points While training under Yip, Bruce learned not also to quell the interference of emotions Despite his developing skills as a martial school. At age fifteen, he was expelled from La Salle on the other side of town. One of his teachers there - brother Edward by entering the 1958 Boxing Championships V School. Bruce liked the idea and trained vigorously When the competition finally took place, Bruce knocking out three opponents in the first In the final he faced Gary Elms, who had held Bruce was able to use the blocking moves he of his opponent. Then in the third round he landed a devastating Bruce had won the title. Despite have the prestige of being the inter into trouble, both with his teachers and the Finally, his mother suggested that he return before he turned 18, at which time it would His father agreed, knowing that Bruce's peers. Coming to America belongings and set off for his three-week Before he left, his mother slipped $100 into His father gave him a further $15. He was booked onto the ship as a third class class by giving dance lessons to other passengers. On May 17th, he fulfilled his mother's prophecy He returned again to the place of his birth, Bruce stayed with a friend of his father, During his first few months in San Francisco, him to teach kung fu. But Bruce was not yet ready to make that leap. A few months after arriving he moved into friend and began work as a waiter in her restaurant. He also enrolled in Edison Technical High When Seattle held an Asian Culture Day, teachers demonstration. In the audience that day was James DeMille, Scanning the audience, Bruce noticed DeMille DeMille thought he could easily take out the that he was unable to lay a finger on Bruce, efficiency. After the demonstration, DeMille asked Bruce Before long, Bruce had a devoted core of serious Bruce applied himself to his education for Tech with high enough grades to be admitted While at college he kept up his kung fu training, his own learning. He would train for up to 40 hours each week, all forms in order to create the most functional In October, 1963, twenty-two-year old Bruce opened his own training academy - the Jun He lived at the back in a small, windowless It was around this time that Bruce also met of Linda Emery. They began dating, though Linda hid the budding The Institute did well and, by June, 1964, in Oakland, California. He closed the doors of the first academy and school in Chinatown as a private club for Before opening his Oakland Kwoon, Bruce attended Beach, where he had been invited to give a Here he wowed the crowds with his soon to It was here that Bruce also met Filipino Martial number one student. Bruce gave further demonstrations and soon His plan was to build up a nest-egg and then marry. But those plans were swept aside when Linda Bruce was delighted. Despite the protestations of Linda's family, 17, 1964. Bruce and his new bride moved in with James James was a traditionally trained Kung Fu efficient style. He worked with Bruce to build up his Oakland They offered their skills to anyone who was In early 1965, a traditional Chinese Kung the pair were teaching Chinese 'secret' He was enraged and, largely to build his own - with a wager; the loser would have to When Wong turned up for the fight he half But Bruce was hyped and ready for action. A surprised Wong tried to throw in some last-minute But Bruce rejected them, saying, "I'm You've made the challenge. It's all out. It's no holds barred." The match was sloppy. After a few weak punches, Wong turned to run. Bruce ran after him and punched him in the finishing punch. Wong finally gave up, and his entourage dragged Bruce was not happy with his showing. The fight had been too messy and he had become It spurred him on to begin an intense regimen for the rest of his life. Return to the Silver Screen son, Brandon. Three days later Bruce was given his first Hairstylist to the stars, Jay Sebring, had Tournament where Bruce had demonstrated his who were casting roles in a new Charlie Chan He didn't get that role, but he was offered the Green Hornet in a projected TV series. The series premiered on September 9, 1966, for the first time. Young viewers were amazed at what they saw star of the show. Bruce began making personal appearances all Unfortunately, the Green Hornet wasn't such too unrealistic and too much of a copycat After 26 weekly episodes it was cancelled. Despite his popularity as Kato, no new roles He did manage to make a little cash with guest Come the Brides. Once again, he turned his energies to teaching Although he never intended it, his techniques He called it Jeet Kune Do - the way of the In February, 1967, Bruce opened his third blocks from Dodger Stadium. At the suggestion of the Green Hornet's $22 per month to as much as $50 per hour. Eventually his rates went up to $250 an hour, out to Switzerland for private lessons. Celebrity students included Steve McQueen, He also trained established martial arts masters Stone. Between them, those three had won every major On April 19, 1969 Linda gave birth to daughter A few weeks later, Bruce suffered a severe The doctor told him to forget kung fu - he For three months he lay flat on his back - and After six months he finally began training Working through his pain, he was soon back It was at this time that Bruce was working Lee Marvin on what was to be his breakout The film never got to the shooting stage, TV series Longstreet. Shortly after shooting the Longstreet episode, now widowed mother to come live in the United When he stepped off the plane he was shocked The Green Hornet ahd been playing in movie He was bombarded by reporters and spent the TV talk shows. Bruce's fame did not escape the attention - the Shaw brothers. They produced two thirds of the Chinese films Theirs was a film production assembly line, They offered Bruce a seven-year contract for He turned them down. Then Bruce was approached by Raymond Chow for two movies. Bruce signed on the dotted line and the rest, Bruce's first major role as an adult was The film was shot in Bangkok in the middle With no air conditioning, polluted water, life that Bruce had dreamed of. But it was all worth it - he was finally The Big Boss premiered in October, 1971. Bruce and Linda sat in the audience in nervous The movie ended to complete silence. Then utter chaos broke out. The ecstatic crowd practically mobbed Bruce Within 3 weeks the film took in more than Bruce's second film for Golden Harvest, the records set by The Big Boss. On the streets sold out tickets went for $50 Bruce had become a superstar almost overnight. Suddenly he was unable to walk down the street Returning to the United Sates, Bruce was excited tentatively titled The Warrior. It was the story of a Chinese Shaolin monk Bruce desperately wanted the part. Yet, he was shocked and disappointed to learn part - remember, he was to play the role The part was given to American actor David Bruce dealt with this rejection by throwing himself called The Way of the Dragon. He decided to do this one completely by himself. He would produce, direct, cast, choreograph, He even played percussion for the movie soundtrack. The movie was shot on a $130,000 budget on In the climactic scene Bruce recreated a one-on-one Way of the Dragon was a smash hit, taking In the wake of it's release, Bruce had planned gruelling schedule. But in October 1972 he heard that basketball He quickly arranged some action sequences that could be used in his next project, Game Having shot twenty minutes of footage for that he had been waiting for for so long. Warner Brothers now saw Bruce as a bankable They wanted him to star in a US martial arts control over the fight scenes. The feature was called Enter the Dragon. The filming of Enter the Dragon placed enormous He couldn't sleep at night, lost weight, With filming wrapped up, Bruce sat in a tiny In order to achieve complete silence, the Bruce went to the bathroom to wash his face He was seized with a fit of vomiting and struggled Rushed to hospital, he was diagnosed with Around noon on July 20th, 1973, Bruce sat and papers. Around 2pm Raymond Chow arrived to discuss two hours. In the early evening, Bruce drove over to who he wanted to play a lead role in the film. Around 7:30, Bruce complained of a headache The pair had planned to meet Raymond Chow But when Betty went in to rouse Bruce she She called Chow who rushed over. Unable to wake Bruce they called a doctor. The martial arts superstar was rushed to hospital Bruce Lee was dead. The world was shocked. On the cusp of worldwide domination, the world's But the legend of Bruce Lee was just beginning.