Yeah; this is one strange motor that I of seller that offers the newest, most bizarre products. product is really a hidden gem or simply garbage; And today I got 6 more intriguing looking tell you whether you should give them a try Let's get started! This video is sponsored by JLCPCB who offers free via-in-pad for their multilayer PCBs. Using via-in-pad often means higher additional costs, but in JLCPCB, you can enjoy this service for free. Additionally JLCPCB is currently running a promotion for 6-layer boards. So and be amazed by their PCB quality and fast Let's start off with this crazy motor I showed This one was actually a suggestion from my having a look at the product page for the The reason is that I can apparently get a one for double the price. I realized what they offer here. 310V high speed BLDC motor from a hair dryer with a lower voltage so that you can power The modifying process by the way consists them with new ones, like I also did in a previous And that is why the low voltage version is went with. grabbed myself a suitable electronic speed voltage, but also the current mentioned in My ESC also already has an Arduino hooked to control the motor speed and thus after it all power, everything seems to work perfectly a high speed one. get used for RC aircraft models since they But since this one comes with an aluminium recommended for this application. dust off surfaces or blow fast air into hard alternative to big and expensive air compressors And since the seller even offers free 3D printed full power test didn't heat up the motor to and I am actually planning to use it in my And as you might have noticed; I used a 3S course now have to charge up again with my Now don't worry this charger still works perfectly ISDT Q6 Nano Charger that you can get for After unboxing it, I got to say that its design And best off; it is quite a lot smaller than same maximum input and output values. power supply; I had a look at all its settings And of course it can do all the popular battery But then there is also the addition of High battery uses. voltage, very nice. like depleting batteries completely or using my test worked wonderfully, came with a great But what I love most is that you can check pack as well as their internal resistance a modern UI is definitely more pleasing than So yeah, all in all I really like this charger batteries up just fine. well made and should hopefully last for a will be my new standard battery charger from Ok; next we come to a product from the category: wireless HDMI extender kit that you can get Now when going back 20 years ago then I fondly usually only had one cable output in your be a hassle and thus you would use such a But now with HDMI devices, you can pretty to the screen where you want to use them, Well, according to the pictures in the product are coming from. the dongles, connecting 5V power and there Now I got to say that at close range the lag low, you could play like this. be 1080p and for me it felt like the feed And when it comes to image quality then I wireless and wired HDMI. requires which was under 10mA for the transmitter And when it comes to the range, then the description I firstly tested out with my crude setup here a distance of around 30m. was surprisingly super stable pretty much So yeah all in all I got to admit that this a need for a product like this, then I can Next let's have a look at this small product with laptops. carry their big and bulky power supplies around But with this adapter, that you can get for for all kinds of laptop brands, you can apparently supply. ideal because my power supply delivers 180W the manufacturer does not recommend. on the product page and thus I simply went in this HP compatible adapter. it still might work. was running and that didn't really work. was on, the input power kept going up and every couple of seconds. battery charging state also didn't go up. turned off, this thing seems to work just this time charged the battery in such a way So all in all, I like the overall idea and board is also pretty nice. worked for them, I do have to give it the my laptop. box that houses a PCB inside which all in Now you might recognize this PCB because I video to build a DIY 100W powerbank. version that now supports PD3.1 and thus can And since more power is always better, I had a 4S battery pack and connected the pack I Only problem now was that I could not activate well as my USB C cable does not support PD3.1 on AliExpress as well and in combination with And drawing 5A seems to work just fine even But the ripple on the output was looking pretty handling components. during my test rides and thus I would certainly a DIY powerbank. is this rather tiny laser tape measure that Now I do have in fact a similar product lying in all kinds of different situations and let Besides simply measuring distances, you can it as a digital spirit level. is quite pricey. has the price advantage here and what I also battery while my expensive one uses AAA batteries. just fine as well and can also calculate areas However in direct comparison and at the same spot on all the time, while the cheap version And when it comes to long distances they both another meaning that if you don't need a digital the cheap version because for that price you And with that being said we successfully had for the first time ever, I only gave thumbs Of course there is still more to discover Until then consider supporting this show on share, subscribe and hit the notification Stay creative and I will see you next time.