The long and bloody guerrilla war in Ireland British Army finally came to an end in January But the peace treaty's division of the island state is only a few months old when it descends The Anglo-Irish War of 1919-1921 saw the Irish local police in the cause of Irish independence Backed by the republican Sinn Fein Party, patrols, assassinate officials and degrade The British responded by first great war veterans introducing martial law, and cracking down By 1921, the IRA was near breaking point and ever. A truce ended the fighting, followed by a 1922. The Anglo-Irish Treaty included many contentious Ireland would not become an independent republic, a Free State. Six largely protestant counties in the north-east the UK, while members of the Irish parliament, allegiance to the king. The treaty had also been signed in controversial Eamon De Valera, the president of the self-proclaimed in London and led opposition to the treaty. Leading the support for the treaty was Michael movement. He claimed the treaty was not perfect but later on. In the end the Irish parliament approved the resigned. So Ireland had a peace treaty and partial leadership was now bitterly split into two The pro-treatyists established the Provisional the treaty quickly. They claimed they had overwhelming public blocked a plebiscite on the issue, 24 of 26 in favor of the treaty. Sinn Fein founder Arthur Griffith now became Government. The anti-treatyists led by De Valera refused had no authority to disestablish the republic Rising. The IRA also split into pro- and anti-treaty Much of the experienced leadership of the but the Dublin-based GHQ had limited control Of the 16 IRA commands in Ireland, only 5 southwestern region of Munster soon became Tensions were increasing, and violence between 1922. The split in the IRA was further exacerbated official armed forces, the National Army. The army was based on the British model of attempted to portray it as the successor of In March, the anti-Treaty forces held a series Army Executive separate from the National With about two-thirds of IRA brigades represented, to Dublin. The new group elected First Southern Division That's not to say all IRA cooperation stopped. Anti and pro-treaty leaders, including Lynch the partitioned north-east as late as April Both factions did make plans for a unified but never acted upon. So as rival Irish governments and armies formed, of the future Irish Free State. The departing Brits handed over barracks and the region, and often the British left behind Law and order in Ireland quickly began to Sectarian violence, agrarian agitation, strikes, Republican unity had largely kept the peace to unravel. Pro-treaty minister Kevin O'Higgins described Government: "Simply eight young men in the City Hall with the foundations not yet laid, and with No police force was functioning throughout the wheels of administration hung idle, battered (Coogan 30) Talk of civil war was also becoming more frequent, in March: "The Treaty... barred the way to independence It was only by Civil War after this that they if you don't fight today, you will fight fighting position, then fight on." (Irish Independent 17/3/22) Some members of the IRA Executive, led by Provisional Government was weak. On April 14th, around 180 men of the Dublin Dublin - the nation's most important judiciary Clearly reminiscent of the Easter Rising in authority of pro-treatyists in their capital, could potentially reunite the IRA against At the same time, though, De Valera and Collins Both suggested putting forward a unified Sinn plan soon broke down amidst suspicion from The British claimed it was tantamount to refuting When the election results came in on June victory, with 58 seats to the anti-treatyists' Britain now put pressure on the Provisional which had been going on since April. Then, on June 22, two IRA gunmen, both former British Field Marshal Sir Henry Wilson in The British government stated that if the order, British forces would return to Ireland Winston Churchill made his position clear "The presence in Dublin of a band of men Republican Executive is a gross breach and The time has come when it is not unfair, premature Irish Government and new Irish Parliament of thing must come to an end... If it does not [then] we shall regard the (Coogan 36/37) With the British gone but threatening to return, the Irish Provisional Government's new National if the occupiers wouldn't leave, the Army During their two-month occupation, the IRA building or develop defences, partly out of There were also no plans to assist the garrison the surrounding buildings. IRA leader Ernie O'Malley estimated he needed Still, the IRA were armed with rifles, automatic Rolls-Royce armoured car. In the early hours of June 28th, Major General ultimatum to the Four Courts occupiers: Surrender 18-pounder field gun. The IRA refused, and so at 4.30am, after a National Army fired the first shells were had begun. As the bombardment started, National Army but their inexperience began to show. They were reluctant to assault the building the artillery was more useful as a morale "I agreed to send [Dalton] fifty rounds to make a noise through the night, as he was men would get disheartened and clear off... About every quarter of an hour during the of the Four Courts, making much noise but (Hopkinson 120) British civil servant Alfred Cope was equally "[This is] not a battle. Rory is in the Four Courts. Free Staters are in the houses opposite, each probably remarkably few hits. A few hundred yards away the people carry (Cottrell 165) The next day, the IRA tried to relieve the but efforts were poorly organised and blocked But, a smaller group of IRA fighters were Street - later called 'The Block'. They were soon joined by anti-Treaty leaders Cathal Brugha and Lynch. However, these new positions could do little On June 30th, National Army troops stormed During the short fight that ensued, a huge hundreds of years of Irish records. There is debate whether this was caused deliberately In any case, the explosion marked the surrender The National Army now turned to The Block, Humphreys was weakening: "We were becoming more and more frustrated whatsoever." (Hopkinson 124) Some IRA men talked about going down as martyrs, Instead, De Valera and others were smuggled on July 5th. Brugha, however, charged out into the street The storming of the Four Courts was a disaster 12 of the Executive's 16 members were there, and others were arrested. Liam Lynch was captured, but was later released - a promise he soon broke. The occupation had not resulted in a surge movement. 65 combatants and civilians were killed, and Perhaps most importantly however, the Dublin now the Irish Free State versus Irish Republicans. The Free State had defeated the Republicans was far from over. Despite the Four Courts debacle, the IRA still In July, the Free State announced an expansion of these were young, raw recruits attracted The Dublin Guard, made up of IRA veterans the shock troops of the National Army. But what the National Army lacked in experience, Britain provided the Free State army with guns, artillery, trucks, armoured cars, and The Free State government also instructed government: "The Army must always be referred to as 'National Troops', or simply 'Troops'. The [IRA] Irregular Forces must not be referred 'forces' or 'troops'. They are to be called 'bands' or 'bodies'." (Kissane 81/82) The Free State estimated around 12,900 IRA the south-west. Many of these were veterans of the Anglo-Irish by new arrivals following the truce, and they Nonetheless, three-quarters of the country and the largest and most experienced IRA divisions, anti-Treaty. Given IRA weakness, Lynch ordered his units barracks and towns. But some IRA leaders like Seumas Robinson "Liam... it's absurd to stay in your own (Hopkinson 129) In reality, there was little central control In July, the National Army began to advance in Munster. The IRA abandoned County Wexford, and Lynch Limerick to Waterford. But the line was an illusion: there were few it. On July 20th, the National Army captured Limerick between the IRA in Munster and the north. Waterford fell soon afterwards, followed by by early August. IRA successes were limited to clearing the pro-treaty garrisons. In most cases, the IRA withdrew in the face pitched battles around the villages of Bruree In early August, General Dalton shifted his On August 8th, National Army troops landed which were diversions for the main landing Exhausted IRA fighters like Frank O'Connor "Technically, a landing from the sea is operations, but as we handled the defence (Cottrell 181) On August 10th, the National Army took the IRA military base at Fermoy. After a string of National Army victories, some IRA men began to talk of surrender. Instead, Lynch ordered his forces to form This was a return to their old methods and On August 22nd, 1922 Michael Collins toured by the National Army despite warnings from Officially he went to inspect the troops, peace talks with the IRA. In the early hours, Collins and General Dalton scout, a Crossley tender, a touring car and When passing through the valley of Beal na Unbeknownst to Collins, the local was also informed his unit. Assuming the convoy might use the same route cart and mined it to prepare the ambush. But by 8pm, the convoy had not returned, and Five men remained to dismantle the blockade, The IRA men launched an impromptu ambush. Dalton told Collins to drive straight through, fight. The resulting firefight lasted 30 minutes, jammed. Towards the end of the skirmish, Collins rose fatally shot through the neck. He was the only casualty on either side. Michael Collins' death is perhaps the single War, and who fired the fateful bullet is still The most common suspect is IRA man and former there are other theories. Some republican historians suggest he was himself, because Collins wanted to make peace. Some have said that De Valera set up the hit, the National Army armored car, since he later Many of these theories first arose long after who were not there at the time. In any case Collins, the most influential So the Free State had lost of its leaders, hand - and now it cracked down on the IRA W.T Cosgrave replaced Collins as Chairman Originally, the British were doubtful about a willing commander. Collins had largely been reluctant to instigate which were his former colleagues. Cosgrave would have few such reservations. From August, the war began to resemble the it, a reality General Dalton recognized: "The [IRA] have now adopted a type of warfare, They now operate over territory which they They are now better armed and better trained In short, they have placed me and my Troops little over a year ago." (Hopkinson 174) In August alone, the National Army lost 58 to strike back at IRA groups. As the war began to resemble an insurgency, Often the IRA would fire the first volleys immediately surrender before the National In such circumstances, commanders reported prisoners. Pressure mounted on Cosgrave to allow the a deterrent to such tactics. The result, in October, was the Army (Special It allowed the military to establish special execute them if necessary. Commander-in-Chief Richard Mulcahy had a blunt "Life must be taken, if necessary, and it say that it must be taken." (Enright 26) The Catholic church also lent their support. Captured IRA fighters were to be denied communion, clear: "The guerrilla warfare now being carried and therefore the killing of National Soldiers " (Kissane 89) In response, Lynch ordered the assassination resolution. But attacks were immediately answered by the In November, the first executions based on Eventually, high ranking republican figures Childers were executed, supposedly in response The brutal government policy seemed to work, in December. The government resolution also allowed for common. The Dublin Guard gained a grisly reputation IRA prisoners with mines. However, unlike British reprisals in the Anglo-Irish attacks against specific individuals, not The IRA's guerrilla campaign in late 1922 executions, and the republican cause was in By early 1923, IRA morale had plummeted and home. Politically too, the anti-Treaty side was De Valera was increasingly side-lined by military alternative to the Free State. Meanwhile, as the National Army shifted to and leaders were arrested or killed. On April 10th, National Army troops fatally By the time of his death, 12,000 IRA fighters Lynch's replacement, Frank Aiken, understood On May 24th, 1923, he ordered all remaining go home. De Valera's joint statement suggested future the Irish Civil War was over: "Further struggle on your part would now in arms [is] unwise in the national interest. Military victory must be allowed to rest for Republic." (Cottrell 187) By the end of the fighting, about 750 pro-treaty number of anti-treatyists, at least 78 of So why did the IRA, who seemed so effective Army barely a year later? Historians have suggested several reasons. Firstly, the IRA - a mostly irregular formation battles. Liam Lynch's decision not to push on Dublin Government time to breath, receive British Many National Army officers were former IRA and even knew the locations of safehouses The Four Courts occupation has also been highlighted Even at the time, IRA commanders were criticised being captured as a result. But perhaps the most critical issue for the The Four Courts occupation did not get the throughout the civil war, IRA commanders complained Anti-treaty leader Harry Boland admitted the "There is no doubt that the people in the that we are to blame for the present state (Hopkinson 127/128) Some of the public opposition to the IRA was Many of the anti-treaty regions were those War, and IRA activities, and the need to raise IRA attacks on railways in particular earned For a sizable portion of the public, the Free of providing security, peace and economic The IRA was no longer the face of popular tactics worked against a perceived 'foreign against a government largely seen as legitimate. But, the end of the civil war was not the north. Sectarian violence and assassinations would from Britain in 1937. In the 1960s, rival paramilitary organisations, IRA, would engage in a 30-year conflict in Only in 1998, after nearly a century of violence peace to Ireland that has lasted more than The bitter and tragic Irish Civil War is just important to cover in our documentaries. We also made an epic documentary about the Berlin - it's 4.5 hours long over 18 episodes, It features original film footage from Soviet battle, detailed maps and animations and expert Museum, Ian from Forgotten Weapons and more. Unfortunately, we can't upload this series of the 2nd World War - and that would get So where can you watch 16 Days in Berlin in On Nebula, a streaming service we built together We'd like to thank Mark Newton for his help As usual, you can find all our sources for I'm Jesse Alexander and this is The Great the only Youtube history channel that believes is with us.