in this video we're going to talk about composite functions and inverse functions combine so let's start with the basics using the data table that we have on the right side evaluate this expression what is the value of f of 2. F of 2 if we look at the function f and the x value 2 it will give us a value of 8. so F of 2 is equal to 8. now what is f what is the inverse of f of a the inverse of f of 8 it gives us the x value which is 2. it's simply the opposite so when dealing with inverse functions you need to reverse X and Y so when you're evaluating a function like f g or H you're looking for the Y value so the Y value corresponds to the last two columns it's the value of f and g when you're trying to find the inverse the number inside is y and it's going to give you X so if you're trying to evaluate the inverse function you're looking for the x value if you're trying to evaluate a regular function you're looking for the Y value so with that being said what is the inverse of f of negative 7. what's the answer to this problem in other words F of what number is equal to negative seven negative 7 is the Y value what we're trying to find is the x value so let's look at f and let's see where it's equal to negative seven so f is equal to negative seven here the answer we're looking for is the x value so it's 4. F of 4 is negative seven so the inverse of f of negative seven is four go ahead and try these problems find the value of G of 0 F of 2 G of the inverse of G of five and the inverse of F of 1. so G of 0 . we're looking at g x is zero the Y value is six F of 2 X is 2 we're looking at f this corresponds to a y value of 8. the inverse of G of 5. so we're dealing with g now the 5 is not an x value it's a y value we're looking for the x value the x value that corresponds to that is 4. now what about the inverse of f of one so we're looking at f the Y value is one the corresponding x value is zero so remember this when you're evaluating regular functions like these two this should be a zero I don't know why I put an X here that's what happens when you get old so whenever you're evaluating the regular functions you're looking for the Y value when you're evaluating the inverse functions you're looking for the x value so the inverse of f of 1 is 0. the inverse of G of 5 is 4. so now that we know how to do that let's work on some harder problems try these two problems let's move on to composite functions find the value of f of G of one and also the inverse of f of G of 2. so let's work on the inside G of 1. we're looking for the Y value here's G here's one the Y value is 3. so now we're looking for f of 3. so we're looking for another y value here's F here's three the Y value is six so F of G of 1 is six now let's move on to the next one what is g of 2. so we have G two G of 2 is 4. so now we have the inverse of f of four so we're looking for an x value starting with f the Y value is for the corresponding x value is one so the inverse of f of 4 is 1. go ahead and try these two problems f inverse of G of 8 and also the inverse of G and the inverse of f of negative seven so go ahead and work on those two problems so let's start with this what is the inverse of G of eight so we have G we're going to find where it's equal to eight and that's here and we'll look for the x value so that is 3. so now we have F of 3. so now let's evaluate F of three so we got F three F of 3 is 6. so that's it for that problem for the next one we have the inverse of f of negative seven so here's negative seven in the F column the x value that corresponds to that is 4. so now we're looking for the inverse G of 4. so looking at column G here's the four the x value that corresponds to that is 2. so that's it for the second example once you do this after a while it gets easier so now that you're getting the hang of this let's try some harder problems try these two the inverse of f and the inverse of G of 3. for the next one we're going to have three functions I of G of the inverse of f of four go ahead and try those two problems so let's start with this the inverse of G of 3. so looking at the G column we find three and then find the corresponding x value which is one so now we have the inverse of f of one so now let's look at the F column find one and find the corresponding x value which is 0. moving on to the next one the inverse of f of four so focusing on the F column here's four the corresponding x value is one so F of the inverse of f of four is one so now we have f of G of 1. so now we can evaluate G of 1. so X is one and we get three so G of 1 is 3. we're looking for the Y value this time so now we have F of three so X is three we're looking at the F column that corresponds to six so that's it for that one now for the sake of practice let's work on one more example let's say we have the inverse of f and then of G and then another inverse of f of 6. go ahead and try that so the inverse of f of 6. let's start with that so looking at the F column let's find the Y value of 6 and then the corresponding x value is 3. so the inverse of f of 6 is 3. and then G of 3 G of 3 is 8. now the inverse of f of a so here's f here's eight the corresponding x value is 2. so the final answer for the whole thing is 2. so now you know how to evaluate composite functions that contain well I guess you could say inverse composite functions in other words you know how to evaluate stuff that looks like this thanks for watching