Our task is to destroy the enemy's manpower as much as possible. Repeat ten once more! Now we are going to the position from where the automatic grenade launcher of the border guards operates. Although it is still not a simple procedure to get there, because of course the car cannot drive there, because it is dangerous, because it will come under fire. You have to walk more than a kilometer. We are not leaving empty-handed also. We have to carry ammo into position. Besides, there is a constant artillery fire, so this is not an easy task. There's one more moving over there, one more that needs to be taken down. Roger, Roger, one second. Come on ten, it is ten already! Come on! This is a good hit! Repeat ten once more! Got it, got it! Onother one runs right behind him! I can see it, I see it, guys, one second! Come on, there's another one moving, one more to put out. One second, I'll reload. Have they pinpointed the infantry? Yes, most likely they straddled it up. &quot;Kirpich&quot;, let me know when it's ready. Roger, Roger. &quot;Kirpich&quot; ready! On standby. ROGER, ROGER. Tell us a little about this device, because people rarely see it. Is this a new weapon? This is an American MK-19, it has a firing range of 2,200, and it works with direct aiming at 1,500. And if compared with GS? Greater accuracy, there is no scatter, and indeed, if you work in short 2-2-2 bursts, then the square turns out somewhere 4+4, it overlaps completely. That is, if a man enters this square, he has no chance at all. The results were immediately after the firefight on the first day, when we left, there were two &quot;200&quot;, namely from the MK-19, more than 4 were heavy &quot;300&quot;, they did not even move. The guys picked up this moment when we put them on the ground, they worked together with the mortar, plus the efficiency was very impressive. Based on the data of our friends-neighbors, our brothers in arms. We took down up to 40 people that day. Both &quot;200&quot; and &quot;300&quot;. You hit the mark! Good shot! Now 10 more of them are flying! Give them another 10, give them another 10 there! Now 10 more of them are flying after 10. &quot;Coyote&quot;, 10 points. Are there many of them here? Enough, all over the place. Are you feeling a bit overwhelmed by work? Yeah. That's enough, the main thing is have enough ammo. Sometimes the intensity is such that our guys don't catch up. But in general, we have everything. So we work. What do you miss the most? Sometimes silence is not enough. Because moscovites sometimes don't give it. Air reconnaissance noticed the movement of katsaps' car, tried to hit it. We don't know the result yet. Later we will be told what was there. But I think that everything is fine. How long have you been working together? In the mortar crew or altogether? (shelling) Sh...t. &quot;Grad&quot;? F...ck, how close, f...ck. F...king good report, sh...t. So we had to interrupt the interview. Briefly, in general terms, what is happening now? The Russians decided to tickle our nerves a little, the hits were quite close. But thank God everything is fine. Fire! What is the danger from that side for you? Mainly tank, artillery and mortar. But the most terrible thing is the tank. You don't hear the shot, but the round is already near you. How do you deal with it? For that, we dig holes in the position, and we just climb in there and that's it. We are waiting for the artillery or the tank to stop shelling. Ready! Fire! I would say it works in a complex. The infantry is moving, the flight of a projectile from the MK-19 is 10 seconds, the flight of a mine from the 82nd mortar is 30 seconds, for example. The flight time of a shot from an ATGL (Anti-Tank Rocket Launchers) is 15 seconds, and if there is an MK-19, which brings the infantry to the spot, we bring the mortar and ATGL there And then we finish them off directly with a larger caliber. Our task is to destroy the enemy's manpower as much as possible. Because a tank, IFV (an infantry fighting vehicle), or any other kind of equipment cannot move without a man. How do you live in such conditions here in the positions? After that, I honestly won't go outdoors. Do mice get into your sleeping bag? We are already friends with them. We already sit down and play cards with them. My comrade says that he wakes up at night and finds a mouse sleeping on his chest. 'Get out, get out', he said and she ran to another place, didn't run away, just lay down further. Have you been to Bakhmut before? Yes, I have been in Bakhmut. How are you after the street battles? How can I say? You dig, there are always mosquitoes and bugs. Are you 21 years old? Yes, I am. I just turned 21 in Bakhmut. How did you celebrate your birthday? My comrade came up to me, and I didn't say anything to him. And then he remembered that it was my birthday today I have the call sign 'Raccoon', so he went, and bought me a 'collar' like for animals And he added: "I wanted to get you some more food, but there was no food for raccoons". So we sat there, it was great. Well, what can we do, that's our nowadays life. Probably one of the few pleasant memories? Yes, it's a very cool memory. And what is the most unpleasant memory? When my comrade died. This is the most unpleasant memory. I wanted to take revenge. It was extremely difficult psychologically, and emotionally. He was really a good friend, a good comrade, it was very hard for me. And even now, when I think about this situation, this made me flesh creep. Is the desire for revenge still there? Not anymore, it's gone, because when you have such a desire, you lose your temper, and it doesn't seem to be good for you. So you can even die. Unnecessary emotions? Yes, unnecessary emotions, you want to avenge your comrade and go forward, and it can end tragically. The grenade launchers come to two positions for several days, so they live and sleep here in the hilltop. Here's the shelter for tonight, I'll show you what it looks like inside. It's not big, but it's enough for several people in case of shelling. Here I have already laid out my sleeping bag. It is about 1 kilometer to the positions of the russian units. So I hope we won't have any other guests today except mice and mosquitoes. Do you still have your morning coffee? It invigorates and raises your fighting spirit. It makes you want to work. Look, my friend, when you run out your ammunition, you reload it, there are buttons, you can see these here and there You press them. You move it to the extreme position, open the lid, and there's a cartridge case. You knock the cartridge case out with a hammer, it falls out, you put it back in and trigger it. The safety catch is here, I don't use it because I have to work very fast. Let's go down five meters. And another ten shots. The best job in the world. Good morning Ukraine! Oleh, is this your first time shooting today? Yes, it is. Tell us about your feelings. Oh, such a cool thing. Takes my breath away The grenades are gone. It's a pity that there is no monitor to see the result immediately. I hear a very joyful voice in the radio station, and I understand that it is clearly on target. For example, yesterday's &quot;200&quot;, we took him down with the MK-19 together with the 82nd mortar, well, he is there. Not even covered, after a certain period they cover them so that there is no smell. He is still just lying there, a fighter who was moving along that road approaches and kicks his arm away. Looked at him and went on. So, there is no humanity, they don't have to drag somewhere, pack, evacuate, deliver to the rear in order to properly bury a person. And what is surprising is that corpses lie where russians have trenches, live, eat... I understand that if they find out... Everything will be sorted out here. Because we did them a lot of trouble. It's okay, we dug in a little, made such holes for ourselves, we are hiding, we hope that we will not get caught. We'll get there, they won't. Do you think this is the answer? No, they have it from time to time. One sector works, then the second sector works. That's three times in a row... that means... The MK-19 serviceman dedicates himself to knocking down bastards and not having any pity for them. Wear it, don't take it off until we win the war. Sanctify him, like Simba did.