Hi everyone! I have merch! You can find it link in the video description A Mukbanger Ate 1 Gallon (3.78 Liters) of This Is What Happened To Her Brain. BT is a 33 year old woman, presenting to the a splitting headache. She tells the admitting nurse that she had this moment, because several gallons of liquid was supposed to put out solid waste. Earlier in the day, BT was trying to record Since March 2020, she had lost all interest home." Her job in sales, became a job of making it nothing was getting done because everything of co-workers talking about nothing. She felt her career had become something that Sometimes when she was required to be on camera, point her work computer's webcam at a video like she was there, but really, she was off BT loved mukbangs, where people would eat She found these therapeutic, where she could with her. If no one was taking work seriously, and she then why not make a few mukbangs myself now, For BT, almost instantly, she had an audience. Every day, she'd notice the same names commenting. They would send her messages and tips and what to expect. But she wanted more. To grow her audience, she noticed that when she'd attract bigger and bigger numbers. One day, while in the grocery store, BT found She remembered seeing earlier that other people jars, and those videos got huge numbers. But, she needed to be different. Maybe she could just eat the gallon and enjoy She looked on her phone and pickles are healthy no problem, she thought, and she bought the At home now, excited for lunch, BT cracked She felt good. She loved the crunch of the cucumber on her flavor. Nothing like a nutritious meal, she thought the health benefits of pickles. Pickles are cucumbers and cucumbers are vegetables, And you know what? Athletes use pickle juice to replenish their believe this? It's also a probiotic, so undoubtedly it bacteria affects the brain, it basically just as she slowly finished the gallon jar of the She had to take a few bathroom breaks inbetween. And then she started drinking the juice. By this time her lips were all puckered up sores in her mouth, but this didnt matter, pickle, she thought. Immediately after finishing the whole gallon She had seen some people get sick trying to the right thing to do. But about 20 minutes after her last sip of At first, it was just a just a little shake, was folding on itself as she clenched her to the bathroom. On the toilet now, BT felt like all her organs bowl. As the hours passed, she felt almost every her stomach and her intestines kept shaking In a world of hurt, she imagined her brain into the toilet as the trembling in her abdomen After all this time, she had no urge to drink Laying down now, BT could swear her skin was She could see herself kneeling on the floor She couldn't speak but she wished she could. As she replayed herself eating the pickles, It kept everyone watching pleasantly amused But as it starts to feel like an ice pick she becomes weak, and she calls for 911, as we are now. At examination, BT told doctors something It wasn't coherent because she was slurring They weren't exactly sure what happened. But there's several clues as to what could and a blood test reveals that she has Acute Hyper meaning high. Natr referring to sodium or more formally periodic table of elements. And emia meaning presence in blood. High sodium presence in blood. Acute meaning that there were no underlying aside from the 1 gallon of pickles inside the first clue. Pickles are high in sodium. The one gallon that BT ate has at least 20 counting the pickle juice that she drank. If the juice has the same sodium content as then the juice alone could be around 10-15 grams of sodium. But this brings us to the difference between Table salt is usually sodium chloride, that's The reason why this is important, is because can also cause hypernatremia because it's If BT packed around 30 grams of sodium into then it's like she ate 78 grams of table salt. This is a problem because 40 grams of table start to lose consciousness and have a seizure. The medical team notes that BT doesn't respond She's still breathing, but she doesnt respond they shine a light into her eyes, they notice All of this meaning that something is happening This brings us back to hypernatremia, high If a potentially lethal dose of sodium went but, is that real? She had watery stools for hours, meaning there So, wouldn't the sodium have exited her Maybe. You see, the interesting thing about sodium it. In this small science experiment, I take salty meaning only water can flow in and out of I submerge the tube in a pool of distilled And you'll see that water flows in to the That water flows towards where there's sodium. If a gallon of pickles and juice were sitting water follows sodium, then it means not only drawn in to her gut. This explains why she felt bloated after finishing But the stomach and intestines are muscles, in, that reflex ripples down and tells the This reflex explains why you use the toilet But in BT's case, it was a big stretch. And all those watery stools are big a problem, The thing about hypernatremia, is that it's of water. We already know BT ate a lethal amount of her only problem. She also has massive water loss after hours She doesn't just have high sodium presence When the denominator is a smaller number, even more concentrated. She may have put out some sodium from the to the fact that the sodium absorbed in to blood... And if water follows sodium, then it means all her organs. The muscles hold on to water, so if they lose explaining why she's stiff. The liver is big, and if it shrivels up, maybe not too big of a deal. But if she's had a seizure and is unresponsive the brain, then it means her brain is shrinking As the water gets sucked out of her brain This bleeding can cause permanent damage. If she's lost a lot of water, then the answer to try to dilute the sodium. We can't pull out the sodium from her body, sodium as the medical team starts fluids to When there's hypernatremia, the brain will It makes itself saltier by pumping things This adaptation takes around a day to happen. Meaning if the medical team corrects BT's be too salty from the adaptation, and the would swell in, causing to brain to expand, the sides of the skull. The medical team don't know how long ago They don't know exactly the details of how But it seems to be working. BT seems to be doing ok. But as the hours pass, her blood pressure Her kidneys stop making urine as they completely But her reflexes were still in tact. Her pupils still reacted to light. So it may not yet be too late. And it wasn't. As BT regained consciousness in the hospital, before being sent home, where she was able to make Gallon of anything challenge, is never worth Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And Be Well.