(wind whistling) (dramatic music) - The Chinese Communist Party presents the central threat of our times. (light dramatic music) - [Reporter] Why do you keep - It comes from China. That's why. It comes from China. - [Nick] A new era of confrontation. - If these two turn out to be adversaries, I cannot imagine anything would be able to be solved. - [Nick] Tensions over - Make no mistake about, it thrusts poses an unprecedented challenge to the United States. - [Nick] Our economic future is at stake. (speaking foreign language) Ground Zero for, a deadly outbreak. - World Wars, depressions, 9/11. This falls in that category. - [Nick] But still, the fastest growth in world history. - In no other country than China, have you had such a in such a short amount of time. - [Nick] The most important and the strongest Chinese (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] If China wants to become a big strong country, (people yelling in foreign language) - He want total control. We believe in democracy. But they believe in suppression. (dramatic music) - [Nick] Tonight, China's (dramatic music) - [Announcer] This by contributions to your PBS Thank you. (triumphant music) - [Nick] In Beijing's the people clap in unison for one man. Xi Jinping, Communist Commander in Chief, President of China says he's (audience applauding) (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The Chinese a tremendous transformation: and is becoming strong. It offers Chinese wisdom to solving the problems facing mankind. - Not since Mao Zedong, Communist has a Chinese leader suggested so clearly the world could emulate China. (audience applauding) Not since Mao has China had a leader as powerful as Xi Jinping. Last year we traveled to China twice and reported from 8 countries, China and its relationship with the U.S. We wanted to return but and changed the world. And in this global crisis, decreasing collaboration and (speaking foreign language) In March Xi Jinping flew to Wuhan, the epicenter of COVID-19, (crowd applauding) He congratulated healthcare for winning the quote &quot;People's another phrase borrowed from Mao. From January to March the movement of more than Thousands of neighborhoods, locked down. State planners mobilized, in less than two weeks. - We have the confidence that the outbreak and win the battle, leadership under President Xi Jinping. - [Nick] Even Xi Jinping admitted COVID-19 tested that leadership. And the virus that has killed hundreds of thousands worldwide, to their worst point in half a century. - China didn't share all Instead, it covered up how (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Pompeo is as excuses for his own misbehavior. - I call it the plague from China. (audience laughing) (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The international disagrees with this selfish responsibilities and undermines - [Nick] For Xi Jinping, is that he provides his people (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I sincerely live a good life, a safe and sound life. I hope no one will be a moderately prosperous society. I wish you all happiness and health. (crowd cheering) - [Nick] As soon as travel he checked in with shop owners, workers, even young students. Xi calls himself the the same phrase that Mao used. Xi's travels recreate and they celebrate Mao Communist China 70 years ago, ignoring the millions who (speaking foreign language) At the Communist Party's National School, Mao stands sentry, and the Professor Han Qungxiang wrote the book, literally on Xi Jinping thought. The government put him (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The country's and people's happiness needs Xi Jinping. If China wants to become it will need Xi Jinping. - We have a phrase the American dream, and the American dream is It seems like what Xi is a collective dream. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The history of that only when the country is then all of the people (tank artillery banging) - [Nick] It's not just happiness. Xi's national revival &quot;stand tall in the East.&quot; He has dramatically navy and air force, and opened up China's first overseas base, in (chanting in foreign language) And most controversially: of the South China Sea and flouting U.S. objections (Leng Feng roaring) Xi's China flaunts its and the Chinese public. (players cheering) As seen in China's highest &quot;Wolf Warrior II&quot; star and a former soldier who becomes a rogue hero, launching a seeming suicide and teaming up with fellow (tank crashing) - Pass me the flag. - [Nick] In Xi's China, the good guys are the Chinese military. (rocket booming) - [Man] Sir, why are we - The bad guy? - [Nick] Is a violence-loving, (man groaning) - People like you will always (Leng Feng grunting) - That's history. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] In Chinese modern history, China has been bullied for a long time. When we are rich, our When we feel like we are in danger, we will be protected by our country. Not like before. - [Nick] During coronavirus, Zhao Lijian was dubbed Wolf Warrior, for his aggressive style (gunshot banging) Especially during the that followed George Floyd's death. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The whole world has watched as things unravel in the U.S. American politicians had better get their own house in order. - [Nick] As Wolf Warrior the Communist party externally, Xi Jingping's China increases the party's primacy, internally. (speaking foreign language) Hong Cheng works for the Tidal Star and leads the (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Today we're Please open the app &quot;Study - [Nick] This is Tidal Star's Party Room, where Xi Jinping Thought and employees are fed a and Communist Party (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] This app has It not only leads our company it also provides guidance - Is the role of the Communist including in private (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The party Since it was established we've achieved many positive results: gathering our strength, and promoting our company's development. - [Nick] But thousands of submitting to Xi Jinping This was the scene last year. This is one of Hong and protestors have And they use umbrellas but also because it's the symbol of the democracy movement the freedoms that this city (yelling in foreign language) - When Xi Jinping began in suppression, he is his own Chinese Dream, which - [Nick] Lee Cheuk-Yan is a - The people of Hong Kong are, the young, especially younger generation, that China is trying to And our identity, our our aspirational democracy, our freedom, everything will be lost in the future. - [Nick] When you guys do you identify yourselves as both Chinese and from Hong Kong? Or just Hong Kong? - Just Hong Kong. (singing in foreign language) - [Nick] Hong Kong's so much, they wrote their with its own music video that went viral. (singing in foreign language) &quot;The time has come to wage &quot;Freedom and liberty belong to this land.&quot; - [Protestor] If we give up, that Hong Kong people is the We are not going to let this happen. Hong Kong is not China. - [Nick] But Xi Jinping steps that could make Hong In May, The National People's Congress; Beijing's rubber stamp legislature, endorsed a pathway that Hong Kong's British rule of law. The vote was 2,878 to one. To understand the impact, with Lee Cheuk-Yan. - And when people speak and charged with subversion. When you go out on the street, To change Hong Kong from the rule of law, that we are so proud of, as I've said, to become rule by law (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] Lee helped organize and has been arrested twice, charged with inciting an - Democracy in China now! - [Crowd] Democracy in China now. (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] Beijing's second the legislation would maintain What the Communist Party says, including the national security law, is about the stability And if the stability of the then there would be chaos. - That's the myth by the to control the people. Xi Jinping does not care He had one world perspective that China should be in He want to be that sort of dictator. He feels that he can sort of, you know, command his own power or make the world submit to his will. (horns honking) - [Nick] Inside mainland China, few critics are willing to Last year we met one he felt comfortable: our hotel room. Historian Zhang Lifan wouldn't (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Because the is unchecked, corruption is So if he wants to get rid of opponents, he can easily do so by finding Therefore, he was able to with an unstoppable force. (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] As many as have been investigated for corruption. Lawyers who have represented activists, have been disbarred. Journalists who write critically, have been thrown into prison. Xi has replaced collective leadership with centralized authority. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The current He first canceled the term limit and then re-raised the idea As a result, some of the achievements of the political reforms of - [Nick] Xi's reversing those reforms, launched by his powerful is a topic even Xi's allies avoid. - Deng talked about concentration or leadership by one person. Xi has removed term limits. Why has he done that? (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] This is not a problem yet. Not the right time to talk about it. - Why are the needs of that Xi Jinping needs more time? (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] It's not the (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] And then he says (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] He just wants power longer to get more control. (light dramatic music) (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I'm afraid. In front of me is the virus, and administrative power of China. But as long as I live in this city, I will continue to report. (speaking foreign language) (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Maybe It's possible. But I can't stay silent. If they don't come after me, (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Today, I'm mother (beeping), I'm You think I'm afraid (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] In January, citizen journalist Chen Qiushi traveled to to expose, what the government hid. (speaking foreign language) For two weeks Chen documented problems in hospitals that were overwhelmed. (speaking foreign language) Fang Bin was a Wuhan body bags in Wuhan, left in a van. Another of Fang's videos (speaking foreign language) A scroll of paper with the and &quot;Power back to the people.&quot; The same day, he was arrested, Chen also disappeared, since this last video. (speaking foreign language) - Chinese people now that this government failed them. This disaster, by large, is both the local authority bear a big responsibility - [Nick] Xiao Qiang is the editor in chief of the U.S. based China Digital Times, a news site that highlights content suppressed by China's state censors. - By containing the coverage, and denial, and information it destroyed the public at the time to fighting with the epidemic. - [Nick] The U.S. accuses of deception beginning in December, when Wuhan's Central the illnesses they were - They shared the information with their relatives, their friends. They were asked to shut up. - [Nick] Yanzhong Huang is the Council on Foreign Relations' senior We spoke to him via Zoom. - Some health care workers and that was a smoking human to human transmission. - [Nick] Dr. Ai Fen was director of emergency medicine. On December 30th, she told she'd been treating a new and sent patient samples to labs. The scientists investigated the genome, and the doctors sounded But then the doctors and On New Year's Day, the put a gag order on the And authorities detained Dr. Li Wenliang and seven other doctors, rumors causing adverse social impact. And the lab that posted the first genome of the virus was temporarily shut. Dr. Ai said she went home &quot;If something goes wrong, - It's been 128 days since shared information on the with a SARS-like virus. China could have prevented the deaths of hundreds of thousands - [Nick] And while local information about COVID-19, with no social distancing, Weeks later, Xi Jinping and local and national Chinese that COVID-19 was dangerous That's when Wuhan writer She wrote the new information what we had seen and heard earlier,&quot; and &quot;the virus roamed the Appearing whenever and She wrote the initial &quot;transformed Wuhan into a city of blood and tears filled with endless misery. To my dear internet censors: of Wuhan speak out and (woman screaming) (screaming in foreign language) Instead, weeks of cover-up and inaction, turned into a draconian police state. (screaming in foreign language) Authorities punished people and dragged families out of their homes into forced quarantines. Local authorities, hoping to felt empowered to crack down. Is that a problem - It was always there in authoritarian, political, structural way. But I think since 2012, we has been rapidly centralized. - [Nick] After Dr. Li the state crescendoed. &quot;Farewell Li Wenliang&quot; When a senior official visited Wuhan, residents shouted out &quot;Everything is fake.&quot; (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] In response the and turned to disinformation. On March the 12th so-called Zhao Lijian, wrote on Twitter, who brought the epidemic to Wuhan.&quot; - After Dr. Li Wenliang's mass mourning and anger. There was this strong pressure, a demand for a meaningful If you look at the outcome of it does actually distracted from making change on the political front. (light music) - [Nick] China then turned to deflection. Zou Yue is a leading - President Trump and his Their problem is a lack - [Nick] Chinese media and showcased worldwide donations to hard hit countries like Italy. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] This saved many lives and it has been absolutely necessary. For your help, thank you. - [Nick] The U.S. called an effort to mask culpability. They were the first country to the world from this virus, sharing that information with the globe. China now making small sales and claiming that they are now the white hat in what has taken place. - [Nick] Both sides portrayed the confrontation as ideological. - The central government of a champion, guide, coordinator, supervisor and guarantor of last resort. So, when I saw Governor the federal government to - What am I going to when I need 30,000? - I thought wow, what a difference different systems can make. - What do autocracies do They become more aggressive, they deny people their In the end they do enormous own nation and put the - [Nick] But when New got supplies, he didn't - The Chinese government is of 1,000 ventilators that - [Nick] China produces 50% of the world's medical supplies, - I think the pandemic and Western countries We have to recognize that against us in the potential trade war. (boat horn blowing) (upbeat music) - [Nick] That trade war This is Shenzhen, China's silicon valley. Across Shenzhen's SEG thousands of businesses sell If you have a product that's chances are it comes from here. Over decades, China built not only for electronics, but cheap and reliable labor (machines whirring) Shanghai General Sports produces more than 3,000,000 bikes every and it's a family business. Meet CEO Lei Ge whose father - We work with our partners That's why we can become so close. - [Nick] A phase one trade cut some U.S. tariffs in but not the tariffs on Nor did it answer the U.S.'s fundamental concerns about trade. Here's another family Shanghai General Sports' chief customer, Kent Bikes CEO Arnold Kamler. - My grandparents came over and immediately opened a bicycle store. I joined the company in 1972, in the bicycle business and nothing else for more than 110 years now. - Is there a point of China is doing things that and pushing back on Chinese practices? - Look I applaud President Trump I just don't agree with the A factory in China for on their cost and still with from the government still make a profit. So that's, that's pretty serious cheating. (upbeat music) - [Nick] The U.S. says that cheating started as cheap copycats. SportsCams, not GoPros. New Baiahne, not New Balance. Wu-Mart, not Wal-Mart. And then the U.S. says it Designs of nuclear power plants, navigation satellite technology, billion dollar American jets. The U.S. says in just a few decades, theft helped China make and its companies technology leaders. - That kind of technological advancement doesn't happen organically. - [Nick] Jake Parker is the Vice President of the U.S.-China Business Council, which advocates for American - China's system is set up has access to information that companies would consider to be trade secrets. President Trump has raised in the relationship for That have not been adequately And frankly, those issues go to the core of how China's economic system operates. (upbeat music) - [Nick] The Chinese government protects key industries from foreign competition. Especially artificial intelligence. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] We hope human labor in industries (robots whirring) - [Nick] EX Robot is working (speaking foreign language) They can mimic facial (speaking foreign language) Even host a TV show. EX Robot president Yang Dongyue. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Their main with people, so a good If the robot is very good-looking, like a pretty lady or a handsome man, people will feel more pleasant (upbeat music) - [Nick] China is racing for AI by 2030, and is The U.S. says companies how much government aid they receive. But these companies are growing rapidly and drive China's (gentle classical music) Their pacing is precise. Their spacing is seamless This is China's first butler academy. Their future employers will be (wine splashing) In communist China, billionaires are built faster than anywhere else. There are now more than in New York, working in technology, real estate, and pharmaceuticals. - In no other country other a great amount of change in - [Nick] Sara Jane Ho knows and pressure of being rich in China. - Average price here It's not too expensive at all. - [Nick] She's been dubbed China's &quot;Millennial Martha Stewart,&quot; and founded the country's - Sometimes I let friends and they say, wow you know your students are so sophisticated, they don't look like people who need etiquette. Well you know what, Princess Did she go because she was No. - It's not 'cause she was rude. It's 'cause she went to be There was a part of Chinese You couldn't go to school, But now Chinese are traveling sending their children abroad. And so as a result, starting there was a great need an international code; how Mm, it tastes so good. - [Nick] Xi Jinping has on this conspicuous consumption. But the country's growth (speaking foreign language) - The affluent right now in China. They're all new money. There's no old money in China A lot of people were very poor, I mean everybody was very (chanting in foreign language) - [Nick] Accumulating was once considered counter-revolutionary. Mao Zedong came to power in 1949 vowing to eliminate class and capitalism. (drums pounding) (speaking foreign language) Mao pursued his utopian Affluent families lost their wealth and many lost their lives. Tens of millions died from famine, and almost 90% of the population That changed in the late 70s and 80s, when Deng Xiaoping loosened state control over China's economy and China grew faster than into the world's second largest economy. But all of that is now in jeopardy. - China out with GDP the first contraction of publishing the data back in 1992. - [Nick] The economic not only threatens the but also Xi Jinping's plan to The World Bank says 24% or the poverty line of $5.50 a day. And one of Xi's key stimulus programs, to help lift rural Chinese out of poverty and to expand China's is the Belt and Road Initiative. (train whirring) The Belt and Road Initiative is one of Xi Jinping's signature policies. And when Xi Jinping calls world leaders to the Belt and Road Forum (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Connectivity of China's opening up. (light music) - [Nick] 2,000 years ago China spread goods, ideas and Today, China aspires to of ports and an economic and railways across 70 countries, including a network of (birds chirping) Today, Indonesia welcomes Outside Bandung, the commuter But now, cutting through to Indonesia's capital, Jakarta, there's a tunnel for a high-speed train. And the engineers and managers who lead this $6,000,000,000 project, are Chinese. - This benefit us very much, you know. Because we are going to have also like a new cities, you know, suburb. So then we can spread - [Dan] With new industry, new - Yes, yes indeed. - [Nick] Indonesian Minister dreams of traveling like the Chinese. - I experienced that I went from Beijing only one Very comfortable. - [Nick] Like the train we to the city of Shenzhen - [Announcer] We will soon - Welcome to China! In 20 years, China has rail to the longest in the world thanks to The rails, the electricity, all produced by enterprises And then there's majority Baosteel is so big, it has its own ports; 4 of them, outside Shanghai. Huang Weiliang directs How important is Belt and Road (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] For the steel industry, the Belt and Road Initiative like ports, railroads, bridges, These will generate direct - [Nick] Xiao Weiming leads the office in the Chinese ministry that oversees BRI. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] We encourage out of China to enhance In return we can use the to improve the income This is important. - [Nick] But the Belt and only expand Chinese infrastructure. - Well, China is a big power now. And big powers normally want (audience applauding) - [Nick] Mahatir Mohamad served as Malaysian Prime and again until earlier When he came to power, - Everything is imported, Workers were from China. All the parts and the That means that Malaysia - [Nick] Belt and Road projects can come at a steep price. Sri Lanka, privatized a debt payments to a Chinese bank. To build Belt and Road Kenya agreed to apply Chinese And to pay for South Ecuador is selling 80% of oil, to China at a discount. - These transactions aren't fair. - [Nick] Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and the Trump Administration the Belt and Road Initiative of being corrupt, and reducing - They're showing up with They're putting debt on nations that they can't possibly repay, be able to exert political influence. - What's your response to that criticism? That the Belt Road Initiative and aren't transparent. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Chinese companies foreign companies did not Foreign companies and workers are not as hard-working as the Chinese. - But don't those Chinese not because they're just hard workers, but because they are funded are backed by the Chinese state? (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I cannot say it's the Chinese government's support. China's financial institutions if they deem the projects are profitable. We do not make investments blindly. We Chinese are not stupid. - [Nick] The U.S. is investments in important But it's having to play catch up. - The Chinese very aggressive. If you look on the last 30 years, the Chinese economy so efficient, moving forward also with the technology. American technology is But the last five years, technology is much better. - [Nick] In China, the - This is our new P30 Pro. - [Nick] The company phone and technology juggernaut. Can you describe the vision - We want, you know, bring continent and to every family, to every house, to every people. - This is our, we are - [Nick] Last September Huawei launched the world's first chip with integrated 5G, or 5th generation phone technology. 5G will dramatically speed up phones, is designed to connect will transmit huge and transform entire cities. - We're now walking on the floor that touches everything in your city. - [Nick] Last July, Chief Edwin Diender showed me what A database of every citizens' face, every car, every license plate. Tracking everyone by their cell phones. And artificial intelligence their surveillance into one package. - A couple of years ago were different systems, So, the first thing all these things are and combined with artificial intelligence. - [Nick] Huawei and other are building 5G and smart cities PBS NewsHour teams and heard praise from police, and criticism from human rights advocates, that Chinese technology - There will be no letup in this campaign - [Nick] Filipino President what he calls a war on drugs. He turned to China for help. In 2016, Duterte traveled Chinese government loans to buy a Chinese safe city. - In terms of the benefit of this project to the country, it's immeasurable. - [Nick] Jonathan Malaya is of Interior and Local - If we are to ensure of our countrymen we must - [Nick] But the government's opponents call the war on drugs an that's killed tens of thousands. And those Chinese tools can - Basically, what a Safe is increased electronic and - [Nick] The Philippines House Francisco Ashley Acedillo calls Huawei a front for the Chinese Communist Party. - An Intelligence and security which requires all, everyone in China, both public and private, to and authorities in intelligence gathering. - [Nick] And a new government Ecuador, found those were used against its own citizens. Former President Rafael Correa of surveillance called ECU-911, with Chinese technology and The current Ecuadorian surveillance was built with intelligence agency that (speaking foreign language) Like Retired Colonel Mario Pazmino. A single Chinese produced camera, looks right into his living room. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] We were living terrorism in which to curtail people's freedom of expression. They choose Chinese companies developed a monitoring system. Their gift is a Trojan horse, designed to control everything in society. - A White House official authoritarianism in a box. What's your response to that? - What do you want me to say? I think it's also liberation in a box. I think it's also city management in daily operations in a box. - So, can this be used for surveillance, is it being used for surveillance? - Well, what you're of intelligent video surveillance, which is common technology Like every technology, it - [Nick] Does that concern countries might be using this for- - Personally yes, of course. I'm a person just like I have my own concerns of course, that is a concern. - [Nick] Huawei's considered such a threat the U.S. military banned the company. And the Trump Administration from selling technology to Huawei. - The U.S. is trying to block Huawei, but is that really having any impact? - There's no major impact. All our major customers I think that is the fact. (light dramatic music) - [Nick] Nowhere is Chinese technology more pervasive than in China. During the COVID-19 On China's biggest holiday, previously bustling city (wind whistling) (light dramatic music) In April, the government (speaking foreign language) But movement is tightly To enter a supermarket, a green code on their phone. The codes appear inside popular apps. Users enter their own health information, and the government tracks where everyone goes via cell phone. Green means you're healthy. Yellow means contact in the last 2 weeks. Red means confirmed positive All of this information is Residents don't seem to mind. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I believe or red codes are either in They are definitely not Those who are able to come I feel safe. - [Nick] The Chinese keeps citizens safe, - China is quite unique because it's been a rapidly developing country. So we have very uneven distribution. Technology helps to bridge those gaps. - [Nick] Jessica Tan is whose building towers over Shenzhen. (gong ringing) Ping An boomed financially second largest insurance company. But it's celebrating by turning - [Man] Micro-Expression - [Nick] One Ping An loan applicants are lying by examining more than - Sometimes when you are nervous there are these microexpressions - [Man] The system - Verifying the person to be is quite accurate. I think it's now already - [Nick] And when 1.4 are all entering data into their phones, that's big data and new data. - Only about 35, 40% of them may have ever borrowed from a bank before. Right, so, then the rest of you don't really have It's actually zero credit record. (horns honking) - [Nick] Ping An assessed its customers, by developing a social credit score, based on all the data from users phones. Like Ping An, the people's data into social credit scores. In Shenzhen, cameras If people jaywalk, they're publicly shamed when their faces are and their credit scores are docked. Do you think that because more people cross legally? (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Of course, doing something inappropriate, so they will change their behavior. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] If you jaywalk, For example, if you cross the red light, your score would be (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] The credit score there's even a Communist party-produced National Credit Magazine. Wu Xiaoyan is the editor in chief. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] This system measure in our social governance. For example, on the bus, will pay regular price, only pay 80% of that. - When I look in this magazine and then in black, a black list. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Those on who have trustworthy behavior. Those on the black list are people whose behaviors are not trustworthy. - Does it work? Does rewarding people who who act badly make more people act well? (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Of course it works. (speaking foreign language) - Okay, sure. question made her uncomfortable. She and her staff walked and the newsroom. But our microphones were still rolling, and recorded their conversation - [Translator] Don't talk Talk about companies, businesses. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] We need to be calm, we cannot refuse to be interviewed. - [Translator] Not too rigid or serious. - [Nick] 10 minutes to finish the interview. (speaking foreign language) She said everything was okay, but the government's critics because they say China's Big Are you, as a constant critic of the government, under surveillance? (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Of course. We can feel this The Chinese authorities throughout cities, facial as well as various mobile phone Surveillance is indeed omnipresent. - [Nick] That surveillance happens automatically and instantaneously. Every day, Chinese citizens send more than 45 billion messages on WeChat, the country's most If you type in something sensitive, like a reference to the in Mandarin, the recipient (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Sometimes, can't contact each other. I noticed that whenever were trying to set up interviews with me, the police would always - [Nick] And the Chinese government used that unblinking surveillance minority who's moved from Xinjiang, China to Turkey's largest city, Istanbul. (somber music) (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I never in the 21st century: Innocent on their hands, shackles, and - [Nick] Gulbahar Jalilova lives alone in a small apartment. The injuries she suffered three years ago have healed. But she hasn't gotten over the memories. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I saw to 80-year-old women. They take them for interrogation. They would come back and their bodies were bruised, their heads swollen. After three months, they put a black hood over my head and took me away. - [Nick] Abdusalam we spoke to live in self-imposed scared of the Chinese Can you describe for us what that detention center was like? (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] They because they called us suspicious. There is unimaginable oppression inside. Every day they'd toss us so that we didn't die, and 15 or 20 of us with unbearable brutality. We are a people who We became their target and because we had They locked us up in jail. Then after taking us to a camp, they'd tell us we hadn't that they were just educating us. (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] The Chinese say by teaching them Mandarin This is Chinese state media video. The detainees we interviewed, say it's staged and scripted, a facade that hides (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The 10 hours one day were exactly they would teach us the next. The Chinese were trying our faith, our beliefs. It was a plot to force us - [Nick] And then there are International researchers coerced hundreds of thousands of Uyghurs to become laborers in factories. Many of these factories make (speaking foreign language) The Chinese call Muslim Uyghurs In 2009, Uyghurs in Uyghur militants affiliated with Al Qaeda took credit for this 2013 that killed 2 people and China militants in southern China that killed more than 30. Those attacks are claimed by Uyghurs who call Xinjiang East Turkestan, which self declared independence China says it's administered And Foreign Ministry says China is fighting separatists. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The problem of counter-terrorism and de-extremism, not religious and human rights issues. (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] But In Xinjiang residents say China has launched The government has partially at least a dozen mosques. And Uyghurs say the Chinese aren't only targeting their religion. In Istanbul, Uyghurs describe Uyghur language and all Uyghur culture. The U.S. has called that (singing in foreign language) China has even banned Uyghur music. Yusup Sulayman sings about and a people who've been silenced. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] They're composers, and songwriters They're disappearing our intellectuals. They've burned what they wanted to burn, and scrubbed what they wanted to scrub. - [Nick] In Xinjiang's of Chairman Mao looms over the city. In multiple interviews across China, we heard the same thing: China is fighting terrorism and fake news. Su Ge is a former of one of the Chinese foreign - China and the United the same about the extremists. We also have this danger of terrorism. The best way to eradicate radicalism is to provide education, - There have been cases of imprisonment, that are on a mass scale, not just of terrorists but actually entire - Well, to us, that's to to write a story about it- - [Nick] You mean you - Yeah. You ask them, how many and just by terrorists? - [Nick] But Gulbahar And she can't forget (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I see as if I were still in the camp myself. (speaking foreign language) - [Nick] After she was the names of the women in her cell. (speaking foreign language) The prisoners in one of thousands of cells across Xinjiang, China. (speaking foreign language) So what's the future of Where do we go from here? Most likely, even less collaboration, and more confrontation. (light dramatic music) China watchers call this the worst moment in U.S.-China relations since relations were restored in the 1970s. Tensions that already Confrontations over technology, trade, and the South China Sea. The information war over COVID-19. And China is center stage On the Shanghai boardwalk, I heard the hope, China and and the fear of what could be at stake. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] If China to understand each other, ultimately allow us to avoid a - [Nick] These two countries, help determine so much of our (light dramatic music) (dramatic music) - [Announcer] This program contributions to your PBS Thank you.