If I made a Hollywood trailer for my friend Dave's dating profile, would he get more dates? DAVE: Medically, I'm very unique. MAX VOICEOVER: Would his DMs... blow up? [EXPLOSION] But who is Dave? Well, he's a wonderful guy, And he's looking for love. So, I thought I would help him, by going completely over the top. [LAUGHTER] I got a warehouse, Hollywood-grade cameras, A billboard campaign, and a stunt team. [MAX LAUGHS] All so I can make a Hollywood trailer for Dave, I mean, sure, I am the ultimate wingman. So first things first, I would need, a director. So, I've been on the hunt for a director of this project, to make this trailer to be the best thing it possibly can be. I really want someone to buy in, to who Dave is. And I think I found somebody. He's called Jed. He's in, but he's just said that he needs to learn and starts writing and putting together a script. So, I organised Jed to come in and interview an unsuspecting Dave, MAX: Oh, are we going to have fun, boys! So let's all take a moment to get to know Dave, a little bit better. DAVE: Hello. JED: What do you do with Max? DAVE: So I am one of his editors. All the short videos that go out online, most of them are me. JED: Are you seeing anyone, or... DAVE: No, I'm a single- single man, It's OK, I like the freedom. I guess it's got it downsides, as well. JED: What's the downsides? Lots of lonely nights, and mornings, I'd like someone who's going to be a bit quirky, As a man below the average height, I can't be going too high, 'cause then I got to get the step ladder and then... I got approached by a woman who was, I think, 6 foot once. She was grinding, on me, but... it was about here. She knocked my glasses off my face. I had to hide in the toilet. She was a very keen woman. I like gingers. And blondes, brunettes, yeah, not- not fussed. Medically, I'm very unique. I have a lot of medical problems, 'Oh, he's eating a nut, where's his EpiPen?' JED: Do you need the EpiPen for- for a dog? No, no, for the dog- the EpiPen's just for nuts, so as long as they're not eating JED: OK. Don't know if you noticed, I like quirky jumpers. Yeah! That's where I keep all my medication. I've got a degree in comedy. JED: 'Cause women like funny men, right? They do, and if you've got a certificate to prove it, Now this trailer that we'll be making so it really needed to stand out. So, we wanted to ask him, JED: Do you ride fast cars, I can't drive. JED: OK. So no. JED: Do you know any martial arts, Um, I got in one fight, [JED LAUGHS] JED: I think I've got everything I need. Nice. So, uh, yeah I'll see you on set. Yeah. Looking forward to it. Should I go, or...? MAX: Yeah! Nice. Jed indeed did have everything he needed, and it was good, almost too good. I think I've bitten off more than I can chew here. It's been a couple of days and The script, is amazing. But, he wants to do so much with it. He's just sent this: 'I think we can do the explosion but we'll need [LAUGHS] This is much bigger than This is going to be the finest piece of but it's just suddenly become a lot more expensive, a lot more moving parts, a lot more people, whether he'll be comfortable with this. But there was no time to dwell on these worries and I was slightly overwhelmed There were soundies, there were gaffers, MAX: Hey, I'm Max, nice to meet you. I was there to be Dave's fairy godfather, to make sure, he was doing OK. I needn't have worried, however, Despite my initial fears that we'd been Jed and his Incredible crew, were plowing through the script. And even editor Dave was taken to his new I, however, was just getting in people's way. How long have you been in this business? As the day went on, and the pressure to create the best video prompt But luckily, we had one more trick up our sleeve, and it was quite explosive. CIARAN: About here? I wanted to make Dave look as cool as humanly possible. Much cooler, than a classic, Now, setting off an explosion in a small area like this, and wouldn't only require strict precision on Dave's part... JED: No, maybe not that! [LAUGHS] We also needed to get the permission We have got sign-off from the Metropolitan Police, And they had said, yes, we were allowed to do it. But we only had one shot. JED: You all good? Camera ready? CIARAN: Set. JED: Action. JED: Dave, 2, 3... That explosion was sponsored by SurfShark, But what, is SurfShark? SurfShark are a VPN, and they're fantastic, because they protect you Imagine Dave, is SurfShark, SurfShark masks your IP address, making it really hard for those hackers, He makes light work of them. SurfShark also has 32-hundred servers so when you're traveling Where are you going, guys? Good chat. You can watch your favourite TV shows What you need to do, is to change your location, What's your favourite show, Dave? DAVE: I like the news. Make sure you get the exclusive SurfShark to get up to six additional months for free. And in the meantime, The explosion a roaring success, [MAX LAUGHS] And if this movie trailer wouldn't get him a date, Dave spent the rest of the shoot beating up bad guys, He even got to take out some of his JED: Action! [LAUGHTER] JED: Action! With a sore head, we had one more shot, and that was that. JED: Guys, I think that's a wrap! [APPLAUSE, CHEERS] JED: You're amazing. That was good fun. With the shooting finished, I, in the meantime... Come on! Needed to get the word out. I'm out hunting billboards and I think I've found the one And the fantastic folks at Daylight LED Yay! There he is! Dave! Oh, he looks great! I also managed to add a few more treats to the poster design, Stunts, of course, were performed by: Max Fish, the fittest guy on set was: Dave, and the worst sibling: of course, my sister. But enough dilly-dallying, So, I hired a screening room, and invited him over. [MAX LAUGHS] DAVE: Nice seats! MAX: Private seats! Popcorn there, as well. DAVE: Oh, brilliant, thank you very much! Sweet, and also salted. I didn't know what you like. DAVE: Only two of us. MAX: Yeah [LAUGHS] MAX: I don't know, never know. So, this is the world premiere of Dave. Yeah. How are you feeling? Optimistic. Optimistic, OK. I guess there's no- there's no point in having any chitter chatter, MAX: we should probably... get going. MAX: So yeah, away we go. [WHIRRING, BEEPS] MAX: In a dating world with lies, Introducing: Dave. He was just a normal single guy... DAVE: Can I have a pint of IPA, please? MAX: A single guy, with a secure job, and no baggage. A guy who will fight for you, DAVE: You OK, mate? But he also has, a sensitive side. Despite being cool, tough, and 100 per cent emotionally mature, Dave is missing one thing: true love. And no amount of novelty jumpers, can fix it. This summer, you'll laugh... DAVE: Escalator? I barely know her! MAX: You'll cry... And you'll be adequately satisfied in the bedroom. [DISCO MUSIC PLAYS] Starring Dave as, the guy you should introduce your mum to. MAX: Cappuccino, sir? MAX: You can't spell 'love' without 'Dave'. Maybe it's time, to give both a chance? Dave, coming soon to a date near you. [APPLAUSE, CHEERS] DAVE: That's brilliant. MAX: You enjoy that? DAVE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's so good. [MAX LAUGHS] [MAX LAUGHS] Dave was a big fan, but we were hoping And seeing his face beaming made all the hours spent on this trailer, completely worth it. Now we had to add it to his dating profile, and see the results. DAVE: So we got to give it a little caption. MAX: 'A daily essential'. DAVE: Phwoar! MAX: You are a daily essential, to be fair. MAX: Uh... [LAUGHS] This is when it says it's too high quality. DAVE: Yeah, it's just too good. MAX: Oh, done! DAVE: Lovely. MAX: Yeah! MAX: Yeah, with a bam! That's Dave! [MAX LAUGHS] [MAX LAUGHS] MAX: That's a wrap. As we picked up the popcorn, He was starting to receive matches, by the hatful. But would it all be surface level? Well, I found out, a couple of days later. MAX: Oh! He's calling. [MAX LAUGHS] [MAX LAUGHS] OK! Has that led to anything? [MAX LAUGHS] Go on, Dave! My man! Well, let me know how it goes, [MAX LAUGHS]