Hello, Steve here. Today I am moving over really special. Our dearest friend John Green to his heart. So, let's hear it Hey, Steve. Thanks so much! Lets dive right in: The white death has haunted humanity like maybe millions of years. It invented culture, and ventured out of Africa in four deaths in Britain. In the last way more than all wars and natural disasters with the highest kill count. But... Do you even about Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which causes Right now one in four humans alive are infected how is it possible that Well, the White Death is the perfect human most of the time, careful not to murder system and just physically incredibly hard The Perfect Human Predator Usually the bacterium enters your body through a giant living cave system, defended by billions and kill intruders. The TB bug is quickly this is its plan. The white death is the worst Macrophages grab their victims, flood it with acid that rips them to pieces. it completely immune to those acids. Worse, be a perfect host. Like a tiny vampire, the replicates extremely slowly. Other microbes that exploding their numbers before the immune is so well adapted to you, it has already When its host cell is sucked dry and dies, the bacteria infect new macrophages. the decaying corpses they leave behind do body knows something is up and mobilizes its Macrophages and many other immune cells cell wall makes them a formidable fortress and attackers in the process. So when your cells keep the parasites from escaping. A granuloma is core of infected and dead macrophages - a pleasant cells surround this sphere of death to contain it Worse, it is perfectly protected from medication heavy immune weapons to be activated. This The infection is sleeping and the bacteria is up to two billion people! But in one in ten Active Tuberculosis is an emergency. But again, a infection anymore, granulomas burst. Suddenly and fresh bacteria. Your immune system panics blood and rush to the infected areas. They your lungs. But unfortunately, your lungs are your immune cells don't care - they're trying to purge the infection As fluids and dead tissue amass, it becomes sometimes even coughing up blood. And now you spread millions of bacteria You burn a high fever and lose weight turn into a ghost version of yourself. last weeks to months and is very serious. years, or even decades slowly overtake your body. this can be too much and the disease wins the lung function breaks down and the patient dies. The Worst Kind of Problem Tuberculosis is the worst kind of millions quickly like Covid, scaring a TB is a smoldering fire. Killing too The symptoms are often mild for many months, so want to kill you of course, it wants to it exploits human behavior: The people you are coworkers or neighbors, the people you spend a lot halt, the average patient infected 2-3 people. An Most people catch it via breathing sneeze. This is especially common in crowded, poorly ventilated housing or workplaces. Industrial Revolution. And indeed wherever we from Lagos to St. Petersburg, we tend to Today most cases of active Tuberculosis further - can be cured with a four-month if that's the case... How is this still the Between 1940 and 1965, humans developed several It was a true achievement of human ingenuity. the cure. While Tuberculosis is almost extinct it is still a very real threat in most of the South America and Asia. In 2022 two thirds India, China, Indonesia, the Philippines, Tuberculosis deaths happened in South East Asia. But as it is a slow problem like climate change, which enabled more and more strains of Which is a problem because we In the first twentyfive years of the different classes of drugs to treat TB. And we developed none. Developing new drugs concentrated effort to eradicate TB, incentive. There is a vaccine, but it's over But beginning in 2012, we did finally develop and we may finally be at an inflection horizon. Companies that made Covid tests we now have a real opportunity to push But only if we get enough people to know about century ago in the United States, there were as for treating all other illnesses and injuries death in the US and then one day it just 4,000 people died of tuberculosis yesterday, where so many of us still die of a disease been with us for millions of years. It is If you want to learn more about to fight it through clinical trials and care check out the organization Partners in Health a link in the description for you. Also, if Course Lecture on the history and presence Steve, I'll see you on Fri....no! This isn't