(computer phone ringing) - Hi, it's Doug. I recently moved to Austin, Texas, and there's so many new things I'm looking forward to checking out. Now, I moved here during the so one thing I'm really looking forward to is visiting a swimming hole. Texas is famous for its swimming holes. These are naturally usually connected to an Like check this out. This swimming hole is called Jacob's Well. You notice how dark it looks? That's because the bottom but I've heard that that on a hot day. Someone named Brayden has in the earth. Let's give Brayden a call now. (computer phone ringing) - Hi, Doug. - Hi, Brayden. - I have a question for you. What's the deepest hole - Ooh, that's a great question. People have been digging and for a lot of different reasons. (fox yelling) (jolly music) Some people dig holes just for fun like this person named Ra Paulette. He's been digging holes for over 25 years, but not just any holes. Check this out. Isn't that incredible? These holes he digs by of sandstone rock are The amazing thing is he with no tractors or machines to help. Some of them, like this one, with a bathroom and kitchen, so cool. But people don't only dig holes for fun. Thousands of years ago, like the builders of this city in Turkey. It's called Derinkuyu in the world. It's located as deep in the ground as a 20 story skyscraper is tall. No one lives down there it could hold 20,000 people. Now, even though Derinkuyu is pretty deep, it's not even close to This is the deepest hole without the help of any machines. It's 1,285 feet deep. That's deeper than the and it wasn't easy to dig. The deeper the workers and they only had but they kept digging day until finally they found Can you guess what it was? Water. The hole is called the Woodingdean Well and it was dug to find water to drink. See, there's actually a lot 100 times more water than all the rivers and lakes put together. So where water is needed, people dig holes to try to find it. But water isn't the only thing Sometimes people also dig holes like silver or gold. That's what these miners in The Mponeng Gold Mine is the It's as deep as 10 empire state buildings stacked on top of each other. This hole is so deep, it on special elevators just And once they're down there, it's hot. At 140 degrees, it's ever on earth. That's because the deeper Before I go on, I'm curious. Besides looking for water or what are some other reasons Now would be a good time to Okay, you ready? Well, I'm not sure how you answered, but you may be surprised to on earth were dug because They wanted to know what they deep in the earth. Like this group of scientists in Germany. They were trying to inside the earth called the mantle. Using special drills, to dig a hole that went Now that's deeper than the Mount Everest, is tall. It's called the KTB Borehole and it's the second deepest hole ever dug. But even though they dug pretty deep, they weren't able to reach the mantle. They did leave the hole open If you're ever in Germany, If you think that's deep, remember, I said that was the This is the Kola Borehole in Russia. It is the deepest hole on earth. Using special drills, and they got pretty far, That's deeper than 30 stacked on top of each other. But don't worry, it's only so there's no way you can fall in. So were they able to reach the mantle? Not even close. In fact, if the earth were then the Kola Borehole But why is that? Are the drills we use to Even though that makes sense, making long enough The problem is heat. See, the closer you get to the It's so hot down there that normal drills can melt like ice cream And it's not just the The rocks down that deep that they start to act almost almost but not quite as hot as lava. So it doesn't look like all the way to the other side Still, scientists are if there are new ways to dig even deeper. If this is something that interests you, maybe it's something you'll But until then, it's deep holes on your own can be dangerous, so if you do try to dig, never dig a hole that's and make sure you always have That's all for this week's question. Thanks, Brayden, for asking it. Now, for the next episode, I reached into our question jar and picked out three questions sent into us that we're When this video is done playing, You can choose from, &quot;How &quot;How does it compass Or, &quot;What is in food coloring?&quot; So submit your vote when the video's over. We want to hear from all of you watching. There are mysteries all around us. Stay curious and see you next week.