Captain, let's go. Who are you going to pick up the lady with me? Qi Tian, where is Qi Tian? Brother, brother, please don't excite us. We have something to talk about. Money can be life-threatening. Don't touch anyone. I'll kill anyone. Give me the formula. I'm not Qi. God, I'm his friend. My name is Wu Shen. You lied to me. Believe it or not, I'll shoot him to death. She lets go or I'll shoot. Who did you offend? They all came to the door. I said, I don't know. You must have caused trouble and implicated Wu Shen. Now that he has chased him out by himself, what should he do if he is in danger? Captain An, what's wrong? He slowly said that the bodies found in the garage looked like they were bodyguards. They were all killed by a sharp blade. It is estimated that Song is responsible for the Lin family's bodyguards. We may be late, so contact the bureau. Call for backup. Can we follow them? The security team does not need to follow them. If Song is following them, we will be easily discovered if we follow them rashly. Even if he intercepts him halfway and Wu Shen is there, he should be able to hold on for a while. Okay, let's implement the second plan. Each team will pay attention to the second plan now. Whose neighborhood committee did a group receive? To check the household registration, I said Team An, Team Zhao, you guys. You two, the red armbands are the neighborhood committee aunts who are checking your household registration. What do you two think ? You two should go to the Film and Television Academy for training and training. What are you talking about? Even Song followed you here. Will he break in rashly? If we come in now, he will definitely not find anything about his IQ. What do you say? Okay , don't make any noise. How about you? Did you feel like you were being followed when you came back? It's hard to find out with the cars going by and I don't dare. I'm afraid of being too obvious to arouse Song's alarm. It doesn't matter. Song will probably come tonight. We'll just sit here and wait. We'll all be like stumps . Sit down. I'm going to go. It's already dawn. Will he come yet? We can't take it lightly. The more relaxed we are, the more likely he is to succeed. I'm so sorry, where are you going to go to the toilet? You have to follow me. Brother, we don't know each other. Is there some misunderstanding? Brother, don't hurt me by mistake. Shut up. It's broken. Put down the knife and don't move. Otherwise, we Shoot, don't move, brother, don't mind me, don't say anything, put the knife down, do n't move, I'll kill him. Your dad was killed by the police and you still cooperate with the police. It's none of my business. I didn't shut up for them. I said it again. Put down your arms and surrender. What's wrong? Evacuate the people. I planted more than 20 bombs around here. You guys? If you don't move back, I will blow them all up. I don't know how many people will die by then. You won't say that you also have bombs on your body. Shut up. I'll give you a three count. Let's get out of the way. Don't drive. Don't shoot if you're chasing me with a gun. Wu Fear, save me. We split up to chase one team. This is Brother Qi Tian . Qi Tian grabbed me and came over. My leg is stuck. Brother, don't worry about me. Come on, let's go together. It's okay. It's okay. I'm waiting for you here. Pay attention to your safety. Team Zhao Why are you the only one in the team? Wu Zhen? Song? Song is running over there. Wu Wei is chasing him. Don't move here. Ye Lei can't stop. Where can they go with such a huge mountain? Who knows? Hurry up and call Wu Wen. Feed the command center. I am An Ningsong in the command center. I have already entered the mountain. Wu Wen is tracking. Please locate Wu Wen's phone immediately. Everyone is a gangster on the road. Why do they rush to kill everyone? Everyone has to do it for themselves. Things pay the price and you are no exception. I didn't hurt Qi Tian. Why are you working so hard? Brother, I'll give you a sum of money and you let me go. I'm not talking about Qi Tian. Then who are you talking about? This is my first time in Liangjiang. You have no grudges It's good to know that you are the policeman. I asked you to repay Wu Tie with blood today. Are you okay? It's okay. The person died because of the skin injury. Team Security Chen Liang. Is there any water? How can I defuse the bomb in the community? Come on, here. There's no such thing as a bomb. It's a lie. We almost capsized in the ditch this time. That's good. Hao Zhen is injured. We have to go to the hospital right away . It's okay. It's not good for skin injuries. You have to go. Let's go. I said I'm fine. No, you have to go to the hospital. What's going on? Captain An is supporting Wu Shen and saying what he's talking about, like he's in love. No, no, it's not so high. He can't fall to death. It's so powerful. Stop the team. What are you doing when you stop? Follow Come on, you can't follow him anymore. I'll hide behind his car and see where he goes. I'll tell you where he's going. Keep driving, don't go too far. Okay, please pay attention to your safety. Are you okay? There's motion sickness medicine in the shoulder compartment. It's okay. I understand. I'm just afraid that the traffic police will be interested in you. The traffic police have long been immune to me. Thank you for letting me feel it up close. Let me feel it up close. Drug dealers are all desperadoes. If you want to catch them, you have to fight. They are even more desperate. They are almost here. Ask where they are next. Hey, Captain Zhao, are you almost there? You are here. We will be there in a minute. If you know they are almost there, please keep an eye on me. This is what will happen if you dare to mess with us. How about the sister? Don't worry, we have all moved. Let's go and get the other half of the goods. There is money in the bag. The nonsense goods must have been opened. Let me see if it doesn't work. Look at the goods first. I'm a mad dog. It's such a big risk to invite you here. I don't have the goods to tease you. Open it and show it to you. Is this the right amount? This is half the money. I'll wait for the other half after you give me the goods. for you Crazy dog, you kid is crazy. You gave me half the money in exchange for my goods. What nonsense are you talking about? Who can have so much cash to eat your goods? I have to sell your goods to have money for you . No, I need it urgently. Qian Zhouxin, let me tell you that I am the only one who can eat your goods now. If I don't take your goods, I will die in my hands. Team An, Team An, Chen Liang and Fang Fei, I don't know if they are lost. Alright, hello to Team An. Our car is broken down. It's being repaired. You guys are waiting for me. OK, okay. What's going on? Their car is broken down. Forget it, wait. Let's split up now. The target is a red car. Don't alert others. Yes, it's definitely this one. Are you sure about the car? Everyone in the security team must assemble and act immediately. Anyway, I only brought half of it today. Let's pay with one hand and deliver the remaining half. When will you have money? When will you be able to trade? You kid? Let's keep it a secret, right? Let's talk to each other. It's up to you whether you do it or not. I don't know what's going on in the house. It's very quiet. Just arrest people. Damn it, let's go. They were the one who beat them to the punch. It was the same Sanlang Army assassin who killed Bai Yifan. Most of the time, it was the thorns that did it. Her corpse was still warm and the blood from the wound had not dried yet. The time of death would not have been more than half an hour. She was the thorns guarding this place. If she chased her , it would be your fault for leaving, okay? Let's go over now. The day lilies are all cold. Grandma, I don't want this to happen. What can I do if this old car breaks down at a critical moment? Hey, Team An, Chen Liang, has your car been repaired or not? It's coming as soon as it hits the road. You guys will intercept it on the road. The license plate number of a dark green off-road vehicle is Jiang A79579. No need, I saw Fang Fei and positioned it for you to catch up. I am catching up. What game has just begun? Chen Liang, what's going on? Is it my fault? What can I do if the tire blows out? Hey Captain Zhao, there are nails in the middle of the road. Be careful. Team An, there are nails in the middle of the road. Their car is coming. Sister Jing, you are so powerful and clever . That's enough for them to have a drink in no time. Stop flattering me and ask the company to get a new car. I'm swapping cars in front of you. It's Team An, Team An, Team Zhao, Master, please step aside. Come on, be careful. Slow down. Don't worry. Security team is on the car. Don't worry. We have issued a notice. The whole city is wanted. That car can't escape. Don't worry, we must find that car. That woman is a thorn, catch her. She is there. That car is ready. Don't worry. You have a good rest. Hey, I'm here. Come here. Sister Jingji, get rid of this car. It ca n't be used anymore. Qitian Wu Shen is not at home. He is running around without even saying a word to me. Let's check it out. How good is it? You don't have to worry about anyone. Your phone is not on mute. I'm sorry. I left in such a hurry. I forgot it was me, your grandfather, and you. You guys know each other. Of course we know the former prince. What do you mean? It means that I am his creditor and he owes me a large sum of money. Mad dog, don't you have a big business? You still owe him money and it's quite a lot. In short, it's enough for him to get away with it for the rest of his life. Stop talking nonsense to me. What did you two hear? I heard everything that should be heard and what shouldn't be heard, and it was specially recorded for the convenience of review. I see if you are tired of living. The grievances between you two brothers have nothing to do with me, and I don't want to care about us. It's on the road, right? We all know the rules on the road. If the mad dog wants to buy my goods, they will definitely be worth a lot of money. Otherwise, how about this? I'll sell the goods to the mad dog first. You can solve the debt problem between you by yourself, right? It 's indeed a good idea, but even if I agree, will you believe it? There's no need to talk anymore. Hey Sister Thorns, we're here, but there seems to be someone else on the ship controlling the exit, waiting for me to come over. No one is left. Why is there still a gun? If you and I didn't hide something hard before, would I dare to ship it? I, you, are not afraid of shooting and calling the police. You are hiding from me here to lure them away. Don't worry about yourselves first. I already called the police before I came. I also called the police. I'll kill you, go over there. I saw you. Come out and do n't move. It's your turn to save me. I'm your brother, not your drag. Wait for me. I'll get some things. Brother, let's put these things together. Take it away. Are you crazy? Take it away. Do you want to sell drugs or hide drugs? Just dump it into the river. Anyway, Wan Yanbin can't get the goods. Brother, can you be more bold? How bold can you be to mess with people on the road? How productive People who do big things, if they sell drugs informally, they do big things. Don't kid me. I'm telling you, either hand these goods over to the police or throw them into the river immediately. Don't look at this muddy water. It's impossible. How is Sister Jing's situation calmed down? But we need to take action. They just opened fire and may call the police into action. Do you know how much these things are worth? Even if they are worth a fortune, this thing is a drug. As long as you get it, you will never be able to get rid of it. This product belongs to Wan Yanbin. He needs to know that he can let you go. Also, what about Mad Dog and Zhou Xin? Do you want to kill people and silence them? But it's nothing. If you don't ask, you will steal it. The owner of this batch of goods is me and you. Do you want to give me the goods, or should I come and get the goods myself and leave them to you? Just let us go and pretend what happened tonight never happened. How childish do you think it is possible? Which one of you is chasing Sister Thorns? Sorry, the police are here so quickly. Sister Jingji, what should we do with our batch of goods? Nonsense, try to take away a box of beer. Wait a moment. Come on, boss, this girl looks okay. She is really good. How about we have a drink with her? This is a good idea. Brothers, what are you doing? Do n't worry. It's so boring to eat here alone at this late night. Come and eat with us brothers. You are a beauty. Let's finish the supper together and I'll take you there to have fun later. I'll say it again. Give me your phone. If you have the guts, come and get it. Hit me. What do I mean? What's wrong? You drank too much. It hurts. Hero, spare your life, hero, spare your life. Take out your phone and give it to a grown man to bully a woman. Go away and wait for your phone to be returned to you. Thank you. My name is Lin Yawen. Wu Zhen thanked you so much just now. Do you want to go have a drink together? No need, you girl, don't wander around at night. Ruili is a border city. I didn't expect this. I came from Liangjiang. I lived here when I was a child but left very early. Are you free tomorrow? Can you take me with you? I'm going somewhere. I've been away for a long time. I'm afraid I can't find it, so I'm sorry. I have something to do tomorrow and I don't have time. You go home early. I have money. No need to look for it. Do you think your father is still alive? Beat him. Stop beating him. Stop beating him. Stop beating him. Come on, don't touch her, get out of here, stop fighting Who are you to leave? It's too much to find a stool and fight in front of someone else's mourning hall. It's none of your business. Do you know who I am? If you dare to beat him, why don't you beat him? You are powerful enough. What's your surname? My surname is Wu. My surname is Wu. No. It will be lawless. Do you want me to treat you to a meal? Just think of it as thanking you for saving my life. Angkor, let's go. Everyone on the corridor said that Wan Yanbin's men are great. People on the road say that Wan Yanbin's men are powerful, but you beat them to [ __ ] in just three times. It's so satisfying. What do you want to do? Take people's money and eliminate disasters for others. Who asked you to mess with people you shouldn't mess with? Why are you still here? Come on , brother, be careful. Brother, be careful. Why don't you hit me? Get out of here. He must be Wan Yanbin, that guy who has no guts. Why do you want to borrow a knife to kill someone and leave? You guys, listen up. Lin Yawen is not worthy of a gangster like you. If you dare to try to harm her and ruin our brother's good deeds, I will cut you into pieces and feed them to our crocodiles. Understand. Hit me, hit him back, let you show off , hit back, hit you back, hit you back, hit you back, hit you back, hit you up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up You can go up. Do we want to fight Angkor? If we don't fight, we won't fight. If we don't fight , we'll evacuate and give it to your house. This view is not bad. It's not bad. How did you know I was here and I just went to your company to look for it? You, your little brother said that you went to Lin Yawen School. I went there and saw you again. I guess you should go home first. Sorry, you are late . Who said it was late? It is not late at all. I found that you showed up in time whenever I was in trouble. You are It's not my lucky star When I think of the way you beat those three guys so hard, I feel so relieved. Wait for an hour and you are playing tricks on me. Why are you so anxious? Look, there is a fishing line on the railing next to you, turning around. Go forward, go forward, go forward again. On the third pillar, you're kidding me. That's all. This isn't sold to you. It's given to you. Take a few puffs and show me. Don't be kidding. I bought this for you. Come to sell It's not for my own use. You suck. How do I know if you are a policeman? If you don't smoke, this is a policeman. The streets are full of policemen. Are you sick? You, please stop talking nonsense to me. Do you smoke or not? I'm leaving. I'm here. Why do you smoke? There are so many people in the public. If you don't smoke, I will leave immediately. Big brother, my brother wants to smoke this. My brother has smoked this for many years. I want to get him to a drug rehabilitation center, but My mother doesn't want to continue crying, making trouble, and hanging herself with me. I, I had no choice but to come out to buy this thing for him. Brother, I beg you, tell me a price and I'll buy it. Don't, don't, do n't, ca n't I suck it? This, this thing is so big. What, what? Suck it, Team Security, we found each group here. Pay attention to Group C and control Group A. Group B is outflanking along the east and west sides toward the nine o'clock direction. What are you looking at? What's on my face? I won't tell you to chase Guo Shao and Guo Shao to take care of him. Is it okay, Guo Shao, stop, Qiao Er, stop, Qiao Er, don't run, Qiao Er, get out of the way, don't run, get out of the way, stop, the fight is so fierce, take it away and watch the ordered team, it's such a coincidence that you threw the beer bottle, right? Thank you. No need to thank the enthusiastic citizens. I'll give you a piece of advice. Don't hang out with people like this in the future. What do you mean by this? Who are you talking about? To catch a thief is to catch the stolen goods. The police can't make false accusations against people. If you dare to talk nonsense in front of my brother again, be careful. I'll sue you for defamation. Boy, I'm telling you, I'm not afraid of a slanted shadow. If you don't do anything dirty, why are you so excited? If you want to sue us, sue me. I'm afraid that your old ways won't stand up to scrutiny. If you know what's going on, just shut up. You know, comrade police, we are all enthusiastic citizens, and we just helped you catch the bad guy. Are you the police? Everyone likes to repay kindness with hatred. You also want to come with us. That's enough. Captain Zhao. First of all, helping the police is a citizen's responsibility and obligation. Secondly, your courageous spirit of doing justice should of course be praised. What did I mean by what I just said? In fact, it's for your own good. If you don't know, it's best not to get too close to a person if you don't understand him. Thank you for reminding me, but I can trust my brother's character. Please take the time to practice more. Just those one or two little thieves who can't catch them but still have the confidence to talk to others. We are on opposite sides of the road. That policewoman, do you know her? Her name is An Ning. She's called Anti-Narcotics Brigade. Are you sure this is the female policewoman? Just find a place to dig in here. Why do you turn over this in broad daylight? It's because they are less vigilant in broad daylight. They are afraid. Whoever is afraid of turning over will turn over. Then go to the main entrance and walk through the shoulder door. What are you doing? Put it there, put it there, put it there. Come and come, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, there is still time to come here, so good, so good, hurry up, what are you two, but you can help the piles. , do me a favor, come on, come on, move it here and put it over there , I'll do it over there, there's nothing here, you move that one, there's nothing here, some smelly hairtail fish are here, you just move that pile and wait. This needs to be classified. Let me go to Binglan . Hurry up. What are you doing to make a fortune? Something went wrong and they ran away. Lu Tingting. The inspection site is Chen Liang. What's the information? The owner of this warehouse is named Liu Tao. The specific address has been sent to your mobile phone. Hey guys. Stay and wait for the technical team , Team Zhao. Good job arresting people , but we can't leave. What's wrong? One of our warehouses was raided by the police. How many warehouses are there? The person in charge of warehouse No. 7 is Liu Tao. What's the damage? I don't know yet that she moved the goods in advance, but she can't be found now. I don't know where she moved the goods. The traitor boss found out who Liu Tao is. The warehouse she is in charge of is making false accounts. Jing Jing mobilized all our connections to get the goods back. Liu Tao, just kill Liu Tao and let her run away. Hey, there is news from the security team that remnants of methamphetamine were indeed found in the cold storage. It seems that the drugs were stored in that place before but were moved. Okay, I understand that methamphetamine residue was found in the warehouse. It is indeed the poison crystal warehouse. We must find Liu Tao, otherwise we won't know where the drugs were transported. But where could she go? Don't worry, Liangjiang City is the city with the most sound eyes. We will definitely do it. Don't worry if you catch her, you should be in good spirits. Sister Liu, hurry up and work. Go to work quickly . There is a problem. What's wrong? There are few cars. Hey, I am moving . Squat down, squat down, squat down. Don't move, squat down, and be honest. He ran away. I want to know where Mr. Kuang's information came from. How did he know that this is Liu Tao's secret warehouse ? Did he even plant an informant here? Mr. Kuang said that 110 received a report from the police here. He judged that there might be a problem with a large number of trucks coming in and out, so let's come over and see if it's safe for us to close the team. Did you call the police? Yes, what else can we do if you don't call the police? You clearly know that what I hate most is the police. My dad died at the hands of the police. You actually called the police and cooperated with the police. Are you stupid? Don't you want to deal with Wan Yanbin? You go head-to-head with him. Are you qualified? Look at how many subordinates Liu Tao has and how many guns we have to fight. If Wan Yanbin fights hard, doesn't that mean he's going to die? If the police don't take advantage of him, he has to fight for his own life, but it doesn't matter. As long as he can deal with Wan Yanbin, any method is a good method. Now Wan Yanbin has lost such a large amount of goods. He must be so distressed that the police may continue to cause trouble for him, so he probably won't mess with you again recently, okay? That's fine, but let's not cooperate with the police again in the future. I hate the police. Now that you know, let's go and have a drink. You want to go? Hello, hello from the anti-drug brigade. I'm An Ning from the city bureau's anti-drug brigade. Hello, Zhao Yelei, Team An, Team Zhao, hello. I just finished the examination. The time of death of the deceased should be between one and two in the morning. The cause of death was excessive bleeding due to a puncture of the arteries in the neck with a sharp instrument. However, she had many non-fatal injuries on her body. It seemed that she had been tortured before death. In addition, the fatal injuries on her neck were very strange, triangular in shape, and felt like a Is this a professional weapon, the Triangular Military Thorn? Yes, Captain Zhao, has he ever been a soldier ? He has never been a soldier. But I am a military enthusiast and have studied some. Can I take a look? Of course, the killing method is very skillful, and the committing method is clean and tidy. The murderer should be a professional killer, but why did she use such a weapon? Is there any problem with this? The triangular spur is a triangular spur specially manufactured for the army in the early days of the founding of our country. It has a triangular structure, so it is very difficult. It completes the chopping action and its large area makes it easy to hurt yourself. Its hardness and toughness are far inferior to modern weapons. Since the murderer is a professional killer, why should she choose a weapon that has long been eliminated by the times? Where are the eliminated weapons? Unless she has been using this weapon for a long time and has become comfortable with it or she has a very deep attachment to this weapon. I speculate that the reason why the murderer has this hobby has a lot to do with her experience. It seems that Wan Yanbin's subordinates There is a woman who is in line with your reasoning. You are right about Thorns. It is said that she participated in the guerrillas in country S. The militants there like to use my country's early military products because they are cheap and easy to use. It seems that Liu Tao was attracted by Thorns. She must have been tortured because she had so many wounds on her body. The warehouse where Liu Tao transferred drugs last night was not the subordinates of Wan Yanbin Group. She recruited them alone. So it seems that Liu Tao is probably an internal worm of Wan Yanbin Group. She is not the only one who definitely wants to get more information from her. What should we do next? Investigate Liu Tao's social relationships in all aspects to see if there are any breakthroughs and spread the story of Liu Tao's murder. Maybe they will be forced to surrender. It is unlikely that the security team will ask these people to surrender. Since Wan Yanbin already knows their existence, they have only two options: run away directly or surrender to the police for protection. Since we have 5% If there is a possibility of ten, you might as well take a gamble. I understand. Listen to your master. Why would you please pull over? Master, master, stop. I want to get off. Why didn't you get off just now? People are old and slow to react. Don't move. Don't move. Don't move. Don't move. I still have something to ask you . Are you willing to come to my company and help me? I've been begging you for several days. You're a man. Just give me a nice word. It's not that I don't want to. It's just that someone is unwilling. Who is Wan Yan? Bin, what kind of trouble did he pull out again? What do you think? Since I met you, I have had several fights with his people and beat them to pieces. Is he happy with that? I'm sorry, Brother Ang, I've caused trouble for you. Anyway, I'm not afraid. It's you. What's so attractive about you that makes him so interested in you? Isn't it because I'm the prince of the previous dynasty that makes him so interested in you? For a traitor like him, my identity is his biggest If it weren't for the hidden dangers of black and white, someone is secretly protecting me. I think I would have been killed by him long ago. But he can protect me for a while, but he can't protect him for a lifetime. If you are like you, you will be killed by him sooner or later. So what do you think you should do? Take the initiative and catch him. handle If you can overturn it, overturn him. If you can't do it for the time being, grabbing some evidence can save your life at the critical moment. Why do you suddenly want to help me deal with him? Now it's not me who helps you deal with him, I have to deal with him myself. His younger brother keeps asking me to trouble me. You can't coddle him. Is Liangjiang the only one in Wan Yanbin who tells me to get out? Just let me get out of here. I, Wu Zhen, have never been in trouble in my life. I told you that if you do n't let me live in peace, I won't let him live in peace either. Well said, the great man of Angkor wants to be happy with his grudges like this. Now that it has come to this point, I won't bother you anymore. I will tell you the truth. I have been secretly investigating him over the years. Unfortunately, I suffer from my influence. Shan Libo wouldn't dare to act rashly even if he had evidence, but it's different now that you're here. I told you that I know a driver named Zhou Xin. He has been helping Wan Yanbin transport drugs nT The cold storage where he works Maybe it's Wan Yanbin's drug warehouse. If you're sure they're inseparable, then come to unlS. We two brothers worked together to give Wan Yanbin a big surprise. The mobile phone location shows that it should be nearby. How about the undercover visit to the police station? There is a lot of traffic in this area. The situation is complicated and it is very difficult to find a tracking phone. We can only know the approximate location. If we need to find someone, we have to rely on ourselves. The yellow team is in Team Zhao's car. Please come over and take a walk. Be careful, kid. Why are you making such a fuss? Captain Zhao, search for Hu Tianbao. If you can't run away, come down. Hu Tianbao, come down here. Hu Tianbao, don't run away. Hu Tianbao, if you can't run away, come down here. Come down here. I'll leave. We found the team and closed it. Why do n't you move and be honest ? You go. This suspect is called a mercenary. He has outstanding skills and has been fighting government forces for a long time. He has rich practical experience. He is very ruthless in his actions. He is the number one officer under Jie Wen. According to intelligence, these criminal suspects have standard weapons on them. Please give instructions from the leader. Since the criminal suspects are so dangerous, in order to avoid heavy casualties among our public security officers. Once a criminal suspect is found to be shooting, resisting arrest or otherwise resisting Qs, kill him on the spot without asking for instructions. Clearly report the situation. No. 1 sniper is ready. No. 2 sniper is ready. Support team is ready. Brother Song is ready. Long time no see. Long time no see. The last time I saw you, you were just a little brother. Now you have become a big brother. You have a formidable future. Thanks to Boss Wan for appreciating you. Boss Wan is really capable. This transaction is a big one. Even when we caught Boss Wen, we had to be there in person to join each other. Make a fortune. Brother Song, none of the bosses are here. Why don't you inspect the goods first? Do you want to trick me? The boss didn't come, just wait patiently. If there is an ambush, the transaction will be cancelled. Are you sure? Turn around now. What's going on? What time is it? Why hasn't Wu Tiewen arrived yet? Boss Wan isn't here either. Are you trying to play some tricks? Hey, boss, what's the matter? Zou Feiyu is a ghost. Get out of here. Zou Feiyu, what do you mean? What do you want to do? Units, pay attention. What are you doing? Put down your guns. You guy named Zou, what are you doing? Fight with them, the Chinese police, maintain fire suppression and form a siege. Try to be alive and get the money back. Take it all back. Hurry up and collect the goods. It's an old dog. Hurry up. Get the money back. I'm going to chase you. Don't move. What do you mean? Don't move. Put down the gun. Feiyu brother Feiyu brother Feiyu brother Feiyu Brother Feiyu, brother Feiyu, brother Feiyu, you must catch Brother Feiyu, brother Feiyu, brother Feiyu, brother Feiyu, don't blame me for not reminding you. There are only a few days until the deadline for handing in the paper. Are n't we still with you? You are my brother. Can you ignore me? I quickly strengthened my body and left. Who are you? What do you want to say to me? Why did you save me? To Liu Tao's society Is there any progress in the relationship investigation? No, no clues have been found yet, but there are rumors in the world that she has a lover, but we don't know who it is. We checked the call records and chat records and found nothing. Is it possible? We can only wait for them to surrender. Surrender these drug dealers. Now he is the one who will not shed tears even if he sees the coffin It's too difficult to get them to surrender, right? Team Security discovered that this was captured on surveillance video at the entrance of a beauty salon that Liu Tao often went to. Her smile was very ambiguous and didn't look like the kind of smile she would show to ordinary people. Women who want to please themselves will tolerate her. When she walked to the door of the beauty salon, why did she stop and look back and smile? I'm sure she must be greeting someone across the way, and this person is most likely a man. You're right. A person's micro-expressions are often a monologue and reflection of their inner self. Guo Shao, Lu Tingting, you guys go to the scene immediately to see if you can find surveillance with a suitable angle. Have you captured this person walking and walking? Based on the time and angle, we can estimate that he should be responding to Liu Tao. The enlarged image shows the owner of this car based on the data. It's Yang Chaoyu, the boss of Chaoyu Group. We got the photos and after detailed comparison, we can basically confirm that the person in the car that day was Yang Chaoyu himself, right? Yang Chaoyu is a local rich man. Not to mention that he is a rich man, at least he is a multi-millionaire. He has several luxury cars to his name. Why did he drive such a crappy car by himself when he went out that day? There must be something wrong. Find out who is waiting for you. Mr. Yang, please come with us. Come on, beautiful police officer, let me confess to you again. I really, really don't know anything. You said I'm a respectable person in the city, so what's the point of handcuffing me? I strongly demand to see my lawyer Yang Chaoyu. Stop resisting. You don't know anything. What's going on with the ice blue in the safe at home? Ice blue. You have to ask my lawyer 70020 these questions. You don't need to see the lawyer, Mr. Yang. I think we can let you go. Okay, okay. Ah, anyway, Wan Yanbin's people are definitely looking for you everywhere now. You said what would happen if he knew that you had just left the Public Security Bureau? No, no, you can't do this. You are the police. You, you, must ensure my personal safety. Yang Chaoyu, we all know what happened to you and Liu Tao. Now you have two choices: Either you confess and get meritorious service, or we let you out and say you are a good citizen who cooperated with the police. You make your own choice, Team Security. I'll submit the materials. Let him go, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. So what do you think? I've thought about it. Don't think about it. Just do what I say. Listen to you. Mr. Yang doesn't mind. Who are you? My surname is Bai Bai Yifan. Zeng Qingjiang 's friend, Mr. Zeng, we met at his reception. We had a chance encounter, but I had something to do that day and I was in a hurry so I didn't have time to ask you for advice. I didn't expect to be so lucky to meet you here. I'm so happy to meet you. Mr. Yang heard that your business is quite big and you have business in Southeast Asia. Please take care of me in the future. It's easy to talk, but there are too many people who want me to take care of them. I don't know what's so special about Mr. Bai. Mr. Yang knows that your business is big. I don't dare to talk to you if I don't have a lot of money. Let me tell you the truth. We also have some business in Southeast Asia. If you are interested, we can cooperate with us. By the way, I suddenly remembered that I heard Mr. Zeng said before that he encountered a big trouble in Thailand. A friend named Bai helped him solve it. I don't know. If it's not Mr. Bai, what about you? It's just that trivial matters are rare in Xia. Mr. Zeng still remembers that he didn't expect Mr. Bai to be so capable. Well, it's inconvenient today. You can take a look at my schedule for the next few days. Tomorrow afternoon, I will have time tomorrow afternoon. Mr. Bai will have time tomorrow afternoon. Okay, I have time. Come to my company tomorrow afternoon. I won't bother you if we see you tomorrow. I think he might be able to help us meet him. Did you miss me? haven't seen you for a long time Mr. Bai hates you, but you are really my great nobleman. If you hadn't helped me this time, my tens of millions of projects in country S would not have been able to be solved so easily. It's a trivial matter. Mr. Bai is too humble. Sitting there, Mr. Bai. Brother in front of me, I understand that people don't tell secrets. As long as Mr. Bai, you don't dislike brother, this life will be given to Mr. Bai from now on. Then I will take your life, brother. Are you joking? What am I doing with your life? Come on, Mr. Bai. Brother, I'd like to give you a toast. This good wine is different. It's very strong. Drink more. OK, brother, I'll borrow Mr. Bai's wine. Brother, I'll give Mr. Bai a toast first. I'm going to show you my ugliness. Brother, I'm so drunk today. I really didn't expect him. I would put methamphetamine in the wine I drank. As time went by, I became addicted to drugs and could never get rid of them. I had really tried to detoxify. I even went abroad to find help from several private detoxification institutions, but it was of no use at all. Later I found out that what he gave me was Ice Blue, which is a brand new super drug. Once addicted to it, there is no way to quit. Not only me, but also Liu Tao and the company I ran later became Bai Yifan's drug trafficking tools. How do we usually contact him? Generally speaking, I don't meet him and he gave me a mobile phone. We always communicate by phone. If there is nothing particularly important, we won't talk. That mobile phone is in my bag and you will collect it. Do you know this person, Bao Chenliang, Qiao Er? I don't know what his real name is. Everyone calls him Qiao Er. He is a downline developed by Bai Yifan. I know the password. I only have one number within six or seven. Contact him and try to delay the time. Don't say anything you shouldn't say. Do you understand? Understand that my fate today is all thanks to him. Do n't worry, I won't turn off the tip to him. It seems that it is impossible to get through to those two police officers again. If I can provide you with Bai Yifan's secret stronghold. Does this count as meritorious service? You know his secret stronghold. You know that I have followed him. I tell you everything. Yes. As long as the situation is true, we will try our best to help you. Thank you, two officers. Don't move. Police, don't move. Don't move. Chase him away. I'm sorry, Team An. I 've lost you, Mr. Song, right? I'm Brother Kang. Come on, why don't you wait for me here? It's boring to be alone in a private room and I can't ask you to go outside to play first. You know I'm here. How much risk are you taking? You want me to be targeted by the police. I'll kill your whole family. Stop playing this with me. Back when I and Brother Qitai were all-powerful, you didn't know where to be the leader? If you want to trade, just sit down and don't want to trade. Get out of here immediately and don't delay my happy transaction. It's okay, but I hope your news is true. Otherwise, I guarantee that you will die without any body parts. My brother Kang is also considered a gold medal on the road. Naturally, my reputation will not be ruined if I return to the world this time. Since I want to make a deal with you, I must be sincere.