Hope everybody is ready. Here we go. Let's roll the cameras. We are 1571. So these games are getting pretty juicy. Our emphasis on the opening is increasing, and presumably we're going to start getting a lot of main lines. So this is where the brunt of my opening instruction will come in. We haven't gotten too many Sicilians, uh, with the black, so hopefully we get something more mainstream. Marion Gilea from Romania. Mainstream. Okay, one, e three, but still, uh, mulake. E Three is not that uncommon, and it's worth knowing how to play against it. It's worth knowing how to play against it. So my recommendation against one, D Four is going to be the GRUNFELD. And the great thing about playing the GRUNFELD, I'm actually going to make a move so that the game doesn't afford the great thing about the Grunfield. Okay, scratch everything that I'm about to say. Clearly, our opponent is playing some sort of troll opening and E three and D Three in and of itself is not that bad if white transitions into a hippo set up. So the hippo set up is where you feel and keto both of your bishops, and then put the knights on E Two and D Two. But some players who really troll, they go like C Three and B Three and A three. And it still is very valuable to know how to punish those setups, because a lot of players, they either get scared or they start stumbling on their own moves. So in this game, I'm going to offer a sustainable way to punish, uh, whatever our opponent ends up playing. So since our opponent has played D three, it no longer makes as much sense for us to stick with a Gruenfelder King's Indian setup. Right? We need to play in slightly more principled fashion. Since our opponent is giving us an opportunity to grab the center, that's precisely what we are going to do. So let's transition to more principled chess and play the move E five. And obviously, our next move is going to be D Five, and our opponent continues to play in a rather dubious fashion. Let's grab more of the center with D five. I've had my fair share of hippo games in previous speedruns. You can kind of look around to find to find a few of them. And I've tried to be consistent in terms of the setup that I offer against these incredibly offbeat openings. One element of the setup that I prefer is to refrain from putting the other knight on C six. I actually really like a setup where we play the move pawn to C six, creating a little very solid pawn chain, and then the night on B Eight can maneuver itself to the Kingside kind of Rule Lopez style via, uh, D Seven and a fate to G Six. And we have all the time in the world to improve the position of our pieces because white is playing so unambitiously that we don't need to hurry and rush to complete our development. So let's start with a move that solidifies our center and takes the sting out of the move knight F three. What move am I thinking about here? And this move goes really well. It complements the move. C six. Well, if you're a London player, you should be familiar with this type of setup, where you put the bishop on D six, or in the London, you put your bishop on D three, and then you form the pawn triangle with C three. And here we're doing much the same thing. We're defending the E five pawn with our bishop, and we're defending the D five pawn with our pawn. And then we get a super compact, nicely positioned center. Okay. So we can castle kingside. We can place c six. The order of operations here is very unessential. Right. It doesn't matter, because White is not challenging our center. So I think that our best bet. Well, we're going to start by castling. I don't see a reason not to castle kingside. We're definitely not going to castle queenside in this type of position. That is, uh, way too adventurous. We don't need to rediscover the wheel here. So we're going to castle kingside, and presumably, our opponent is going to play bishop B Two. White is playing some sort of a hippo setup, but in the hippo, you normally aren't advised to play the move H three. Right. Because if White now plays G Three, then White has created an additional target on the kingside by playing H Three. So this really is not a savory setup at all by White. But, uh, before we get to the crux of the game, when we enter the middle game, it's important to temper your expectations when you're playing against these types of setups. I can't tell you how many games I've seen between beginners or club players, where one side, uh, employs a very offbeat setup that you know is bad, and the other side just goes directly for the throat and ends up losing the game because that kind of play backfires. It's not like White is doing anything to lose the game, and we need to refrain from the temptation to go directly for White's throat. We need to play this very patiently. We need to get all our pieces out, and we need to understand that breaking down these types of setups takes time, and it's impossible to do it in the opening. Okay, so whiteplace g three. Now we're going to continue with our setup and play the move C Six. Now, if we want to exert some pressure on the queen's side, there is a very kind of typical idea that we can employ at some point, not necessarily immediately. We also could have played that move here. And what I'm talking about is the idea of advancing the pawn down to A four and poking and prodding at the queen side. Now, of course, if we bring our pawn down to a four, white is going to respond by playing V four. But in that case, the typical follow up is to chip away at white's queenside by pushing the pond to C five. And again, because the center is closed, we have to realize that moving the same piece twice, moving the same pond twice is not something that you should rule out. Right. Because there is no hurry here. Okay, so how do we proceed? So I think a lot of people would be tempted to develop this bishop to e six or to F five. But we're actually going to leave this bishop on C eight for the time being. The reason I don't like bishop f five is because you're walking right into g four kingside expansion or you're walking into a potential e three, e four, bishop e six is a better move, but I don't really see the reason for us developing. Uh, and another specific thing I don't like about bishop e six is that after night f three knight B to D seven, white has the rather annoying move night g five. And we certainly don't want to give our LightSquared bishop away. Why don't we want to give our LightSquared bishop away? Because if you think about the middle game, white is very likely to castle kingside. And one of our typical plans is going to be to put pressure on the h three plum. So don't be afraid to leave one of your pieces on its initial square. How should we proceed? I think we should continue developing with knight B to D seven. And then we are going to reposition the knight to g six by playing rookie eight, which is a good move in and of itself. Right. This move is not going to hurt. We're reinforcing the e five pawn. This is called over protection. And now we are going to guide our knight over to F eight and then toward g six. Okay. Queeny two. But that changes a lot. I was obviously expecting White to play 92. What queeny two signals to me is that our opponent is flirting with the idea of castle and queenside. And that is a suicidal plan. But it's not immediately obvious that castle and queenside is losing here. Right. And if why does castle queenside? The checkmate is not going to play itself. We need to position ourselves in such a way that if white castles queenside on the next move, we are going to be ready to jump right into the attack. And I've already pointed out the main attacking method on the queen side, which is especially good if there is a king on that side of the board. What am I talking about? What should we play? We're going to play a move that basically tells our opponent, don't shoot dare castle queenside. Don't shoot dare castle queenside. Because I'm going to be ready to make mincemeat out of you. A five. Very good. And if our opponent goes queenside, if he dares, then we play a four, B four, and C five, and we blast the queenside open. I'll show that after the game. Instead, our opponent plays e four. Okay? So e four is a totally reasonable move, and we are going to continue with our initial plan, of course, and get this knight over to G six. And you might wonder what the knight is doing on G six, especially because it seems to be restricted heavily by the pawn on G three. But, uh, what you have to remember is that ultimately we are going to go after White's king no matter which way the king castles, right? So just assembling a piece on the king side is a good idea in and of itself. The other thing that I like about the move nine G six, is that the pawn at E five is very nicely protected by a lot of our pieces. And if you think about it, white's got quite a few pieces staring at e five as well. So whatever we do, I think it's quite important for us to keep the E five pawn nicely protected. And so Nike E six makes sense, both from an attacking perspective and from a more defensive perspective as well. And those types of moves are always really good. What if white doesn't? Castle well, we'll cross that bridge if we get there, I think White will. Castle I'm expecting our opponent to play night GF three. We will accelerate our pace a little bit. And I have a very interesting idea in response to night F three that we could try. We'll, uh, wait for our opponents to play this move. Yeah. Of course, we could have also tried the move 96, but after night F three, we're not able to squeeze our knight into D four. And what I don't like about the knight on E six is that it blocks both the rook and the light squared bishop. So that night on E six would really get on the nerves of our other pieces. We want each piece to be out of the way of the other pieces. Okay, so some of you may be wondering why I'm not exchanging the pawn on E four, and I don't see a reason why we should exchange. Exchanging helps White a lot more than it helps black, because it creates for the D two knight, a stronghold on C four, and it opens up the D file. And who stands to benefit from that open D file? Well, it's definitely White, because White is ready to get a rook to D one, and then our queen on D eight is going to end up under some serious fire. We're going to have to move our queen away, and then the knight's going to jump into C four. So we're letting White unfurl his pieces and expand the pawn on D five is a very important cog in the machine because it's restricting the knight on D two, and we're never afraid of White exchanging on D five. That just yields total control of the center to us. Queen f one. Our opponent not really playing too actively here, and I really think the time has come for us to start punishing this. I think the time has come for us to show our opponent that this kind of play is not acceptable. Now, how are we going to do that? Well, a lot of you are probably contemplating the idea of pushing the pawn down to H four, and that's a very legitimate idea. I actually was considering to play H five, but in response to knight F three, I think here we have a much more readily available attacking option, an option that I've already pointed out, and I think now is the perfect time to put this into effect, to carry this out. When I say we want to punish White for this type of play, what do I really mean? What does it mean to punish in the context of chess? Well, normally what that means is we have to open up the position. Unless we open up either the center or one side of the board, we're never going to be able to actually punish White for playing passively. If the position remains closed, white can do whatever the hell he wants. He can go King E two for all we care. Right. So we have to find a way to open up some avenues of infiltration, and we have a really good way of doing that. Right. We already played A five, so let's carry out the idea I mentioned earlier. With A four, we are inducing B four, and if I doesn't play before then, we take on B three, and we open up the A file. Why is it good to open up the A file? Well, then we can attack A three, but that ship has sailed. And now we play C Five, and we blast open the entire position. White has been very naughty, and now White has no choice but in one way or another to accept the opening of the position. White cannot keep things completely closed here. He plays, he takes D five. I don't think that's a very good move. What is our response to that move? Uh, have we blundered upon? Have we blundered upon? Have we given up our main center pawn? No, we don't really care about positional considerations anymore. All we really care about now is opening up the position as much as we can. And at that point, the position is largely going to play itself. What do we do now? Well, obviously, we take on before, and we need to reassess the situation. Right. There have been a lot of trades. The position has transformed. What's going on? Well, on the surface, we have given up a center pawn for a corner pawn. But those kinds of general considerations could not matter less because we're about to checkmate our opponent. All right? Now we need to be calm here, and we need to go for simplicity over something fancy. Perhaps some of you are attracted to the move A three, but it doesn't work. Calculate C takes B four, a takes B two, rook takes rook. And notice that the night on D two is covering the promotion square. So we do need to move our bishop. Or do we we have a sacrifice here that we should consider. There's the very interesting move. Knight takes D five straight away. And if White accepts the bishop, then we take back with our knight and we have, uh, a gazillion threats in that position. We're threatening to take on D three with another fork. We're threatening a fork on C two. So in a blitz game, I would take on D five without a second thought. Also, what I want you to see is that if White plays bishop takes D five, very importantly, after queen takes D five, the rook in the corner is hanging. Otherwise, uh, White would have simply taken the bishop. But this is the speed run, and I do want to emphasize simplicity and straightforwardness in the speed run. So I'm also very tempted to just drop the bishop back to C five because the pawn on D five, well, I guess it can be defended. White can play the move C four, but then we can bring our queen out to B six and we can attack F two. So I'm really torn. I'm kind of conflicted here, to be totally honest. Let me actually take a little bit of time to think about this. I'm going to try to calculate knight takes D five and make sure that it's actually good. So takes knight takes B four. White can play the move rook to a three. Then we have a fork on C two. It does look very good. Now let's compare that to bishop C five. Bishop C five, C four. Maybe we can push the pawn up to a three. Oh, what the hell? Let's do it. Knight takes d five. Let's have some fun. Let's have a little bit of fun. Yeah. I just feel like if you look at White's King, white is not even close to castling. The final consideration here for me is the fact that White is nowhere near castling. And as long as the White King remains in the center, I just don't believe that White can hold this position together. Another thing to remember okay, and we have the immediate payoff. This is obviously an impulsive panicky move. I was going to say that. Really? Players under 2000 tend to panic in these types of situations, and they tend to panic very, very quickly. So you often don't need to wait very long for a terrible move to arrive at the seat. So what do we do? Why is king E two a terrible move? Well, it's a terrible move because he's blundering the pawn on D three with check, and I don't see a reason for us not to take it. Now, the game is not over because, well, it's over. If White drops the king back to D one, then we give h well, we give a check on C two, obviously, and we win the bishop back, and then the game is totally over. If White had gone king E one, we would have had to demonstrate a little bit more finesse in order to finish the game off. And I'll show you what I would have done after the game. It's a little bit anticlimactic, but still, let's try to be accurate until the end of the game. This is an instructive moment. This is an instructive moment because I think the majority of people would grab the bishop without a second thought. But you have to remember that when you've got an attack of this magnitude, you really should be looking for checkmate. You really should not be prioritizing material unless it's a queen. Right. If you can win a queen or you can win a rook, that's one thing, but a minor piece, probably. We should look for something a little bit more ambitious. So let's see if we can find a forced mate. I'm actually thinking about something, but it doesn't seem too clean. I'm sure it's winning. So I think the low hanging fruit here is the idea of pinning well, of skewering the queen. Right? So the first thing that I see when I look at this position is the fact that the king and the queen are aligned. So that gets me thinking about the prospect of moving the bishop onto either F uh five or even to D seven, or even to move B six. But anywhere on this diagonal would skewer the king. But let's try to find the most accurate square because, well, I like the look of Bishop D seven. I really like the look of bishop D seven because White cannot prevent the bishop from moving on to onto B five. So I do not see a defense in response to Bishop D seven. Of course, bishop F five I think is equally good. I think Bishop F five is equally good. I don't think there is a big difference. Yeah, we could also have played rook D eight. And I point this out almost every single time we have a position that's this overwhelming. You might be sitting there thinking, why didn't I play this move or that move or the other move? Chances are that move is also winning. There isn't just one winning option in these types of positions. There's usually going to be six or seven moves that all win the game. Queen C one gets rid of the skewer. But Bishop B five is still totally devastating because if the king drops back to e one, there is obviously a fork on D three, followed by checkmate. And if the king goes fourth, king E three, queen D three is mate, and king F three is mate in two, that I will let you find. What is the fastest path to checkmate? It's a nice little sequence. It's easy. Now, remember, if we can get the king to e three, then queen back to D three is mate. So it's very easy. You just need to shepherd the king to the right square. You do that with the retreating move, queen, uh, F five. And after king E three, queen D three is checkmate. And our opponent played way too fast and way too sloppily. So it's a slightly anti climactic game. I apologize for that. But I still think there's instructive value to be squeezed. Resigns. Yeah. King E three, queen E three is checkmate. And we're close to 1600 with that win. Thank you. Danish chestnut for the tier one. Yeah. So I'm a little bit disappointed at the opening that we got, because if you are a hippo player, the best way to actually play the hippo is to start by fiancetoing the bishops. So if you see Grandmasters play the hippo, and that does happen normally in Hikaru, for example, likes to play the hippo against computers because the position is very closed and engines can sometimes struggle with that kind of thing. I think you play the hippo against Mittens, for example. So B three is the best way to reach a hippo setup. And for example, after E five, Fisher B two, night C six, you play G, fisher G two, you start by Fion ghettoing. And after a night F six, you play E, then 92 and 92. And the hippo is not actually such a bad opening. Uh, it's not easy to show a concrete advantage against it. But I don't recommend it, really, for anybody under Grandmaster level because it hits on all the wrong things. You're not practicing your opening fundamentals. You're just making the same crappy moves over and over again, and it's just not fun. White is essentially kind of sitting around and waiting for black to strike, hoping that black strikes prematurely or in the wrong way. So I won't analyze the hippo from white's perspective. I don't recommend it at all. So let's go back to the game. E three, knight F 63. So hopefully it makes sense why I transitioned to the move E five. If our opponent had played something more conventional, something like D three or D four, then we would have played a GRUNFELD setup because this is essentially just a opening. You might wonder whether E five is the best move here. E five is fine, but this allows white to transition into the English opening with C four and also the reverse French is not bad for white. I don't think E five is the best move. I think D five is a very, very legit move here as well. But again, White can transition into the Kali system by playing D four. So I think Knight F six is probably the best move objectively. So d three e five. A. Remember that anytime White plays before in such positions, you almost always respond with a classic move, A five. And this already induces serious weaknesses on the Queen side. If White takes, then White is left with a terrible isolated corner pawn. And if White plays B five, then we have a couple of options. We can drive the pawn to A four, isolating the B five pawn even further, or we can push the pawn up to C six, essentially using the pawn on B five to get our pieces out. And again, this type of structure with an isolated pawn on A three is terrible for White. So do not be afraid of the move b four. You don't always have to play A five yourself. H three. Bishop d six. B three. We Castle. White plays G three, and my favorite set up is to push the pawn up to C six. And the kind of positional underpinning of this move is very simple. We want the Bishop to be biting on granite when it fenkettos to G two. I like this move a lot more than night C six. I think the set up with Ponta C six is really, really watertight. It's compact, and it's easy to play. So White responds with Bishop B two, and we get the night out. Again, remember, that piece placement is temporary, so you should not rule out a move like this because it blocks the Bishop. This is your piece, and you can choose to move it again. So blocking the Bishop is purely temporary. It's Frankfurt Airport, right? The final destination for the night is going to be G six. What about C five instead of C six? A couple of people are asking. So that's an alternative setup. C five is an alternative setup which emphasizes spatial control. But that's actually the reason I don't like it as much. The problem is that after Bishop G two, obviously the pawn on D five is a little bit weaker, uh, than it would be if our pawn is on C six. Right? And second of all, my recommendation with White is one E four, and essentially, this is like a reverse King's Indian setup. So this resembles a opening with colors reversed. But I'm trying to play against offbeat openings in the spirit of a one E four player. Does that kind of make sense? If you think about it, what is the King's Indian? Well, the King's Indian and the Kings Indian, white gets pawns on E, but in the perk, in the perk, which is like the equivalent of the Kings Indian against one E four, you don't get that pond on C four. So the distinguishing factor between a lot of D four openings and a lot of e four openings is that the C pawn remains on C two in most e four openings. So it's not all about the amount of pawns that you have in the center. It's also about the quality of your central control. Now, how is the game likely to unfold if you play C five? Oh, White is going to go Bishop G two, black goes 96. And of course, black is better. Right? This is totally legitimate setup. You can put your bishop on E six, and your center is still very well defended. I'm belaboring the point here. By and large, c five is just an alternate setup. So we decided on C six, knight BD seven, rookie eight, knight D two, knight F eight. And so far, White is doing everything correctly. And here our opponent starts going completely off the rails. Queeny two is a very strange move, but still not that bad. Still not that bad. As long as White would have followed it up by actually getting this knight out to f three. The conventional way to play this, of course, is 92. This completes the hippo setup. Then we would have played Nike six, and likely White would have Castled Kingside. Now, what are the available plans here for black? Well, you can play both on the kingside and on the queen side. You absolutely can still play the move H five. And if you want to play h five, it might actually make sense. No, I think ni G six castles, and h five makes a lot of sense. And you can just chill on h five. Uh, you don't have to rush the move h four because the pawn on h five is perfectly well protected by the knight. It's unattackable. And if White plays H four, then White creates a massive hole on G four that you can stick a bishop in. And let's not even talk about the effect of the move F three. So how much is Black better in these positions? I would say objectively, it's like 0.7.8 according to the computer. So you're not winning number one and number two. You have to squeeze these positions for a very long time. You're not going to win the game in two moves. So, for instance, I would maybe play h five. Let's say that white does nothing. Let's say that white plays a random move queen C one. Then I would bring the Bishop out to e six. I would also very seriously consider the prospect of playing h engine confirms this. You can actually sack on G four in a lot of these positions. We had a speedrun game that I won in a very similar way. In this position, knight takes G four is already very, very strong, because if you look at this position, you have two pawns for the piece. White's pieces are tremendously passive. H three is coming in, and at some point you could push e four to open up. The dark squared bishop. So black's attacking potential here is massive. It's already minus three. According to the engine. White plays f three. You simply drop the bishop back to d seven, and white's position is indefensible. Here the queen's coming out to g five, the pawns moving to h three. Everybody in the chat intuitively should understand why this position is terrible for white, even without calculating any variations. Thank you, jaber, for the rate. Can white go f four? Asks Maculangelo. F four, you take it. And the night on e two is undefended. So the funny thing is, the random move that I chose is actually detrimental to white's position because it leaves the knight on e two unprotected. Maybe white should play a move like king h one. And here I would develop the bishop to e six. Then I would play queen d seven and force the king up to h two, where it is x rayed by the dark squared bishop. And one thing that could happen is after queen d seven, king h two, what move is once again very, very strong? Who can tell me, uh, how black should squeeze the most out of the position? Yeah, again, h four. And after g four, apart from the sacrifice on g four, which is still very interesting, you can consider the move e four. Check. And you can consider the very typical plan of moving the knight off of f six and blasting open the kingside by pushing the pawn up to f five. And to that you might ask, well, am I not worried about weakening my own king? And the answer is no, because of how passive white is. White does not have the firepower to exploit the weakening of black's black's king, but the vice versa statement is untrue. Our pieces are positioned perfectly to attack white's king. If you don't want to play on the kingside, you can also play on the queenside. The exact mirror image of the kingside plan is also effective, which is what we did in the game. You can play the move a five, and then at some point, you can play the classic idea a four, b four, and c five. What is the effect of this idea? And I wouldn't necessarily do it here, because here you have allowed white to play d four. Here you have allowed white to play the very nasty move d four. And as a consequence, white establishes a very strong night on this square. But what I'm talking about is, in more general terms, what are the available ideas? Assuming that this is not possible, you have isolated the a three pawn, and on the next move, you could attack it by building a battery, forcing the rook back to a one, and at some point, you could bring your BP on up the board and create a past pawn on a four. Okay, so I'm just trying to give you I'm trying to brainstorm some ideas to show you that just because the position is closed does not mean you just have to shuffle your pieces for 50 moves. There are specific things that you can do, and most of them involve reopening at one side of the board. Right. And the reason this is such a bad opening for newer players or intermediate players is that White has no activity. If you're a white hippo player, you have to be able to just shuffle your pieces, essentially add infinitum, and that's not what you want to do to build skill. And that's why it boggles my mind at how many players just decide on a setup like this. It's masochistic. Okay? So unless there are any questions, we're going to move to the game. I could talk about this in far more depth, but I don't want to overwhelm you with ideas. Queeny two. We play a five, right? Preemptively pushing our pawn up and discouraging White from castling queenside. What would have happened if White Castles queenside? Well, now we definitely play A four, and we definitely play C five. And perhaps in this position, white could play B five. But here, I think we have a very powerful move. How do we prevent White from linking up his pawns with C four? Who can tell me? And this is a move which may seem anti positional. You're giving up some squares, but you're essentially isolating the B five pawn, not C four. Come on. C 4d takes C four. Just blunders upon. We want to play the move D four, right? And yes, we're opening up the Bishop. And, yes, we're giving up the C four, a square. But we are taking the sting out of the move C four, because here we take on passant. And then we victimize the B five pawn with Bishop to D seven. And once this pawn drops, White's, king is just going to be in shambles. So that would be one idea, but we don't have to rush, right? We don't have to rush with A four. And we can also start by playing the move queen E seven. In fact, we probably should do this, forcing White into making this incredibly passive move. And now A four looks a whole of a lot better. A. Four, b, four, c, five. And again, the same thing b. On the next move, we go Bishop. D. Seven takes B 05:00 A.m.. I worried about losing the B seven pawn. I want to lose that pawn to open up the B five. White has nothing going on. The kingside this position is losing. Okay, now, John Frath suggests the idea of, uh, playing queen E seven. Queen E seven is a great move, and it also prevents White from castling because he drops a three. But I actually wanted to encourage White to cast like, I wanted to play a move that sort of provokes White into castling because it's such a big mistake. And we know that a five is a helpful move regardless. Those are the types of moves you want to play. You want to play moves that you're not going to regret even if your opponent does not go along with kind of the main idea of the move, if that makes sense. Right. So a move that I would not want to play is b five, because b five is a pretty weakening move. And if white does not castle queenside, it's kind of hard to justify this. A five is a far less positionally committal move, if that makes sense. Okay, so our opponent responds with a four, which is a good move. Nike six. And here, I think queen f one is perhaps the decisive mistake. I think after a four, white's position is borderline lost. What should white have done? Well, obviously, white should have brought the night out to f three. And in response to that, I, uh, had a couple of ideas. I think the most noncommittal move is actually to play bishop d seven. Why not bishop e six? Because we want to maintain the x ray between the rook and the queen. Bishop d seven, white castles. Okay. The engine proposes to play slowly with a move like h six, which I like, just making some lift, and the game goes on again. It's the same. We play in the same spirit that we would play if the knight was on e two. We squeeze, we make improvements. We can play a move like queen c seven, reinforcing the pawn. And largely, white's position is miserable. Not because black has a specific idea that makes it miserable, but just because white has no active plan. White's pieces are so cramped and so passive. This is like a king's Indian attack, but down like 610 p. Another thing I would consider is to start with queen c eight and force the king up and then go queen c seven, because later on, you might be thankful that there is an x ray going on. And still the idea of h five ah, h four, uh, is very much feasible for black. Okay. And I still like the idea of going a four and c five at some point. So one of the key takeaways from this game is that in these closed center positions, you have to be really patient. You have to be ready to play five or six moves that slowly improve your position. But you also have to be on alert for tactics. Right. You can't fall asleep because you never know when the blunder could come. How would I keep improving here? Well, I've just shown a lot of different ideas. Let's say that white literally goes back to g one. Well, I would already consider the move a four, and after b four, i, uh, would have to calculate the move c five. This is a very committal option. The engine doesn't like it. Now, analyzing with an engine in such positions can be quite dangerous, because, as you guys know, engines are not always very good in closed center positions. They often essentially suggest a strategy of shuffling your pieces back and forth. So sometimes you really have to prod the engine to look at more concrete lines. For instance, the engine does recommend the move B five, which is interesting. Expanding on the queen side, let's say that White continues going back and forth. Now the engine proposes the move rook eight. D eight, which is reasonable. Okay, let's say White continues to go back and forth. Now queen B seven, and okay. And a four. So the engine does spot the idea of going A four and C five. Yeah. And now, apparently, queen A seven. And then C five is very strong because in the event of the exchange, you've got a very strong battery against the F two square. So I think you can kind of see, uh, in what direction I would take this type of position. Right. You play patiently, and then you find the best opportunity to reopen the game. Okay, enough on this position. Let's have a look at the game continuation. Queen f uh, one. A four, b four. C five. And I explained this pretty deeply during the game, so I won't go over the logic again. I think White's last chance to stay alive was probably to play B five. And once again, this is a recurring idea. How should black continue in this position? Who can tell me? Actually, the engine proposes C four just blasting the center open. But if we want to play this, uh, in a human way, we play D four. We close down the center, and we do it in order to pick off this B five. Pawn 92. And the best way to do it is actually queen to A five because the knight is also pinned. White's position is so miserable here. Or you could play C four DC. And now just knight takes C four. Just smash through the center. And this position also looks terrible for White. You can give a check on a five. I mean, just look at this piece of crap on the queen side. This. Clunker c three. Bishop B six. Rook c eight is coming. We're going to win this pawn. Now White is losing. So I think the position is beyond repair already after C five. But our opponent makes it worse. E takes D five is probably also a mistake. And I'm very curious what the engine thinks of the move. Knight takes d five. The engine likes it. Yeah. Knight takes D five is the best move. Also very good. Would have just been to drop the bishop back. Also very good. And after C four, we just put the bishop back on B four in order to pin the knight. And who can tell me, after night GF three, what is the most straightforward winning move for Black? This should be absolutely automatic. Your hand should be reaching for this move the moment White plays knight F three. Because you know what the strategy is. E four. Just blast it open. D e 494. King d one. A three. Play on the flank. Bishop d four. And now the simplest is just to develop the bishop, let's say to F five. Do not be afraid. Uh, a takeaway from the previous game. To play normal developing moves in the midst of an attack. Not every move needs to be a sacrifice or needs to threaten. Checkmate. Just bring your pieces out and then go queen D seven and queen A four, check. Encircle the king and checkmate it. So people really struggle with moves like bishop C eight to, uh, F five in the midst of an attack. But you haven't sacrificed anything, so you're allowed to play a move that's on the slower side. Knight c three check. Of course, is also quite good. Black is completely winning. No, but you're not pausing. Bishop f Five is an attacking move. But not all attacking moves are created equal. You have different categories of attacking moves. Some are sacrifices. Make a move to blast open the center. But there are other attacking moves that just bring a piece into the attacker, into the game. Bishop F. What happens here? I think we ignore. I think we play I'm not using the engine here. Okay. At this point, I would already start calculating concretely and I would consider the move queen D seven, GF. Uh, let's calculate queen A four, check. And we find the checkmate here. King c one. And, you know, I think it's time for another slow move. Okay, let's check the engine. I'm curious, and I was right. The move Ni G six to F four is minus twelve. Calling reinforcements, you're aiming for E two, which is a checkmating square. White is totally busted. Totally busted. Um, white is no moves. Just look at the king and look at white's pieces. For instance, knight takes E four, rook takes E four. Let's say white plays bishop E three. We squeeze the queen into B three and we attack C four. These are pretty simple moves. You just need to get experience in attacking chess to find them smoothly. In any case, this is completely one sided. So Bishop F eight was a totally viable alternative. The evaluation here is minus five. We decided on the sacrifice, and it really is a shame that our opponent just folded over so quickly. After king E two, queen D three, the game is over. I will just show one more line after king D one. Queen c two. The game ends immediately. If White had gone. King E One this actually leads to an instructive moment because I think most people would get very excited at the prospect of Ni C two. You're probably thinking that right now, but what you cannot do is just say, oh, I see an exchange. Let's take and then take and take. Because remember, you've sacrificed a piece, so black is better here, of course, probably even winning. But this gives up a lion's share of your advantage. Why would you trade queens here? That defeats the whole purpose. So what you have to see here is that queen takes d three is actually not a threat, because in that case, we take on d three, and we win an entire bishop back. So can you propose a move that essentially encourages white to trade on d three? It's a zen move, and it's a very powerful move. A three is great. That's one option. What about doing it with a piece? Rook to d eight. Beautiful. Rook e eight to d eight. You deserve some subs. This attacks the knight. Now, if white stubbornly defends the knight, then what you have to see is that it's not the queen that belongs on d three. It's the knight. So we go queen c two, and we squeeze the knight into d three with devastating effect. White basically has to take. Now we play knight takes d three. We play knight takes b two, and it's totally winning. We've got two extra pawns. We've got three extra pawns. The king on e two is in shambles. And this idea of bishop d seven to b five is going to be further devastating to the white king. Okay? Does that kind of make sense? Hope it makes sense. So our opponent just folds over and dies. And bishop d seven is just a nice final finesse to get the bishop to b five with decisive effect. Any other questions? Obviously, the checkmate here is to go back to f five and force the king to move to e three, and then the queen moves into d three with mate. Okay, we've got a couple of questions. Knight f four, check. Instead of queen takes d three, check. Yes, that was also winning. And I did see that move. We could start with the move night. F four, check. I just thought this was a little bit too advanced for the speedrun. Basically, the idea is that after g takes f four, now you play queen takes d three. Check. And what is the purpose of sacrificing on f four? It is to reopen the e file at your convenience. But this should make sense to everybody. And the game is over. King d one, queen c two is literally checkmate. And if flight plays 92, then oh, uh, the top engine move is sexy. This is a sexy move. And I will give you an exact parallel for this move. Let's take a little detour. And let me tell you a story. Let me tell you a story. So rewind the clock back to, uh, an olympiad that took place in the city of Gothenburg, Sweden, uh, in the year 1955. So, obviously, uh, in that era, the USSR team was totally dominant. They basically won every Olympiad. So USSR. Is playing Argentina. And Argentina actually had a very strong team. They had Miguel Nydorf. They had a guy named Oscar Pawno who was an opening specialist. Herman Pilnick International. Uh, master. And they had a StrongBoard four. So this was not a walkover for Team Soviet, uh, Union. So essentially, the USSR had all one E four players. Jeff uh, M. Geller, Paul Carris, uh, everybody on that team was essentially exclusively an E four player. So Team Argentina gets together in PA's hotel room and they decide to do something very interesting. They all decide to play the same opening. They decide that they're going to prepare this opening very extensively. And they're going to show Team USSR that they are not afraid, uh, of a theoretical struggle, that they believe in their preparation. And because Miguel Nydorf was on Team Argentina, he was the team captain. And he says, we're playing what I like. We're playing the Nidorf. So they all agree we're playing the Nidorf. So they played the Nidarf, and they knew they looked up Geller's games. Yep. And Geller was the elder statesman of the Russia team. So people were going to play what Geller plays. And Geller was a Bishop G five player. So, to the elation of Team Argentina, they play Nidarf on all boards, and Russia responds with Bishop G five on all boards, going right into Argentina's preparation. And because this was 1955, the theory of the Nidorf was still in its kind of initial stages. And so Argentina came up with a line that obviously nowadays is considered extremely well analyzed. It's not, um, a surprise at all, but back then, it was virtually a novelty. And it goes bishop E seven, queen F three. On two of the boards. On two of the boards, obviously, H six. Bishop H takes G five. And in this position, they had prepared the line knight F six to D seven. I don't know if they called it the night or effect then. I don't think so. So this has, uh, since then been known as the Gothenburg variation because of where it was played. But amazingly FM. Geller, years ago had analyzed this line, and he had come up with essentially a reputation. And the reputation goes as follows does anybody know how USSR. Refuted this line? And this is often referred to as the Argentinian tragedy. Knight takes E six is correct. And the crazy thing is, since then, engines have found a way to revive the line. So the best move, according to modern engines, the actual reputation is queen F three to H five. But back then, Geller shocked pawno with knight takes E six. F takes C six. Queen h five. Checking f eight. Now, Argentina had analyzed this position and concluded that the peace sacrifice is unsound. Why did they conclude that the peace sacrifice was unsound? Because here's the thing. What does White want in this position? Well, obviously, White wants to put a rook on f one. So if you allow white to put a rook on f one or to castle, the game is over. Because king g seven, queen f seven is checkmate. Right, but here's the thing. Argentina was expecting the move bishop e two or the move bishop c four. But this is just too slow. And black is able to escape with the move 95. And the point of 95 is that it covers the f uh, seven square. And after white castles, black safely plays king g seven. The square on f seven is protected. And all that white can try is to drop the bishop back to g three. Okay, what is the purpose of bishop g three? Well, white wants to eliminate the knight on e five and deliver checkmate on f seven, but no harm, no foul. Black displays knight c six. And we're fine because the knights defend each other and the king is perfectly safe. G takes h six, check work h six leads absolutely nowhere. But to the absolute shock of team Argentina. On both boards where the argentinians played this line, both soviet players responded with the same crazy move. If you've understood and paid attention to the line I just showed, you should be already able to come up with that move. Bishop f one to b five. Bishop f one to b five. And the point of course, is that after king g seven or, sorry, after a takes b five, it's mate. And we know how after king g seven, the uh, move is to castle. And after 95, bishop h four to g three, the point of the move is revealed. The knight can't get out to c six or d seven. It can, but you're just going to capture it. And then you're going to capture on e five and checkmate the king on f seven. And there is very little else that black can do in this position. Here's the reason why. If black tries work f eight, then white wins with queen takes h six and g six. If black tries queen g eight. Then white wins with a beautiful idea, takes, takes. And now a move that's going to knock your socks off. Bishop b five to e eight, threatening rook f seven, forcing the queen to e eight. And now the deflection with g takes h six. You can't take with the rook, because you get mated on e eight or sorry, you lose your queen. If you step back, you lose your queen. And if you step to the side, you get check mated with rook f seven. So that's the reason you can't play queen g eight. How else can you try to defend f seven? Well, there's only uh, one other move, and that's 95 to g six. But now another beautiful tactic, g h six, rook h six. And who can find the follow up? Who can find the follow up. And um, we're following the game geller against Pono, or no, we're not following. I'll show you what pano played. I'll show you what pawno played. Rook f seven. Beautiful. And Queen takes h six. A takes b five. Check here, forced check back. And we just take everything. I mean, just look at black's position. So in the actual Geller pawno game, oscar pawno played, uh, the immediate 95. Geller played bishop g three. And here, pawno is already totally lost because if black goes king G seven, this isn't even the worst version of the line we just analyzed. Of course, black should go king g seven first, but he was so shell shocked that he played 95 1st. Here, white can eliminate the knight first and castle, and this eliminates the option of knight g six. So here, white wins on the spot. So Oscar pawno played, uh, bishop takes g five and lost after castles, king E seven. And, of course, bishop takes E five. And the game is over because, uh, it is queen b six. Check was the game. King h one de, and Geller hunts the king down. Check here. Check. And pawner resigned in three moves. He has to give up his queen in order to avoid getting checkmated. And the other game ended in very similar fashion. So that's the story. That's the Gothenburg tragedy. Why did I tell this story? Hopefully, you were sufficiently entertained, but people on YouTube might be wondering why. What made me think of that story? Well, what made me think of that story is the engine's top recommendation in our game. So in my game, let's flip the board again after, uh, knight F four check, which I was analyzing. Queen takes D. Three. Check. King E one, he takes f four. Check. 92. The top engine recommendation is a very similar mechanism. It's. Bishop to g four. And the idea is to play this move with tempo and force white to spend the tempo so that you can get the rook into d eight without allowing white to make an additional defending move. If rook D 192 is Smothered mate, if the knight moves, 92 is still checkmate. And if white tries to defend, then you just take on C three with checkmate to follow. And it's this important idea of clearance, making a move with tempo and then bringing a rook into the game. Of course, there's a million other winning moves, and this is not a rare theme. This is pretty common. It's just something to file away into your mental directory of ideas. If white tries bishop C one, then I think the winning line is to give a check and slide the queen over to B three to set up another Smothered mate with queen D one. Knight F four was the best move, according to the engine. Yeah. Yeah. This is minus eight. Queen takes d three is merely minus six. So it wasn't the worst idea in the world to take on D three. But yes, nite f four is the most accurate move for sure. Just to finish the thought, after queen h five, sorry, in the Gothenburg variation, uh, the reason that knight takes E six is no longer considered a reputation is because after bishop B five, there is this very computerish move. Bobby Fisher actually found this move, rook h seven. This move actually allows black to hold. And according to modern engines, it is a draw. It's a miserable position for Black. Black has to play 1000 engine moves in a row, but somehow Black is able to hold the draw here. So, like castles, I think it goes king Ghee six. As you can see, this is totally terrifying. Rook g seven. Rook f seven. And then I think black is supposed to go bishop takes h four takes, I mean, some line like this and apparently black skin survives. But who really wants to go for this, right? But if you want to play this like an engine, you're supposed to play queen h five here rather than knight takes C six. But anyways, back to the speedrun game. Not a long game, not a complicated game, but hopefully a good illustration of how to play in these relatively closed center positions. Patience, uh, and deliberate play is very, very important. Okay, I think that concludes the speedrun. That's probably enough for this game. Those of you who are new to my channel, I have a YouTube channel. We are slowly moving toward 400K subs. So every sub counts and allows me to keep going. So thank you to everybody who supports, uh, in these difficult times.