Hey, Alan, you deserve a tall glass So can you just shut up for a second? I told him his theories I was right, he was wrong. No, you wouldn't find him Wrong. And that's a cheap shot. Well who won? Brother? You should not be taking cheap shots. I've never been able to finish a thing. No. Because you're personally Say whatever you want, Brother, you got it wrong. Say you were preposterously Man. You poor Alan, man. Jake crushed the professor It was a panel of Democrats, a panel of. Of men who wanted to figure out What did Kamala Harris do wrong? Why didn't the Democrats Now, look, this fiery exchange Change purveyor of the key system to determine It all started with him basically a little faulty, but not really. He kind of made excuses for himself, and I So let's hear let's hear to Jake's reaction to him. I am forthrightly willing to admit I still think I actually I think I was right about 2000, I still think it's a pretty good record. Now, I think two things Number one, I was incredibly critical at the time of the spineless, cowardly Democrats openly and viciously trashing nominee right out there in the open. My keys are based upon the proposition decides whether or not well enough to get four more years. That was exploded this time that we've never seen before. Before Kamala Harris of Joe Biden dropping out of the race, something that, as you can tell, Biden was losing by a lot to Donald Trump. Their internal polling indicated it was likely that Biden that Trump was Over 400 electoral college votes, a 0% chance of winning. But you saw him there saying no, if you My keys are perfect. The keys failed because of you. All right. So anyway, Jake, first of all, Williams is also on the panel and Juan He was pointing fingers at the electorate And that bothered me a lot. But for the purposes of this discussion, with Lichtman, because you called him out. And I think what you said here So let's watch. - You're blaming. There was this information. The point you're making I agree with Alan. The people who were at fault It is the candidate, Kamala Harris, Democratic party, Democratic leadership. You guys don't want to admit They're the cancer. In the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party is the populist left. That is the Bernie Sanders 2016 campaign. That part says, let's do super popular higher minimum wage, Let's do all of these things. Our corporate corporations Our donors don't want that. I think that's the longest period of time on Piers Morgan's show So congratulations. Yeah, I think it's because Yeah, 100%. You could tell he's, like, which was interesting to see. But look, Because he's put a lot of weight and his own view of his own success you know, the keys which help him predict the presidential election. And he cares about that So that bias shows in pretty And to your credit. You also said, you know, like I'm going to stop picking on you. - Am I not merciful? You also did this. Let's watch. The difference that I bring to the table of successful prediction, based upon how American presidential as pragmatic decision making has governed well enough. And then my analysis is based upon what's of 160 years of history. So I have a base for my analysis. I'm not just doing Monday You need to learn some manners. My brother. It did go wrong. I was right. You were wrong in this election. And now you come and tell us not to. Unlike you, Are you? You do need to learn - No. I've been a bad boy. You were bad. You were. You were little. That was a bit much. Okay. Look, guys, it's easy to make fun He got a massively wrong And he was so insistent. But there's a serious part to this, And I don't want you guys to miss that. So look, his keys are based. One is it's irrational to say You can't say that it's definitive. And the point I was making to him, was when Biden was still in the race. I'm like, yes, but if the candidate is has because there's a superseding factor. And he's like, no, no, it doesn't matter. And I said, okay, What if the candidate punched a baby Would that matter? Oh come on. I mean, come on, come on. Right. So, like, And the reason why I don't mind, one of the reasons is because and he was selling hopium to a lot But that hopium was. And this is the most important part, that they were all going, oh no. The professor says Biden should stay in. The professor says it doesn't matter The professor says that he's always right. And even if the candidate's brain of a debate or he melts on screen, the keys, they'll vote for the blob. But most importantly, the majority. The a lot of the keys And he's like, if you pick the incumbent, But that's actually a terrible advice He's looking at elections from decades ago when local politics was king, when you could actually have the party that goes only in mainstream media. And mainstream media But now because of online media, The incumbents They have an albatross around their neck for every policy position that goes wrong. So but he did not want to adjust. And the guys, the number one reason is because in the next election cycle, they're going to come at you with the we got keys, we got cars, we got oranges, and we got professors and we got Queen Latifah, and we got all you should pick the most corporate the one who takes the most Oh, don't go populist trying What a terrible idea. Just trust Alan Lichtman's keys and Democratic leaders know best. Well, if they know best, Why was Allan Lichtman so wrong? So it's not just about beating up who, of course, has to be mortified now It's about making sure that we don't make If Allan Lichtman would just admit, you and just say, look, I got it wrong. I got it wrong this time period. It's okay. It's totally fine. People get things wrong. Time to time. I get things wrong. Time to time. All the time. It's not a big deal. It's the look. For me, it's not It's not about what he prefers I don't care about that. He's an American. That's totally fine. You know, his his unwillingness to even hear a differing opinion or argument without responding with, like, this Like, that's the thing that bothers me Like, there's too much ego Yeah, 100%. In Turkish. There's a saying saying - Ooh, I like that. But so but why did Allan Lichtman, So that is actually It's because in the beginning, media put him on air 24 over seven. He was a darling. Over and over again. Why? They could pick any professor. And there's tons of professors who thought But mainstream media wanted Joe Biden, that he was young and dynamic. Oh, Mika and Joe told him know, he solved the theory of relativity in our secret meetings, behind the scenes. He's so dynamic. So in order to perpetuate that lie, thinks a bunch of keys is going to predict even though it makes no sense. He. Come on on, come on on. Yeah. Professor, everybody listen So look. Okay. I think the way you're framing it I think oftentimes, you know, the hosts who staff these cable news shows, You get what I'm saying? They're looking, I get you, And so I want to be clear It's not like MSNBC and CNN should we bring on The Nutty Professor? Right. And so no, it's groupthink. Groupthink is it's got to be Biden. It's got to be Biden Oh, Ellen Lichtman Bring him on. Bring him on. Biden, Biden, Biden, Biden, Biden, then Kamala, bring him back on. Bring him on. Come on, come on, It's groupthink. And so and you know, I'm kidding around He's not dumb. He's a he's a professor. He's written a lot of books. If you write a lot of books, Doesn't matter what's in the books. - Okay, I actually think. - Writing a book is real hard. But guys, look, it's not. It's not about poor Al Lichtman. Just. I'm happy to leave him alone. He's just a random civilian picked out of the woodworks to convince Right. So. And he's of course, he's not dumb. The reason why I go in that route, guys, and you're that wrong, I am adjusting now because it turns out I and I don't want Democratic voters Then again, bygones be bygones. God bless. No problem at all. Let's move on. Let's move on. But when he comes back on, they'll have Professor Lichtman back It's like, say, Buttigieg. Don't don't pick anyone My key says Buttigieg or Newsom. Right. Well, we're going to have that fight So that's the problem.