Hungry for &quot;roadkill fries&quot; with chopped chilis? You will be. The In-N-Out secret menu No, you can't order a giant ghost ship topping-less double burger It's a simple concoction consisting of two cheese nestled in between. And that's if you ignore the fact that American Maybe the Flying Dutchman is for cheeseburger lettuce and tomato and ketchup getting in the people who want to beef up their grilled cheese Do you eat it with your hands? &quot;How do you eat it? With your hands?&quot; Much like the legend of the Flying Dutchman Unless, of course, you order one and find out. The secret menu is proof that In-N-Out they want options, and they want customization. customers are human. Thus, the Scooby Snack: a food treat for your four-legged friend. The Scooby the American Kennel Club, who also cite the Flying And of course, there's no rule that decrees If you're on a low- or no-carb diet, to pay for buns and toppings -- or maybe need to grab an extra -- then go ahead It's just an accepted fact of life that In-N-Out limp, unsalted, and just generally not up to Some chefs reportedly suspect it's because when cutting the potatoes, which causes them Luckily, there's a way to get an improved french done:&quot; this lets the employees know that you want of that crispy, golden brown texture they deserve. them done &quot;light,&quot; meaning the fries spend less softer variety. We aren't sure why anyone The high quality of an In-N-Out burger as well as satisfying preparation. Now, you can by ordering it &quot;mustard grilled.&quot; This just means cook puts some mustard on the other side, flips it the sizzling fried mustard, which gives the burger Mustard-grilling is actually the which, according to In-N-Out's website, is a pickles, extra sauce, and grilled onions. So but still want your burger to pack an extra &quot;Call it an animal burger, and &quot;See, this is kind of like an urban myth.&quot; You can famously order In-N-Out fries Animal cheese, grilled onions, and Thousand Island enough for you, you can opt for the Roadkill Flying Dutchman burger on top. Fries, cheese, It's like an entire meal nestled in one This item is truly so secret that it sounds like So be prepared for confused cashiers or But you can go ahead and order both Animal and then make the Roadkill fries by as a little do-it-yourself action will help burn a Who doesn't love some melted cheese For some inexplicable reason, though, But considering cheese fries are basically it's a no-brainer that you can order satisfied customers have worked cheese It's worth reiterating that this for having the best french fries. A 2018 &quot;HATE THEM HATE THEM HATE THEM&quot; To: &quot;They are wrong. In every way possible.&quot; So ordering cheese fries might just limp side into something more appetizing. Or and get some golden, crispy fries draped &quot;Say cheese.&quot; In-N-Out has been serving up vanilla, strawberry, used to mix them right in their paper cups, which over spilled milkshakes. But In-N-Out customers you don't have to choose just one milkshake The American version of Neapolitan ice cream ice cream treat from Naples, Italy that usually with some fruit in the middle. The Neapolitan strawberry ice cream, all in one delicious creamy you can just as easily order a Black and White, In-N-Out is known for its grilled onions, which caramelized flavor. The onions are typically but there's another option: Instead of dicing the onions first, a whole and then slapped on top of your burger. This may not be the best idea to give it a try next time you know you'll be alone &quot;I have two words for you: brush your teeth!&quot; This isn't so much a menu item as a topping you can get any In-N-Out burger topped The peppers are pickled to briny, spicy of your patty. If you want a burger that You can also add these chopped chilis to and they'll give them to you in little you can control your level of heat, or It's up to you, but be warned that When you think of veggie burgers, you or perhaps an Impossible Burger that somehow its own spin on the veggie burger, also known as a an actual burger. That's because this off-menu It's a ton of lettuce, tomato, onions, sauce, and If you're feeling downright gluttonous, &quot;Pickles? I'm hungry.&quot; Can a salad disguised as a burger really scratch almost feels like In-N-Out is using this subpar to convert to beef eaters. But if you're a at least you now know that The idea of a pattyless sandwich at a fast-food ironic. But the In-N-Out vibe is one of good times themselves limited by the menu. Thankfully, as In-N-Out offers a grilled cheese on ingredient combination here, and no speakeasy A simple &quot;Grilled cheese, please&quot; alerts while leaving in the cheese. Two slices, to be On the plus side, the grilled cheese is find themselves at a loss for something to Nevertheless, there's no hiding the fact Any doctoring to make it more appealing Luckily, if you're creative, there are plenty like stuffing your grilled cheese with fries. The Sometimes, you're so ravenous that a double patties with two slabs of American cheese melting when you're hankering for something that'll last That's where the not-so-super-secret comes in. In a twist that may have just the In-N-Out kitchen engineers discovered and patty two to nestle a third patty for &quot;Now I'm getting into the Triple Triple, the &quot;Protein burger.&quot; Ordering the 3x3 is easier than ordering and there's only one bun to worry about if you're is a bit of a challenge, though. The bread can and there's only so much a wax paper But on the days when your cravings for it's comforting to know that Somewhere in the In-N-Out food science mad chefs hit upon a fantastic realization. Double, they could create a monster burger that They called it the 4x4, or the Quad-Quad. the name could just as easily be a reference to If it were any taller, it would have to &quot;I usually order the 4x4, but today, &quot;See, 4x4's not on the menu.&quot; &quot;It's a little secret.&quot; A 4x4 includes four all-American beef and four slices of American cheese. It can make things a little squishier and more delicious calorie count of a Double-Double is a respectable burger with special sauce. Of course, some quick realization that a 4x4 is over 1200 calories