Ezra Klein: Secretary Clinton, thank you for being Hillary Rodham Clinton: Thank you, Ezra, glad to talk to you again. EK: So I wanted to start with a part of the you almost ran on the beginning of a universal call Alaska for America. Tell me a bit about that idea and why it didn't HRC: Well I wanted very much to convey a commitment Most of the emphasis on the campaign was, like, really, the infrastructure program that But I was also really interested in what else And so I looked at a couple of different approaches The experiments that had been tried elsewhere. And the Alaska for America idea was really to argue that our natural patrimony really break mindset that the extraction of resources That we, as Americans, have a stake in it And the Alaska model where they write a check a formula about the oil and gas revenues was And we dug deep, we tried to explain it to to grasp what we were talking about because to say, didn't have any idea about what So I kept looking for an opportunity to put the campaign. EK: What would've going into a program like When you talk about our natural patrimony, HRC: Well that was one of the challenges we you look nationwide, are we talking about encourage the continued extraction of fossil necessarily thinking was in the best interest. Other kinds of natural patrimony -- whether could look at and say, "Extracting that, part of America's legacy." There were lots of really interesting questions. We debated it for a long time -- the fossil complications. EK: So the reason I start with that is when end, "You know, maybe I should've proposed later." And it seems to me that this is one of the left reevaluating. You say that you now have more of an appreciation Do you think that one of the lessons of watching is that perhaps the correct role for policy And that the place for technocratically sound, process? HRC: Well, that certainly is a fair conclusion If I could, Ezra, because you're a policy about this a little bit more, because this This wasn't something that I only thought I felt that I was in the following posture: from my own party who I happen to believe issues. And whether it was saving the economy, saving to universal health coverage with the Affordable get to where we got. And I worried that if I were to say, "Well, and we'll leave the details 'til later," that happen before?" And I knew that would be my burden to bear, been in the administration to be able to answer Secondly, I don't think I'm held to same I believed that if I were to say let's do let's do whatever it is that might be viewed my primary opponent or my general election in one case in the primary with respect to all the time. "Okay, how are you going to do that? How are you going to pay for it? Where's the money going to come from?" If I had said we are going to leave it to figure it out, people would've said, "Well, How are you going to do that? You don't have 60 votes." I think I would have been hit with a thousand I would have felt an obligation to answer. So finally, you know, I do think policy matters, for the country, made sense for the Democratic But it was hard to compete with, you know, I got from both sides. And maybe I could've been -- in fact, I'm at trying to maneuver through that, so that we are going to do. I thought saying, "Look, we are gonna get goal -- we're at 90 percent now. I think getting from 90 to 100 is a lot easier sense to people. I think in the end, a lot of people who were But, you know, that's what you do when you done differently? EK: So as someone that would have been asking HRC: You would've been pinning me down, EK: And here is my question on that, though: people would care about them? Or because you would care about them? Something that I have observed watching Trump a lot of what we thought can hurt a politician the press. It's their own shame, their own sense that to actually respond to what they feel is a If you just don't have that desire, if you critique, it appears to lose at least some HRC: Ezra, you are 100 percent right. EK: Thank you. HRC: I feel like we are having a therapy session You are 100 percent right, and I can't change I knew that. I knew that I am not someone who will say responsibility. I had to run as me. I love when people say, "Oh, if only we I've been around a long time. I am what I am. I care about being absolutely as accurate I'm saying. But I think this was not just a slight shift; Because I'm someone who's observed presidential there would be a moment, maybe one or two, interview the candidate was asked, "How Explain to me how that would work." That was certainly my experience in '08. I saw my husband go through it -- in fact, I saw, you know, President Obama go through look, here's what we are going to do, and to get it done. But it's going to make a difference. He went from the specific to the upstretched Yet it had to be connected to something that And, you know, I've been around a long time. I know how hard this is. And I didn't want to be either not telling not being responsible about what I thought thought could be a pretty big deal. But clearly in a reality TV campaign like the same at all. I never had those moments that I thought would EK: So you talk about you are what you are. HRC: I am what I am. EK: You are what you are. And one of the things that was interesting your own history in political organizing. So I've read your speech from Wellesley, a radical to me. But when you explain about how you thought you said that "I ran for student government do a good job convincing college administrators You talk about your work with the Children's reports. This is all in a period when a lot of people How did you become more of a pragmatist who era? HRC: Well, there are always people who want And I respect the desire for being part of when younger when you want to see that happen. But I also became convinced early on that that in America you got those huge moments We saw it with President Johnson, with voting with enormous Democratic majorities in the could actually implement what it chose to But that's not that common in American political And as I watched what the hard, slow boring in our country -- it was really digging in, making the case. And sometimes you still ran into an immovable and you went on again, which is what I did up with the Children's Health Insurance So I'm really interested in change, I'm values that I believe America stands for, we need to go politically. And that's what I decided was the most effective EK: This feels to me like the argument that and '16 candidacies and that you have had In both of those elections -- in the primary the general of this year, last year -- you were saying they were going to upend whole They were going to bring hope and change, they were going to drain the swamp, whatever In those cases you've always taken the stance you need to work within it, the angels are And that has been I think simultaneously a I had a piece that I had written for if you Political Realism," and it was about the less about upending America's political can bring within it. Why is that such a hard message to sell to HRC: I don't think it used to be quite as I think it could be made harder because of right now -- but you see, I think I'm also the kind of change I want to see. There's a big move for change coming from for our country. They want radical, pull-em-up-by-the-roots convention to rewrite our Constitution to religious and ideological elements. So talk about radical change -- they are are electing people who are either true believers So what do we do on the other side? Because we don't control media the same message to get out. So it's okay to say all right, let's really to build an edifice under that that has the are going to be necessary to stand against I thought and obviously came close -- won thought at end of day, people would say, look, of change, and we want change that is realistic and my family's life and my paycheck. That's what I was offering. And I didn't in any way want to feed into was being made on other side but a very negative So there was so much happening in this campaign of it as a result of long trends -- that people are really that anti-immigrant? Are they really, or is that just a convenient How far does that really go? It was a tough terrain that we were moving EK: This is something I think about in my Is it possible to be too realistic about the constraints against change in the American miss openings, so realistic that it's hard And as such, it actually begins driving the I feel like this is the critique of this kind HRC: I think it's a fair critique. I understand that critique. But I don't think the press did their job So the hard questions about what was real, with the right kind of election outcome were And so I found it frustrating obviously because a lot of what I believed we could do. But really, Ezra, when you get 32 minutes that work? Compare it even with '08, when you had 200 is it that people are really not interested, to the press because the other guy's running from. And whatever we says we think is kind of goofy, there saying here's how we're going to going to do to close loopholes and here's she's going to win anyway. So let's cover other guy 'cause he's And I think, in addition to everything you it was such a difficult environment even to what was or was not realistic? It was kind of all bets were off in the coverage EK: So Democrats are going to face a question So right now in Washington, we're interviewing -- who is proposing his single-payer bill And a lot of Senate Democrats are expected This bill would be quite sweeping; it would insurance arrangement, in America. Do you think that the Democratic party should is that radical in its vision? HRC: Well, I don't know what the particulars As you might remember, during the campaign he was in Congress -- and when somebody finally really tell people how much it was gonna cost. So I haven't seen whatever it is they're I don't know. I'm for universal health care coverage that And I think there's a lot of ways of getting Medicare, to open up Medicaid, to do more sure we get costs down and we do everything a lot of the pharmaceutical companies, which on health care costs. And I think it's going to be challenging equivalent to what it would take to pay for people -- about half of the country -- that have through employer. I've been down this road! This is not the first time we've tried to When I was working on health care back in the magic wand and started all over, I said something resembling single-payer plus other coverage and are much better at controlling But we were facing the reality -- talk about but people's own fears as well as their So when the bill is actually introduced, I'll have some kind of grandfathering in, if it -- because look at what happened in Vermont. It wasn't for lack of trying in Vermont. The Democratic political establishment was to achieve it. This is in, you know, a small state, where They were talking about an increase in the maybe 11.5 percent, they were talking about percent -- it just was so difficult to put Now, clearly if you had a national plan, that comparisons, but I think it's gonna be a Our goal should be universal health care coverage care coverage for everybody, bar none. EK: Let me ask you about the other side, about to have withstood the attacks on it -- but an eye toward realism. An eye toward what could pass, but also an on the existing system that wouldn't disrupt And those pieces of the plan -- the exchanges, substantively difficult to implement and to difficult. It's left the administration, first Obama deciding whether or not to sell, with premium really ended up being popular in that and Is that a place where Democrats overread what where what they had wasn't that inspiring implement or sustain? I think you have to unpack what you just asked, to Medicaid. It was really unfortunate that because of Court the opening to eliminate the Medicaid But what has happened is that Medicaid has because it does save money and it is a universal it takes care of middle-income people when and all the rest. So I think we should be focused politically, continuing the expansion of Medicaid, and it. And making the political case every day for I was in favor of a Medicare buy-in; if you make a very big difference. People's health begins to have more problems 60 and then maybe down to 55. I am in favor of a public option, and the public option and at the very end didn't at the time. But that was just the fact. You know, you gotta pass it. So is that realism or aspiration? Well, at the end of the day it's votes. And it didn't pass. So there are pieces that became less popular campaign against it. But then all of a sudden, with all this talk nonsense; they never had a plan to replace, I don't think Democrats did a good enough when it came time to take something away that no. And that's my larger point about what our You're going to tell 50 percent of America, health care, but oh, trust us, it's going all the kinks" -- you're going to have say, "I'm happy with what I've got." But if you say, "You know what, we need we can do that, and we need to continue the coverage. Then once we're at universal coverage, and begin to say, "Okay, here's what we're the costs down." I think that's -- you know, I think that's You know, as somebody who was one of the main Program, I see the difference it's made And all through the campaign, people would or, "My family wouldn't have been able been for that" -- I find that exhilarating is supposed to be about. The Children's Health Insurance Program are the forces going to be that will say no, 8, 9 million kids, where are they gonna go? So what I think is really motivating about can actually see the positive changes, whether care or whatever it might be -- and I think than, you know, how realistic was it or aspirational EK: So one of the pieces of the book that between you and some of the public is right So we're talking here about the practice but there's a real feeling among a lot of politics is itself a corrupting exercise. And I think back to 2008, I was at [something] other Democratic candidates, and there was And you defended them as part of the political The represent people you don't like but There's a version of that in your defense looked bad, shouldn't have done it, but idea that Goldman Sachs paying you could have This to me feels like an actually pretty central that a lot of the public has that if you've politics, that you've probably gone a little And Barack Obama coming in as an outsider Sanders, who had held back from a lot of the -- that seemed to be a place where there How do you think about politics versus this HRC: Look, anti-politics is part of the American I have no doubt that it's just built into people in politics. So that's just part of the background of But I think it's important to again try You know, I can't help it; I'm like the I believe in reality. I like living in a reality-based world. I don't like alternative facts, I don't to try to distort news. I don't like any of that. I think a democracy like ours depends upon So: Nobody on the Republican side cares about I voted for McCain-Feingold; I said in my is introduce a constitutional amendment to So I take a back seat to nobody in standing rules. But everybody's got politics. You know, I go after Bernie really hard on And the idea that he's set off from politics life. Donald Trump wasn't in politics, but he to in order to curry favors. Until we get to public financing, which I system where you have to go out and raise that funds campaigns, we don't have public disarm and say, "You know, we're holier do anything that might raise a question" And there is such an imbalance right now in on the other side -- the Koch brothers say 2018 campaign -- so yeah, I think, you know, understand how this might look, it's not I understand that, so let's agree on that. But at the end of day, it is very much an between the resources that are behind Republicans just a straight line between who gave you -- and what stands behind Democrats. And you know if we don't care about that, come out very well for us. EK: But in terms of demonstrating that kind where Republicans who do not have a very high the feeling that the government is corrupt, it might even work on behalf of special interests their particular version of politics? Whereas for Democrats, who do want people to have faith in public institutions, there HRC: Yeah, and I think Democrats by and large I mean, Barack Obama took more money from has ever taken, and turned around and imposed since the Great Depression. I tell people that all the time -- if you tell you publicly and privately what I'm So if you're in a high income tax bracket, If you still want to give me money, you are I think it's theoretically an interesting President Obama, who inherited this disastrous job pulling it back out of the abyss -- took but it didn't affect how he governed. And so let's get to the second level here. EK: I do think that's strong, though, that HRC: Right. EK: I think a lot of President Obama's policies feel he could've done more to punish bankers, care, there were deals cut before the fact insurance industry. And there are other political realism considerations is that it's true, I think, directionally cut against the interests who funded him. But what a lot of people feel and what I think of donations, etc., they do give people more of a voice, and that does affect things certainly HRC: Well, but, you know, it's always been I mean, if you've seen the musical Hamilton, EK: -- I actually haven't gotten tickets HRC: -- well, we'll see if we can help If you're running a raucous, pluralistic, millions of different voices, you are going I was a senator for eight years -- I bet the doors of my Senate office to talk to me, to political donors or certainly not political They were constituents, they were citizens, So part of what -- we've shrunk the political and that's in the interests of both the to blow up system and undermine it and all I think we operate better when we're kind that's where at least up until recently, that's where most American were. Look, they didn't get up every day obsessed going to do -- they wanted to know what were to my life. And I thought we had a pretty good balance, on for decades. The right has been on a mission to disrupt of their commercial, ideological, and partisan I don't see how you can argue with that. And it has been pretty effective, all said. Their gerrymandering, their suppression of fascinating that Trump wasn't really particularly out to be, a great vehicle for them to promote So we're watching the internal debate within On our side, you know, I just disagree. I was in that Senate for eight years, I know Now, you can say we shouldn't have to get in the majority of in the minority, and I've to 60 votes. Because that then demonstrates at least a being in favor of something. So when you talk about bankers, if you look could've been done, but I've heard very because of the burden of proof and the evidence. I'm not defending it; I'm just saying things were not undertaken. There were barriers to trying that had to And the same with Dodd-Frank. I mean, if Dodd-Frank had been in effect before it wasn't. It had to come after. EK: So I want to talk and move us a little HRC: What Happened. EK: The subject of the book. HRC: My book, yes. EK: There's a premise that is not really and I wanted to see where you fell on it. Was Donald Trump more or less a normal Republican with 40-42 percent of the vote? And so you're just explaining how did a Or is Donald Trump an abnormal candidate who percent of the vote, and so you have to have he came close enough to actually win? What are you explaining? HRC: I think given the hyperpartisanship in Republican nominee, the odds were very high their nominee. Because regardless of what he said or how was their path to tax cuts, he was their path There is an agenda on the other side that So at the end of the day, I think something and 90 percent of Democrats voted for me. That's unfortunate in lots of ways -- I political era -- but that's what I always I always thought the election would be close. I never was one of those people who said, that. I always thought it would be close. I didn't expect to be totally ambushed at have written about it, cost me the election It's not like there was going to be some who frankly thought they could handle him. They thought, you know what, it'll be an Pence and Mitch McConnell will take care of I mean, that was the thinking that I believe of whom sort of took a deep breath before seriously, they didn't take a potential They thought getting a Republican in there, that I care about. EK: But that's a kind of remarkable view It's actually one that I share, but it's are now in a time, for reasons related to that anybody -- anybody -- who wins a party over their primaries -- anybody who wins of winning the presidential election. HRC: I believe that. EK: Does that mean we're more vulnerable candidates than we were in the past? HRC: Yes, we are, Ezra. I mean, if I'd lost to what I guess we could 16 people on the stage during their primary EK: Jim Gilmore. HRC: Well, somebody that might have been able Look, I would have been disappointed, I would of all, I don't think it would've happened, feel such a sense of anxiety about the country. EK: I'm sorry, can I stop you there? HRC: Yeah. EK: That was interesting, what you just said. Do you think that Donald Trump was a stronger HRC: Yes. EK: You would have beat the others, but you HRC: Well, I don't want to speculate like the way he emerged, which was so unlike anybody demonstrated the strength he had, which was of how he could build a Republican majority. He started on the very first day saying terrible that they're rapists and criminals -- and side of the electorate began to say, "Oh, And then he went on from there. And all of his dog whistles and all of his and then once he won the nomination, he had and sophisticated data analytics operation, But his core base -- and he was right when middle of Fifth Avenue and my supporters won't way, feeding into their prejudice and paranoia. EK: So then that's an argument -- because here -- that's an argument that Donald because he was willing to play white resentment Is that a fair reading of what you just said? HRC: I think that's part of his appeal, And he was willing to play, let's not forget, sexist politics -- I mean, hit hit every people were feeling. And his racism, which was endemic to his campaign, And there's now been so much analysis done so-called cultural/racial anxiety and prejudice EK: But one way of reading the election results was able to get white voters to act as an they had not recently been coalesced, to motivate way they had not recently been motivated. That didn't happen as much with women voters. You talked about watching the Women's Marches during the campaign? Where was this outrage during the campaign? Why do you think that politics worked for surge, particularly among female voters? HRC: Well, let's start with this fact, though: EK: You did carry the women's vote. HRC: Right. I lost the white women's vote, but I actually got. So this was part of a trend. EK; In 2008? HRC: I can't remember if it was '08 or Yeah. And so white voters have been fleeing the predicted they would. There is no surprise to that. Of course I hoped I could get more than a I was the first woman with the chance to be factor that race was for President Obama. And so many women -- and let's talk about women that I lost -- are really quite politically and their own position in society, what works So as I say in the book, I had this really before the campaign. And she's immersed herself in every bit do they expect. And she said look -- and we're talking she said the research is really clear: The the more likable he becomes. The more professionally successful a woman When a woman is advocating on behalf of others, that person, the way I did as secretary of opinion polls, that is favorably received But when a woman advocates for herself -- so a raise, people say, Boy is she a good person. I mean, she's out there advocating for Ezra. If I go and I say, you know, I think I'm a raise, it's like wow, what got into her? What's the deal? So Sheryl ended describing all this to me for you. Now, I believe absent Comey, I might've I'll give you the example I used in the Before the Comey letter on October 28, I was That could've only happened if I had a big women. A week later, 11 days later, I win the Philadelphia I needed to win by 18 points to be able to That wasn't just me; that's how Democrats It stopped my momentum, and it hurt me, particularly And I have so much anecdotal evidence for pull some of this together. You know, all of a sudden the husband turns be in jail, you don't wanna waste your vote. You know, the boyfriend turns to the girlfriend Don't you hear? She's going to get locked up. All of a sudden it becomes a very fraught And so instead of saying I'm taking a chance, So I think that there is a lot of work still electorate as possible, but not by sacrificing us who are part of a majority if they aren't turn out. And I hope that happens in 2018. EK: The premise of a lot of these conversations about is persuasion. You imagine we're talking about how do a votes? But in this case, you did. And one broader question that you don't turn of the millennium, 40 percent of the vote won by Democrats and seen the result HRC: That's right. Which is just crazy in these days. EK: Do Democrats have a democracy problem? HRC: No, we have an Electoral College problem. EK: Should there be an Electoral College? HRC: As far back as 2000, I've said no. I think it's an anachronism. I won in counties that produce two-thirds I won in places that were more on the optimistic I won in places that understood and appreciated I won in places where African-American and successfully were in, for example, Wisconsin So I think you have to take this and pick If you come with just one answer, it's not But at the end of day, if you look at what -- and when I say "we," it's the great convince people to register to vote and vote, in our country, in the 2018 election, then clear and present danger to our democracy We will see a constitutional convention. Now, whether it ever finally gets ratified, and it will rile up so much of our population, right to disenfranchise people, to roll back our environment and so much else, we will So part of the reason I wrote this book was floating around, here's what I think happened, and I hope you'll pay attention because to happen, and I don't want to see that EK: But one question about that is actually You talked about winning more of the economic before -- HRC: Yeah, probably. EK: But part of that is that Democrats are in big states, and the American political built to disadvantage that. It seems to me that the Democratic Party could of moral victories. HRC: No, I'm not interested in that alone. I mean, obviously if we don't win elections, But there are pieces of this you can address, Let's start with voter suppression, which lost. Compare Wisconsin to Illinois or Wisconsin voter suppression campaign going on under The AP says maybe 200,000 people were turned Illinois has had none of that. In fact, they've made it easier to vote. Minnesota is an easier-to-vote state. I won both of those. You've had voter suppression in Michigan. You've had voter suppression in Pennsylvania. Now, that is not about me. That is about what's right and decent and And I was shocked when the Supreme Court threw I was in the Senate, I voted for it, we voted along comes the Republican majority on the governors and legislators could not have been Now, that is not a big-ticket item. That is hard work. We need to elect legislators, we need to elect cases, because if we don't deal with this continue to shrink. And it won't just be the Electoral College; A shrinkage of the legitimacy of our constitutional So I care passionately about this because have for my grandchildren. And so I'm going to be out there day in efforts to give back voting to people, whoever voices can be heard and we have a democracy EK: Hillary Clinton, thank you very much. HRC: Thank you.