Hey, everybody. Don Georgevich here with Job Interview Tools. Today, I want to talk to you about interviewing But more importantly, how to turn that initial so that you can advance in the interview process. Now, there's two types of recruiters; you recruiters. Internal recruiters are people who work for So, like Amazon, Google, Microsoft, Facebook; recruiting staff. And then you have external recruiters. External recruiters are third-party recruiters and find candidates that meet a specific job Now, both internal and external recruiters They have a job description and their job job description. It's as simple as that. That's how they get paid. Now, their point is they need to go out and so that they can turn those people over to interviews. So, their whole job is pre-qualification. They're looking for very specific things about and your experience and whether you are a time to move on in the process. Simple as that. Now, real quick; I want to cover the difference A headhunter is someone who essentially act They call up people who are already working them away. A recruiter is someone who is going out and They're searching the job boards for people description. But the headhunter is someone who's actually There's a slight difference there. There's some definitely some overlap, but Now, when you can't call from a recruiter; you a third-party recruiter or are you an who you're dealing with and that information Now, your initial recruiting interview is just totally pre-qualification. And what they want to do is they want to drill a good enough match. And some of the questions that they're going answer and I'll tell you what they're looking One of the things they're going to ask you means they're going to want to know about work are you doing? Are you happy doing that work? They're going to ask you what your timeframe How soon do you want to get out of where you're They're also going to ask you what type of And they're also going to dig into, you know, don't you like and why do you want to leave? And the big question; what are you looking You see, if you're just looking for a lateral they're probably not going to be interested A recruiter is going to be looking for somebody They're going to be looking for people who So, if you're just, you know, let's say you're they're looking for maybe only pays 105 thousand; So, they're probably not even going to want a much larger job. So, let's say you're making $80 thousand a thats the type of jump they're looking They're looking for people who want more; for them, not a tiny advancement. They're not going to be interested you if of a lateral move for you, which means in in there, yeah, you'd be happy for six months not a big enough jump. Its not a big enough jump in salary. It's not a big enough jump in responsibility. So, when you have a call with the recruiter, salary. And like I said, if they're at 100 thousand not going to be interested in you because But if this position pays 120 thousand and a large advancement for you. Those are the kind of people that they're So, be cautious around the salary question, the initial call. Because I mean, think about it this way; if only pays 80 thousand or 70 thousand, you You don't want to find that out in two or pays significantly less than you're willing So, you want to gracefully bring up the question, way to ask that question is to say, Has And they'll either say, Yes or No. is this. What are you looking for? And that's But try to make your range represent a large Now, theyll also want to know the kind to know what you don't like doing. And the reason they want to know what you Well, let's say for example, you say you don't travel. Well, they're not even going to want to consider something that you don't want to be doing. So, they want to move on and they don't even And likewise, you don't want to work with want to be doing either. Now, one of the biggest questions they're for? They want to know what you want to you want to be doing is largely what this You see, they want people who are excited doing. And those are the people that they want to Now, let's say that you want to be doing program management and analytical. It's not a good fit. So, they want to know what you want to be position where you can be doing things that So, you'll be happy. So, you'll be productive. So, that you'll be fulfilled in your work. They don't want you doing stuff that you don't They don't even want to waste their time with they're doing. Make sense? Now, some of the other questions theyre prepare you for down the road. They're going to ask you, Do you have references? You know, should we come to a point where references to provide us, if we make it to I do have some references. references? And don't go into all kinds manager from when I worked at Amazon and I is one of my references. I have another manager from another company. of some of the people that you are going to Now, it's very important for you to have good You should be asking them questions about and Who will I be working with? Where expect? Is this position going to allow You need to have engaging questions that show of work, you're interested in their culture, where they're going. You need to show them that you are excited That's going to help you move across and move If you just sit back there and just answer Yes, I think that'd be a very interesting I would like to have it. They don't want They want people who are full of excitement can express themselves in that way. And if you can't express yourself in that Well, you better learn how. And that's what this whole video is about. It's to tell you that you need to come alive. And usually, when you do these recruiter interviews, So, when you're on the phone talking, try Because when you smile, a smile can actually not. Just like right now, if you were to turn off probably tell that I'm smiling. You could just hear it in the way that I'm And when you talk to them on the phone, make Make sure you use voice inflection; bring excitement. And that's going to show them that you are in this position. And it's going to help you go further. That's going to advance you to the next round. Now, at the end of the interview, what you steps? if they don't already tell you. If they don't already tell you what we're are the next steps? When can I expect to hear back from you? Get their phone number, get their email address; Get their contact information and ask them next week or so, do you mind if I give you Because I'm really interested in this position. Now, sometimes, and the reason you want this a conversation with you. They have 20 or 30 conversations every day. Your name just might fall through the cracks. You might be someone that they're interested you. So, if you don't hear back from them in a Say, Hey, it's Don Georgevich here. We had a call last week about the programming I'm really interested in that. How are you guys moving out on that? You Nobody does follow up calls. Everybody just likes to do e-mail and text. But a call sends such a bigger, larger message in doing this job. I want to do this job. I am reaching out to you on the phone to talk genuine enthusiasm. That's how you go farther in the process. So, that's really about it on the recruiting Remember, the point of the recruiter call round of interviews. So, usually, in an initial recruiting call, behavioral questions and stuff. They're really just going to touch on what what you like, what you don't like. That's about it. They're not going to go into all kinds of but usually, they'll tell you that. But like I said at the beginning of this video, call with you, just to touch base and see They're not going to go into all these scenario They're going to stay real high-level and That's the whole point of the recruiting call. And you need to prepare for that. You need to think about what's important to to them and they can see if there's any interest And then if there is, they will advance you Usually, that'll be an in-person interview with a hiring manager so that they can dig qualifications. So, that's really the whole job of the recruiter; recruiter. Their job is to go out and find people that interview with them on the phone, ask them them to the next round or not advance them; All right. That's all I have for you today. I hope you found this helpful. If you like this video and you liked the kind subscribe to my channel. Leave me a comment below and tell me about went and what kind of questions that they All right. That's all I got for you today. We'll see you in the next video. Take care. Bye now. And good luck on your next interview. We'll see you next time. Bye bye.