- A couple of weeks ago I played a game of noughts and my opponent was DNA and the DNA won. How is that possible? How can you play a game against DNA? There are these nine wells. They represent the game grid and in each of those wells And in addition to that, over to one side there are of DNA that I can choose from. They represent the moves that I can make. The way we set it up is DNA takes the first move When it's my move, suppose let's call that square number four. So I find the solution that represents playing square and I pipette that solution, into each one of those nine wells. That's how I tell the which move I want to make. We then put those nine wells Eventually one of those specifically, it starts to fluoresce, and that glowing well tells us which square the DNA has played and then I choose my next move. I find the right solution by pipetting that solution, and then we put it back in the machine. The game progresses like that until there's either a win or a draw. Here's the cool part. The DNA will always play a perfect game of noughts and crosses. So the best I can hope for is a draw. How can DNA play a perfect Well, you can program a computer to play a perfect game of tic-tac-toe, so maybe there's a way we can encode that into the molecules of DNA. In a computer it is just a like if the human plays this square, then the computer plays this square. Every time the human makes and you have to work out the logic for all of these branches. What's cool is you can take all that branching, flowing logic and flatten it down into You do that by looking at So what is the logic of This square could become under several different circumstances like after the human has played here, this would become a cross, or later in the game after this would become a cross. We don't have to worry about encoding when we are in the game. We just need one long, logical statement full of NDSs and ORs and NOTs related to what's currently on the board. This might not be the most efficient way to do it for a computer, flattening the logic but in this way we have a fighting chance of encoding that logic into bits of DNA in each one of those wells. If the human were allowed to go first each logic statement would By saying that the DNA goes first and plays in the second square, we simplify those logical statements and again, give ourselves Let's have a look at the logic for just one square It's a whole bunch of statements strung together by ORs like this. If this is true or this is true or this is true or this is true and so on, then the computer should play an X here. But what about these individual Well, this means if the human played square two on move number two and square six on move number three and not square one on move number one then this square should be an X. You'll notice there we're limited to certain types of logic If A and B. We also have at our disposal So how can you make Well, I don't. (chuckles) This is where my friend from York University. This whole thing was his idea, actually. He showed me this paper had figured out the perfect structure for these little logic gates. We can just copy the molecules This is where the paper talks And to explain it, I've turned these diagrams So this is a little snippet of DNA. It's called a deoxyribozyme or DNAzyme. Because it's an enzyme built from DNA which is to say it's a piece of DNA that can catalyze a chemical reaction, it can do something to something else without changing itself and with a bit of extra mucking about we can turn it into an AND gate. But before we do that, how does You'll know already that A, T, C, and G pair up in a specific way. A always pairs with T and And you'll notice that this pairs up perfectly with these So this strand of what attaches to this DNA catalyst, which then snaps it in half and the bits float off on their own. So that's why this thing It's a molecule that can You'll notice that there are these weird blobs on either end. This blob is called TAMRA which means if you shine light on it of a particular wavelength, then it will emit light at This blob on the other It's like a little vampire that sucks energy from So when this molecule is nearby and you shine light on this molecule hoping for it to fluoresce, is the energy gained by is sucked into this molecule that then releases the energy as heat. So when this molecule is intact and these two blobs are near each other, you don't get fluorescence. But when you add this and snap this thing in half, the fluorescent molecule And that's something we to turn this into an AND gate. I'm going to add a loop like this and then extend it to cover this up. And I'm gonna add a loop like And by doing that, I've because look, when the there's nothing for it to attach to. But what if we now create that pair up exactly with These will be like the Let's call these inputs molecules A and B. What happens when I add A? Well, it starts to attach and as it does so it's It's trying to straighten the loop out. These bonds here are now under strain and eventually they will give When you add input molecule B it opens this side and exposes So with both A and B present both parts of the catalyst are exposed. The substrate is snapped in half and we can detect this has and that's our AND gate. If molecule A and molecule B To make an AND AND NOT gate, So let's introduce a third molecule, C, that pairs up perfectly with this loop. So when molecule C is These two bits of DNA end and they can no longer act as a catalyst to snap the substrate in half. So this molecule is therefore If molecule A is present and a molecule C is not These input molecules represent the moves that the human can make. And there are 32 possible moves and these different wells need to be able to respond to those different inputs. So we need 32 different distinct strands of As, Ts, Cs, and Gs and then pair those up with the to create all the logic that we need. You might be wondering where Well, they're implicit ORs. Like when you have a bunch of different DNA logic they don't have any effect on each other. Meaning if one of the gates activates and starts catalyzing the regardless of what the That's where the ORs come from. Here's the thing though, to prepare these different took hundreds of pipette that we are transferring here and there. If we make any mistake the computer isn't gonna and you can't test it until So the challenge for wasn't can we beat DNA at tic-tac-toe? It was, have we done every Before we find out, let me tell you about the 'cause this is an interesting one. There are these companies that collect data about us and then sell that data We don't know what companies but what we can do is contact them and say &quot;Stop and delete my data.&quot; The problem is there are thousands of them and they all want to be and sometimes they'll reject the request and you need to figure out how to respond to those rejections. Wouldn't it be great if a bunch of people did all that legwork, for every single one of them and worked out how to respond and all that sort of Then the next person who could do it just like that. And that's what the Incogni. You sign up to Incogni, you give them the right and they just get to it. And you can see on the dashboard, look these are all the and this is the progress so far. And you start getting these emails from these companies saying, You know what it's like. You get (sighs), you'll sign and you get a whole bunch of other emails from other companies or you'll sign up for a loyalty card and then you start getting phone I just, I don't want that. And at the same time, I that I'm just never gonna Like it would take months anyway 'cause there are so many of them. From my point of view And in that sense, I'm like the perfect And maybe you are too. If you want to find out the promo that we've got on this one. If you go to incogi.com/science, the first 100 people will get 20% off. The link is also in the description. So check out Incogni today. By the way, where do you get We certainly didn't make them ourselves. In fact, they're kind of off-the-shelf, like not in the sense that you but there are companies and you log on and you say, &quot;Can you send me this exact And can you send me this exact sequence?&quot; So we spent 2000 pounds buying and we had a go. So we played the game on this grid of wells. We told the DNA our first moves by pipetting the right Then we put the plates in the machine. 15 minutes later we had a that showed us how the fluorescence was changing in the different wells. - [Andrew] So now this one's coming up. So we got to find out which well that is. It's going in well eight. - [Steve] Yes, yes. That's what we wanted. That's amazing. Look. (laughs) So that was this game here. It starts in the middle. I went there, it went to well eight and then we are gonna go there. That's incredible. It was always going to work. - It was always gonna work. Why did we doubt it? By the way, throughout this video, I've been referring to DNA playing crosses and humans playing noughts. But in the drawings you I've got the DNA playing noughts, later on I switched the Sorry for the confusion. Anyway, here's game number two. - [Andrew] So it's, for where it's gone or well six. - [Steve] It was supposed to be well four and then I would play well six. - [Andrew] Okay. - [Steve] Well, that's - [Andrew] That's almost certainly a pipetting error at some point. - [Steve] Right, I doubt it would be me that made a pipetting error. - Your pipetting is flawless. - [Steve] (laughs) I love Stick your finger on it. - [Andrew] Well four. - [Steve] Well four. Well four. It works. Look, there you go. - [Andrew] Well eight. And it is eight. So that's amazing. So they all essentially work. There's a bit of ambiguity Ah! So after finding out we pipetted our second and put them in the machine. - [Andrew] It is number, third highest. So I'll give it. - [Steve] Yeah. Great. - [Andrew] We just have to- - [Steve] So this is amazing. So it took that move as expected. - [Andrew] Six is lower - [Steve] Yeah. - [Andrew] So whilst it's trying to, it's trying to... - It's hedging. (laughs) Didn't get away with it. - [Steve] Didn't get away All right, let's have - [Andrew] And we're Oh, it's definitely coming though. - [Steve] It's coming up. So that's good. - [Andrew] Ooh. - [Steve] And it's... what is that one? - [Andrew] That's well, it's - [Steve] Yeah, we did Final one. What we expect to be high - [Andrew] Well seven hasn't really kicked off yet, has it? - [Steve] Yeah. - [Steve] So that'll carry on. It'll carry on playing during the next round. So for the next round, for this So I'm gonna go here and then we expect the DNA to go here. On this one we're gonna 'cause that's now a nought. On this one I blocked the straight down. So on this one I'll block the diagonal. - [Andrew] So well four is not amazing. - [Steve] Let's see it - [Andrew] There. So it's Oh, I guess that makes sense - [Steve] It is, it's come - [Andrew] It's all, yeah. And I think if you look, see and it's going above it here. So it's slow. - [Steve] So next, this is the one where it sort of took two turns but we've kind of put it in its place. - [Andrew] I think it's that one. - [Steve] Yeah. - Yeah. Come on. - [Steve] Amazing. So this - [Andrew] Well nine. She's low. - [Steve] That is low but Can we compare it to the pack? - Let's use my finger, - [Steve] Yeah. - [Steve] That's definitely reached above the rest, hasn't it? - So we've got one- - [Andrew] Two, three. Yeah. - [Steve] So that's a lose for me. - [Andrew] You've lost. - [Steve] (laughs) Yay! Beaten by DNA. This one as well should Nine. It should be. - It's coming up. when we don't give them enough time. - [Steve] Yeah, we haven't - [Andrew] But if we look at it's now the at the top. It's at the top of all the others. And if we gave it longer but it's above everything else. So we know that that's a positive. So there you go. Isn't that amazing? Wow. So I've lost another game. So these ones should be a draw which means we've still gotta I'm gonna move here to block and here I'm gonna go here to and those should be draws. So the way we are coding 'cause it's the sixth And this is eight-four 'cause it's the eighth So we're gonna grab six-four and eight-four from here and fill them in to the appropriate top - [Andrew] Where do we need to go to? - [Steve] It needs to go into bucket nine. - [Andrew] Yeah. So it's above the pack. That's basically playing that move and that's the end of the game. And this one we expect it This may not have worked. - [Andrew] So how many should be above? How many Xs are there? - [Steve] So there should be one, two, three, four 'Cause they've had longer then there's this rogue one as well. - [Andrew] Yeah. So one, two, three, four. That is the six and there's well seven. So this is program here so... - [Steve] So it's just about... - [Andrew] We definitely have a problem with our well six. - [Steve] Yeah But it's not a terrible problem actually. - [Andrew] And if we give it time, the hope's this will move up where this is actually So it's, well six, whilst it's never really... - [Steve] It's never taken off. (laughs) - [Andrew] It was a - It was a sneaky attempt but it never took off. So there we go. We'll write that in. And that's the second draw. So it worked. We created several solutions of DNA that encoded logic to play tic-tac-toe and it played the way I was unable to win. Why do this at all? It's not about like computing you know, massive parallel It's about the interface between logic and biological systems. So in the future maybe we could create that test for the presence of this and this, and but just generally figuring in this way is useful for all sorts of research So far we've only looked which means we are limited Like researchers have implemented a full binary adder in where you have these molecular inputs and the outputs are fluorescence. But like what makes a is when you chain them together so the outputs of one become But if your output is fluorescence and your input is a molecule, then there's a disconnect there. How about if instead of the output being this molecule that fluoresces it's a molecule that becomes the input of the next step in the logical sequence. Now that will be really interesting. A huge thank you to Andrew Holding and the University of York