-I love ice cream so much, to have my own company is kind of like you don't even know Like when kids say a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle, that's how it feels about I'm Sydney. I used to be a creative I got laid off last October and now Bad Walter's is named -Stay. -Think he'll ever listen to you? -He's a little tiny It's bootleg ice cream making my ice cream I wanted to make sure what they're getting that if they showed up they weren't, like, confused. You can use a little more salt. Some of the most beloved have been Slumber Party, which is a Ritz cracker Nutter Butters, Campfire, which is with Rice Krispie crunchies One of the new favorites which is a Labneh ice cream with Meyer lemon curd A few weeks ago, which is a cold-brew coffee with Girl Scout cookie and a really thick My ice cream texture and decadent It's got body to it and it's got but it will melt in your mouth. I will never make an ice cream This is how I make Step one is Next thing I do Guar gum is a all-natural gum that helps improve So you have to mix it A little bit of corn syrup And it might look like but I am making I use pasteurized eggs, Even though the milk and the eggs are pasteurized, you still want So I put the heat Got this lovely thermometer. You have to bring this Now we just stir and try not Yeah, pull up a chair. The thing will go off Until then, undivided attention. It takes so long I'm originally from New York. My parents are in advertising. And I always wanted to follow even though they told me not to. I've done every type of ad commercials, 15-second, 6-second, What else? I did it. As a creative, I would put all into writing a script, selling it through to a client, revising, editing for another month. And then finally you put it and everybody fast-forwards. It's terrible. There's so much but at the end of the day, Before I got laid off, I already felt like I think it was exacerbated and just trying to think like, Right now, I'm just looking things that I might want and figure out I want to try some, like, So maybe I don't have but maybe ginger ale And the other aisle I'll look at See what everybody else I can't do things that if I'm choosing things I do a different flavor I really enjoy It is Passover this week. So this week is called It is a sweet cream ice cream with matzo crack which are two traditional Passover desserts, really. And a berry wine jam swirl. Last night, I made matzo crack. It is a layer of matzo, a layer of toffee, and a layer of chocolate This is macaroon cookies. They're shredded coconut, sugar, of course. I like ice cream I like the variety. I love when you find a really big chunk of something and it feels like you're This is my husband, Brett. -He is my CFO/dishwasher. -Slash, you know, I have -Yes. He also works. One of the things was to make It takes 24 hours to get to 95%, 98% efficacy of breaking down the lactose. So I just put in Sharpie Just give it a good shake. I have a genetic condition where my collagen I won't nap, but I will lie down Or, like, with my head Collagen makes up It's kind of like a rubber band. It's why people want it in But it's everywhere. My collagen where it stretches so causes systemic issues including in my stomach. I have something called which literally means so it can't always digest food. I'm often put on what's called I can't tell you I just know I'm supposed And one of the things low-FODMAP diet is lactose. So I started making ice cream when I went on and couldn't imagine staying I would have rather been sick. So I bought an ice cream maker. I made maybe one promptly broke the machine, returned it, And then fast-forward And I knew I needed any hobby and I thought &quot;This is the time So I bought an ice cream maker, and maybe two months later, I had a friend And they came over here with one of our other friends. It was the first time I made an ice cream cake &quot;Why aren't you selling this? And I was like, &quot;Oh. I didn't even think And two weeks later, Today is Saturday, and I am currently prepping when all my customers and pick up their ice cream. We have a few pints left and so I'm just going to do I always like to do right on the inside You eat with your eyes first. So I want to make sure The first week, I put it on Instagram. I had one or two friends and maybe sold four pints. I announced a flavor on Monday. I said, &quot;I will leave it open I got four pints sold. I was like, &quot;Yes, that is three I expected one friend I had those sales for Wednesday. I started making I had people picking up And I did again the next week. And the next week, I was like, &quot;Oh, it's going up.&quot; And two of those people From there, it really just It still feels like with all these weird ingredients So I also put a little bit There's jam swirled but it's just so exciting with that big dollop of color. Star of the show. -Making a big cameo, Walter? -Usually the doorbell rings, and then I say, -Hi. -You are at Bad Walter's. -Oh, hi. Three, four. I keep the freezer and since the freezer's so cold, these pints are impossible Hi. -Hi. -Hi. How you doing? -Your hair looks great. -See you soon. -I'm so proud of you. Like that. I think because doing the customer-facing part because it is the only human I'm very soon Making it out of my house but I'm very excited If and when I grow, I still want to hang on that I've created. I'm all-in on ice cream now. A year ago, if you told me that have gone into any sort I don't even think I would I just, like, wouldn't even Do you need a bag? -Okay. -Enjoy. -I really like I like being able to work I like being able to not work I like not having Nobody shares ads -I come because my wife That this is the only ice cream -It just feels like Things that I wouldn't -I come every week, actually. -Having people tell me they had in their week feels like I'm a contributing and that I'm doing -I love your ice cream, and I have a friend so I just texted her They're all great, -Thank you. I had a customer that she loved the ice cream, but she had a friend who was and she couldn't get a pint and that it just made And that was super moving to me. Ice cream makes everybody happy. The only sad people are people who are And even then, because it makes them happier. You can't be sad Low-calorie ice cream. It's like having sex Nothing will be as good I'm all-in. I want If I'm going to eat ice cream, -Low-calorie ice cream. It's like having sex Nothing will be as good I'm all-in. I want If I'm going to eat ice cream,