Well, my name is Marie, and I I have wonderful adult children, fulfill me and keep me on the move. I myself have been in health care So it was very interesting and then be the patient stories for so long And so I knew that. I knew I knew a lot about symptoms for, you know, just anything that wasn't okay. And so so I started having spotting, bleeding, spotting, So I was like, Oh, well, So I reached out to my primary care So that was in 2020. She did a endometrial biopsy. The first she did an ultrasound and didn't And then into January 21, she did a endometrial biopsy And I was told that if I continue that would be normal And then I got super busy. In hindsight, I look back and I see that I had other symptoms I was ultimately diagnosed with, So fast forward to fall 2021 and I went this all this all is relevant. I went on a river rafting trip. I went down the Colorado River. We did a nine day So we're a mile down in the canyon and the river's muddy. It wasn't so good for the rest of us. But basically we were bathing, washing our hair and muddy water. And because there was a heat warning down, We spent a lot of time in the water. Like you just wanted to be aware So fast forward, I get back from that trip I'm pretty worn out you know, every night you pack it up So assumed I was just tired But then I was still tired. So I kind of said to my son, I'm like, I'm going to go see a doctor And and then meanwhile, he was a puppy at the time. But he kept burying his nose in my belly. And I'm like, What is he doing? And I hadn't been showering a lot, And I didn't feel well. So I finally just, like, looked at I have food on me or something. And I this is probably TMI, my belly button was oozing, So I immediately Googled it. Google. And I'm like, Oh, wow, I super fortunate. So this is still so this is still So I get in to see a doctor and it's in the pandemic. So believe it or not, that I'd been on the river, So the doctor prescribed me an antibiotic, but said if nothing's change in 48 hours, So nothing changes in 48 hours. And then I find a swollen it feels like a swollen gland in my groin. Coincidentally. So I make I get an appointment, a follow So now we're getting and that Monday, this all comes together. That Monday I was out walking my dog again, out walking my dog, and I was like, I really shouldn't be out walking him because he's a he's And before I knew it, I hit the ground. I And, you know, my research, I mean, I just hurt really bad. I'm in a lot of pain. So I see the doctor. And so in addition, so. So since nothing's changed, she orders an And because I had so much pain she goes ahead and orders So I get in right away to do that. And that's the Tuesday. So then on a Thursday, the, I'm driving along, I get a doctor from, and she's you know, I said, I'm So I pull over I hate to tell you this on the phone, and it's in your ovaries. It's in your lungs, it's in your omentum, And and I'm in so much pain, Yeah, but do I have any And she's like, no, we don't see And I Was just the pain I was in. So fast forward, fast forward quarter. So that's the first week of October. She is she gets me and right away gynecological oncologic surgeon at my hospital system And she so I go see her and she's like, that things are ovarian right away, the origin of the cancer first And but I'm also concerned So I'd like you to. And the fact that your cancers you do a skeletal scan and a brain scan your brain, in your bones. So I go do that and so the good news is no mets in my brain, But the tax says to my doctor, But does she know that she has four side, six fractured ribs on her right side Yeah. So for a couple of weeks, finally and laid around with a pillow So I had time to lay there and start the fact that I had this cancer diagnosis. And then I still had to wait three weeks to I it took me that long to get in, to confirm the origin of the cancer. And so the biopsy was the end of October. So by the end of the last week of October, it was confirmed that it was a metastatic which is pretty much the worst so I have the advantage that for decades I've been writing stories about and meeting cancer patients and I knew a lot about health care and that health care system that are out there for cancer I also knew that factors on websites They everybody's cancer So from a intellectual perspective, I've watched all these other male I can do this so intellectually. And I knew there were great So intellectually I was like, emotionally. I wouldn't let myself go there too often, have some crying sessions, mostly because I was not ready And it So, you know, I cannot talk about that part That was that was the emotional part, was the fact that I wouldn't continue to become the beautiful people So that was hard. So again, this wonderful doctor, this oncologist that I got into, see, she really expedited everything. Help me expedite everything. She just wanted me to get into the chairs So they fast forwarded my training You So I got my own personal chemo training. So I was in the chair. By November six, which was three infusions every three weeks of common platinum paclitaxel, It's But for these drugs to work well, you have to have the right 360 care. You know, and be safe and rest so that you can, So you're the week you get your infusion, and a histamine anti-nausea, all kinds of prophylactic care that first week part of the chemo. So so I always knew that chemo week Well, the first few days would be great. You were high on the steroids, but you. So I couldn't sleep. You know, people clean their houses, projects, So then your second week is really hard, you're feeling good But it was just really critical to follow what, you know, Sleep, lots of sleep, which I was never, never I've never been and sleep. But fatigue. So this fatigue is not It's a it's just a very physical type of tiredness that you have no choice. Like you can just feel the energy just drain out of your body And you just you have to lie down. So I did a lot of resting and sleeping, And I think I watched more TV during that time Then my major surgery within a few weeks of that third infusion and then three more infusions, I had my big surgery in January. I ended up getting my surgery at the One is this wonderful oncologist laughed but I had also been doing Doctor Brooks at the cancer center So instead of trying to find a surgeon I was that I chose to have my surgery The surgery was good news. And it turned I was by the way, which means it responds really So when they did the surgery, like a seven or eight hour surgery, The it had not metastasized And um, yeah. And, and it had worked so to get enough of my tumor And then I went on. So since I had such a good response, does that mean And then I No, no, no, So but the truth of the matter And because you just So my because my white blood cell count And and, you know, I, I mean, I had the symptoms that you hear about. I lost all my hair. Only in, let's see, 20, 22 as complete I did eventually just shaved my head I think that's probably parts of chemo care is losing the hair. It's just really it was really tough. But yeah. And so now I and so I did all that. And oh, by the way, I didn't mention, that I am BRCA2 positive. So they, what they do You're kind of through care. I'm like, I want to know now. And, and I was quite angry about that This is crazy that I had to wait I've been accessing care to find that out. I'm BRCA2 positive because, you know, if I was probably positive because BRCA2 is an indicator for ovarian, prostate, colon, breast So if we would have known that, we could have put one plus one anyhow. So today I am in I'm on an oral chemo. It's a PARP inhibitor and it targets the BRCA2 mutation So I've got about ten months left, it has side effects. But I've, I've gotten used I mean there's things and I have to take care of myself, you know, Can't do a lot of things But now the good news is they actually take you off side effects start to outweigh And but they believe So for now, that they can talk about remission, But anyhow, so that's my biggest and it'll be really exciting to not be on any medication anymore. Yeah, it's been a long it's radiation. We did scanning in the beginning, the first year you scan. Oh gosh. Don't forget I think you scan quarterly. And then we went down and then we stopped. But what I do is every quarterly and there's a test called ak1 25, It's not a predictor, but it's a measurement. If you have ovarian cancer, And so your your K 125 C 8125 is to tell you when I was diagnosed my I c and it's supposed to be under 35 and so today it stays under 35. It's quite low. But since it was a predictor So we keep an eye on that quarterly. well, first and foremost, And I know but you really need to get engaged And it's unfortunate and now you're facing this diagnosis But this is the time you need to and you also need to accept help from the people around you. And I really recommend when you're seeing your doctors if it's on the phone, have somebody there and it's just really helpful And so I never went to an appointment And then we would compare notes And And I really think you should know what your options are, what are the side And it's okay to ask all those questions. So I would just say, you know, take the time, get engaged. This is this is life and death stuff. So you want to get engaged so that you can navigate But I do think that being helpful, don't let people don't let people tell you Don't read the general data about diagnosis and prognosis and write your own story Let your friends and family help you. People want to help you And they will kind of be part of your hope because everybody really And I do believe that you know, the the cancer doctors know a lot and they're going to do their best And so that combined with just hope and and love and can sustain you and that there is a end. There is a and so it's not it's you know, I mean, you'll hear stories second or third cancers, but you're going So just every day look around you