My name's Leroy Smith. I spent 20 years in prison in the UK. I was a hit man and a drug This is &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; Whoever's in the biggest gang is more likely going to win that war. There's no guns, but they've I did 20, and I just about managed to and I'm just about I was in Belmarsh from 1995. I got my sentence. When walking into Belmarsh I went straight into the unit. That's a prison inside It feels very claustrophobic, keys knocking everywhere Everything's electric, and so you feel spied upon. I was in high-security and I would defend my own self When I joined with the African Crew, I had a team of people to The African Crew got that name because most of the people And I met them in Belmarsh, and we come from the same Out in the streets, there was a full-blown sold drugs and firearms. They had money and resources, so it was more comfortable for No recruitment initiation process. We were just mutually from the same area, and we had a vested I've been stabbed in my neck. I've been cut before. I've been in the segregation for stabbings and violent I feel like I just did And when you're scared, you can do a lot of stuff. And now, I'm polite and civil, but I've got a confident energy inside me where I don't think you can No one could just come and take my life. Violence in a dispersal prison is totally different from It's clinical and thought-out and planned. People will sit down and plan things and make sure that it works in their favor when they go to execute you. That's why most people, they so no one can come in in the morning. And then they get up, and they're up and ready I've seen inmates knock out staff, like two, three staff in one go, and another staff's grabbing onto the bars to stop himself being screaming, &quot;Staff, staff,&quot; The weapons used in prison were a piece of metal shaved into a spike with a wooden handle on the end, or oil, what they used to cook food. So you've got people who ain't got money, and they might make knives so you know you can go to that person and get a knife and pay them for it. Or you might have, like, between five people, and everybody knows where CCTV is just on the landing. It's not in your cell. So anything in your cell, The searches are random, and DST, Dedicated Search Team, and they sniff around and But it's like trying to You can have one person while someone else is getting searched. So everyone's working with each other for a common goal of keeping People have been kidnapped inside prisons and inside dispersal, but it's mostly, like, two or want something from the governors, and they ain't getting it, and then they'll keep him in the cell. Or someone's got a parcel, and they ain't got no gang then rob them, and then That's the way it would happen. I spent 20 years in prison and a gun man and a drug dealer. And this culminated in in South London, in Brixton. And I got 25 years for shooting 18 for the other, 14 years for armed robbery on jewelers, five years for unlawful shooting, and two years for escaping from prison. I was on remand in Leicester prison, and I escaped from the prison when I was on escort to And then I went to Jamaica, and I came back home and was on my way to collect some money and got stopped by police. I had a firearm on me and drugs, so I tried to make with my escape. And in the process, the two I was just determined I and I just rolled the dice. It happened in a split second, I escaped from them and went to America and was eventually arrested Yeah, I've got lots of regrets, because I wasted my life and I could have been like with my own house and a family. And now, I've just got a big void, because a big chunk of Between Frankland, Full Sutton, I would get moved every 18 months or so, back and forth, to one Most people that go to they are sentenced to more than 10 years, and they are deemed by the meaning access to firearms, money. This small niche of people, they're all put into a where you will not be going anywhere apart from these four prisons. So it is easy for a gang to make a hit on another because everybody knows each other after five years of When I was in prison, I never had money. My family abandoned me, and everything, what I became a hit man in prison There'll be times when people and they don't want to If someone said to me, Stab this person,&quot; if it was something I thought I could do and get But what I could do is and subcontract that who's even more unscrupulous than me, who doesn't care about just and sitting in the block for But some of these hits go with my own eyes put a hit on someone and the hit man, after he does the hit, he turns around and tells the who paid him to do the hit. And then they reverse it now, So it can go wrong, because it's a cage and Contraband kept the prison running, kept people high or stoned, And it generates money for Chris Grayling is a MP who decided to take away tobacco and books from prisoners in the prison system. This has had a detrimental and has now made tobacco an illicit substance of great value. So a packet of tobacco, which was worth 12 pound in the canteen, is now worth 1,000 pound to an inmate who has it in his possession. Now, it's spice. This is a chemical, a drug. It's supposed to make you high. They spray it on paper and they smoke it. When I was in prison, it was cannabis and heroin and alcohol was the main intoxicants. All of them prisons destroying the prisoners When I was in prison to sell or to smoke, I sold and I took cannabis, and I took class A I've had a phone in prison. Someone brought it up for me on a visit. And I just literally had and I just literally cheeked it. I'd put it in the crease of my anus and brought it back into the prison. When I got past the I just took it and put it in my pocket and walked back to the wing. And I had it for like a few months, and then I sold it and bought A phone's worth, like, from So in each cell, it's got a vent system, but people mostly talk through that. Category B prisons, these are prisons that and the person controlling the drone, if he knows how to fly it properly, can bring it right up to with the contraband on a string. And then the person can from the cell window, and that's it. It's hard for them to really because obviously, a and deliver and be back And it's circumventing all of the systems, because it's going direct to the source. The government spent 100 million pounds on stopping contraband coming into prison. I just simply don't believe that, and I don't understand if they did spend it. And if they paid me even 10 million, I would stop it better than I made money from drug dealing, from hits. I was just making money to live and to live my life how I buy clothes, buy a watch, and and cook food, which is expensive. But I couldn't put a finger on it, but I've made money in prison. And I've had times when people have, like, I've gone to Belmarsh, and just from covering for they give me five grand literally in cash, dropped it off at In dispersal, everybody is sitting there for the next 10, 20 years. If you've got some weed, to send the money or drop it and it's done, because and no one's going anywhere. The average week, you might generate a few enough to facilitate your situation and survive without needing or pay for your living, So in what I saw, there's no structure, i.e., you have two main Like for example, when I they didn't have a leader, as an example. It was just members The African Crew had six people in prison, but the driving force will be If you're a brother then you have a ultimate, like, leverage, because that supersedes street gangs. If you're a brother, you're going to automatically because everyone looks out for everyone, and it's on the back of keeping And then on the downside, you've now picked up Now, if their enemies come to prison, you're now in that trap because to being a part of that circle. If you come to prison and you're not religious, And you might be able to get but one day, something might happen somewhere along the line. It could be something very simple. Like, you can go in a shower and forget to have boxer shorts, or you might go in the kitchen And if you want to fight back now, that's how you become and then it starts and never ends. Religion, it's nothing to do with street gangs. People come to prison and get religious because it suits them to find inner peace and to live out their That is the dynamics behind it. I am a Muslim. I took Shahada in prison. My connection with brothers in the prison is just a normal connection of faith, learning, surahs, and There is no banner called Muslim gang. I've never come across a and I served 20 years in UK prisons. So this thing is a myth. The African Crew's main rivals were some other guys from South London. Most of them was from Jamaican background, so they're English with Jamaican parents. They had, like, a 10-year war together. It's all resolved now, thank but it was very serious, and There's no loyalty amongst thieves. And you're in a prison, so your allies can be whoever So you might be in one and you're cool with them people. But when you move, another set will come. It rotates, and it can change, basically. The African Crew was because obviously, they from selling drugs. And when I did meet which what society calls Turkish mafia, they was in there for loads of heroin. But most of them have The IRA is a Irish Republican Army, yeah, and they were in the high-security estate. And they were very respected I was in Belmarsh with and then we went to Full Sutton. They've got a structure, but and they are taking orders. They're soldiers. They don't get involved in prison beef, but they will back principled arguments. So they'll push back because their word's respected. So the main rule in any gang is not to be an informer. There's no other real rules. People do whatever works for them. When you share your criminal if you're not been known or so everybody knows who you that you're not a sex Inmates who do things like in multiple ways, because I've had, like, scenarios this guy was in there, and he was in there for But when it come to light, the staff took him off the And then it was in the In England, most of the prisons in the B-Cat world, in the cities. But the highest-security prisons, dispersals are newish prisons, and they're sterile and Each cell is a single cell, It's freshly painted. In the UK, you have Category A, which is, the highest is triple Cat-A, and that is when you're with no open visits, and to take you from location to court. After that, you've got Category B. Most people that go to prison And then you've got C-Cat, which is open prisons. That's the prison system in the UK. If I could change things now, I would get spice out of the prison, and I'd give them an or a job where they can get so that they save some for when they get released. Some of my working in workshops, the company belongs to someone outside. So that's slave labor. That's slavery. I was lucky enough to be around someone. And my partner, when I was released, she was like a lawyer, and And she inspired me to write a book. So I wrote the book, took a year to write. It's called &quot;Out of the Box&quot;. And then this led to me being able to do public and talk to young people so they know not to waste their time going down this road of pain and misery. To be honest, I feel more guilty for the policeman what I shot, He's read my book, and And then we met in the train station, and I got to apologize And then he wrote his part of the story, and he added it to the book. So it's, like, really humbling that someone could forgive That was an emotional situation, And we've been communicating ever since, and that's since 2016 till now. We do talk some podcasts together, so we meet up on those occasions. And I've got his WhatsApp I've learned that life's a cycle, and you was born with nothing, and you're going to leave with nothing. And if you do good deeds, good deeds are more likely And if you do negative things, negative things are definitely Hi, I'm a producer on &quot;How Crime Works&quot;. If you enjoyed this, please with more topics you'd