Reviewer: Queenie Lee Intimacy, security, respect, good communication, These are some of the things make for healthy relationships. And researchers would agree, too. There is a large body of literature that has identified the features and the list I just provided Researchers also agree on what makes for things like fighting so much not being able to go to your partner contempt, criticism, hostility, violence. When these problems they can cause significant unhappiness. They can lead to the end and they can literally make people This is why it is so critical But there is a problem: how many people know, I mean, really know what to do to create healthy relationships? My point is this: we may know but most people and no one teaches us how to do so. We need to teach people Now, you know when we typically do so? It is called couples therapy. I do couples therapy, But many people come to couples therapy with so many ingrained problems It's too late. You know when else we try to teach people Right before they get married. It's call premarital education. And this is a good idea: teach people how to have while they are still happy, presumably. And it can work. But in my opinion, it's still too late. Why? Because people have already selected the person they want What if they selected poorly? No amount of premarital education So the ways we have tried to teach people have been limited, because they fail to address genuinely knowing what you want and need selecting the right person, and developing and using skills I don't mean the beginning I mean the beginning-beginning, We need to teach people, how to have healthy relationships. Now, towards this end, a skills based model that we believe can help people create the things and reduce the behaviors We've identified three skills - insight, mutuality, that form the basis for what we call Romantic competence across all areas or all aspects from figuring out what you need, to finding the right person, and to getting out of relationships I'll tell you more but first, let me say that we didn't just We identified the skills based on a thorough review And the skills really across the major theories on healthy relationships. And because they represent we think they really can help people with all the different parts and with all different people - So let me tell you about the skills. The first one is insight. Insight is about awareness, So with insight, you'll have a better idea what you want, So let's say you are being With insight, you might notice or realize that it's not that your partner but actually you're really What you really need so it doesn't bleed out Insight will also let you know Let's say your partner With insight, you'll know why. For example, maybe your partner It's nothing about you That's just who your partner is. With insight, you'll be able to anticipate the positive and negative For example, you'll know it is not going to go well. Maybe you'd better With insight, you will be able in ways that allow you to behave So maybe you'll recognize who tends to jump in really quickly - you get wrapped up and then things don't go well. So you might be able to say, &quot;Well, you know what the next time I'm just going to take things and not repeat the same mistake. And with insight, about what's really right Maybe you're the kind of person who really needs You are not OK with your partner Or maybe you'll realize that you're not ready to settle down, and you need a partner So that's insight. The second skill is mutuality. Mutuality is about knowing and that both sets of needs matter. With mutuality you'll be able to convey your own needs that increases the likelihood Let's say you have to go and you'd like your partner You might say directly: &quot;You know this is going I'd really love for you to be there; you'll be a really good buffer for me. Is there any way you can With mutuality, you'll be willing to meet Let's say you know that your partner first thing in the morning, it makes your partner Mutuality will let you be willing even though you'd really rather have And mutuality also lets you into decisions that you make So let's say you get a great job offer but you know it means and you know how important it is for both you and your partner With a mutual approach, you might say, &quot;You know, I'd really like it's really important to me, but I also am concerned If I promise to protect some time for us, will you be OK with me taking this job?&quot; That's a mutual approach to relationships. The third skill is emotion regulation. And emotion regulation in response to things With emotion regulation, keep your emotions calm and keep things that happen So, you might think: &quot;Oh, my goodness. This is a disaster! How am I going to handle this?&quot; With emotion regulation, you'll think: &quot;You know what, I can handle this. This is going to be all right. There is a way to deal with this. Everything is going to be OK.&quot; With emotion regulation, you'll be able to tolerate and not act out on them impulsively, so you'll to be able to think through So let's say your waiting That text isn't coming; you're checking your phone With emotion regulation, &quot;You know what? Calm down. The text is going to come. I don't need to check I'm just going to put it away And with emotion regulation, you'll be able to maintain and commitment to your needs, even when bad things happen So let's say you have a breakup. You're feeling really depressed; With emotion regulation, you'll be able to let that, yeah, you're going but you're going to get over it If you beg and plead to get back together, you're not going to feel good and you don't even want to be that wasn't good for you. So insight, mutuality, I believe it's people's ability that lets them have healthy relationships. So let me give you an example The other day I was talking that when her partner asked her she told him she didn't want anything. So guess what? She didn't get anything. And she got really angry, Why? Because she really did want a present, she just wanted him to somehow know. It is called mind reading. It is a terrible idea; it never works. Had she been using the skills, insight would have let her that she really did want something, and if she didn't get it, Insight also would have let her know who was just going Mutuality would have let her directly and clearly. And emotion regulation would have let her that were getting So maybe she was feeling kind of anxious: What would he think Or maybe she was feeling guilty, you know. She knows they are saving for a big trip, and she maybe thought that he would think So if she had used the skills, &quot;You know what? I know we are saving for that trip, but I really like that necklace and it wasn't that expensive.&quot; He would have gotten it for her. She would have felt respected and valued. He would have been happy. They would have felt more intimate. This whole birthday gift thing instead of ending in a fight that could really Now, this was just an anecdote. We have data to support this as well. I've been studying romantic competence, the ability for people to use insight, among young people. In one of our studies, we looked at 13- and 14-year-old girls, and we found that girls felt more secure in their relationships. They felt comfortable they could trust people, Girls who are more romantically competent they had better mental health. They also were more positive about their expectations they were more optimistic Girls with greater romantic competence were engaging in more typical things that were normative, and affectionate behaviors And girls who were more were engaging in fewer ... atypical, sexual activities, which can be considered pretty risky So, even at an early age, when these girls mostly the more romantically competent they were, the more adaptive relational and the better mental health We see the same things More romantically competent men and women They also report making better decisions, they can see the warning signs and make conscious decisions They're also better at seeking So, they are more willing and use what their partners give them. And they are better at providing And this isn't just what they told us, we actually observed them where we asked them to talk Young people who were also were more satisfied they were happier. And again, they reported and also fewer anxiety symptoms. So overall, being romantically competent is associated with greater, and greater individual well being. And this brings me back to my point that we need to be teaching people So, like I said earlier on, we may know what a healthy but most people have no idea and no one teaches us how to do so. And this is a problem. We need to help people genuinely know We need to help them We need to help them make good decisions and deal with the challenges And we need to help them right from the beginning. This is what the notion It's all about using insight, mutuality, to reduce the behaviors like fighting, and poor support, and hostility, and criticism, And create the things like intimacy, security, respect, and a sense of being valued. And wouldn't all of our relationships I think they would. Thank you. (Applause)