Hello! Today, we are going to make a Levels favorite recipe. This is the Metabolic Power Bowl. These are perfect for lunch or dinner! They are so versatile because they are all about components, five to be exact, that are part of metabolically-optimal meals. So, the five components that we are going to put into this bowl, and that you can incorporate into really any metabolically healthy, friendly meal are: Minimizing refined sugars and grains. Two: Making sure we've got lots of fiber. Three: Getting really good Omega-3 sources in there. Four: Lots of micronutrients and antioxidants which help our cells do their work and protect our mitochondria. And five: Topping with some sort of probiotic-rich food to support the microbiome which is so critical for metabolic health. So, these Metabolic Power Bowls have all of these and sets us up to learn these principles so that we can implement them with, really, any meal that we cook. Within each of those five categories, there's lots of different options. For Omega-3s, we could be using salmon or sardines or chia seeds or walnuts or basil seeds. They all have Omega-3s. So, we can kind of mix and match with what we like. For probiotic-rich foods, we could use Sauerkraut. We could use kimchi. We could use some Tempeh. We could use some unsweetened yogurt to top it. It's really all about knowing which foods meet each component and then creating this beautiful bowl with all these different fabulous features that support building a healthy body for optimal metabolic health. So, let's walk through what we're gonna make today. This is going to be a beautiful bowl, with a base of cauliflower rice and broccoli rice. So, that's going to be our grain-free alternative. That's immediately going to shave a bunch of the glucose spike off this meal. We're going to chop a ton of veggies. And really, the name of the game with micronutrients and antioxidants is: Get color. We have the full rainbow here and rainbow meals means lots of diverse micronutrients and antioxidants which is so good for metabolism and our metabolic machinery to work properly. So, in your power bowl, when you're making this at home, it doesn't really matter what vegetables you use but go for at least three different colors as a base. For some protein and Omega-3, we're going to be leaning into salmon. So we've got some smoked salmon. But you could also use sardines or tuna. Other Omega-3 sources that we're going to have in this meal include some basil seeds. Chia seeds would also work and walnuts are also a great source of Omega-3s. We are going to be making a fabulous sauce for this meal that's almond butter-based, with some ginger, and some lime, and Also a fermented food, red miso. But the beauty of a bowl like this is you could actually do whatever sauce you want. You could do a beautiful pesto. You could do a marinara sauce. You could drizzle it with tahini and some flake salt. It really doesn't matter. But the key is just get more nutrients in that sauce. So, this is going to be a Powerhouse. So many plants! I think we counted that there's going to be, like, 17 different plants in this meal. And so, get ready! It's easy, it's fun, and it's very versatile. One of the best parts about a bowl concept like this is that there can be so many different varieties. So, for base, while today we're using a cauliflower and broccoli rice mixture, you could also use zucchini noodles, like zoodles that are just lightly sauteed as the base, or you could use something like an alternative pasta. Like a cognac root noodle, which is very low-carb and also delicious. So, the base is quite versatile and the really key thing that we're trying to do is minimize the heavy carbohydrate-rich bases that we usually see in bowls. So, either, like, a huge amount of grains or a refined grain, like a pasta. So, this gives you several options for a base that are going to be lower spiking potential. In terms of other components, the fiber to get that fiber in there. The average American fiber is critical for our microbiome health, which to get more fiber to feed those microbiome and are an amazing source. For some people, these do balanced with protein fat and additional fiber. going to use Lupini beans, which are an incredible These beans by this brand Brami have three grams of fiber. So, to get net carbs, you subtract dietary net carbs are, which is really what we care about. fiber. So, these should not cause a glucose spike. a ton of fiber which are organic and canned. They 3.5 servings in one can. So, great, great tool for from beans for fiber in your bowl include nuts and per two tablespoons. Nuts also have a good amount So, we've preheated the oven to 400 because sprouts at. And the first thing I'm going to do processor because, honestly, I don't like chopping me, we love it. So, I'll grab my food processor. love it and you'll see why in just a second. I'm just going to take a bunch of cloves and We have about 10 cloves of And the other beautiful thing about chopping the really healthful benefits of garlic. Like, properties, they actually are activated by chopping. 40 minutes for these enzymes in the garlic to work. aside for 30 minutes, you're gonna get way more of is actually true for cruciferous vegetables. So, the Brussels sprouts early, let them sit to the kind of do their work. Again, it's because of activates some of these health protein properties. So, garlic's done. I'm going to put that in a little Oh my gosh, look at all that gorgeous garlic. So Next, I'm going to do this with the are actually one of the most antioxidant-rich of them into my diet. So, throw them in Gorgeous! All done. Beautiful, chopped And these are just going to be a nice, I really love when you have a I think it really adds to the interest when a lot of colors because food is a totally full a chopped nut on top, next to a creamy sauce, next more interesting meal and more fun to eat. Okay, so all our other veggies that can't be done in the Orange peppers are amazing. They are filled with a great source of beta-carotene, which is really I'm just going to cut these really thin and sort the bowl at the very end. These are going to be Beautiful. So, we've got that orange pepper sliced to use it later. Let's cut some of these beautiful So, these cherry tomatoes are just gonna go on top add a little bit of a different an incredible source of the phytonutrient lycopene. potent anti-inflammatory substance that actually inflammatory compound in our bodies, called TNF conditions. It's also increased in people who do lower TNF Alpha and also decrease the expression B, which is an inflammatory pathway. And something better when we eat tomatoes with olive oil. And so, actually putting two different foods together of this is turmeric and black pepper. Black pepper chemical in turmeric called curcumin. So, some fun for our bowl. Put those off to the side, and I just stems don't really taste very good. Now, let's chop part of the cruciferous vegetable family, a word cruciferous vegetables are one of the healthiest And the reason that cruciferous vegetables are a compound called sulforaphane. And sulforaphane is regulator. It up-regulates the expression of a gene systems. And the reason we care about antioxidants processes like converting glucose to energy, the of like waste products that are called free that can actually hurt our body in excess. So, these colorful foods or through sulforaphane both make them by activating our antioxidant our body from those excess free radicals. So, thinking sulforaphane. I'm thinking reduce free Protect my body and specifically protect my can damage our mitochondria, which is, of course, the So, it's just fun to think you are doing such good of foods. Other foods in the cruciferous vegetable sprouts, bok choy, kale, Watercress. There's a property of garlic where, when you chop them, when you the healthful property. So, it actually is what because it's actually a precursor molecule. It's a And when you expose it to air and traumatize that process takes about 35 to 40 minutes. So, chopping things these will just sit out and that we'll be getting all those healthful properties them really small pieces because they get really cut the little root base off and I toss that. Then, half again. So, that's quartered. So, you end up with still really big, you can cut them again. Basically, to get in the oven. I like salads and bowls that of the reasons I like using food processors to now and, again, we're going to let those sit out Next thing we're going to chop is a little bit cabbage is that it makes every meal look beautiful. beet juice, or purple onions, or purple cabbage out joy. And that's what I'm looking for when I'm for our bowl, but also is such a powerhouse in which are so incredible for our body. Things like and things like cherries. And for the cabbage, which, gonna chop it really thin and then leave it off And this will just be a little sprinkling on the thinking about when I'm cooking is what the plate cooking is really a creative outlet and colors visually pleasing. So when I'm at the grocery store, get that I know will look so beautiful on the rainbow. And you can already see on our cutting means to me is, not only is it going to be joyful diversity of micronutrients and antioxidants and up, we're going to chop these beautiful onions from onions is that you can actually use the entire top and then we'll sprinkle them on top like top really thin. The onions themselves, I cook the cauliflower and broccoli a kind of caramelized onion feel to Mmm. Beautiful! Actually, let's try something and then I'm going to use that food Boom! Completely minced onion All right, let's cut some avocado. Oh, gorgeous. than a perfectly ripe avocado? I love those memes of an avocado, and it's like, you've got them good. No good. No good. And they decide, one day, to eat them before they go bad. So, we are in that Oh my God! Have you ever seen And then the way I like to cut an Get a spoon. Slice around the edge. And you've got a gorgeous cut avocado. If Make your little hash. Your little And then... Now, you'll have more, like, cubes of So good. The perfect avocado. Next thing we're gonna do is cut some jalapenos. Again, the jalapenos are going in the sauce, so we don't actually have them prepped so that we're not getting the whole with cutting jalapenos is: don't get your hands So, I cut the top off, and then what I lengthwise. And those are the seeds, which are the cut the membrane at the base there a little and then you can kind of just flip out the and I haven't touched it. But keep that away leave a few little pieces of seed in there I don't want all that spice. So, that's ready to membrane there. I'm going to cut under the membrane at the base, and then I'm just going to flip it out. Boom! Done. Leave a few seeds in for spice. in the sauce. I'll just chop about an inch off. Have because when you blend it into a sauce you kind and let's now get our cauliflower rice ready! So, base for this bowl. And this is fresh broccoli rice, food processor, is take the stems of your broccoli, chop them into little two inch pieces, throw them in the food processor, pulse it about five times, So, we'll throw that in to add a few more nutrients. base of this. You can get frozen cauliflower rice I always have about five of these bags in my dinners. Stir fries, power bowls. Really great to some spices in there you have an easy 10-minute from scratch. So, first thing: take off the greens. known to throw cauliflower greens into a smoothie really taste like much. So, now you've got your roughly chop this into, basically, eight big pieces So, first cut a little bit of that stem off and Doesn't need to be artful. You don't really need were roasting because, it's all going to just the size that you want any bigger and it won't three inches by three inches. So, we're going to take About that much. Put them in there. Oh, perfect! I love this so much. Look at that! 10 cauliflower rice. Look at that! Oh my gosh, gorgeous. but same thing with this. Chop it, leave it aside is gonna form. One thing to know about making there is sort of this moment that is the perfect two pulses more than this, it gets too fine, and you want to kind of err on the side of having when you know you're not kind of overdoing it. So, let's do the second batch. One thing I want to do as an experiment is to try this think I've actually done this before, but So, put that blade back in there and Pulse. Worked perfectly! So, yeah. Sometimes you'll that's fine. You can just do it in the next batch. And one thing that I did, just a little quick tip: directions. So, what I'll do is chop, grind, chop, cauliflower around more and intends to make for this to just all go in one direction and kind I'm going to put that into our bowl and Now, it's time for us to make our delicious which you are just gonna literally want to just throw it all into a blender, press go, and blender out. You're gonna want some kind of all creamy and emulsified. Okay, we're going Then, we're going to do half a teaspoon of jalapeno. Looks about half a teaspoon. One tablespoon Two tablespoons lime juice. This one, because tang can really overpower Little tip: to get more juice out, in there and you can get a little bit I think that'll do it. All right. So, two tablespoons. There's one. We're gonna do 1/8 teaspoon of so I'll just do half. Two tablespoons of tamari, Umami flavor. Often things that are Umami flavor, a savory flavor, a sweet why the sauce is so delicious, because we sour with the lime, we get the sweet with a savory with that almond butter. It's just so good! If you didn't have almond butter on hand, you could few hours and then throw those straight in because into almond butter just by blending it. So, that's My God, I can't let this go to waste. So good! One tablespoon red miso, a lovely fermented food. We love the ferments. The recipe calls for one touch of a flavor like a sweetness can totally going to cause too much of a glucose spike. and then blend away. Let's taste it. Oh, it looks gorgeous. Absolutely perfect. I'm actually gonna of sets a little bit more and then So, to do these Brussels sprouts, we're going dish. And I tend to really like to use a a pan to help with cleanup. If you're using fantastic and it just makes cleanup so so Brussels sprouts and just throw them on here, kind of healthy fat to help it get crispy. be coconut oil. It could be olive oil. It could spray or it could be avocado oil. So, for today, Just drizzle about a tablespoon on there. Salt and pepper. Keep it really simple. These do not need much. Every time I take roasted vegetables out of the Whether it's green beans or onions or Brussels there. Chop them. Olive oil. Salt. Pepper. 20 minutes Gonna throw them in here at 400 Check after about 10. Make sure they're Now, it's time to make our We've got a medium hot pan. I'm going to spray it and the first thing I'm going to do is up in the food processor earlier to cauliflower rice. We'll just get those hot and So, our onions are getting translucent, four or five minutes. Stir them around And now we'll put our cauliflower While this is cooking, I'm going to check on our Give them a little stir. Oh, starting to get browned I'd say the cauliflower rice takes about five get a little bit softer a little bit it so that it either gets watery or that it One thing I just realized is that we have all it tastes really good in here so I'm gonna before adding this other stuff but something create a little space on the pan, separate from and then take the garlic and Kind of saute it over here and then, once and get delicious and olive oily, then mix And add turmeric. I'm not going to measure this, I'm gonna add a little bit of flake salt, too. And then stir it all around. Our I love having turmeric at the ready. Really because turmeric is one of the most metabolically It is filled with antioxidants that give it that has this really special chemical compound in genetic regulator of a pathway called NF Kappa B. ends up setting off a bunch of inflammatory curcumin in turmeric negatively regulates NF in our body. That's a good thing because we plaguing so many Americans today and which And this is one where adding black pepper curcumin much higher. So, I'm going to reach See how just adding a little bit of that back to that concept of the plate as art and this gorgeous yellow to set off our purple tomatoes and it's just going to be stunning ready to go. The cauliflower is looking a I never add water to the pan with cauliflower It's got a little bit of a brown crispiness to it. And. And just. My mouth is watering. So, I know we're ready to go. Let's check the Brussels sprouts awesome! Still need a couple more minutes though. And while that's all waiting, You want the salmon to be out for Oh, it looks gorgeous. I'm going to lay so I'm probably only going to This is a beautiful wild-caught Alaskan salmon. The fish are raised in just a much healthier way. ocean as opposed to in a farmed environment where to get a different fat profile in the fish. We want and other things that you're gonna get in more of all the grocery store has, it's better than a lot ton of the Omega-3s with fish. But if wild is an to just blot off the salmon. Get any moisture off of it. That is our Brussels sprouts. Ready to go. Let's grab them in the oven. We're looking for is exactly what I like to see. We've got these Not too mushy, still a tiny bit crisp, and a little Perfect. Let's finish our salmon. So, we paper toweled going to throw a little bit of olive oil, salt and About a tablespoon over these. Gently rub that olive oil into the salmon and then And sometimes a little Citrus on the salmon or some lemon juice. I happen to have about made our sauce. So, I'm actually going to aren't really rules here. We're just And I'm gonna have it at 400 for about eight Salmon's ready. Let's get it out of the oven. Oh, it looks gorgeous. So, we want our salmon to be fully cooked. This actually took a lot longer taking more like 15, but it's looking perfect bowls. So, we've got all of our toppings laid out food artists and just load our bowl with so many So, we're going to start with our base which was up the bottom. A nice alternative to grain and, this could be a bed of zucchini noodles. This noodles. It doesn't matter. Just something that's your glucose. And those are some great options. we'll start adding our toppings. First, and I'll lay that there. And remember, we've got Bowl that we want to be including. So, we want and have no refined grains or sugars. So, that's Omega-3s. So, again, the source of Omega-3s, we've got you could use some smoked salmon and, honestly, can be fancy today. So, like a little bit of smoked would be basil seeds, chia seeds, or walnuts. So, which also creates a nice color contrast with and antioxidants. And so this is where we're vegetables on here because we know we're getting beautiful orange peppers. Put those over We've got red. Orange, red, and Do some scallions on there. Beautiful. And then have some of these zucchini beans which have carbs. So, not going to spike your glucose. and some of these ingredients double up healthy meals. So, the basil seeds have a ton of fiber. So, we're getting double fiber here. to our micronutrient and antioxidant quota. So, This is looking fabulous. We don't want to hide all our And then our fifth component, which is probiotic-rich foods. And there was a study out of Stanford that showed that six servings of probiotic-rich impact on the microbiome. And so, really, always probiotic-rich or something fermented on almost unsweetened yogurt or Kefir. For lunch, it could top of your meal. For dinner, same thing or have a ways to get fermented foods. And if you're thinking We'll probably have two or three servings on here. is that, when I'm at the store or farmer's market, just try something new. And I like to have like just grab them and throw them on top of whatever types and I'm just gonna put, I think for this one, I'm going to do the beet kraut. That is absolutely All right, we still need to put our sauce on the pecans are for that texture. A little bit of content. And fun fact: they contain ALA Alpha Lipoic we need in our mitochondria to turn glucose of the metabolically-friendly meal. Just gonna... oh! And last step is the sauce. And before you components on this meal. How would I do of this can actually be meal-prepped chopped in the food processor. And if the weekend, you can make a bowl like now, for our delicious almond butter sauce. So, I think we're done. I am so excited about this gorgeous bowl. When I pure, honestly, ecstatic joy because I know that going to turn into my cells. It's going to feed my It's going to help my mitochondria thrive and it's metabolically optimized means that I can produce spark of life. And so, it lets us get up and go and I'm looking at a plate like this, that's what I'm Remember, this is just an example. You love and you have. You can make it your see what you come up with. So, try it out! your metabolically-friendly Power Bowl. So good! Enjoy!