I talk about heat pumps a lot. They really are the but they're not the only way. There's getting a lot of attention in recent years It might seem a little abstract at first, but the for a new, solid-state-esque approach to managing the possibility of achieving significantly higher holds massive implications for the way we cool So, what can this metal have in store why does it have the potential to I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. If you're a regular viewer of my channel, you that there isn't a single technological more than one way to overcome the obstacles the clean energy transition. And What I have here are wires made out or metal mixture. It's also a type of it can remember its shape better than I means it has a really interesting Now, I'm not just showing off nitinol's quirks abilities may one day be the backbone -- or air conditioning systems that are cleaner and more You might be wondering: elasto-what now? And the future of cooling? Well, chances are you're with nutrition labels. That's an offshoot of in the simplest sense, measures heat energy. In And with elastocaloric cooling, we're looking relying on refrigerants. This spectrum of the new and improved way of getting your house How? With the power of what a member of energy conversions of the future." We're already and not just by flicking light switches on the chemical energy you get out of your meat gets you through the day. The meat and potatoes are more advanced conversions: wind's kinetic and are transformed into electricity. As our demand direct, more efficient, and more safe ways Before we jump deeper into elastocalorics, it systems operate. Out of the estimated 5 billion air conditioning, and heat pumps -- most Here's a quick breakdown: imagine the first time. Its mission is now to The refrigerant (often a hydrofluorocarbon, a compressor, a condenser, an Step one: The compressor increases the Step two: The condenser changes the which releases a lot of heat into the environment. refrigerant. As it expands, it chills, making Step four: The evaporator absorbs heat refrigerant. The cycle starts over with Although the stars of the show are called similar way for air conditioning, too. This refrigerant properties to transfer heat. But How does this relate to elastocalorics? Well, one solid phase, which might sound surprising. or gases, but there can be different solid it forms a honeycomb structure, it becomes it's arranged in a tetrahedral structure, you get Now, in metal alloys, especially nitinol, two and martensite. And, just like how water absorbs liquid, these metals do something similar when It's kind of like how refrigerants work in the Now, I don't want to compress too we practically replace the gas and liquid in our Speaking about cooling and things like Seems like now is a good time to take a quick schedule is so hectic it's made it challenging was taking shortcuts and eating the easy, not so keep the stress out of planning and preparing fact, I actually signed up for Factor well before my favorite things is the variety. Factor offers like Gourmet Plus, Keto, Calorie Smart, or Vegan + love. I'm kind of obsessed with their Peanut you eat each week, but you can pause or reschedule never frozen, and ready in just 2 minutes. Head use code 50UNDECIDED to get 50% off and free 50UNDECIDED at FACTOR75 dot com to get 50% off and and to all of you for supporting the channel. So, Obviously, we're not going to be running metal caloric cooling cycles can actually be vapor compression cycles. It all starts with the could be something like natural rubber, nitinol, apply force to the material, which stresses it. making the material change shape and heat up. system, similar to how heat is released in the That's a high-level explanation of the wire. Nitinol is superelastic. This means but structurally -- and this phase transformation untaped cardboard box is square from the front, on it. It then snaps back into place once same shapes to visualize how nitinol moves between Like a student during an exam, nitinol turns into it changes phases from martensite to austenite, stress is removed, the material switches back to As the stress is released, the wire "chills What's interesting about nitinol is something of saying the temperature at which it the temperature at which it cools down in high-efficiency nitinol, adding stress but removing the stress drops the temperature than the start! That is just one wire on enough wires and the proper design, the wires To be refrigerant-clear, like with other mean there's no liquid or no moving parts in use refrigerants, you obviously can't pump a need mechanical input, like a linear actuator, to a caloric cooling system might still need a cooled air where it needs to go. In do use fluids. Yeah, it's confusing, I know. If you're like me, when I first heard about all of trying to make this a reality. It's still a fairly the past decade or so, the field has jumped in prototypes emerging. In this bar chart from a 2023 According to a 2024 review, interest in 2017 and 2022. But what's making it elastocalorics are part of a broader group called magnetic, or mechanical fields trigger Take electrocaloric or magnetocaloric electromagnetic properties to generate or super futuristic, right? But here's the measure, and actually put to use. Now, rely on something simpler: uniaxial stress -- And here's the kicker: elastocalorics perform They have stronger cooling effects, can save of applications. As the International Institute effect in commercial-grade materials is already magnetocaloric materials." Plus, shape-memory already have an existing market. So, we don't have As of 2022, over 20 elastocaloric and you've actually seen some of the action Elastocalorics' hottest shape-memory alloy is nitinol isn't just superelastic -- it's and it was commercialized for a multitude of The last few years have seen but it's important to note that they've started from Xi'an Jiaotong University and the Chinese elastocaloric refrigerator. It successfully devices compactly enough for commercialization. kidding. The prototype has a cooling power of 3.1 Later that same year, a research team at the elastocaloric demonstrator system characterized bundles. By 2023, engineering professors at the capable of producing 200 W of cooling capacity, like a wine cooler. As of 2024, researchers a refrigerator with sufficient I'm sure you're noticing a pattern here. The are still fairly small, but hey, big things have appliances are pretty much what you'd expect some hurdles to overcome. For one, the amount of which means you need a lot of wires and cycles hundreds of years behind the vapor-compression of work that needs to be done to optimize them. In heating and cooling tech, you often rate performance (COP). A heat pump system which means for every unit of electricity heat energy back out. It's why they're over 100% I had a chance to speak with Dr. Ichiro Takeuchi He told me that just the materials equivalent ... but you can't directly compare that because it's for the final product will eat into that COP will most likely be closer to the efficiency of ...this process is extremely energy that if everything is put together, it efficiency compared to the existing ...when you buy a refrigerator or air that's a system's final product, COP. we could do one-to-one comparison. It's able to do that finally because after make something that actually resembles a gadget. which has enough capacity to be a small scale be able to plug it into the wall and then do a If you'd like to see the full interview with Dr. and how efficient things are right now, be Still TBD. You can find it everywhere but also here on Youtube. I'll Another issue is stress fatigue -- the more last. But if you lower the stress, there's alloys and techniques to improve how well the Then there's the challenge of applying stress need to be efficient and compact, because little space for food. So, elastocaloric systems Compared to other alternatives, elastocaloric measures how close a new tech is to being ready and it's now used across industries. started appearing in the 2010s, and the first it makes sense that this field is So why even bother with elastocalorics? means no hydrofluorocarbons. And that's The problem is hydrofluorocarbons, as you So there is a need to pursue refrigerants Even though this technology is not yet mature, important role in reducing the use of HFCs. Also, the cooling systems we've used for nearly a It's still very early days, but this is definitely If anything, the transformations are But what do you think? Would you be interested Jump into the comments and let me know and be sure we'll keep this conversation going. Thanks support and a big welcome to new Supporter + as well as Producer Michael R. Koch. I You really help to keep this channel