- No one should work 40 hours - We will not rest until we - Non-partisan experts say it would send more people than it would lift out of poverty. - [Narrator] The debate the minimum wage has long been a political 11 years after the last increase of the federal minimum lawmakers have introduced legislation that would rise it over This would more than double it, bringing the minimum wage when adjusted for inflation. This uncharted territory about its effects on jobs, businesses, and the economy overall. To understand the potential The Wall Street Journal as well as a minimum wage worker what the risks and benefits of 21 year old Porche Vann in Fayetteville, North Carolina. She took a job in food after she lost her due to the coronavirus pandemic. She has become active in advocating for higher wages. - I can't even put a roof over my head because of my job pay. It's not even about the job, it's how much the job is paying. - [Narrator] For workers like Porche Vann, a $15 minimum wage would put A report by the non-partisan found that raising the minimum wage could give 27 million workers a pay bump. But the report also says phasing it in would cost the economy as businesses shed workers However, economists vary widely in their own assessments and what the costs and benefits may be. University of Massachusetts says the low wage labor market is able to absorb higher wages with little negative impact on jobs. - We can go up to even 70 so the minimum wage can be that high, and still have relatively - [Narrator] But more surveyed by The Wall said a $15 minimum wage with most saying the job loss would be less than one million. Michael Strain studies the at the conservative-leaning He believes the impact on jobs could be greater than the CBO's estimate. - An important factor here is whether or not the as the size of the minimum The effect on employment of than the effect on employment Going to 15 would be more than doubling the current federal minimum and the evidence for what is much more limited because that we really haven't seen. - It's seeing how much you and how much work you put into it, it has really affected me very negatively because now I'm having to - [Narrator] Proponents say would alleviate the financial struggle that many low wage workers face. The CBO report also says would life 900,000 - They also find that leads to less reliance on food stamps and other public assistance. So roughly 35 cents on the dollar ends up actually as taxpayer savings. - I have been thinking so that I could at least because I won't able to afford to eat every day and pay the rent. A $15 minimum wage would because I would know that to where I didn't have to stress about if I'm able to get this - I don't think the minimum wage is a particularly effective And the rest for that is a lotta poverty comes from people not having jobs. And if you don't have a job, then the minimum wage increase to get out of poverty. - [Narrator] But some economists agree there are more targeted policy like the Earned Income Tax Credit. - Unlike the minimum wage, is very well targeted on And because the Earned Income Tax Credit increases the financial it actually increasing employment by drawing people in to the workforce. - However, when more people that tends to put a By setting a floor, the minimum wage prevents that wage thereby working well together as policies. - [Narrator] Another is that higher wages of producing goods and services. And some of those costs would in the form of higher prices. - Overall, what this means is that middle and higher income consumers end up paying for raising I think that's a feature, not a bug. - But there are limits as to how high businesses and so they'll have to to absorb the additional labor costs. One way they might absorb it is through hiring workers who or relatively more experience. Those workers will be than the minimum wage workers that they had previously employed. - [Narrator] But opponents could force some small - If a company is not strong enough or has not brung in enough a reasonable amount that's above poverty, then I don't think they - [Narrator] Proponents of the increase have pointed to the benefits can bring to reducing Currently, Black workers disproportionately earn minimum wage relative to their share Recent research published by economists at the University of California Berkeley has found the extension of can explain more than 20% of the reduction in the racial earnings and income gap during the civil rights era. - Any policy that tends to will generally also tend to because more low wage workers - [Narrator] President Biden would deliver raises for low wage workers, many of whom were deemed essential during the COVID-19 pandemic. But opponents, including say the minimum wage for restaurants, stores, already reeling from a battered economy. Polling has shown that are in favor of a $15 minimum wage. - I think the most is how long it's been that we have not raised Having said that, I don't a very large increase in We can pass the policy and phase it in over a number of years to deal with any uncertainties about the recovery from the COVID crisis. - Now is the perfect time because anybody in any field who's going out every day to to bring whatever they're I feel like they should get paid more. - [Narrator] Economists acknowledge that raising the minimum wage to $15 will come with both costs and benefits and that it's important to when considering the policy.