My name's Mark Williams-Thomas, and I'm a former police detective. I now investigate some and dangerous killers in the UK, and this is how crime works. People often misuse the So, serial killer applies to an individual who has killed three or more people over a period of 30 days or more. Do serial killers have Yeah, some do, because you without having some air of respectability, some positioned status in life. So yeah, they do have an aura. Do they intimidate me? No. No one intimidates me. I've got three serial-killer cases that I have specifically investigated and investigated in real detail. And that is the Yorkshire Angus Sinclair, he's responsible for probably at least and then Peter Tobin. I do believe Peter Tobin is responsible for a number of other who I've been able to So, one of the first steps for any major investigation You look in terms of where you go to the crime scene, and build up a picture of I did a reinvestigation of Peter Sutcliffe whilst he was in jail, who murdered 13 women, attempted and probably more in the 1980s. But my investigation of him really got to the heart He was convicted, went to jail on the basis that he had schizophrenia. We try and give a name a narcissistic, a you know, all of these terms. I challenged that. I don't believe that he I was able to show that He had all the signs of psychopathy, and if he was prosecuted today, he would've gone to a mainstream prison. He wouldn't have gone to a hospital because he wasn't schizophrenic. He was a psychopath. Ted Bundy, where he has overegged his involvement in a crime, some of that is about probably about their own ego, about the best of the best or the And some of that might well be that they actually believe it. I mean, very often serial killers believe what isn't true. They use cognitive distortion constantly, because in order for them they have to justify it in their head that they're not going to get caught. Evidence is key for me. has, to some degree, There are lots of people who who have the signs that we've associated with serial killers. Psychopathy, narcissism. That's part of some and it doesn't make them killers. So, once you've identified a your then position is in relation to them, and any of the forensic elements around, but also CCTV, external factors. The victim will give will understand why they are a victim. You'll want to know what that person does on a day-to-day basis. Who they interact with, where they go. We know very often serial killers will return to the scene of Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, he returned back to the murder And the reason he did that potentially one of the a PS5 note, could lead to him being found. He was so lucky that the police bungled and were so incompetent that that PS5 note didn't lead to him. You only need that droplet of DNA, you need that droplet of which is enough to link the We've lost too many cases by lack of continuity. So whilst DNA in one way can be absolutely nailing the offender, sometimes DNA actually Even though it's their DNA, you've got to be able to show that that DNA there shouldn't be there. And the problem is, of course, with the large majority of murders, murder is overwhelmingly committed by somebody known to the victim. So I set about to was responsible for other murders, to pull Angus Sinclair's life go right from the very beginning We got to his wife. She We then started to show this who over six months It's different to serial killers today, but when he was committing he committed them all in the same way. Now offenders have changed that if I commit the murder the police will link it together. But not in those days. There before the CSI effect where And what we saw, certainly all of his victims were and with their item of their own clothing. We collected enough evidence. Unfortunately, he died and to prosecute him given the fact Tracking takes all kinds Technology assists us massively. So you can put listening you can put probes into houses, you can do intercepts on phones, We have to have the certain But as an individual, I have to be on the right side of the law. I have to make it proportionate. But there are things that I'll do. I will, you know, I'll send I can put trackers in parcels I could put a listening We can use trackers. We can put what we refer to We've now got technology that enables us to lump a car that gets on a real-time device where I've used it. So, social media plays a crucial role because by and large, people use it, particularly the demographic that we potentially look at in Where people live, the the memberships they have. People's whole footprint on social media is an integral part of Because of the CSI effect of offenders, they are now aware that if put distance between them the likelihood is that that police force won't talk to another police force, and therefore there won't in relation to those crimes Viewers, listeners will that there is no national database that exists for unsolved murders. So we have a murder that happens and there is no database where it will sit to be able to be compared on So serial killers will and they'll get to a position where of course they feel confident. They've got away with a number of murders. There are other people out pretending to be the killer, and then that distracts The Zodiac Killer. There are other cases. In the Yorkshire Ripper, who became known as Wearside Jack who wrote letters in He wasn't. And therefore they went looking for completely the wrong person, enabling them to eliminate Serial killers are as any other killer is arrested. So you get to a position where to arrest them, and Arrests are carefully planned to create the least amount of disturbance and secure the most amount of evidence. The biggest problem for is the fact that it isn't executed. And, of course, the worst-case scenario is that that individual disappears. You don't get him. You don't execute it. Or something happens to them. It is about answers, and this the impact on families and loved ones, is that they want answers. And if you can't give that because the individual's no longer there, then I think that's failing. Serial killers very, very rarely, very rarely may come and admit it. And again, serial killers, when arrested, perhaps for something or unconnected to it, may well admit, and one of those classic examples was Peter Sutcliffe admitted because he was going to and he had a false number plate. I do a lot of interviews with whether it be through my television work or whether it be through on dangerous offenders. You can always get someone to talk. &quot;How was last night?&quot; &quot;What do you think of this place?&quot; You then gotta keep it going, and of course you slowly where they're least comfortable, but then you bring them There's also good cop and bad cop. You know, it is about taking control. Get rid of barriers. Take tables away. And I've seen too many interviews where the suspect takes control. Peter Tobin, who I've he would always talk in an interview, but he'd be angry. He'd tell you to go somewhere. He'd be violently aggressive in his tone. He wouldn't engage with you on the level where you could have Whereas Angus Sinclair made no comment. There are times when I've watched Angus Sinclair's interviews &quot;He's about to disclose. And the police officers, You know, the thing about Angus Sinclair is that when he was investigated for the murder of his brother went into the interview room in the space between the police &quot;Did you kill her? If you did, And he did. You know, this whole idea and central to identifying someone, it's great in hindsight. It's brilliant. Once someone's gone to jail and go, &quot;Do you know what? or when they lifted their eyebrow, when they scratched their Rubbish. When I interviewed Stuart Hazell for the murder of Tia Sharp, I knew Stuart Hazell was lying He sat there and looked at me in the eye telling me what he believed was true, but I knew it was an and actually it led to 38 years in jail. My interview was played in the opening of the Old Bailey trial, It was instrumental to So, the biggest cause in terms of getting the wrong person is scene-investigating officers become fixated on a hypothesis, become fixated on a suspect, and they do everything they can to get the evidence to secure them. And that's why we have Probably the most notorious where a killer was and prosecuted for what they considered to be the murderer was Barry George in I can tell you, and I've investigating that case, Absolutely not. The police They became fixated on Barry and they found the evidence that they believed was enough And it was. It did get convicted. Of course, when it then got in terms of the evidence, it was found to be which is why he got acquitted. No, the police went after the wrong man. They got the evidence and it never fitted. Don't forget, with serial killers, the first time they get caught, they may well have been And they may well only get caught for one or two of their victims and the others are not known about. So, Angus Sinclair was convicted of three murders and one manslaughter in 1961 with Catherine Reehill. But prior to that, he got prosecuted for two of those murders And the reason he wasn't convicted is his defense was that it was consensual. He finally got prosecuted to show to the contrary. When it came to the victims these were sex workers, and the police, not acknowledged and felt that So they passed off the first five victims. Serial killers may get prosecuted early on in their offending or early on in their court and get away with it but continue to offend thereafter. The minimum term for murder is life, but of course there are sliding Our criminal justice system I think in terms of life, the US conviction rate It may well be also to do to You know, the court process, the way that all of that is set up, and the way that the public give evidence. If you as a victim giving feel that you are going you're not going to be listened to, you're not going to be believed, you're going to be vulnerable. Then will you give evidence? And, of course, that means massively that whilst you may be you can't prosecute them, so your prosecution rate goes down. I believe there has to be, And that's first and foremost, It has to be a punitive effect. But it also has to be restorative. You know, and that the individual gets What it means is they understand why they've committed their offenses, they understand the impact to the victims. That restorative justice within for serial killers is absolutely crucial, but the criminal justice So, my background is as a I was school captain at school, and I was a very active individual. And I thought, what is it that I could do that would keep me outside So I'd applied to Surrey and Hampshire. And at the same time as I'd I'd also been offered a sports exchange to New Zealand to go and play rugby. And I was offered a job with the police. And I thought, &quot;Oh, I'll do that rather than go and play rugby.&quot; Now, I don't have any regrets I wish I'd have put that on hold, joining the police service, and gone and played rugby. You know, my mental health I've been to rock bottom. I've now realized that actually it's probably what I've it's the world that I live in. I care about people, I care and I think if I didn't do that, it would make me a very different person. But I acknowledge that the years that I've seen the worst of the worst, I've seen the worst I know how powerful the media is. I know that if I can that can give answers to people, then that's helpful. And I do, and anybody will see that it's not about me. It's about getting the and giving answers to people. I'm probably best known for my role as exposing Jimmy Savile. I made an hours-long program, and it resulted in his name or this case appearing on the front pages It resulted in numerous and prosecuted, the likes of and other very high-profile individuals. I have a series on Netflix and I was the man that for the very first time.