geoff: President Joe Biden's pardon of his son hunter has drawn scrutiny from both sides of the aisle as several of President-Elect -- as several of President-Elect trump's picks continue to face heavy scrutiny on capitol hill. On that and other issues shaping the tranistion, we turn now to the analysis of brooks and Capehart. That's New York Times columnist David brooks and Jonathan Capehart, associate editor for the Washington post. Good to see you both. Let's start our conversation with the sweeping pardon of hunter Biden, which is notable because he came to office vowing to restore the justice department. Was it justified and what is the lasting impact? Jonathan: It was justified. When the president said he would not pardon his son, the facts on the ground were completely different. It was the middle of a presidential campaign. He was a candidate for president, did not want to be viewed as interfering. He's no longer the candidate. His vice president is the nominee. I'm certain that president Biden was hoping vice president Harris would win and this would not be an issue, but when the person who won the race won the race by vowing a campaign of retribution, revenge, naming the Biden family in general and hunter Biden in particular as people he wanted to go after if he won the election, of course the president looks at the facts and says I cannot allow that to happen to my son. I understand the criticisms the president is taking, but for some Democrats to be complaining about, oh, you have ruined norms and given him an avenue, have they not paid attention to Donald Trump? He is either during the campaign -- either during the campaign or his first four years as president? These are the same people who would be yelling at Biden had he not done something and president trump took action against hunter Biden. Why didn't you save your son when you had the opportunity when you were president? He's done it. Geoff: What about that, David? To the intervening events, the reelection of Donald Trump, the fact that hunter Biden would be at the mercy of a trump justice department, and trump was clear about seeking revenge, does any of that change the calculus? David: Not to me. He was already convicted and was going to be sentenced. It is not a trump thing. For Biden, he became less politically painful to do it, so he did it. Democrats have been running against corruption, nepotism, all the bad things trump has done, and to do that you have to have a place to stand, a place to stand on legitimacy, and I care about norms. Our democracy is built on laws but within the way the government functions there are norms of behavior upon which our democracy depends and one of those norms is that we have a pardon. The president gets the pardon power but he cannot abuse it by just taking his family out of the picture. In my view he cannot abuse it by giving pardons to people who have not been convicted. The way democracies fall is the practices that make the democracy work get slowly abandoned step-by-step and obviously Donald Trump is abandoning them leap by leap but it's important to me that we have one party that does defend those norms, defends their legitimacy, and does not go in for free willing nepotism. Geoff: There's the defense of norms and we have heard the Republican party say it's Joe Biden who has politicized the justice department, not Donald Trump. Whether that's accurate or not it certainly could be politically effective, especially if Donald Trump does what he says he intends to do, pardon people connected to the attack on the capitol on January 6. Jonathan: He said he intended to do it and he's going to do it. Whether president Biden pardoned his son or not, trump is going to do it. No one is going to be surprised. I take your point about the erosion of norms. At a certain point you have to stop bringing a melon bollard to a knife fight. Geoff: How should Democrats think about that? You could argue Donald Trump has benefited from this ace -- this asymmetry and our politics -- in our politics. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I think throughout the years the justice department has done a reasonably good job of having neutral law. The indicted and convicted Donald Trump. They did not go with trump on when the election -- on whether the election was stolen. The indicted and convicted lots of January 6 people. The thing we have to defend is the justice system and defending the justice system is an objective truth seeking institution seems to require that as many people as possible treated as a truth seeking -- treat it as a truth seeking enterprise. If you give pre-pardons, like they are talking about now, you -- Liz Cheney did nothing illegal. She will have her day in court if such a thing happens and I think she will be vindicated. Geoff: The thinking among some of the white house is that just the idea of a trump administration launching an investigation, whether or not it leads to a prosecution, is reputational he damaging and costly, so you pre-pardon these people to get around it. &gt;&gt; I understand the motivation behind the administration and president looking into this, thinking about it, even putting it out there that they are talking about it, which to me it feels like a trial balloon. I would not be surprised if it doesn't happen. Maybe they offer it and give the option to people and you don't have to take it but it's there if you want it. For some people, weighing the choice between having to sort of admit to something you didn't do or bankrupting your family, that's a hard place to be, and having that option might be something people want, but if the president does not do it, great. If the president does, not too thrilled about it. It doesn't make too much sense to me. I'm not a lawyer. But I understand the motivation. Geoff: It would be a novel use of presidential power. Let's talk about Pete Hecht -- Pete hegseth. He is looking to shore up faulty support from senators that he was accused of sexual assault, drank to excess, etc. Here's what jd Vance said earlier today. &gt;&gt; Importantly, hegseth will get his appearance before the armed services committee, not a sham hearing before the American media. We believe that Pete hegseth is the right guy to lead the department of defense. That's why president trump nominated him. We're not abandoning this nomination. &gt;&gt; What does this nomination and the defense of hegseth tell you about how Donald Trump is thinking about his second term? &gt;&gt; First, it seemed like hegseth , all the stories came out and trump was waffling. They floated the idea of Ron Desantis getting the pick. But then hegseth did the smart thing and attacked the media. He had these meetings on capitol hill surrounded by reporters and launched an attack. &gt;&gt; Even though he was a Fox News personality. &gt;&gt; That's questionable. He was in the media. So Donald Trump said he's bashing the media, I like it, so he successfully rallied the ministry should, but as jd Vance just said, this will not be decided by those of us in the media but by the confirmation hearing and FBI report and if he does poorly in the hearing and he becomes unpopular, he's in a vulnerable spot. It is tragic because the Pentagon is in desperate need of reform and you only reform an institution when you know something about it and hegseth does not have that knowledge. &gt;&gt; The key thing about the FBI vetting, it's one thing -- sham trial by the media, you go before the confirmation hearing. Bashing the media is great but once you start filling out that FBI vetting form and having interviews with the FBI, one thing that people don't realize is lying to the FBI is a felony and so hegseth is being pushed into this corner where we will see if he gets out but he should not be secretary of defense by a longshot. Geoff: We saw Elon Musk and vivek Ramaswamy on the hill. They are leading this effort to cut spending and reshape the way the federal government works and I saw a quote from Louisiana senator John Kennedy, known for his sense of humor, and he said this about this effort to cut government spending. He said &quot;My experience has been trying to convince people to cut government spending is like going to heaven. Everybody is ready to go to heaven. No one wants to make the trip.&quot; It's a great line. Do you think they will have any success at this? &gt;&gt; They could have some small successes but they are talking about cutting $2 trillion and that's literally impossible uness you go after social security and medicare. When you actually want to trim government spending, sometimes you have to spend more money in order to do that. Most of the government is a checkwriting machine. But if you are going to supervise the contracts, you need more people working for the general accounting office and other places that will make sure the money is well spent, so you have to hire more people. It does not work the way Ramaswamy is talking about it works. It does not work the way Elon Musk is talking about it. Nonetheless, there is so much room for reform in the way the government is working that they could have some small and significant successes. Geoff: What is your prediction? &gt;&gt; It's never going to happen. Good luck to them getting congress to agree to cut something in the district. Geoff: Jonathan Capehart and David brooks, thank you so much. &gt;&gt; Thanks.