Oh hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut. And this, this is Falcon Heavy. Let's get started! YES! Launch director on countdown one, this is Falcon Heavy is configured for flight. T minus 15 standby for terminal count. 10, 9, 8, side booster ignition, 6, 5, 4, Ignition. Lift off of the Falcon Heavy. It's so bright, I can't even look at it guys! It looks like the sun. Oh my gosh, it made, it cleared the pad by It is going! Oh my gosh, yes! YES! Oh my god. Oh you can feel it like crazy! Oh my god! Yes! YES! Side boosters deploy. Oh there it is! Oh my god! We're so close! Right there! You've got to be kidding me! Yeah baby! Come on, stick the landing! DUDE! You've gotta be kidding me! What is this crap? What! Stick it! Stick two landings. Look out for the cracks! You, WOW! Double sonic booms baby! They both landed! Where's the sonic booms? Oh yeah! Yes! YES! YES! That was so beautiful! Falcon Heavy. That was falcon amazing. Well, I survived the 21 hour drive to Florida the launch pad, ran 5 video cameras and pulled all on my own... I'm exhausted and boy do I have some serious *crying* But we have many questions to answer about We learned so much after the successful launch Instead of me trying to answer EVERYTHING focus on one big question first. WHY. Why the Falcon Heavy? Why does it matter? Why launch it now when it will soon be replaced And of course, the number one why, why did In some upcoming videos, we'll answer things the deal with fairing recovery, what's so that Tesla melt in space... Each one of these topics will be their own So put those patience pants on because I have And before we get started, if you need to it's awesome and how it works, check out the Falcon Heavy to fly" That'll be a So now, we need to talk about WHY. You might have your friends or family ask My personal answer tends to be a little philosophical actual nuts and bolts of why... so let's Falcon Heavy takes SpaceX's goal of making Although the Falcon Heavy is three times more away the exact same amount of rocket, the But due to the larger nature of the Falcon away is much much less. We talk about this often here on my show, making spaceflight cheaper. SpaceX has already made waves by being able but now the Falcon Heavy they'll be able And again, you might hear this over and travel to be more like air travel. Imagine a world where jetliners have to be That's absurd right? Now imagine a world where 35% of the jetliner Now with Falcon Heavy, we're now biting at the the cost down that much more. Put another way, due to the extra performance into orbit and recover 90% of the rocket, would require the entire rocket to be thrown Of course the real goal is truly making rockets goes according to SpaceX's plans, they hope the BFR, can acheive this. Falcon Heavy is just another step in the right rockets more reusable. It's also a massively capable rocket, which contracts and deliver large payloads for paying customers. So why bother with the Falcon Heavy when the is on its way? This is a valid question and apparently even 3 times. Falcon Heavy will probably end up being a for customers until SpaceX gets the BFR flying. BFR is slated to start flying in 3 or 4 years, 5 years or so... but that's just my guess. So NEXT...why did SpaceX put a Tesla in space. Why on earth (or off earth) did they waste Why not do something of scientific significance. Believe it or not, this one is actually pretty The first flight of the Falcon Heavy was a demo It was purely a test of the vehicle to see Being that it was a demo mission with only very good idea to put anything of any importance Elon Musk didn't even see it going nearly You can tell he was genuinely surprised by his expectations in the post launch press You know, I had this image of a just a giant down the road. Like a Tesla logo landing somewhere with a With the inaugural flight of any rocket, companies This is usually a hunk of steel, water, or Super exciting... Occasionally, you might hear the word boilerplate a spacecraft, specifically spacecraft that Some examples are boilerplate units for Mercury, Dragon Capsule which first flew on the first So I guess that really answers the question Did you know that the first Falcon 9 mission No? Why's that? Oh, that's right, because it's kind of and neither did I. So to me, the Tesla is the perfect middle It's not just a boring hunk of steel, it put anything of any real importance or value compromise and an even better PR move. By doing something outlandish, audacious and And not just YOUR attention, but SpaceX managed This is important. For the first time in years, millions of people SpaceX had 2.3 million people watching the That's the second most people tuning in in after another space-ish related event, More important than grabbing your attention, Us humans relate well to things that we interact We gravitate towards the familiar. So when we look at a spacecraft, as cool and relatable as say a car. It's too foreign. Too rare. Too hard to grasp. So what happens in our minds when something into space on top of the world's most powerful in the background? BWAHHHHHHHH When the live feeds of Starman started coming There it was. A Tesla. In space. With a mannequin wearing SpaceX's awesome seat, arm casually resting on the door and So why? Why did a billionaire shoot his car into space? We have so many problems down here on Earth, And here's where we need to get a little Space is the one thing that unites us humans It's the one border we share. Once you get out to space you realize there all of our petty politics and wars suddenly Space exploration is us uniting as one species It unites enemies like it did during the cold our imagination and quite literally opens So yes. Maybe sending a car up to space is silly and But in the grand scheme of things, it might the history books. This may not have been a Wright Brothers flying This may not have been a Chuck Yeagar breaking This definitely wasn't an Apollo 11 moment. BUT. Perhaps for the first time in the 21st century, a spaceflight event. For now, this is my generation's version TV watching the Apollo 8 astronauts orbit On December 24th, 1968, while orbiting the Earth rising over the lunar horizon. This famous photograph, called Earthrise, in all of human history. And perhaps my favorite thing about this picture in this photograph besides just three. Frank Borman, Jim Lovell and Bill Anders the And although a mannequin in the driver's as humans orbiting the moon, I can't help of the most inspiring images of the 21st century. Or maybe I just think that because I totalllllly I think it should be a bunch of Teslas that end up going into orbit, that orbit either live feeds of Teslas in space and you can Ok, maybe not that teslas in space .com thing... So what do you think? What were your thoughts on the very first Did you crap your pants when you saw the two I totally didn't... What were your thoughts on seeing a Tesla Let me know that in the comments below. Remember, I'll be doing a lot more in depth about Rocket Lab, NASA and lots of other fun so you don't miss a thing! I owe a special thanks to Das Valdez of Kerbal me his absolutely incredible video of the You can hear him and fellow twitch streamer 4 miles or 6kms away from the twin booster Be sure and check them out and find them online. I've got their links in the description. I owe an even bigger thanks to my Patreon to Florida possible. I owe an extra super special thanks to those out in person! It was a ton of fun meeting you all and I hope You guys are seriously awesome. If you want to help contribute, help script channel or offer ideas in our exclusive subreddit, Thank you! Don't forget to check out my web store for including Falcon Heavy, original artwork and And as always, all the music in my videos The song in this video is called "Spaceships download it for free at soundcloud.com/everydayastronaut Thanks everybody that does it for me. I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut. Bringing space down to Earth for everyday