Hello everyone. Thank you everyone for watching the video and leaving comments. Wishing everyone good health and peace. Maybe I just have to shake hands and get to work.. Oh Diep. Why don't you come back with me? I miss you so much, Diep. Shopkeeper... what's wrong with you? Do you see my Diep here? If you drink all day, she won't come home anymore. Why do you say that to me!! You've been drunk all day, please pay me later. I'll pay it off, I'll have enough money... Diep. Why don't you come back with me? You don't come back, I'm very sad and don't want to do anything. Now I have alcohol to be my friend.. I promise I will stop drinking after you come home! Please come home with me... Ms. Diep got up so early today? Hello. !! What are you planning to do in that empty land.. am I planning on growing some vegetables here!! You should rest a bit, I bought some food for you , rest first and then continue working.. thank you... why did you come here!! I have a job at the farm recently but I still have a lot of time so I came here to visit you.. how long have you been working? I've been working for a while now.. you sit here waiting for me. Let me go. Pick a grapefruit from the farm. I'll let you enjoy it. okay... I need to choose ripe and juicy fruit.. here it is!! The grapefruit is one of the grapefruit varieties I have grown for the longest time.. about 10 years.. let me process them and then we will eat it.. what is the name of this grapefruit? This is sugar grapefruit. I learned how to prepare grapefruit from my mother the other day. I don't know if I'm as proficient as my mother.. let me ask you something. You just ask.. Why did he return to Vietnam and not stay abroad? I see that everything is good in the environment abroad. Well, maybe it's because of my personality and my desire to live in an environment close to nature. As far as I know, you are the president of Ci company, right? What jobs are there? Before I went abroad to study, my parents built a large company in Vietnam. specializes in agricultural products .. like ginger, corn, potatoes, cassava, grapefruit .. etc .. etc. Yes and there is another wood company. And besides that, my parents also have a small wood company. In the construction field, when I graduated from the university, my parents gave those companies to me. Yes, his parents are still abroad, my parents are still abroad and I don't understand. in How could it be that she was clearly a biological uncle and nephew, but her uncle had the heart to sell her for 2 buffaloes to Mr. Pao's family. In the past, my family was very poor, my parents died early... because of worrying about tuition for my brothers, so You sold me away with two buffaloes and since then I have not returned to my uncle's family once. You are so pitiful!! Unlike me, I was born with perfect parents. My parents took care of me very well so that I could study in the best and most expensive schools. Most of the time I only interacted with housekeepers. Your situation is similar to mine. I'm done lacking my parents' affection . Please eat, you look beautiful!! This is the way to eat grapefruit that I learned from my mother. It's very delicious!!! I find it very sweet, just the right taste. I ate here in the past, they are very sweet. In addition, there is a bit of a slightly sour taste. However, this sourness is not too strong, it is just a little bit to drive the car. How does your tongue taste? This is the first time I've eaten delicious grapefruit like this!! I don't have this grapefruit anywhere!! If you just pick this grapefruit naturally, it must be very expensive, right? We export this type of grapefruit for about 80,000 VND per fruit. However, there must be each type. Type A is big fruit, type B is small fruit, and type C is bad fruit that must be divided into parts. However, it is only expensive in Vietnam but compared to foreign countries, it is cheap compared to dollars. It only fluctuates around $4 to $5 per fruit. Maybe I'll have to go back here. I have an appointment with the workers at around 8 o'clock, at the grapefruit farm!! So go away!!! Please give me your shirt back!!! Please continue your work, I'm leaving!! I Hello!!! Hello!!! nh e [music] [music] K [music] [music] [music] have you done that much? Why did you come back here? I forgot my appointment is tomorrow!! You rest a little while I help you, there's no need for that!!! I haven't moved in a long time!! I need to get excited. Just go up and rest. Can you do that? I can do it. Go ahead and rest... This is the same as this one, right? Yes that's right!! Can you do it? Just trust me!!! love it!! Please be careful! This place is a bit rocky. What vegetables are you planning to grow here? I and my sister rang vegetable seeds. Some vegetable varieties grow fast. The soil here is a bit hard, but I can still do it. Can you see if I can dig like this? Are you up to your standards? I don't have to make the soil soft, right? Yes, I see you're a bit tired, right? you just believe in me [music] K [music] you don't [music] tell me it's not as simple as I think [music] you guys doing business will have a headache and we as farmers will pain in your hands and feet [music] don't you feel tired from doing it? I feel normal!! I have a phone Hello !! Hello!! Where is the boss? I'm a bit busy, what's going on boss, today I'm scheduled to visit workers but I thought it was tomorrow!!! ok, wait for me a moment!!! Miss, I remembered wrongly!! Today I have to visit workers... hello!! Hello !!! I'll come visit you later tonight!!! Goodbye Oh , my Diep is here!! Diep, Diep Anh has found you guys!!! Hey, who is this guy? I don't know this guy!! Fuck this alcoholic, go away!!! Those drunk guys fight all day long!!! Diep.. why did you go with him!!! I miss you so much oh my god!!! baby, it's you!!! Why does it have to come to this level!! Are you taking your child home and drinking all day like that? Is it true that your wife left? go home go home!! cut out the alcohol!!! Go back, my son, and see if you're still a human being? I've been drunk all day, I have to go find Diep and bring you home!! Mom will find a way to find Diep.. you won't drink anymore!! Okay, another mother has a way to go home, she's been drinking all day... go home, be careful of falling!!! Mom, don't you go find Diep to help me? Okay, another mother will come back!!! Go home without Diep, I don't want to live. huhuhu no need to cry anymore, I'll go look for you all day, get drunk and cry, go Go home, I'll go find Diep, you're so tired of living... miss Diep so much [music] huhu, mom, go find a wife for you. .. I promise, I promise!!! Another mother will find a job for you. Go home. You're still thinking about doing business when you go home. How can you be drunk like this all day?!! Hey Diep!! Without you I don't know how to live.. okay.!! I promise, I will find Diep and bring her home. Any !! Sit down here, child. Is there any way to find Diep for me now? Okay ...!! Mom will find Mr. Kien, the person who sold Diep to our family.. now mom will go to the place to force them to find Diep and return it to our family!!! My son, rest assured... will you find Diep? Mom will find a way, ask Uncle Kien to find Diep back.. in the past, our family sold two buffaloes to marry Diep. If they can't find it, they have to pay two buffaloes back to our family... But I believe Uncle Kien will find Diep!! Don't worry.. will Diep be found for you? I advise you not to be sad anymore... they will find Diep soon!! Don't be sad, Mr. Kien will definitely find Diep back.. will you be sure to find him? I hope Diep will come back to me..!! I believe Mr. Kien will find Diep soon, or should I go see him now, Mom?!! Stop .!! I'm so drunk, how can I go looking for him? We'll go look for him tomorrow!! Let's go inside the house... but I want to find Diep. Go inside, my son, we'll look for him tomorrow!! Hello...hi Boss!! Can everyone carry that much? Yes, we were able to carry about 40 bags of water down to the big car..!! I brought some water for everyone to drink.. thank you boss. You are so thoughtful!! Is this type A grapefruit or type B grapefruit? All here are type A.. How many tons of grapefruit can this grapefruit field produce? it falls on 20 tons of grapefruit being picked..!! Everyone is working so hard!! It's okay boss, it's all our job. Everyone please try.!! Thank you boss.. up there people are carrying grapefruit down the street to collect them on the main road for the car.!! Please try to enjoy this type of grapefruit and see how it goes.. okay. I also want to see the quality of this grapefruit.!! What is the price of grapefruit we buy from the people? about 8,000 - 9,000 VND/ 1 fruit depending on type A _B_C boss.!! This is my employee, right? dak that's right..!! Just peel the fruit..let me help him..!! ay da, it's quite heavy!! Thank you !! Park your car, I'll help you carry it out of the car!! Ok !! What time have you been working? We go to work at 7:00 a.m. Boss, try it, I'll do the rest. How do you like grapefruit this year? Very delicious, still retains their sweetness!! really delicious!! Please drink this water!! Maybe I'll go up there and help everyone a little.. so bring them some water, boss.. let's go!! grapefruit, do you want some water? Yes, I'm thirsty too!! Drink your water!... leave it there, we'll drink it later!! Oh no, it didn't fall!! Oh !! Is it full ..? That's right, I'm full of burdens sis.. it's really been too hard!! You tie that side. I'll keep this side!! Thank you boss.. the grapefruit is so beautiful... this grapefruit is really beautiful, there are a lot of fruits in one bunch!! You drive up here, I'll help you carry them into the car.. please be careful! yes boss... in the evening at my new house Diep!! Welcoming the cold of early winter in Vietnam, the weather in the evening is very cold!! Oh !! Ms. Diep calm down, it's James.. what are you doing here? I went to the market and saw you selling delicious pork. I bought some for you..! You haven't had dinner yet, right? That's right, because I'm not used to the place I don't dare go out at night..! So go in and sit down.. I'll prepare food for you. I'll cut up the meat and bring it to grill the pork.. wait for me a minute!! Please spare me a moment! Okay... put the firewood aside, let's grill the meat with charcoal... luckily you already had a fire going!! Wait for me, I need to put the meat in here before I can grill it!! Oh !! Is this grilled with charcoal? That's right, can you help me put the coals on one side and the burning wood on the other side? Yes, do you need me to help? No need.!! .... you just sit and rest .. have you ever eaten grilled meat? I haven't... What kind of meat is this? This is pork.. I passed by and thought it was delicious so I bought it for you!! Wow !! It seems a bit much.. Well, it's not much, because it will shrink when baked.. I've finished preparing the baking space!! Leave it there for a while and it will cook!! What are you going to do today? Well, after I finished digging in the Garden, I went to get some cassava from the old house to sell.. everything was fine except the man was also very nice, helped me buy cassava but they left me too much money and they didn't take it. change ..I don't know how to pay people back!! No, why are there so many good people in this world!! Actually, I should prepare some rice and food for you so you can eat more fully!! I work so I can buy it myself.. currently there are so many things missing!! Luckily you stopped in time, otherwise I would have had to wear another pair of glasses!! It's because I'm just defending myself, I'm afraid of a stranger coming . Yes. Actually, it's because of me. Actually, if I come, I should talk to you first.. So how is your work today? Today everything went smoothly.. I had a trip to visit the grapefruit harvesters.. I found it really difficult. However, in return, the space is very beautiful. there are a lot of mountains, Yes... More and more I see that my choice to return to Vietnam was the right one.. are you affected by the smoke? ah!! Brother, please get me some firewood behind you.. Can you put it there for me?. Here, Binh Nhan, right? Are you afraid of ghosts here alone? .... probably not... because of you!! I wasn't scared until you told me I was even more scared...!! ah!! I'm sorry... but actually, don't worry, it's nothing scary! It's almost there!! How much money did you earn today? ah!! I sold it for 130,000 VND, maybe I'll have enough money to buy a new set of clothes.. is that so!! So I'll take you to the market someday. ah.. I heard that there is a market every week, right? That's right, every Sunday there will be one time.. I've never been able to go before.. so I just heard people say that.. I forgot there were a few more items.. why did you buy so many items? ? I was afraid you were hungry so I prepared a little more.. you keep this for me.. I bought more but I was in too much of a hurry.. Maybe because you threatened me I forgot.. I'm afraid of losing it . It's too much, I can't eat it all.. it's okay, I'll eat with you!! Hope it doesn't fall out.. you're also a professional at doing this! The smell is quite fragrant, isn't it? In the past, I lived alone a lot, so I also taught myself how to cook. Because my parents are very busy, I only get to see them about once or twice a week. Most of the time I stay with a housekeeper, but usually the housekeeper can't cook the dishes I like.. so I will prepare my own food to my liking.. Back in Vietnam, I can't currently hire one. Housekeeper Yes, my mother also wants me to hire a housekeeper to clean the house. But right now I still want to live alone. Or if there's someone to live with, that's fine. I see why you're wearing these glasses? I think people normally only wear it when exposed to the sun, right? Well, I'm nearsighted.. what's wrong with being nearsighted? For example, you see it like this, right.. Yes, but when I see it, it looks like this.. do you mean add a number? ah!! Don't tell me how to make you understand.. Would you try? So let me see if I can borrow it... here... Oh!! Looks beautiful.. Wear it!! Yes, put it on. Oh!! I feel like I can't see anything.. you gave it to me, do you understand what Close means? I do not know ..! This is like a magic glass, it will make me see very clearly..but it will make you see blurry.!! ah... It's like people who aren't nearsighted can't see when they put it on.? That's right. And when I put it on, I can see it very clearly.. It looks like it's almost done.. you can check this side to see if it's almost okay.. flip it a few more times and it'll be fine... It looks like it's done. It's cooked... are you hungry? It looks really delicious.. now we will eat in a little rustic style, will we eat in the kitchen and eat here too..? Here, come with me so we can wash our hands. Now let me wash first. Drop it down right.. then put your hand here.. that should be fine. put it here.. help me hold this!! The scissors seem a bit rough.. Okay, let's just eat here first and leave this one here for a while until it's hot.. thank you!! Go pick up the food... Yes, it's really fragrant.. By the way, we can wash our hands and then put our hands together... wow, is this meat marinated with spices? Yes, I prepared it in advance..!! It looks so delicious, it's the first time I've eaten delicious food like this.. please eat it yeah... yeah!! admit If you eat them alone, it won't be as delicious as this.. eat it... hey, drink some water, ah. I prepared some just now to soak up the food.. it's really delicious... you eat a lot. Come in.. here but I forbid you from crying.. don't choke anymore today! Why do you say that..? then because I remember that every time you were helped you used to cry.. now I won't cry anymore.. don't be sad, always be happy.. by the way... How do you like today's meal ? .? Thank you..the meal was very delicious. Please try to come to terms with what you 've been through and then just let it go. I want to see you love yourself more.. and spend more time for yourself!! I can't guarantee it, but I promise you that from now on I will protect you no matter what happens.. but why do you treat me so well? Or do you have any intentions towards me?? oh no...!! Yes... because I saw you were weak, so I wanted to protect you.. it's late, go home... yes, I'm going home.. there's your phone!! Wish you good night! you too... I have to go to sleep, good night and sweet dreams... goodbye everyone, see you in the next video...