William Davis William: Well, you glad to be here. wheat belly about a decade ago. And in that runaway bestseller and had a transformative you before the show. You're largely responsible, movement. so with all that said, I'm curious since, belly came out, what's the biggest change findings and writing this new fantastic book, got around. consequences. What I think is so also fascinating, heart problems. So what have you seen? What past decade? they really have made the headlines, ironically, grains as a detriment to human health came that some of the early observations were in that paranoid schizophrenia. schizophrenia, which is a very disabling disease. you remove a gluten people say, but we ingrains have a marked reduction in paranoia. You know, plotting to kill them. is a reduction in auditory, hallucinations, engagement, in dealing with. And if you add come back. If you remove it, it goes way. off again on again, off again, which is a as well. I was surprised to see several psychiatric. the medical system is kind of hell bent on If it comes to just natural means of restoring nutrients that are lacking, or the microbiome, those kinds of things. is you pay attention to the things. Generate And you don't pay much attention to things and the microbiome yet. It's my view. Doctors First of all, they should be experts in nutrition. should be experts in microbiome and resort absolutely necessary. Of course, that is not mostly towards the mainstream MD is not the who are doing a lot of. what's your take on grains in 2022? You know, book on this, but I just want to be clear worse than others. There are some that are absolutely try to avoid at all costs versus, Every once in a while and then the last bucket, How do you think about those three buckets? William: You know, people often don't think seeds of grasses. They don't think of them genetics for instance, right. Which is almost a weed originally in wild wheat fields, but we, it looks different. is quite different. It's quite similar genetically. all the varieties of seeds of grasses, but of model. What's called high yield, semi dwarf created through thousands of experiments back city. Mexican government, the Rockefeller foundation, trying to help feed the world by generating wheat, they did succeed, but it looks very is very thick. very long and the yield went up four to eight it was a great success. Would they didn't consumption. Well, I would argue no wheat even going back 10,000, 8,000 years, when a major disruption of health. in tooth decay. There was a doubling of knee and that's due to the phytates that buying we had their problems, but they were dramatically fleet for a whole long list of reasons. more, a more potent appetite stimulant. It They modern wheat is enriched in wheat. Germ it pest resistant. The greater the wheat germ able it is to resist insects and molds. selected wheat to have greater wheat germ bow tie. Likewise phytates are also pest resistant. but phytates bind all minerals in your gut, And you put them out. So while we're told B vitamins and fiber and you'll become the develop in people who consume grains in their high yield, semi dwarf. Followed by other are very close because of the shared genetics. of corn looks a lot like the gliadin protein for instance, auto-immune diseases. As you in protein sorghum and then always the most But rice is nowhere in that continuum. Jason, problems. So even rice at the most benign So it has all the implications of consuming. of arsenic. So it has very large quantities in forms like rice milk. there is emerging evidence to suggest there's Jason: So, let me ask you this. How about, I love personally getting my wild slice salmon New York city. We'll walk over there, I'll on a piece of bread. So if I have to take on a piece of bread and I can get any bread, should I put that amazing delicious wild temp. to what looks and tastes like bread. But we consequences, like. Gastrointestinal disruption LDL particles that causes coronary disease, them out. almond flour is a favorite ground, golden of others and we can re it'll be a little bread or a focaccia bread. We do struggle no gluten to generate rise. are puffed up. They tend to be flatter, but Jason: What about sourdough? So many, you and breads, we also think of blood sugar impact people in our world will say, if you're going be sourdough. What's your take on, sorry. of grades. That is so the process of fermentation some of the toxic components. It reduces a the content of amylopectin a hello. Pectineus blood sugar. Higher than table sugar. but they're not eliminated. The gliadin protein when you bake something or some people will organisms. Cause it's a fermented product, all the white roads. somewhat of an, okay. I'll take that as a you, one of the things is your cardiologist. You talk about TMAO, which is a marker. We you say how we're thinking about that is, At least traditional medical system. Can you health and how you kind of got interested your purse? You're your cardiologist. putting in stents and doing atherectomies But then my mom, who was living in New Jersey, her successful two vessel Kerner, angioplasty. Cleveland, and Milwaukee, and it drove, it it was to try to manage this very dangerous don't make it to the cath lab. die shoveling snow or something like. So I those kinds of bad heart events. Two years, real risk. Well, back then, this remains true that is to score the calcium in your arteries. plaque volume. So I set up the first CT back or the first Midwest. And we started scanning Jason, there's when you look for silent, early And so I have all these people freaking out any score higher 300, 500 a thousand means death or needing a procedure. Well, back then, come in and they'd have a score say of 300. I would say, we'll take aspirin, a statin the fat and saturated fat in your diet and If you do nothing, the score goes up on average a heart attack, et cetera. drug, like Lipitor and aspirin, low fat diet up 25% per year. There's no impact on this experts said things like, well, if we can't have their symptoms or heart attack and deal I thought that sucked. I thought that was to at least impact slow that 25, 20 5% per would do. There's a very rapid rate of growth. trial and error, but it led me to his blessings You add vitamin D and it was the first time. 480. So my dramatic decrease, you can actually But one of the tests I was running back then is an absurd, outdated. And that there are the blood that lead to heart disease. resonance, or NMR lightbulb proteins. And whether it's a high calcium score or they death or any of those things, you'll see that That's a ridiculous notion. In fact, they do have without almost without exception, coupled with insulin resistance and inflammation. particles, this science came out of UC Berkeley people's science. were grains and sugars. So I had my patients, know, your small LDL on your Lego protein like that. Particle count per volume. Let's They come back. And the small LDL would be words, it wasn't just a improvement. It was people would say to me, you didn't tell me Cause my blood sugar dropped so much. I no You didn't tell me I would drop 57 pounds You didn't tell me that my also colitis or have to stop the prednisone and the anti-inflammatory Jason, just for small LDL particles in people And I stumbled into this thing, but it took think about it, I tell people to remove the guidelines, all dieticians, all tell people it out and we see like, Health and weight So, you know, it took me a good year. I was I was expecting, oh, of course I'm wrong. fact, the deeper I dug, the more I did that. thing. And as you've seen I think the reason because of my charisma and good books. Jason: Here you on processed carbohydrates do you think about the role of meat and what in cardiovascular disease? could do whatever we want. Jason. And I would something. And we would add the side of the eat the intestines raw, maybe eat a slab of back to the clan and roast it over a fire. humans have gotten so squeamish that we no or liver. And we even do really stupid things And not take all the nutrients out of the acid in the skin. of almost comical way of eating. So meat has has nothing to do with colon cancer. So that studies. I say, Jason, what did you eat last eggs and I had maybe some sausage, but then And then we take those questionnaires and how's your health. You report your health. that's garbage science. That is the bulk of For instance, the physician's health study, things like, did you drink milk today? And disease. Five years later, 10 years later, to generate and hypothesis. Unfortunately, health and human services, regard that as garbage science that can only become an iPod Jason: So it sounds like what you're getting meat, eat your grass, fed your pasture, raised processed Meets your highlight, you know, or bacon, that's highly processed, like is If we're going to enjoy meat, sure that. And eat the fat. Don't trim it make soups, doozer bras out of it. Now with categories and they're very different. Unfortunately, with sodium nitrite. misunderstood issue. The issue is not the money and be healthy. If you took it directly, put sort of nitrate in your bacon and the the amine groups and the proteins. The nitros of means that are likely carcinogens. they're very carcinogen. In epidemiologic with cancer, but that's very weak, but to going to line up a whole bunch of people and have you eat bacon and either be high in nitrates We're going to watch and see you as more colon So we're left with the uncertainty, but it's from salami. So Precita and fermented meats. to ferment out in the open or are inoculate So to come in microbes would be pediococcus So it's raw meat, but for me, And they're don't have carcinogenic properties. And in Those two species are very beneficial, but meats with the cured meats are depriving themselves Jason: Interesting. So let me ask you this is your food pyramid look like? we live in a world where a lot of things have Jason: Every everything, everything. don't know, 7 billion people on this planet not eat grains, not really a feasible solution who can afford to, I think should have zero the centerpiece should be consumption animal Fish or shellfish or poultry or wild game And a squeamish world, Spanish, modern world acceptable at some people, at least most don't at least some of that save the bones, make vegetables legumes. We, one of the things to is the intake of nutrients that feed the polysaccharides, and other things that microbes them, weird stuff happens. in an extreme. Ketogenic or carnivorous diets including legumes like white beans, black root vegetables, asparagus dandelion greens, kinds of things, something strange happens your starting. die off, but there are some species, especially it's deprived of fiber has an added capacity the GI tract that protects you from microbes deprive Akkermansia of five, It turns to human It's full name is Akkermansia usin, a filler your intestinal wall and it causes colitis door to allow bacterial breakdown products, over rapidly in the GI tract, the breakdown That's called endotoxemia. And, but that explains their mucus barrier species in their GI tract, microbiome to the skin as rosacea or psoriasis Gehrig's disease, Parkinson's disease, seizure big one or two joints and muscle as rheumatoid So in other words all modern common chronic in light of the human microbiome. But I fear strict, low carb diets by not paying attention pay a longterm health price because when you goes up. goes up despite all the upfront benefits, you start seeing a rise in blood sugar rise fatty liver. You start to have intestinal degenerative disorders, autoimmune disorders disease, and even colon cancer. you know, we're huge believers in the microbiome I know you believe this and. You spend time, about SIBO and you believe the CBOE is more epidemics. spans all societal levels, regardless of geographies. can you unpack that? That's a pretty big, William: Sure. You know, Jason, I was guilty intestinal bacterial over the freedom listeners Microbes in the colon have proliferated. For You're eating glyphosate in your food, herbicides, microbes, unhealthy microbes have political. up into the ileum jejunum, do Edina and stunning. And once again, they turn over really fast hours when they die. A lot of their breakdown So that's what CBO is. Well, unusual thing, hardly anybody has it. yeah. microbes and our colon, but I didn't think process was much of a big deal until this the air device a I R E. gas, the newest model measures, hydrogen and on your smartphone. You might have hide your Dr. Angus. From Dublin Ireland, he invented wife, because she had irritable bowel syndrome centrally a low fiber, low sugar diet. and had inadvertent exposures and would have So, invents his device. He thought it was Well, I got ahold of it in 2019. I called this is? for that. It's a device that maps out where out why you have a food intolerance. So whether fruit or nuts, so people will say, I can't tomatoes, I'm okay. tomato. The problem was the CBO that caused CBO. And more than nine times out of 10, you so now the device, unfortunately, his current it's kind of a news to this engineer. a game changer for intestinal health. But which shocked me, Jason was. The number of thousands of people. It's the exceptional Now you can say, well, maybe the device is what happens. Here's how this plays out in way to do this. They test, they have real a 10. They do something to eradicate. And later, they're negative now. rosacea goes away, their psoriasis goes away. intolerant to. In other words, it's not just health phenomenon. People find the lose, the drop fatty liver receipts. buy one of these devices to do that. There and over and over, by the way, you can share is a game changer for intestinal. for our listeners that they might have? good telltale sign. And if they occur within if I eat beans, I know I'm gonna have diarrhea. effects, anger, panic attacks, anxiety, and minutes, it's diagnostic for CBO. it's too fast to have reached the colon. It common sign would be fat Malibu. That is you the toilet, or you see staining of the porcelain don't respond well. for years, and the doctor keeps writing these respond. They want to put me on a biologic. the only side effect is liver failure. So so frequently associated with CBO that if you've got CBO, fibromyalgia. About if we data from Cedar Sinai, UCLA, a hundred percent CBO and they haven't to a severe degree, the bowel. Had CBO people with neurodegenerative If you're obese at type two diabetic had metabolic likelihood. You know, there's 150 million them have? evidence. So if 150 million Americans have the way that I hear my colleagues say things You have fatty liver. What can I do by duck? pharmaceutical or procedure for it, even though in the. But those people don't go on to have It is a horrible condition. Your belly swells from jaundice and you get varicose veins in red. blood at me in the emergency room because a terrible condition. So to say to somebody watch you as you go through cirrhosis and list. liver transplant. It was an absolutely horrible new life. It's an awful life. So tell somebody fatty liver is incredibly easy to turn around drugs or procedures. 150 million. So 50% of the population, or whom have been tested not the entire 150 million, alone is what, 75 million people, something, Just with that one condition who has. liver leads to cirrhosis potentially. Is that is leading to fatty liver? Or is it something? of alcoholism. Is it alcohol? That's driving William: Alcohol can drive it, but you can So there are a number of things that contribute liver is a consumption of grains and sugars. a carbohydrate of grains and sugars. Whether is very good at converting sugars to triglyceride. Bo Genesis making fats. So liver takes those of those triglycerides gain entry into the liver also has high triglycerides and, but That's what clogs up the liver. Now, if you millions of people in this country, insulin makes it much worse. And then lastly, when the small bowel has a fragile, single layer durable, strong dual layer nuclease barrier. more easily, their breakdown products, endotoxemia the gastrointestinal tract is drained by something that drains straight to the liver before it So GI tract, small bowel endotoxemia drain Your poor liver takes a beating eight fold, compared to the general circulation. So consumption very common. And then endotoxemia and the Add those three up your poor livers been taken develop cirrhosis. In fact, it's becoming still say, sorry, there's nothing we can do. they practice willful ignorance on nutrition, Jason: Wow. That's fascinating. I never thought consumption. You know, CBO, the numbers are alarming is, oh, great. There's CBOs, lesser CIFO S I F O I'm like, this is a new one. CFO? somebody who thinks a lot of sugars like sugary what CIFO is small intestinal, fungal overgrowth, lot of sugar in the vicinity or antibiotics fungi in check. Fungi proliferate. And these Prada. Now the CZ and others, they uplift can also ascend up into the small bowel, giving is it's not as well charted out as seatbelt, It's my view that you don't develop C fo until bacteria, microbes that keep fungi in check, of insatiable sugar cravings. That's one way steroid creams or just having eczema a lot Also, it's very difficult to distinguish CBO of threes phenomenon are more common in CFO. is ignore it or for the doctor to make fun again? Don't waste my time. There's nothing There's no such thing. The harebrained things good news here is unfortunate. There's no do a stool analysis and you could see an excess manage fungal overgrowth. If you suspect you wild mood swings, et cetera, the treatments empirically. the things we use like berberine or curcumin, lot of hair pulling over why doesn't berberine absorption. We're going to add peppery and We're going to force absorption ignoring the of curcumin, you poop out 99 milligrams. But Like C-reactive protein. We know it reduces If it never makes it to the blood stream, of the body because it's having effects via the mucus and intestinal immune barrier. So source, essential oils that we deliver. And and food source central laws are very safe, because you don't take them directly. They're They can burn, you want to dilute them heavily olive oil do that. The downside of fungal much longer than CBO takes money. Two or three of both C CBO and C4 CFO Morso has this so-called That is when you kill off microbes, they have most common effects are anxiety racing, heart fever, muscle aches. It feels like. Now there down your approach, space out your dosing, or taking some like activated charcoal, like And that works very well. So CFO, whole nother it's a real. the book I'm curious while writing, was there you and you and your jaw dropped? series of studies, Jason from MIT that started came from a cancer group. They were just looking microbes, lactobacillus, reuteri, but they I develop all kinds of unexpected effects. hair grew faster. They had more lustrous, fed bad diet, they didn't lose their hair. other, even into old age they preserve muscle do in other words, a whole range of positive So thinking about that, seeing this, these get that same. It's full name is lactobacillus you lose to? Well, that's available actually company in Sweden called bio Gaya, and it's R U S. it reduces colony. It helps them recover from positive effects, reduces regurgitation of was intended. Babies. It was a very low dose, well, how can we get more of an adult dose? it, but not yogurt in the conventional sense. four hours, fermentation, meaning doubling four. They don't have sexual reproduction every three hours. and we allowed to double over four hours, 36 hours. 12 doublings. And we perform something microbes. And we get somewhere around the serving. people eating this yogurt with super-duper observations made in mice are playing out an explosion of dermal collagen and they start weeks. a deeper sleep. So I was a chronic insomniac, reading books at 3:00 AM I sleep now straight us who use active graphic devices like apple and track REM and other phases of sleep. periods, which is restorative sleep important have more erotic dreams. This is true. You As we age comes back to with you, combine human data that it preserves bone density. to the MIT studies works, Rutter eye tells love and empathy. People say, you know, I better. They are less annoying to me. I like strangers in line for coffee at Starbucks. opinions. So we're seeing incredible physical Now there's many other microbes by the way, And we could do the same. So I tell people like going to a restaurant, you go to a restaurant out and say, there's no way I can order all you pick and choose the ones you want. Or want smoother skin, deeper sleep and increased you have a newborn, you want that child to Have half as many Bulger's having many diaper ear bowel syndrome and have a higher IQ. Let's If you want to, if you're a competitive athlete ferment. But those quadrants, the Guinean so that you recover much faster. want. Now this is once you get rid of the do this flip, if you flip flop, if you do So exciting. So interesting. Do that. First. Roy and CBO, you won't get these kinds of You may get some, but you won't get folk. for seatbelt dresser. CIFO you're feeling clients getting better FaceTime to make these of yogurt by the way, it could be coconut It could be hummus. It could be fruit, purees Jason: Fascinating. Fascinating. So. W what's I feel like we've talked about fecal transplants many of them, maybe people aren't advertising, is the future of this conversation? William: Well, you know, I don't do fecal There. There had been deaths from fecal transplant. William: Yeah. So one of the things they assume very rare commodity nowadays. So now I think there's going to be stool banks. Of people All kinds of things and for metabolic markers those people get to be chronic stool donors, we have to be careful with my colleagues because So they try and make every health condition Why do you have to do a lap band or gastric the restaurant shortened lives? Because it's The good news is the insight, the strategies becoming so incredibly powerful. of muscle increased libido, acceleration, better and better. I think we're going to industry who are cut through. Predatory exploitative of dollars that come from American's pockets. me and low that. get on TV because it's not in the interest media. And so that's why, what you're doing, messages out there, let people know. on TV. Let's talk among ourselves via podcasts, collaborate. Let's learn. And because right or NBC, the tools and the microbiome have got to tell you ain't going to be the doctor Jason: Well said William, thank you so much. William: Thank you, Jason, and keep on doing thing you're doing is very helpful.