Physics is one of the most interesting of the some of the most mind-bending ideas ever being both particles and waves. Other examples can bend and flex and change its very shape, is of a form that we've never seen before, Each of those topics could be and I was talking to myself, mulling over which Why not combine them? So that's what I did. I'm going to tell you about an actual experiment three physics ideas. The experiment is called So, let's get started. We'll start with at the atomic level, the wave nature That's true for photons and even for To begin with, you know what waves are. Waves The distance between adjacent The height of a wave is called the Two waves, when they encounter one another, with the result being an even bigger wave. Or, of one wave encountering the trough of another Waves can occur in many media. Most And if you have two water waves, either enhancing each other Of course, water waves are Light is also a wave, made of and those electric fields can interfere, either out. If you send a laser beam through The exact pattern of bright and dark spots the two waves. Basically, that just means the two arrive at their destination. The most common way distance than the other one, but the super key Now you may not know it, but other wave mathematics. Electrons certainly it was the French physicist Louis De Broglie that small particles, the size of Furthermore - and this is an important incredibly small - thousands of times This is super important, as it means that you distances due to small shifts in the alignments, So that's the gist of quantum mechanics. What about the bending of space and Let's start with gravitational waves, Literally a long time ago two black holes merged and shook the very fabric roared across the cosmos at the speed of light, Because of the distance, gravitational of mirrors by a tiny, tiny, distance, about But that's a super crucial and super changed the distance by a tiny distance and, I and scientists can use even tinier shifts of their In an earlier video, I talked about the wave that is related to probabilities. function and each wave function If you have a single atom, in a single wave function doesn't matter much because all the The phase doesn't matter. But if you have an matters, first because now the probabilities are different phases of the different states change So now we're onto something. That sounds made in heaven and a team at with an experiment called MAGIS-100. The first thing you need to do is of two different energy configurations You zap the atoms with a These two different states each have a different Because this a quantum thing, it's not that they are actually in both states at the same time. You then zap the atoms with another laser to each kind you have. The percentages depend on the This means that you measure a certain and a different number in Now, if you can separate the two states by different paths if a gravitational wave doing the measurement. This would affect the You'd need to have the atoms be in a place and that means either put the or to find a way to put the atoms in That's the big idea. How is it being implemented? Well there was a small demonstrator model built meters long. And the long-term goal is to but that's a huge increase in technology, of intermediate size, say a hundred meters long. The Matter-wave Atomic Gradiometer Interferometric Sensor, or MAGIS for short, is 100 meters long at Fermilab. The hundred meter This shaft was built as part of Basically, we used it to be able to put But now it's there and it's a perfect Three different devices will be housed one at the top, one at the bottom and one they make excellent clocks and, furthermore, That's handy, because the Earth is a giant There are a number of operating modes, but in by a laser which launches the atoms upward, after laser both kicks the atoms upward and puts them Then another laser causes the two states of It's easy to say, but it's incredibly to make a hundred-meter-long detector, thousand meter one. The detector will make allow researchers to develop the techniques So what sorts of things can Well, gravitational waves were and they could only see high Basically, that means they could only see two compact astronomical bodies - say two In contrast, the MAGIS detector - will be able to see much lower The apparatus should be able to see when two black but before they actually merge. That to point their telescopes in the right Another thing that the atom interferometry very heavy black holes merge. LIGO resulting in a single black hole with a But there are black holes at the center of times that of the sun. They didn't just appear masses of hundreds or thousands of times that these cosmic monsters. If that's happening, But before we look for gravitational waves, the Dark matter is, of course, thought to more prevalent than ordinary matter. Dark We're not 100% sure that dark matter exists but, particles. Those particles could be heavy or ones. If dark matter particles are light enough, and those waves will interact with the quantum pattern. And, if that happens, MAGIS-100 will It's going to take a few years to but I'm super excited by the prospect. The are staggering. They will use the quantum look for dark matter and then gravitational So this video was kind of mind blowing. I love subscribe and share. And, of course, Now, before you leave, I'd like to draw your called "Even Bananas," hosted by Dr. Kirsty funny, and smart. However, I still have and I think I edge her out on the basis of my keen watch list. She's a fellow physicist, which means and- it goes without saying- and I'm sure she'll