The cold war was a hotbed of innovation and planes like the SR-71 and Fairchild Republic But it also gave us some of the worst planes The cold war gave rise to several bizarre modern day UFO, Northrop's TACIT Blue stealth by a 3-year-old child, or the peculiar Thunderceptor with its booster even hit the runway. But perhaps the worst of all, was the relatively While it looked normal, it did not sound normal. The Thunderscreech was so loud that it often So loud that the power of the sound waves people over, and on one occasion caused an seizure. This incredible noise this plane created is name and to this day, holds the world record [1] Today, we are going to learn why this Sharing what the plane sounded like here is Recordings simply give us this fairly standard It's impossible to emulate over digital was caused by shock waves being thrown outwards The Thunderscreech was a unique plane, born years of the jet engine. The navy needed aircraft with short take off carrier runways to give them a competitive This required something called climb performance, good at, the propeller planes were superior. This means the propeller design allows these with much shorter runways and climb faster. However when competing with other more powerful factor. That higher maximum power allowed jet engines an interceptor aircraft speed is important. Republic designed this abomination in an attempt Great climb rate, and great top speed. The Thunderscreech was a supersonic propeller A propeller designed to spin faster and achieve propeller. Creating a propeller capable of providing not easy. The velocity of air around a propeller blade steadily from the root of the blade to the At the tip of the blade, air will be leaving than at the root of the blade. Even though the rotational velocity is the of the blade travels a much further distance and therefore, the linear velocity is much As the propeller tips approach the speed of large pressure differences result in bubbles propeller tips. The disturbed air results in an increase in and could lead to other complications like Keeping the propeller efficiency as high as is thus an important criterion in propeller The propeller efficiency can also be thought produced by the propeller to the power actually This graph shows the typical propeller efficiency to speed. [2] We can see that the propeller efficiency more unstable over the propeller. Propellers spinning at supersonic speeds, If propeller planes were to compete with jets, often in efficiency. For this reason, the supersonic propeller length. Effectively delaying the shock wave formation the tip needs to travel during a single rotation. This reduces the tip velocity, a propeller velocity, even if it is spinning at the same (tip velocity = radius x angular velocity) the efficiency issues of a supersonic propeller. The propeller of the thunderscreech was rotating runway. The next big difference between conventional angle at which the blade is placed relative are fitted with a much larger angle to the propellers, and critically the thunderscreech propeller can change it's angle of attack To understand this, let's look at a normal When it travels forward, it will provide lift If the aerofoil increases it's angle of of movement and the chord line, the lift and We can map this with the lift drag ratio, for our aerofoil, we can see that the wing penalty at an angle of attack of around 2-4 A propellor is essentially an aerofoil, but complicated, because not only is the propellor direction of movement, but it is also rotating Let's name these two separate velocities. Propeller velocity is the speed of the propeller be the forward velocity of the plane. These two velocities combine into a new vector [4] This blade path angle is not at the same blade, but critically, the blade path is the the propellor. To understand this, let's see what happens our propeller velocity. Right now, we are at the optimum angle of the propeller velocity the angle of attack efficiency, the same happens if we lower the Both move us away from the optimum angle of We can set the rotation speed, but remember along the length of the propeller, with the That means if the propellor was just one fixed would be at the optimum angle of attack. So, the propeller blade twists along its length but the forward movement of the plane also For early planes, who's top speed did not didn't matter that much. The forward movement of the plane only marginally but as speeds increased variable pitch propellers Allowing the propellers to rotate and adjust angle. This was essential for the Thunderscreech, of rotation for it's short propellers, to speeds it was expected to encounter. The blade profile of supersonic aerofoils Research into this began in World War 2, as powerful the prospect of propellers operating more and more likely. With little to no empirical data available wind tunnels and measurement technologies operate. They tested swept back tips, after data obtained difficulties and marginal improvements discredited The engineers, after much trial and error, as possible. Tapering from a thickness ratio of 5% at the [5] That is the ratio of the aerofoil depth, The propeller was also to have sharp leading When tested, these propellers were capable and over a wider range of speeds. However, even with the propellor efficiency of shock waves over the entire propeller demanded The XF-84 had an engine horsepower of a whopping a typical Supermarine Spitfire. [6] The engine installed in the Thunderscreech The engine was actually two engines connected This is called a coupled engine. If a suitably powerful engine is not available, to reach the total power needed, rather than The practice does have some other advantages. [7] were placed inside the fuselage. Typically uncoupled engines are wing mounted, is avoided when the engines are placed with Wing mounted engines also come with some control If one engine stops working our working engine the plane to yaw in the direction of the faulty With two coupled engines driving a single just at half the power. Finally, coupled engines had some fuel consumption Turbine engines typically reach their highest planes often operate well below their highest This graph plots the specific fuel consumption We can see that at 3400 horsepower the engine at half power of 1700, meaning it is operating One of the advantages of coupled engines is so if we wanted to run at half power, we could of the coupled engines at the more efficient Whereas, if we have two separate engines mounted issue, we would have to run each at the less Increasing fuel consumption and decreasing The powerful coupled engines did come with issues. The engine was mounted behind the pilot, with This wouldn't be weird for a modern day nozzle at the rear of the aircraft, but this The Thunderscreech had to somehow transfer and it did this with two drive shafts running Which is a bit terrifying considering these per minute, and caused the plane to violently This RPM had to be reduced before reaching a 6.8:1 two stage reduction gear. To bring the propeller RPM down to 2100 revolutions Much slower, but that speed still caused some When the propeller spins clockwise, it creates the actual plane body to spin anticlockwise. [8] this propeller this effect was particularly picked up speed. According to Hank Beaird, a test pilot who It became a handful...when you got it out would start surging, and the airplane would "The entire airplane, in fact, was trying left while the prop spun to the right." [9] designed to sense the speed of the propeller, At a particular speed it seems that the sheer overloaded the control system and caused it in speed and cause even more torquing motion This torque effect was present at all speeds were well aware of the problem. This affected many propeller fighters of WW2, more. Rotary engines rotated around a fixed crankshaft, propellor, which helped tremendously with the engine for these underpowered aircraft, that the Sopwith Camel had to use left rudder The torque effect is usually most prominent the plane has less power to resist the rolling Without counter action the torque could roll line. Using the ailerons to counteract roll is possible, increased drag caused by the actuated aileron of the Thunderscreech included this anti-torque On take off and landings the vane was deflected that acted around the rolling axis of the Another unique design feature of the Thunderscreech stands out because it required a modification the Thunderscreech was based on. This was done to get the stabiliser out of with it, which could reduce authority of the The plane was still a serious handful to handle. Leading to one hilarious quote from Lin Hendricks "You aren't big enough and there aren't Test pilots are a unique breed of crazy, yet 10 out of eleven flights for Hank Beaird ended The engine was so unreliable the plane flew just as a precaution. The turbine could use ram air to power it's Between this, the plane violently vibrating RPM on both sides of the pilot, the sudden the immense sound that was capable of knocking testing phase. The program was soon cancelled Weird experimental projects like this are Just trying something way outside of what That was our goal when we started our Nebula developed new animation styles that have permeated past year we have been playing around with and the blender animations you have been enjoying Our new series will deep dive into all of to logistics, that helped the British win The first episode is now nearly complete and in the new year.. Nebula gives us a place to experiment in safety, audience on YouTube or being demonetized for Your support there has helped this channel exclusive content like this as our thanks. Many of you will be happy to hear that we giving you more options on how to enjoy our The best way to support this channel is by CuriosityStream bundle deal for just 14.79 That's just over 1 dollar a month, but that because we get to own and run our own streaming create what we want, how we want. A little over 1 dollar a month. This is by far the best way to support this With access to both Nebula, and all the amazing this one called "Hack the Moon", about for the Apollo moon mission. You can sign up to this amazing deal by clicking you are looking for something else to watch why building solar energy in the Sahara failed, on why Turtles are perfectly evolved to be