Imagine, opening a restaurant with your partner, and putting your heart and soul into it. After 10 years of blood, sweat, and tears, you finally get all three Michelin stars. The hard work paid off. Then, one day, a retail startup opens, They specialize in clothing and Soon, you are getting phone and returned packages start What do you do? Today, we visit the restaurant which they built a reputation for 20 years. That name is Quince. We are back for the next where I visit California's best restaurants. 5 days, 5 restaurants. Each with 3 Michelin stars. To not miss any action, And if you've subscribed And now, let's all go to San Francisco. We arrive at the neighborhood full of old-world charm and modern sophistication. It's here we find beautifully cobblestone streets and our restaurant for today, Quince. The historic building dates with classic brick and huge windows. From the sidewalk, you have which makes the chefs inside look Once we enter, however, we see Quince did a major redesign in 2023, which highlights the connection where they get most of their organic ingredients. The tables are spaced far apart to and the earthy, warm tones of natural To create this beautiful space, the owners turned Our first bites arrive as I'm looking Catching my eye is a 2008 that I tried in our very first There, it was a deal at 540 euros. Here it is more than 8 times that price. Proving that location is everything and Here, I decide to go another way. With a wine pairing. There are two options a classic pairing for 270 euros. And the rare wine pairing for 400. The second one excites me more, so I go for that. Our first course is Tsar Nicoulai reserve It's a nice opening course with complex flavors. The first glass from the pairing from the northern part of Burgundy. It's light and refreshing thanks to It's paired with our green asparagus cooked Removing the asparagus wasn't an The texture is so good, I couldn't get enough. It's soft with some firmness to it. Along with the sauces, This was a very good dish. So far, the cooking is elegant. Time for a new sauvignon blanc. This time it's a 2010 Blanc Fumey It's dry and smoky with lovely It was a huge surprise to experience such a wine. Going with it is our next course. Spring peas lightly warmed, Guanciale is a type of Italian It gives the dish a warm umami. Another strong course. Our next wine catches me off guard. It's a muscat from the border of France This cuvee has notes of mango This is not the kind of Natural wine is made with minimal intervention It starts with the soil, and the vineyard is treated as Some natural wine producers even use the The grapes are most often harvested by hand, and the natural fermentation process It's also unfiltered and unrefined, The philosophy behind it is to create a the vineyard, and the vintage, without In some cases the result is a vibrant flavor that is said to be more expressive of the terroir. The Matassa is joined by our next course. Pine Gulch Creek wild nettle veloute. It's fresh, deep and rich. Crisp, refined, and gorgeous flavors. I really liked it. The restaurant continues to impress with the wine, the tasting menu and this wonderful interior. It feels good to be here. The flavours are beautiful, and Each one comes with different cutlery, and the glass selection is also very nice. The next wine selection is from Sicily. It's called Sokisoki from producer Tanca Nica. It's made with Zibibbo grapes. I'm generally not a fan of natural It's partnered with Hokkaido sea I saw this on the a la carte menu It added about a hundred euros The presentation isn't in-line with the rest, but it makes up for it with rich, savory flavor. Our next course gives us a Here we get up-close and And we get the chance to meet the Chef, Michael Tusk. While studying Art history in university, he took his first cooking job and fell in love. After that, he went straight to the and then got experience in France and Italy, where his time in the Barbaresco To this day he is a strong the Italian term for working with In 1988, he returned to the Bay Area. He worked at the legendary Stars restaurant From there, he joined Chef Paul Bertolli he started looking for the perfect In 2003, he and his wife Lindsay found a an Italian-inspired restaurant that made In 2007, they got the first Michelin star, before moving Quince to its current In 2014 came the second star, in 2017, the third. And in 2020 they were one of the Next to Quince are two other Tusk properties. One is the Quince bar and salon. On the other side is the sister The kitchen has a steady stream of fruits, As if they weren't busy enough, in 2020, Chef and his wife started Now, in 2024, Chef Tusk finds The California Court. Fighting to protect the name and defend the Against a new online startup In the lawsuit, the restaurant claims that the online creates brand confusion and Making things worse, shopper complaints for the online company under the restaurant's name. But for Chef Tusk, the last straw came when the retailer added and called them 'Michelin-worthy cookware.' It prompted Chef Tusk to file a lawsuit. Seeking exclusive control of the Quince name. Plus hefty damages. To the tune of 12 million dollars. What's next? Watch to the end to find out. And now back to the chef's table. Our wine here is a 2001 riesling It's called Once Upon a It's matched with a white asparagus Amazing dish and the sauce was exceptional. The fact that we could sit in the kitchen and You get to see up-close the Even the serving trays. Our next wine is an Italian red. It's a 2021 from the Cerasuolo It's a Montepulciano. But it's not to be confused with the place It comes with this. West Marin Black cod, wrapped in and topped with garlic scape When the sauce was poured, it felt like something from I think I saw an angel in there. Getting ready for the main course, we A butter knife from Japan, a mini cleaver For our main course, we have a 1987 bottle This is from Napa Valley and has been It's beautifully concentrated with What's better than a nice vintage wine? Two nice vintage wines! This is the 95 cabernet sauvignon Clos Saron. It's great to compare these two cabernets from And now, the main course. Don Watson spring lamb cooked in the fireplace, with a salad of fava, green garlic We saw this on the spit earlier. Here we have different cuts of meat. This was intense. Oh my god. With main courses done, cheese is next. But first, two wines to go with it. One is nearly a hundred years old, They are an independent Madeira wine This dessert wine is luscious and sticky sweet. The other is a 1962 Gallinara. It's a bone dry nebbiolo from Two wines, two completely different profiles. Our cheese selection is a mix This is not included with the tasting Now it's time for the sweet courses. This part of the menu is thanks His first creation is chilled It's a beautiful mix of For our next dessert, we are on the move. Next door, to Quince Bar and Salon. It's a slightly more relaxed version of I'm obsessed with this space. The fixtures, the artwork, the It's a mix of Nordic and Japanese elements with It feels like someone's elegant home. Our last wine of the evening is a It's a combination of red grapes It's semi-sweet and has a bright, grapey flavor. Next in the sweet lineup is warm rhubarb, Here we see tangy and sweet again but this Continuing the tour, we arrive The wine cellar. It is magnificent. 10,000 bottles, 2500 unique selections, and. And they even decorate with To finish things off, we And that will do it for today. Our total is around 2000 euros for two. So what's next for Chef Tusk in While we are making this video, a judge will decide whether to dismiss Chef, I hope that Lady Justice sides with you. No matter what happens in the case, Quince the restaurant will continue to serve with high quality, locally Where the service is elegant, And the stunning interior that will make you want to stay. In the next episode of Alexander The Guest Part 4 of our 5 part series. Discovering the best 3 Michelin