Okay. As soon as you're ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. Start talking. All right. Go! Do it! Action and action. I was. Do you like the end? When they do end action. Or do you just like action? And it doesn't end. Just become. Isn't it like saying No. Because. And is before action. So it's half the beat before. It's like saying. 123. Go. Same thing. Same idea. Okay. So it just gives everybody Yes as opposed to action. Oh yes I can feel that. I can feel that. Does that does the way a director kick off a scene influence It can, like if you're doing, like, or like a and someone's like, action, What do you think? I don't know. I genuinely don't. Yes, It would be a disaster for everyone. Oh, I want to be the director who Yeah. That's great. That's great. I love the way And this is what now with Trevor Noah. Welcome to another episode The podcast, where we have with interesting people And I think our guest today is you know, the pinnacle of that. If you watched everything Seinfeld. the character Elaine, if you, watched HBO you know, Veep, the show and then American politics was like, Sorry. Sorry, everyone. Oh, well. if you watch movies, you know her from really wonderful, fascinating movies what you think she would be doing you've seen her doing on TV. we're having a conversation It's film called Tuesday. A fascinating story about a mother death, that is knocking at their door So, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Thank you. Trevor. It's Especially considering, like, And then b, how famous you are. I like, do you ever know I was thinking about this You know what It's evolution in all forms. And it's not really about the famous. So let's let's call You know, you have impact in the 90s starring in one of the most Yeah. And then, you know, on Veep as one of the, Yeah. Like hardcore, you go all in, but that's I even forget SNL. Think about like, because that was before my time as an And then now and you're in the podcast space, Why? Well, because if you're doing podcast at the right time. You're perfect for podcasts because and you. Thank you. You are? Yeah. I mean, I've heard your podcast. You're you're quite good at it. Just. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Little self compliment. But no, seriously, like, Like, selfishly, maybe. Okay. But also for people who are like like how do you keep your finger on of what will be versus on on I don't know, have I done that? I mean, you don't think you've done I haven't ever thought about my life I mean, I've been, I know I think I've been pretty lucky, I don't think it's bullshit at all. Yeah. I've also failed, by the way, because I just like to do this, But but I would add that I don't, I don't have regret. so even the things that didn't work I had hoped that they had worked. I, I can stand by proudly. You know, like even SNL, for example, it was not a good experience for me. But guess what? I just, I met a lot of people, I did. and it It was hard. It was hard. Do you bounce back quickly I guess I do wish You know, and I take it to. Sometimes I cry and stuff, and then. And it's okay. Yeah. Because I know for stand ups, or the next moment that'll make us How do you help yourself bounce back? Like, what's the thing? Oh, You go tell another joke, you get over the previous I walk away from it completely. Oh, damn. Yeah. So I, can just, you know, I, That's the thing. That's so nice about, like, We're we're not brain surgeons here. We're actors. And so you can, like, be like, It's just. It's just movies. It's just TV. I'm, I'm going to go And so I do. And that's good for me, You know, one of my I've seen speak about Oh, he, like, he doesn't take it as seriously Right? But he loves doing it. And he but he also goes, It's ridiculous. Yeah. You're making a living doing. Pretending. Yes, pretending. But then making people feel real. Yeah, which I love. I remember when I was little, with my mom, and she was driving, and she was, I don't know, talking And I was listening I was noticing how it didn't It was people talking. So I've already started to notice How old were you Maybe eight. Wow. But I remember noticing that. And anyway, I don't know why that You just sitting in the car This sounds real. This sounds real. Yeah, When did you know Like I. Oh, from the get go. I mean, I don't remember I've always wanted to do it. But what did you want The show? I wanted to be in show. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I wouldn't do it, I was listening to your conversation And the two of you talked about how they used to be, It was like, you. Do you make a sitcom? Yeah. And then you hope and then maybe there's a movie You, you you've broken And when I speak to people like if I say, oh, I'm going to be it's amazing how they all admire you for forging like a, Do you Do you ever like what I mean is I'm going to do something Or is it the luck that's coinciding I it's not something necessarily I wouldn't sort of, I would say I'm going to do something and I'm going to find that again. Does that make any sense? Yeah, that's what I'm looking for. That, and, and and it's exciting. It's kind of like fishing. You don't know what's going to bite. Do you fish? I do. Really? Yeah. What kind of fishing? any kind I can do if I'm on a boat I'm not very good at it, There's You don't know what's coming. jobs, you know, touch wood. I'm also superstitious. superstitious. Okay, I like that. So you just go. I don't know what it's going to be, to jump into this excitedly Yeah, totally. What do you like about working? Because I feel like Some people are running away Some people are running So what do you like about working? I like. Well, there are a few things I like. I like being part of a team because when you're working on as actors and, and with crew You're part of a team. towards this common goal of making Right, right. And you know, I'm that everybody's on the same page. Sometimes people are bumping heads, really working, that part of And then I, I like the play of work. I like playing. I like the playfulness That just really appeals to me. And were you like, I've met you out. And I feel like, like at the club. I want everybody to know this. We were at the club. Yeah, It was a great time. I was like, jailed. What you're doing in the club, I was like, Yeah. And but when we met, number one eight. When I met you out, I was. I was, pleasantly surprised at how close you are to Obviously not as crazy No, you know, some of the moments, there's the underlying current of you Sure. You know, and then and then, in this new movie, for instance, that you're in Tuesday, I, Okay. I don't know which I think is a good I think you are, but yeah, I don't see you you, Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Who who do people think Like, how far do you think Well, they always think I'm not. I mean, I am, but I'm not, you know. But you know what I mean? Yeah. Okay. Yes. I'm sure it's the same for you. people are expecting, I often disappoint people. Yes, I do the same. I'm actually kind of. I'm. I'm. I'm an observer. I'm listening to those conversations. This is what If you if you when are you absorbing what you're Correct. That's exactly right. Okay, okay, I see this. Yes. Yeah. Tuesday was, first of all, Oh, wow. I know it's a weird thing to say, Oh. So I because I watch things and then sometimes they're terrible. And I don't mean that in, like, It's just like the terrible. Yes, exactly. you know, half my stand up, so I understand, But this was like. It wasn't just amazing. It it was also way deeper And I didn't know what to expect. Oh, good. I'm not going to lie, I You had no idea. Which is like. Which is how I like to watch That makes sense. Yeah. And then I got into it Then I was like, What is happening here? It's really disconcerting. Yeah. Well, It's a it's a sort of a fairy tale, And you go on this journey with the sort of three my daughter Tuesday, I almost but I want to talk about the themes I will say things that hopefully Okay, that's good, but Okay. There's. But we won't be able to pick it completely apart anyway That movie, I think. But anyway, I'm appealed to you or didn't I will. Okay, so so the first thing for me is I couldn't tell whether or not it was a comedy, which I think, I genuinely think is one of the life is, is, is a story whether or not it is or isn't funny, depending on how you're looking at it You know, and it's like that, If you're not the person, when you're the person, it's until they have a little time Then it becomes funny. And I feel the same way about like is, yeah, depending on what moment Yeah. You go, oh, man, this No, it's not funny. This is very sad. This is deep, right? This is hilarious. Yeah, but I would say it's much more, But by the way, completely off Did you have somewhere on the internet and they put a comedy soundtrack? Yes, yes, I have seen that. Isn't that fascinating, by the way? Yeah, but I talked to you. it was Jordan Peele about this. And I said to him, You know, sometimes I say things I understand So I said, don't be offended. But sometimes I watch your movies And he said in his opinion, all horro it's the same pacing. It's the same rhythm. It's the same. That's fascinating. And so I wonder I would love to. I would love to work with him. Yeah. When you reading the script are you because they've told you it's that oh no, I can make this what I want it to be neither. I, I'm, I read it cold, And, you can imagine blown away by what was on that page and was really quite immediately had to get some understanding of what the writer director, And, because I wanted to make sure what she was thinking about vis-a-vis if that animation doesn't work, this thing is going to be I didn't even think of it Now I know, although it was played named Arin Kenny, who is this great British actor, and he he was with us the entire time he was And then they animated over him. So we were playing some scenes So as the I thought it was a parrot, or whatever, but it's a kind of It's a fantastical version because They're not that color, And of course, he morphs the movie's size and color wise, it's Yeah, it is, in fact, my character is completely in denial and more importantly, and is making very, very bad Right. Denial is not a great, not a great, Yeah. And yet Yes, exactly. I think we all I think Yeah, We're all good. I mean, this movie, you know, is a I suppose, about death and dying And it is an extraordinary to and we don't really think about it But it's funny to think that all we're all going to be dead one day. You hear that? Weird. Did I read you out? That's what I loved about in my opinion, and shouldn't die. okay. Like you represented like we all think we know who should and when they should Yeah I'm negotiating with death. Yes. Yeah. I have a friend who always says you He has this He goes, we all do not know Well, what we think we understand that But he argues, and I, I felt it nobody knows I know it seems like it's. What would he agree No, no, no. Because if that's not the case, No, no, no. So this is what this is what what Because every day people are dying. Yes. Right. I would argue that most Shocked or. And the people around them And that's what he's saying is It's like, We don't believe that it'll happen. We're told it like a That's right. And everyone goes, yes, And there's like with me only. Well, my family exactly. Isn't that's amazing. Isn't that amazing to think about? Yeah, yeah, it really is me. No, no, no. You mean them over here? No no no no not me. We're right after this short break. Okay, so this is what I wanted I'm fascinated by physical comedy. It's really fun, isn't it? It is both the lowest form of comedy Yes, yes. And so I wanted to know from like how are you thinking of physical That's really sad. But you're still doing But it's not the same the funny as Elaine, like, where you It's very funny. You think no, I didn't but I'm delighted you did. It's fine. Oh damn. I might have that comedian brain thing It's okay. You know. You're the winner. I thought it was funny. It didn't make me laugh, but I went. This is a funny. You're. It's weird. I would say it's. Yes. Yes, weird. But that's different I think, I mean, in my view, I would, I would defer to you. Well, I mean, when you say physical comedy, sort of physically to get the laugh, in this film, there's all this crazy it wasn't in service of a joke, Does that make sense? And so the way I interpret how does somebody do something laugh, whether or not the that's Yeah, falling is great. Like I think I think falling Yeah, but no one who's falling It is not punctuating a joke. And then there's a joke But there was not a joke. Yeah, walking, walking, walking. No more walking. There was a there was a scene it was in the last season. And we are I think it's Maybe it's the final episode. But anyway, in I can talk about it still makes me My character's having a really bad Nothing's quite going her way. And she's flipping out and Tony Hale, who plays my, beloved assistant, comes up to me And he comes up to me and he goes, Sort of a nod to do Which was seven almonds for him. And so he goes 26 almonds and I and this is physical comedy that joke because it was written, But then what happened the couch and into my ear, full pitch scream in his ear, It's not funny in the telling, at him and he fell back. Behind the couch. And I honestly, to this day, I think it's one of the funniest things and it made me think of it because he also falls out of frame, it doesn't get better than that Oh, we planned it in rehearsal. So in other words, it was written. Yeah. do you want six almonds? Selena screams. No, Well, how about he comes over, and we put do it in such a way I mean, it was very it was very Tex But in the scene itself, Anyway, watch it. This is what I'm now understanding. What I find funny oftentimes in life is not the intention of the person. It's not the whether the thing will and it's whether they say it's Yeah. And how it. Yeah. Like when you literally of a fully charged creature thing. It is it's so like you do with your eyes, almost like you're thinking like, It's done. It's done. Total. And you even pause while chewing it. There's like And then more chewing. Yeah. And that's what I don't know. That's what I find funny I think it's I mean I think in the theater people you know, I mean, it's it's also, Yes. Yeah. And I think that's, that's That's a great performance. That's I'm humbly saying I'm not a director. I would shout action So I don't think that's I couldn't help find myself wondering when I when I was watching the story about how much of it you drew from you from your life, reminded you of of your life. You know, you've shared, of like the pain of loss you know, And just like how much And, you know, the way he connected with you as a human being and shaped you And, you know, for instance, diagnosed with cancer when you're I feel like everyone everyone has or will deal with loss and grief And I wondered when when you would was there a part of you that was either remembering or processing did connect with you in a way Oh, without question, I tapped into my experience. as someone who is, I've lost, a number of people I certainly tapped into that. I tapped into the ferocity and my bond with my children. Yes. I would fight death I would fight death. I wouldn't even hesitate. So I tapped into all of that stuff. All of it. And, to. Because that's your job as a as And so that's what I was that I did How do you move Well, it I mean. In my experience anyway. And people suffer all kinds But in my experience, you know, it obviously it takes time and, and then, Something that sort of helped me is that with the person that you've lost It's just shifted. So, for example, So I think of my father all the time. I feel as if and it's maybe more of a mysterious spiritual relationship, but he's very much in my, my being. And, so it's a shift. It's a shift. What about you? The only loss I think, is my grandmother. I remember thinking about this I didn't realize that I had never Were you with her when she passed? No, no, I wasn't, It was a it was. It's almost like there was a door inside my chest And all of a sudden And I was feeling something You know, it's like a that that doesn't have a name So you go, it is neither sadness not nor is a joy, but it feels like both I can't explain it. I, I found myself crying, you know, because I was like, I don't know, it was like when I would walk into a room every dish It felt like her life was playing. It, playing again in my head. And I It was a very, very strange feeling. You still think of her like, Whenever, whenever I'm feeling. Lost is the wrong word. But whenever There's just me. Moments where I go. Go to a mirror and look at yourself. The way Oh, that very moving. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, I feel like that's that's oftentimes You know, we, you know, going back to the film, what we, what we're not trying to but it's what Yeah. Totally. 100%. You know, and that's something that in the way you were portraying she seems overwhelmed, overworked they can't even have the conversation when your daughter in the movie And she's like, let's speak tomorrow. And then it's amazing when we going back to, or we know somebody's going to go. It's like, oh, actually, Actually, I should make the time I'm losing a piece of me And so that was. Yeah. That's why I say thank you I mean I clearly laughed at moments I still say thank you though. Yeah. Don't go anywhere What now after this. And so you also the host and creator that has become really successful, It's different because It's not attached to a giant studio. It's not a machine. Right. But it's still excited you. I'm assuming it did. Yeah. I mean, it excited me because it was that decision was really driven I mean, for real. And, and sort of like consternation at the fact And older men, particularly older white men, are not invisible. And that irritates me. But but it's not really being driven It's being driven by curiosity. Because I saw this, documentary which, if you haven't seen it, You really be interested in it. And so it got me thinking, like, wow, about Jane Fonda. She's got this huge life. She's done Yeah, and I hadn't really given And then I thought, well, There must be so many older women who have done so many things, in an in depth kind of way. I wish that somebody would do that. And I thought, okay, I guess because I was very curious about it. But it's hard work doing a podcast, Yeah, but yours seems like you have a conversation with a person who you admire that and really blossoms into this beautiful examination of life and the stories you'll tell and the advice that they'll give you, Yeah. It's amazing. Right? You know what I mean? Like, like there was one episode, And she was she was basically, like, for being worried about death Isabel Allende Yeah, it was, It was. It feels like you are, in a way, connecting us with a it's it's spiritual. That's the way I put it. it feels spiritual to me just take so much time. But it does. It feels every time I finish one of these conversations, But I am, you know, half the time and I feel, better for it. If you were interviewing you as like it was let's say you were but then speaking to you when you Is there anything you would change? It doesn't seem like there's Oh, that. I would tell myself. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. Sure. No. Like what? Well, you think I'm making a joke, I would say wear sunscreen. I'm not kidding. You wear sunscreen? I know it's not deep, And I would say trust your instincts when did you ever not I was not as self-assured as I wish I could have been I, I had an interior when I was younger, and I, I wished you know, it was a different time to, So what do you think changed? I mean, I don't know, you So what what changed? What changed experience? I've learned a lot. Yeah. Yeah, You know, for example, when I the television that I was in, I felt nervous about asking for it, and I sort of wrung And then. And then if they the powers that I. That would sort of Yeah. And now I know that that's ridiculous and that I have a lot to offer. And, Yeah, I'm going to produce it. You're Julia Louis-Dreyfus. Fuck off. Yes, that's that's what you do now. That's what I do. I saw I was reading this thing about, I think it was a profile and they were asking you a question that I feel like everyone is getting I don't remember people let's say like seven years. And the question was, that cannot be told? And, you know, people are becoming more sensitive Good. I'm glad. No, I really maybe because I agree with it, it'll be funny if I like I loved it know I love to You're full of bullshit. Yeah, I love the fact that you said with being sensitive to how comedy Right. And I also agreed that like, it's not like people are making jokes. People are continuing It's continuing. Nobody's we're not being hamstrung. And I'm in big favor of being of evolving, of evolving. Think of what entertainment was 50 I defy you to look at that. We have evolved from then, and I think we must continue Yeah, yeah, I completely agree. Yeah. I also don't think there's anything does not necessarily mean I think sometimes we're unfair And I go especially as a comedian. I'm like comedy going to evolve. Society evolves. Like there are things that society, you deem very acceptable Like right now or in conversations and then in 20 years we might even go, Oh, I can't, I hadn't realized, I hadn't realized through that lens. Yes, there's more to understand. There's a lot we don't understand. That's true. I do also wonder. Maybe you. You think about this. Do you ever think about how we find the balance between caring what everybody thinks and also creating because we think Yeah, I do that. That balance is Because if you start to care too much how it's received, yeah, you will be paralyzed by that. So you have to it has to come from You know, you come at it from that. And if it lands, fabulous. Right. But if it doesn't, well, so you can walk away with your head That's right. I think I was like, I always think it's about acknowledging the possibility that you might share but then still moving Yeah. You know, so it's like I, like when I'm on the road, I drive and I, you know, I'll change lanes But I acknowledge that there may be So I am amazed that you've brought that if government Okay, let's see. I'm I'm gonna articulate this I wish very much that politics could work because to to in other words, you you want to get ahead of the car Okay. That's fine, but you're not going to do it unless you're out of your mind, So you're going to drive Right. So there are parameters of respect that are built in and self, preservation. Yeah. We all want to get somewhere quickly. I assume. Yeah. But there is an understanding that we're all doing it at once, I don't know, I sounds maybe silly, I think it's because here's what I, I think what's happened in in many ways, we've become that we no longer believe are actually moving in a direction There was something about everyone watching the same but having a similar point and where you want to go Yes, and I think politics We we, we now exist me and it's you and you I don't even think your kids are real Are they kids? It's me or you? Yes, exactly. Or some. And I feel like going back like with comedy, I don't think I think it is possible to laugh with with them knowing that it is like Does that make sense? Totally. So I had the great opportunity honor to meet Supreme Court Justice Oh, wow. This was back and she told me that she and Justice Scalia, at that time, they would get together No way. Swear. And they would talk about the show blah, blah, And that was a dream. That is a dream to me I'm pretty almost 100% sure. Nothing about any decision I think. However, the fact that he was able and they were both able to laugh That's magic. That is magic. That's magic. Yeah. So there you go. all right. there's a question Okay. because of the name of the podcast, And everyone has a has a different after speaking to you, I feel like the what now question as you go into this stage of life, if we want you know, it feels like but also like a different person Is there a what now for you? Where do we find you and what is the Oh well, I feel like so I feel like I'm just like in life. Yeah, yeah I do. I feel like I'm still going But what I mean is, is that there's a lot more that Oh, sink my teeth into. No, but I just feel that way. That's a great way to be. I'd like to do a musical on film. Yeah, that would be really fun. I like this way. I also ask you, of your interviews, people, you'll say something like this, I don't know if you've noticed No I haven't. Someone asked you and then you were like, And then you were in one pew pew. Yeah. And I just, So this Q two, I just gave it away. Spoiler alert, spoiler alert. But, this has been fun. Really fun. I mean, it's really nice Yeah, well, that's wanted to do with you. I think your brain is probably one of the most powerful And because it's like, societal, take brains out of heads. And I, I'd like to has the brain in them and try and understand a little bit Do you want me to, like when I die? Do you want my brain I would like that, but I wouldn't So then I would just have in formaldehyde Yeah, it's not great. This is what. And this is what you gave me. I hope one day is just like Yeah, I don't, I mean, I'd like a museum. I need a museum. Think about it. We walk through the museum Is your comedy or drama? Your life, your, like, your impact? I think you might even be shocked at how how amazing Can I tell you something? First of all, you have a lifetime Thank you for And, if anyone's listening the museum Louis Dreyfus Brain We'll get you the the HTP, etc.. Right? Yeah, we'll put that. We'll this was so much fun. Thank you guys. Thank you for being I hope there's not too much No, but also just the right amount. Yes. So people see it. That's Go and see it funny for me in more parts than maybe but all around beautiful exploration the meaning of life There we go. Perfect. Thank you. What now? With Trevor Noah is produced with Day The show is executive produced by Trevor Noah, Ben Our senior producer is Jess Hackel, Oh, our producers, music Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday