-Looking good. Looking sharp. -Yes, you're actually back. -The last time we talked, Actually, you weren't even You were -- We're all Zooming. -And that was the first time you -Many, many years. -Is it 20 years? Because you've -Yeah. for a little bit over a month. -That's when we were getting It was tough. -I was talking to myself a lot. But I learned a lot about myself -But then when you got you wanted to do it in -You got to maintain Six feet. And just for us, I really This is you... -...meeting for the first time. There you go. Maintain that -- You can still feel the love. -Yes. -Those are my arms though. Rhett had to get an extension. -Those are your actual arms. -I get those long arms. -You just celebrated 10 years Congratulations. -That's amazing. -10 years, over 2,000 episodes. -You have nearly 8 billion Do you know that? Were those started the show 10 years ago? Like, &quot;Wow, we're gonna hit -Well, we just thought, If we can enjoy hanging out with let's just start putting that on can latch on to it.&quot; In the first episode, &quot;Hey, this is going to be Make this a part of And I mean, I think we were just -Yeah, we were hyping ourselves. speaking it into existence. -Yeah, I mean, because it's been the mythical beasts out there. They're so supportive of and they've grown up over We've had people grow up, We've had people get divorced, which those can be really if you have family that is and they get divorced, -Twice as many views. -That's a great way -Oh, so you double the -- That's genius. -Brilliantly said. -Yeah. [ Applause ] You're almost encouraging all of You want to hit 16 billion -But they're starting good, -Of course. Look at me. Look at how good he turned out. [ Cheers and applause ] Here's a pic. Here's a pic from your very -Haven't changed a bit. Did you always sit on -Yeah. We have always sat as not be confused as -That's the last thing I want, -That's the last thing you want. The way that works out here is this is the eighth time Seventh time we've been here -Yeah, of course. -Every single time, -Because you're Rhett -Yeah. -And I'd like to know [ Laughter ] -To sit here? [ Cheers and applause ] -Will you let me? -No. No. No. I like how -- -I don't think I have to [ Laughter ] [ Cheers and applause ] -Did I just disappear entirely? -Yes, no one can see you at all, They can't see you. -Wow. -You're a good-looking guy. -Thank you. You too. -It's great to see you, bud. -You're going to mess up Get off. That's all I need. -I want to talk about -- on the Food Network. -I love Food Network. 10 years on then Food Network gives you But we get to leave our studio I'll call them &quot;adventures.&quot; Behind the scenes of some of -Because it's called -That's right. So you get on the inside. -Yeah, we ask questions like, &quot;Why is The Cheesecake Factory [ Laughter ] -Yeah, that's a great question. Why is it spiral-bound?&quot; -&quot;And how do they do that? How do they pull off -Yeah. -Like, I know you recently did -Oh, yes. Well, see, we think that what says something about We believe in this so strongly actually get to know somebody, and then predict what -We can do it for you right now. -You can -- You can tell what -- -We can predict Okay, so what is your sign? -Alright, here we go. -Focus, Jimmy. What's your sign? -Alright, do I look straight? -Look at me. -Hold up your left hand What's your sign? -What's your favorite color? -Right now, red. -Okay, and then clasp -What's the worst thing [ Laughter ] -I tried to pull off [ Laughter ] I shouldn't have done that. Those are burrito-grabbing I think he's a burrito man. Let me test. Grab that forearm. Oh, you're a burrito man. -Burrito guy. -Okay. -Look at me deeply in the eyes. -Black beans. -White rice. -Yes, that's a burrito. [ Laughter ] -Protein. -Ah. -He's a chicken man. -Chicken man. Alright, and your left ear, is a little lower [ Laughter ] -So what does that tell you? -You hate sour cream. You can't stand sour cream. -That is true. -Right, right. -It's the ear thing. Yeah. And then you like it spicy. -Okay. This is actually correct. This is bizarre. -Okay. -We do this for a living, Jimmy. -Right, so what you're saying is is a spicy chicken burrito -White rice, black beans. -That is absolutely correct, [ Cheers and applause ] -We didn't get you one though. -No, you didn't get me one. Did you ask around or something? your producers ahead of time what you normally order [ Laughter ] -I was wondering. Wait a second, you're actually Someone told you. Perfect. [ Laughter ] What are we going to see here -Well, we went to Beyond Meat. -Oh! -You're intrigued now. -If you've ever seen meat, -It's &quot;beyond,&quot; yeah. It's like, -Right, exactly. -We kind of went behind the How they make And we had a little taste test. -A blind taste test. &quot;Inside Eats with Rhett &amp; Link.&quot; -How much do you like or dislike -I like it very much. -And you don't say your answers -Well, don't listen to me -Well, you said it -We get to sniff it. -Am I going to get to answer -The cracker is optional. It's to cleanse your palate. -How much do you like What was your answer? -I've got strong opinions, but the only one I'm sharing is the one about the cracker. I enjoyed it extremely. -How would you describe umami? -She's a sweet, Southern woman. [ Laughter ] -Not &quot;you mommy.&quot; Umami. -Oh. [ Laughter ] -&quot;Sweet, Southern woman.&quot; &quot;Inside Eats with Rhett &amp; Link&quot; on Food Network.