(electronic music) - [Falcon] The goal is to But what defines good? What defies one's sensibilities and taste being a near impossible and yet is enjoyable? Hi, folks, it's Falcon, 10 bad or mediocre games Starting off with number I think if &quot;Crackdown 3&quot; when it was first announced, would probably be seen in a better light. Yes, it would've been simplistic but I think it would've than when it did finally come out in 2019, where it was mostly greeted &quot;Crackdown 3&quot; is certainly not terrible, but for something that there is very little ambition here. It's essentially the first game which to be fair is better at a slightly larger scale. But I mean a few more and stuff, it doesn't really (weapons firing) The &quot;Crackdown&quot; games are almost You're a super soldier man, you go to the city, clear out bases until the main bad guy base unlocks. You do it three times and It's formulaic to the extreme, You're basically the Incredible and it can be satisfying to run around causing chaos everywhere you go. Collecting orbs to upgrade It is kind of mindlessly addictive to grab these collectibles everywhere. I mean, they give you tangible upgrades whenever you pick one up. It's repetitive as hell. There's basically zero substance to it. But, damn it, if it's not and even though it's it's still better than &quot;Crackdown 2.&quot; - [Goodwin] Can only chew... (weapons firing) Enemy reinforcements inbound. - [Character] Shut it down. - [Falcon] At number This game was meant to be It was gonna be gritty, The original trailer was and it was gonna be the most immersive third person shooter ever. So it was, let's say, unexpected when the game finally came out and it was a big stupid cartoon scored attack shooting gallery. (weapons firing) Plot's stupid, game play's janky, graphics look pretty not what I would call one for the museum, but it is extremely fun. Missions are just nonstop The game has absolutely no chill. Just going down a random street, suddenly you're ambushed by dozens of the world's most These guys have a lifespan of a gnat. They spawn in, stand next to the closest and do nothing else but waiting eagerly for Inspector Tequila is a Oh yeah, by the way, the to the Hong Kong action and that's all I'm gonna say, because other than and throwing in a few it has very little to do with it. I mean, you can shoot, but that's mostly for building up scores so you can do these absurd super moves that let you kill everything in sight. It's just a nonstop violence orgy with barely any time to breathe. So it's ultimately in any kind of substance. But so are Michael Bay And the environmental destruction And while the shooting doesn't or honestly looks pretty cartoonish. I mean, I don't understand energy pellet looking bullets, and makes for a very stupid (weapons firing) (characters groaning) And number eight is Platinum's one of those studios that's gone through some They made some all-time and some total garbage like, well, everything they've For a little while, one of Japan's premier studios was cranking out some bottom Don't know why they found that necessary. And none of these games are exactly good, but at least one manages and it's &quot;Transformers: Devastation.&quot; It's bare bones, the environment's mostly and that's most of the game. There are a few unnecessary but the design of the They look like they jumped right and the combat is, well, it's They can make combat like (upbeat music) And the fighting is unsurprisingly It's almost too good for this list. At least that's what I thought But also, I will say it Everything in between the like under baked to the extreme. It's also really short, and that's even for one of their games, which tend to be pretty short. And one of the essential well, it's on the tin. It's that they transform into vehicles and it feels pretty You're using your vehicle form more as a special attack in combat, than you're using it to navigate, which seems like, odd. Even with all the attempts at polish, there's an undeniable feeling that keeps it from But the moments where everything clicks, like, there's some or you really get into the which again is fantastic like normal. It's just that the rest of the experience doesn't get the time or budget that frankly, this potential Unfortunately, it's (intense music) At number seven is &quot;Bionic Commando.&quot; No, not the NES game or the I'm talking about the Xbox third person shooter reboot. The difference. Those other games are great. This one on the other The story is stupid. The dialogue is obnoxious. All your main guy does for is complain and yell at (tense music) - I stopped the execution. - You put me in prison in the first place! I followed your orders! - [Falcon] The graphics And wow, are there a But the core game play element of swinging around and shooting, feels great once you and sort of get your head out What's interesting about this game is that the swinging is It's not cheating at every corner like the new &quot;Spider-Man&quot; games. Your bionic arm, grapple line, it gets wrapped around things, and how and when you release depends how far and The mechanics are a lot more that have some kind of grapple, which is good because it's the So there's actually some depth which makes it a lot of fun when you really get the You rarely do get the opportunity The game is aggressively They justify keeping you by saying there's radiation everywhere. In general, the levels are too You're always getting interrupted or tedious walk and talk sequence that breaks the genuinely The music is awesome though. Honestly, way too good for this game. And I say that as somebody who actually kind of likes the game It's one of those games not just in that there are There's plot revelations in the last hour, ends in a terrible QTE boss, and also the plot twist, I can't honestly tell if or dumb on purpose. I'm not gonna spoil it, 'cause most of you already And for everybody else, you just gotta experience it for yourself. It's not just those things, but also I feel like if of the grappling and like with the same kind it would automatically be a better game because technical limitations would allow for much bigger levels. I don't know. The game's dumb as hell, but mechanically it's actually Not enough to make up for its problems, but still a lot of fun. (intense music) At number six is &quot;TimeShift.&quot; If all you saw was screenshots, &quot;TimeShift&quot; would look like mid 2000s FPS of all time. Like, it's so forgettable that it's easy to get it mixed up with about a dozen other that are actively trying The difference is this one You got the normal slowdown time, we've all seen that before, And the exciting stuff where you can completely stop take their weapons away. Like, it's the most interesting, but also most underutilized of the powers. (weapons firing) But there's also the time reverse power, mostly just for puzzle There might as well not be a plot though. You're a time guy, and another time guy stole a time suit and went back in time Using time stuff, you have to stop him. And my description there than the game puts into Like, it is seriously jarring how much this game just tries Especially because at least at first, they're trying to go for something. The mute protagonist of the final game was originally voiced by actor, You can find news about all this. Originally &quot;TimeShift&quot; was gonna but none of that stuff Aesthetically it's pretty boring. The mission design is but the time powers are so much fun they really elevate the entire thing. And if somebody used them as a basis for like a game that does it would be massive (weapons firing) At number five is &quot;Wanted: Dead.&quot; I mean, this is a pretty new one, and has a pretty awesome title honestly. But the story is total nonsense. The translation, borderline gibberish, voice acting, weirdly bad, like mid 2000s bad. - Let me see. - Doc, don't just stand there, operate! - With what? - Take aim, soldier. This chance I won't miss. - Hannah, he's in a bad shape. - All I need is one shot. - Need to evac! Now! - [Falcon] And the graphics but mostly pretty ugly. Even though it's got a weird charm to it, there are long scenes of dialogue that do not propel the plot forward. There's random anime interludes, where all the characters sing... Well, about as bad as a guy And for whatever reason, despite having a horrible voice, decided that karaoke was the way to cope. Like, it's a strange game with string and duct tape, but there's something scrappy If there's one thing that's it's the combat which from third person shooter And that's about the closest thing to a John Wick simulator that yet exists. If there's one thing I from &quot;Wanted: Dead,&quot; it is the combat, which can feel sloppy at times 'cause of the brainless But it's the core of a good idea here that is basically executed well. It's crazy fun to blast and then turn around and slash The pistol button is great. You can just shoot anyone instantly with the push of a button. They just gotta be nearby. There's no aiming required. And that's how you all kinds of bloodborne energy in like a &quot;Devil May Cry&quot; type game. It's crazy. Now, those games are miles in terms of the overall essence of them. This game has some serious problems. The levels are too long, And on the flip side, the game is way too short that's, let's be completely frank here, is not getting resolved. It feels like half a is broken a lot of the time, but when it's working, &quot;Wanted: Dead&quot; is an awesome fun time. It's just not good. (weapons firing) - [Herzog] Grenade! (weapons firing) - [Falcon] At number four Compared to the first two games, &quot;Shadow Warrior 3&quot; is It's short, it's dumb. The combat is very... Well... &quot;We have &quot;DOOM Eternal&quot; at home, son.&quot; But at least with that last Listen, &quot;DOOM Eternal&quot; is but it can be a bit exhausting. &quot;Shadow Warrior 3&quot; is on the other hand, less serious and kind of just fun. I mean, assuming you can get past the painful attempts at humor. The first two games also tried to be funny and mostly failed, but they never tried so hard as the third game. Tonally, it feels completely Like, they tried to turn Lo and that wasn't the right... That was not the right move. (gentle music) You are the one You are the one - Oh, fuck. - [Falcon] It's not funny, uh, like ever. But now there's extended cut scenes where suddenly everyone's all and the camera's swinging to keep up the energy and it sucks! The story, the presentation, it all drags the game down with all these unforced errors. They could've easily just as the first two, and I don't but they went in an entirely different and much worse direction in this game. It doesn't really play It's more of a hybrid and like &quot;Ghostrunner.&quot; Like, &quot;Eternal's&quot; style enemy arenas strung together with Which isn't a bad combination, but it feels very indie game for how stripped back the level design is. Doesn't mean it's not fun. It is fun. The shooting feels a little Whipping out a sword to slash The glory kills are awesome. You always have some kind of bonus, like stealing the enemy's weapon. It's fast, it's relentless. And here's the essential The combat arenas are compared to what it's inspired by, and this makes it fun but And it's also way too Like, there's legitimately good but you're gonna have to be quick on that skip cut scene button. 'Cause man, these cut scenes are terrible. And to be frank, that doesn't But I mean stalling to make a game longer isn't exactly good. And number three is &quot;Mortal By any metric, this is a Mechanically, it's basic, it's not balanced. And also, the greatest a game can have, there are no fatalities in this game. And yet, there's something It's a great party game There's a lot of modes, and it's claim of from every &quot;Mortal Kombat&quot; game means that the roster is insane. And hey, don't forget &quot;Motor Kombat,&quot; the cart racer mini game that is included with (cart engine roaring) None of it is particularly good, but you put it all together almost like Mortal Kombaty even though it doesn't have Sometimes you just wanna together though, and a few games are better The creative fatality stuff is so lame and basically just means Like, to the point where I don't think it really has fatalities. I'm sure it was a compromise to get every character on the disc, but honestly, they could and nobody would even notice. I know a lot of the have their fans ironically or not. But I think we'd prefer a game where actually all the iconic moves for each character are there, rather than having absolutely sharing moves and getting But you know what would also be nice? If Motaro could have his damn legs back. Yeah, I'm not exactly making It's pretty bad in almost every way, but there's something fun Just having all these characters It's not a real fighter, but the party game aspect of And number two is &quot;Darkest of Days.&quot; The History channel meets &quot;Terminator&quot; FPS as one of the dumbest but What if the Civil War, but you have a future machine gun to go No Russian on entire platoons of unsuspecting Johnny Rebs. Like when you describe it that way, it actually sounds a little sickening if you apply it to real life, but in action it's goofy and (character screaming) (tense music) The plot does not matter. All that matters is you're going back to certain historical I mean, what is not exactly clear, but when they do explain it, What's kind of interesting when you go back in time, you're initially stuck with So when you time travel you're stuck with a musket and it's super slow to reload. There's other weapons that like a revolver and the Henry Repeater, but all this stuff pales in comparison to the times we were free to cut loose and use future weapons on the past. I mean, there is a big is such an appealing looking new game. Hopefully, the product ends How they attempt to justify If we've learned anything it's that deviation in the timeline creates devastating results. So what's gonna happen show up at a battle and an extended mag? Well, you kill a whole lot of guys, and I'm not gonna lie, as you reap a deadly harvest. But, I mean, if you're going back in time to stop history from being changed, you're not doing a good job of it. Who cares though? You're going back to None of it really matters. It's basically just a fun like nonsense to justify itself. Who cares? It's just wandering and shooting guys before they shoot you. It's not strategic, except sometimes you have to with a blue aura for time reasons. You have to disable 'em with leg shots or using the weird future balls you are equipped with to knock them out. I'm not gonna get into it. That's the only element to strategy. Otherwise it's just shoot, shoot, shoot. But the unique scenario make it actually really fun despite how ugly and how Again, I'm looking It looks like they figured out how to do kind of the idea of this - [Character] In line! (tense music) Another wave coming in! (weapons firing) - [Falcon] And finally at number one is &quot;Fist of the North You remember this? It's a Yakuza style game that's not anywhere nearly as good as any main Yakuza game. It feels really cheap in a lot of places, particularly the driving, which is bad. But it's such a unique and weird game. It's hard not to love it You know &quot;Fist of the North Star,&quot; right? It's an anime &quot;Mad Max&quot; with so hard they explode. It's absurd and awesome. And &quot;Lost Paradise&quot; manages to and make it way goofier. (characters grunting) - [Airi] Is that all you've got? (characters grunting) - [Falcon] You know how between serious drama and This game swings harder and it's amazing. There's a bartending mini &quot;You are already drunk.&quot; The &quot;Like a Dragon&quot; guys and their love of the source material can be just felt everywhere. But as a game, it's got shortcomings. It feels cheaper than And the combat feels a bit And the driving is, well, they have never had a and it shows. The car you get handles like garbage. It's so unresponsive and uncontrollable that it's good that this game that is super huge and empty 'cause otherwise the steering As it is, it's just really bad. If you can stomach that and which is, to be fair, But it's a big shame that driving is such a major part of this game 'cause it's not even really a &quot;Fist of the North Star&quot; thing, it's just something they wanted to do, give it more a post-apocalyptic Everything else about this Maybe not good, but amazing, and it never stops being satisfying when you pop a thug like a blood balloon after giving them a vicious thrashing. When you're in the main But when you leave, the Still, the parts that are if you're a fan of violent It's flawed, but it is And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new Best way to see them first so click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon, you can follow We'll see you next time,