Thanks to amaran All right, we're doing and this time we are with We are in the Blacktail - This is my old shop. My coworker told me he is like, isn't it technically Blacktail Garage? But now we're in a studio. - That's right. Patrick Tomasso is back, everybody. Yay! He's-- are you feeling a hundred percent? What's your percentage, Patrick? - I'm dying right now, I'm good, I'm good. I'm like 90%, we're good to go. - Everybody who gave him well Patrick had an injury and my last video. - What happened, Patrick? - [Patrick] I fell off an e-bike. - And you believe that? - Yeah. I feel like he would've liked to come. So the fact that he didn't. But he's back, and today with the 16-25mm again, of Mr. Tomasso. - I've got a few workstations here. I've got this mobile bench. We use this if we have to do like I have like an epoxy workshop, I've got like a finishing workshop that's different than a YouTube video, that's more of like talking head stuff. - These are like courses that you sell? - Courses, yeah. Well, the epoxy one we sell, - He's already plugging stuff. You notice? I was like, okay, take us through. Plug, plug, plug. - [Cam] Yeah, I mean it's This is the best tool in media. It took me forever. I've got tripods, I've tried and I freaking love this thing, and I tried to get them to - [Gerald] Who makes this one? - Studio Titan. - So it is film gear, it's you improvise with? - No, no. Have you not seen this before? - I don't think so. I mean, I've seen one stand set up, but I haven't seen this one. - My thing with shooting something is, static shots are really boring. So when I like push something I will, like, if I'm filming by myself, which I don't have to anymore, I'll push like halfway through, sometimes I'll turn the saw off, I'll move the camera lower and then I'll turn the saw So it looks like a multi-camera shot. But it was such a pain moving tripod legs So this one you can just like. - [Gerald] That is fast. - Roll it around. - And then you just have like - Yeah and this can adjust This is, you probably but it stays well I was like, there's When I did that, because I was like, what if it doesn't stay this time? But yeah. - It does seem like you'd be really quickly. - Yeah. - While we're here at the camera, for the gearheads in my audience, - [Cam] This was a suggestion Yeah, we got an a7 IV &amp; Ninja V+. - What Bozo gave you this - Oh yeah, watched that guy on YouTube. Again, I don't wanna plug - That's right. - And then we even, I so we can do a quick - Oh, you'll put the camera down there? That's fun. - Slide in there. - This is pretty smart. And you're running it all off of V-Mount. - This is new. - You still have a Do you go USB-C to the camera or? - [Cam] Yeah, we just And it pretty much runs it - [Gerald] How are you in the garage setting? - Not very often. - No? - It's happened, but not very often. - The summer's been getting - We haven't had it actually - How hot has it gotten so far? Like in the hundreds or? - Yeah, we've been in the hundreds so far. - I think that's like, what is that, like 30 something C? We're Canadian. - I know. - So we gotta translate - Nobody that watches your - [Gerald] That's true, yeah, - Yeah, and I like to pretend part-time, so that's why I didn't go like full cinema FX. - Yeah. Do you take this one off and run around, take photos with it? - Mhm. - 4K30. You shoot 30 frames per second? - [Cam] You should have come when my channel was a little bit younger, 'cause I had got to 700,000 subscribers using only my iPhone. - Yeah? - And I even edited on my iPhone. - Oh wow. - No editing software. - He's shooting with PP off. So just like standard movie gamma. You don't bother shooting Right outta camera, do you - He tweaks it, but not like full grade. - But it's pretty good. And then for audio, you so you're probably not mic'd - Only if we're doing We found that it almost 'cause when I'm on camera, It's like, oh, this just happened, and it's distracting if So we like a little bit of - The Rode VideoMic NTG. That's the type of ones where, you'll be in the middle of like a montage, and then they'll cut to you and be like, I don't know if this is like the to-camera stuff. - I'd say it just like that, yeah. As I'm doing this now, I don't I think I will. But it also looks like (beeps) to me. - Did you build these stairs? - I did. I did, there's a video You can check it out. This is one of my better ideas actually. - [Gerald] I'm a big fan of Cam's channel. So I've seen all these videos. - [Cam] Well what kind - This is, what do you call it, pine? - Looks like a pine tree. - A pine tree? - Yes. - Good guess, no. - Gimme a hint. - It's a man's name. - Burl. - Who do you know named Burl? - Burl Ives. - This is Doug Fir. - Oh yeah, I know Mr. Fir. - [Patrick] That's the mayor of Toronto. - Exactly, Douglas Fir. - Yeah, yeah. - Is is this used for housing? - Yeah, it's generally - That's why I said pine, 'cause I thought 2x4s were made of pine for some reason. - Generally they're not. Pine's a little weak. I think there's some type - You know what, you're Nobody talks trash about pine. - Look, you're in my element now. You can roast my office and my video gear, you're not gonna roast my stairs. - Okay. - This is kind of our all - Gear locker if you will. - Gear locker. - Hey, you know what Patrick? - [Patrick] Oh there it is. - [Gerald] We found a tool - [Patrick] It's a Craftsman. - It's because this isn't it's a workshop first. - [Cam] Well, so we have that. - [Gerald] Oh, he's - [Patrick] Ah, dammit! - [Cam] Husky there, and I - I've got this running has a tool chest in their - [Cam] Do you know why that is? - [Gerald] Home Depot sells it for cheap. - They're cheap. - [Gerald] Exactly. - This is actually a great tool chest. That one is terrible, - [Gerald] That's the YouTuber - [Cam] It is, yeah. - [Gerald] Because that's the $200 one. - [Cam] Yeah, that door We'll do the gimbal for reveals mostly. - Okay. - So like I ended the So Scott will go do all the gimbal shots. So more, bunch of batteries. The lenses. - What are you using in Oh, before you got the V-Mount, okay. - [Cam] So we'll still usually because this one's light enough But we could have those. - Oh you did a little that looks nice. - [Cam] Pretty fancy, right? How'd I do? - [Gerald] It looks great! - [Cam] Good. - [Gerald] 90 mil macro, I love it. - [Cam] I love that lens. - [Gerald] It's a great lens. 200 to 600, too. This is not for shooting in the shop. - It's a tight shot. For the trip I'm planning. - Yep. - Do you think I would be good enough with a two times teleconverter? You think that would be good? Or should I buy like a 100 - I like the 70-200 with the Teleconverter more than I like the 100 to 400. The 200-600 is great too though, so I don't know if you're - No, I'm gonna pack it all. - I think with a 200-600 and a 70-200 and then the teleconverter, I mean pack the teleconverter, because it'll work on both lenses. If you wanna get a 1200 mil shot. - Hadn't thought of that. - And it's small. These two lenses with a teleconverter, you've got a lot going on. I like that it's minimal and everything seems to be in use. - I thought there was gonna - It's perfect though, right? - [Patrick] You got a good setup. - You got a good setup. It's simple, you're like, This stuff I use. Like I said, it's dusty The guy shoots in a wood shop, you know? - And this is not dusty for me. - So you have racks of wood, right? So let's say you were I know it's more advanced than this in terms of thinking of But let's say today you one those pieces of wood. What do you do first? You run it through like or cut it to size or? You take it to your buddies - I do, like this one just went, so it was in here two days ago. It's actually really awkward We have to like put a strap over it. - How heavy are these, like 500 pounds? - These are probably 500. These are probably 300 or 400. So a lot of times we'll shoot from outside when it's not too hot. Shoot in, pull out, rip it down to size so we can get it through the planar. Which I got, you know, things like this. So we'll pull out these - Does this have an APS-C crop on it? - Yeah, that one's super 24. - Yeah, you're getting in the menu and. - I think it actually is a 24 blade tooth. Yeah, basically just getting it flat, and - And so you'll just be as you do all these things? - Yeah, it depends on, I mean, we will have a lot of shots. I like really tight shots. Sometimes I have to tell Tighter. And then we'll get the And so we always, it's kind but we start wide, and then have a couple really tight shots, and end wide. - This guy knows how to - [Patrick] Single camera show. - Single camera show. - [Patrick] Shooting for coverage. - That's right, yeah. - I do, it's not great for cinematography, but I do a lot of time lapses, just 'cause some of the We wanna show people that I - As you're working through, how do you handle changing lighting, and especially do you like to shoot with the doors open often? - Yeah, that window. - The windows too? - This is our nemesis right here. We do have those screws we will like stick a blanket on it, that looks really awkward. But this is like right where and it's always where this And then Scott actually and that's just stayed - From the 5-in-1 reflector. - Yeah, 'cause that one - Do you just like to keep the windows, like why not just Do you like the window light other times? - I guess just 'cause it looks Like if I had nice blinds, But I just haven't. The daylight's nice for the most part, in the afternoon it comes in pretty hot. It'll come into, I don't know, So especially when it's - Do you just stop down over there, or do you pull in at that - I'll pull in. If the sun's actually on it, it's not really usable. - So what do you use the, okay, you have shop lighting, which is like LED strips or something? - Yeah, they're eight foot They're like, I think and they work pretty freaking great. There's very little flicker with them. - You do have a little What do you use that for? - [Cam] Extra light basically. It's generally just not quite enough. We do, like I said, a lot - So is that meant to - Yeah, so it's really just more light, and it's obviously good light, better than what's up there. We'll do a lot of our so we'll have it set up here, shoot with those lights off Because when you put the oily finish on, this lights that up, put the finish on, it's always kind of a satisfying shot. - [Gerald] Lantern over here. - [Cam] Yep. - Both of these are amaran lights. - Yeah, those are the same. This is just kind of need to fill in areas. Show you kind of what this would be. I'm gonna get in Patrick's way here. - [Patrick] No worries. - Run you over. - It'd be like, let's say we want a shot of turning that switch on here. Like this one. Getting that hard to find light. So it'd be something like that. Just weird odd angles. So it'd be, we'd be somewhere over here, and that's a little awkward light, but. - [Gerald] Okay, I see what you're saying. - I like automation in terms of just like, everything's in one place. So it's not like, oh 'cause then we just won't. So having everything right here, and you know we have our extra cards, and our dust thing. - This is like the one - [Patrick] Cable? - I'll have to mail you some, - That was honestly the only - [Gerald] Exactly. - [Cam] I saw you give someone - [Gerald] Free cables. - Yeah. - I'll send you a little Because yeah we gotta replace this with a nice purple one. - Yeah, purple's definitely my color. - And what's going on here, Cam? - It's a little limp. - Why? What happened to that? - I think I smacked it a little too hard. - With what? - The ceiling. Don't be weird. No, I think we had this. - Oh, 'cause you went up on the thing. - Yeah, I think we were and I think it bent it back. - Okay. It kind of sounds like instead of yourself. If anything, this is which again is the sponsor of this video. They're rugged enough for a wood shop. Every time I'm supposed amaran likes to push for content creators. That they're affordable but a range of fixture to ones you can use in But then I keep finding where they're being used like a wood shop, and - I tell people, and this is not amaran, 'cause they're not paying before I had a YouTube channel whether whoever makes it, Shop lights are more expensive - Yeah, they don't look as good. - So woodworkers need a lot of light. That's never been cleaned. - What's this, the 200D? - That thing gets, I don't know if we fully dropped it, but we've smacked it - That's good to know that amaran lights are still Amaran is great. None of these studio tours, be like, who uses amaran lights? We can go tour them. I chose creators that I really like. Cam's one of 'em. And they all just happen - It's true. - So if you wanna be cool like Cam, it's such like an old school plug. You wanna be cool like Cam? Get yourself a 200d. - It's like an eighties - Exactly. How sharp are your chisels? How often you get asked that question? - Not enough. Depends on the chisel. These ones should be pretty sharp. (Gerald mimics shimmery noises) This is my latest one that - [Gerald] Marking knife. - [Cam] Yep. And this was a lot harder than I thought to get them to look really and also work really well, because you get more of a, yeah, you can scrape it up. So we have those, we have So this is the big product. - [Gerald] N3 Nano? - N3 nano. - This guy talks about N3 Nano a lot. It's such a great integration. - Cinematic shot there. - [Gerald] Because you at the end of every video, right. - It's actually terrible are at the start of the videos. - Sorry, what I mean is like seamless, or like where it doesn't feel forced. - I'd just rather bet on myself and have my own product, of and I actually use, versus - Yeah. Or you gotta do a &quot;Raid: Shadow Legends.&quot; - [Patrick] &quot;Raid: Shadow Legends&quot;. - Yeah, you gotta do a What's going on? I don't know about this sliding. Oh, okay, so you can show I see what's going on. - [Patrick] Gimme a nice - [Gerald] Ready? (Gerald whooshes) - [Patrick] Don't do up and down again, that made me uncomfortable. (all laugh) - It improves the look, the sheen, all the contrast, all that. But then also like super water repellent. - You don't need a coaster, or you should still use a coaster? - I'm paranoid and I still use coasters, but that's actually been was like my wife and her friends So now I can like at least before I'm like wiping - [Patrick] This is where you cut specifically to Larry David, - Yeah, exactly. I've been using that bit in other videos, this is the one time - [Patrick] It actually works. - But I'm not gonna use it, We don't need another Larry David bit. - He's my people. - Do you want to try to - Using your? - So you'd use the bandsaw, I'd have to guide you through it. Do you think you can do it - I've used a bandsaw before. - Are you afraid? - Am I afraid? - Do we need, should we cut? - We'll cut a bowtie, Come on, I'm not afraid - Should we show them what a bowtie is supposed to look like before you do it? Bowtie or Dutchman joint. This is a really narrow one. I won't challenge you All right, show you how we do it. - [Gerald] Okay, let's show me. So you want to explain who aren't in woodworking - Yeah, so I'll probably like this is a crack here, but we'll probably put a - [Gerald] It's preventative right? - [Cam] Yeah, so it's a wood wedge that prevents the crack from splitting. So make you cut one. - [Gerald] Sure. (saw whirs) - [Cam] Pretty good. - [Patrick] Rough in the center there. - We can fake that with a chisel. Not bad. - [Patrick] Rate Gerald's (all laugh) - A big bulk of the Blacktail Studio vibe comes from a smooth-talkin' voiceover, with also peppers in strange insults and just like complaints about That's actually my You'll start it and be like, &quot;Hey guys, Cam, today we're working on by the way, have you ever bought a car? And like you go to the 'Hey you should get this and that.' I'm just like, what is But at the same time you're like, you're getting something - I've learned people don't care that I talk about, they don't care what I'm talking about. As it turns out, apparently wear ankle socks, and all the I was telling two of them a story, I got done with the story right in the eye and said, &quot;cap.&quot; - So show us how you do your - Yeah, it's not in here. - It'd be funny if he was like, yeah, so I just get in real we're gonna do another - So this is the editing suite. The part that matters for - [Gerald] I never would've expected that. I mean, it does the job fine. - I don't know how to hook - I guess you'd need an interface or whatever, yeah. So what's the flow? So is the video already edited, or like you edit down the segments and then you talk over them? - So Scott gets me usually, like if I say, I think this video is gonna be 25 minutes, he'll bring me a 45 minute video. And then we'll kind of make on cutting this, doing this. And then I have, then I'll do of just kind of fine tuning it. So when I do the voiceover, I'll usually end up pulling just to make things - Sure. - And then, yeah, I just - So you watch it back? - Yeah, I'm watching it, I don't know if you know I don't do any script or - To a credit, it's not just rambling. It feels very conversational. It feels almost like You're catching up. - I was always very right down the middle for my first probably a hundred videos, where it's just I'm the Bob here's how you do it, yada yada. And one video, I made a joke about people that complained about my voiceovers, because I do get people, And so I said that I actually if you're interested. - The mute button? - Yeah, I'm like, you can open a new tab, play whatever music you and then mute me and then you can do that. And people loved it. Like it was one of my most I got all this positive feedback, and I'm like, oh, I - I find that Cam almost has with his audience and 'cause I'm the type of person a negative comment or anything. So for me watching you with the snarky stuff, whatever. It's so entertaining, and I'm who's like me, who's just loves it. - Someone commented recently, I'm paraphrasing, but it said, &quot;You have the perfect blend of like, I dunno, genuine integrity - Exactly. - That's pretty well said. - I get called a jerk - Oh yeah, yeah, you're kinda mean. Is that why you're being so nice to mine? - The problem is I have and it's just the truth. But some people find it funny, because they'll be like, Then I'll just be like, huh? And then they'll laugh. They'll laugh because So they'll see me go through of some YouTuber who's got it all, and I'm just kinda like, Sorry guys, it's just my face. We're having a good time. I just don't know how to look like it. - Then I'm about to blow your mind. Because this is also a webcam. Good, I'll get a shot of his face. (all laugh) - What are you using over here? Is that an a7 III? - Yeah. - [Gerald] Using DaVinci Resolve? - [Cam] Yep. - [Gerald] Always, or did you change? - [Cam] No that was, well on my iPhone. - [Gerald] PC. - [Cam] PC, yeah, we're all all - And the computer too. - Yes, yes. - Intel core i7 9700K with a RTX 2080 Ti. I mean that's like two a but that was like top of - Okay. We do go off a NAS now. I watched you with Zach from JerryRig, and I actually, we have and used the original footage. - This is like a direct it's like you cut to me being like, have you ever pulled up a and put it into a new video, that wasn't available that you could have just taken from that? No you haven't. - I do. - I was like yelling at the computer. &quot;I do!&quot; Yeah, no, all those big I've done. I had all the text of like, that was three years old. So like we had to kinda - How are you going to or just wirelessly? - It's just through the interweb. - I knew you were gonna - [Patrick] It's on the line. - It's on the line. So you did some sound treatment in here, hung some black pipe from the ceiling. - [Cam] Yeah, real classy, - [Gerald] And then it looks Are these? - [Cam] No, those are sound blankets. - [Gerald] Oh is this, I was like, are these rated for sound? You see a lot of &quot;sound blankets&quot; and then they're just like moving, the blankets you used - Yeah, my shop, those But these I think were another, were these a Gerald video? Gerald and Josh video? - Where'd you get it - I don't know? - Yeah, I talk about sound They're like crazy effective, versus if you wanted to Just put up a bunch of sound blankets and move on with your life. - No, these, they work great. They don't look great if - [Gerald] Why's this - It doesn't. Although you did put, which explains why you put Who made this? - [Cam] Yeah, that's - [Patrick] Oh, hammered - [Cam] It's pretty classy. No, the reason it's down didn't want it upstairs. - [Gerald] It's well made. - [Cam] So I like this for like a ridiculous 'cause I don't wanna sell it. And so that's why it's just in here. - I just got to appreciate that any Blacktail fans, I See I'm being adversarial - [Cam] Finally. - So whenever you're I get to feel the actual, You do a lot of this in the video, you're like, &quot;Oh, that's good. That's nice.&quot; Patrick, I'm making a face here, okay. He does. - [Patrick] You need the cutaway, too. - He does a lot of this, like. (wood slides) - [Cam] It's exactly like I look. - I like that. But then you wonder at home you're like, what's that actually feel like? You know? And it's a 9.2 outta 10 smoothness. - [Cam] This one is a little different, because all these so standard glue up. - Just a glue up. Standard glue up. - [Patrick] It's a standard glue up. - The ol' standard glue up. All right, so we got a pretty powerful PC. You ever game on that bad boy? - Nope. - [Gerald] Just a nothing answer. Nope. - No, I'm the furthest thing from a gamer. I played &quot;Tecmo Super Bowl.&quot; Back in. - Super Nintendo or whatever that was. - Sega. - Yeah. Is this your key light - My video calls. - Smallest fixture imaginable, at a full distance. - [Patrick] Just an eye light. - Look like &quot;The Addams - See this is more the - Raccoon Eyes or what do you mean? - What's the wife in Adam's family? Somebody help me out here. - Elvira? - [Patrick] Elvira, right? - Orson Wells? - Morticia. - [Patrick] Morticia's the kid isn't it? - &quot;101 Dalmatians.&quot; - The monkey's his uncle? - See this is the video Cut out all the other stuff. - This is what people come for. - Yeah, exactly. - [Patrick] It's a glue up. - It's it's a glue up. Classic glue up. - This is exactly how I How many takes do you think a-- how long was the video Scott Was it 40 minutes or 35 minutes? - That was probably like a 35 minute. - I could see you getting that you do like 25 times or whatever, and then maybe a handful here throughout, and it comes like 30, - 750. - What the hell? - Yeah, so no people think that and I just over and over and over again. I'll have pretty regularly - Well, Cam, I've finished your tour. There's your final score for you there, and you can - I need a recount. - And because you passed. - How many purple dots? - [Gerald] You get yourself - [Cam] You didn't ask for consent. - Nobody ever takes offense - I take offense that I saw - Ah, I got number one! - Well-- Audience, these this is me going hanging and holding the clipboard as a joke. Every time we get to one of or guest, or however you wanna &quot;So how do you like to do things, and what's the structure, whatever?&quot; And Patrick and I are we're gonna roll the camera, we're gonna goof around for an hour and we'll see what happens.&quot; - I was expecting some - There's no professionalism here. - [Patrick] We plug your - Exactly. (Gerald laughs) - Is that why you asked for the washroom? - Stuffing like towels in there. The Wet Bandits strike again. (beeps) - When I said that, I was like Why so close? (beeps) - Punch in and now you're there. - Who would've thought I'd - There you go. Well, we like to give (beeps) - [Patrick] You guys squeeze in tight. (both laugh) That's good. (beeps) - You know, I'm probably (beeps) Most of my woodworking friends do do like the purple light - They do what? - Purple light. - I've got a patent on that. - Do you, are you the God, it's terrible. - Fair. (beeps) Government wiener slapped on - I like that. - Scott, cut that out of the video. - We can actually use that in mine, so you're fine.