You must resist. You can resist. British police came This is one example of many, many acts of persecution I felt there was danger. The only right decision! The right decision! I'm all right. I'm here with you. The concern for us, is that Julian is not here with us. Free, free Julian Assange! Free, free Julian Assange! Free, free Julian Assange! Many millions of people from the publications If you just want to take one example, when the helicopter pilot This is a war crime, and yet Julian has to be extradited Free, free Julian Assange! Free, free Julian Assange! If Assange is extradited it will put a strain For me, what's at stake the freedom to access information, and to practice independent journalism, and that disturbs the power. It's a vindictive persecution, which is an attack It should be fought by all means. The story of WikiLeaks begins with a handful of hackers They quickly made the US military's by revealing When I first saw it, actually, I didn't know where it was, when it was, what the circumstances were, It was only and seeing how relaxed and innocent that the carnage The video is complex. To better decipher it, the founder of WikiLeaks the capital of Iceland. They rented a discreet house It's July 2007, an Apache helicopter flies The onboard camera spots Two of them are carrying weapons. The pilot, in radio contact with his base, We have five Request permission to engage. Once I started discovering this is when it became more emotional. To understand that, yes, and this was a driver from Reuters. Among the victims, WikiLeaks identifies Saeed Chmagh, a Reuters assistant driver The helicopter pilot sees Namir and instantly decides -We've got a guy with an RPG. This was a death sentence for those guys. Light them all up. Come on, fire. Keep shooting. Keep shooting. The hotel is a few steps. Crazyhorse, One-Eight. Look at those dead bastards. A few minutes later, The mission becomes a war crime. A black van approaches Inside, there are no combatants, The pilot makes up an imminent threat Crazyhorse, One-Eight, I see him picking up the wounded. I'm trying to get permission to engage. Come on, let us shoot. Bushmaster 7, roger, engage. Come on. Clear. Clear, we are engaged. -Coming around, clear. Look at that, On the ground, corpses are everywhere. The helicopter then captures the arrival Among them is Ethan McCord. This is me here. I was one of about six and I'm running up onto the scene. I'd never seen anything like that before. I saw on the corner They were completely destroyed It almost, to me, didn't seem real. It kind of seemed like something The soldier realizes the severity He locates two wounded people, a four-year-old girl, I originally thought because he had a wound and he wasn't moving. When I went back out to the van, he made a labored breath movement. That's when I started screaming The boy's alive. I grabbed him which is now... At this point, he looked up at me, I told him it'd be okay, I have you. Don't worry, it's going to be okay. His eyes rolled back into his head. At that point, I thought that he possibly had just died After that day, I couldn't justify what I was doing I became very angry with the war, the death That's not what I joined the military for. On April 5th, 2010, The public discovers the true horror In Baghdad, the families The man driving the van died, but the boy saved We just came from my uncle's house. We were going to school. Who were you helping? The wounded. We were going to transport them. Why were you there that day? Good afternoon, I'm Dylan Ratigan. Breaking news this afternoon. A shocking graphic video gunning down innocent civilians. I'd just got done dropping my kids off I went home, and turned on the news, and there I was, running carrying a child. I knew immediately what it was, I had spent so much time and then here it was, Ethan McCord was demobilized in 2010. Since then, The Collateral Murder release The video is iconic. It's symbolic. It was a stunning testimony There was no question about it. People saw WikiLeaks probably can't go but WikiLeaks revolutionized WikiLeaks has allowed by the US Army. They probably would not have been revealed WikiLeaks explodes on international media. Many people Julian Assange WikiLeaks is financed $200,000 for operational costs. It was built in a way to the project itself. Whenever something was received, The whistleblower should feel secure in a way that if he feels there is no instance WikiLeaks grants total anonymity Just one month the US Army arrested a young soldier His name is Bradley Manning. He spends his days and is suspected Bradley Manning is a young 22-year-old Army intelligence specialist, He felt He felt and other things about war that the American people The question is, how was he able without drawing suspicion to himself? In fact, he told people apparently, that when he was downloading he was actually listening to Lady Gaga. It wasn't true, They said, &quot;Oh, that's fine.&quot; &quot;Now we understand what he's why &quot;why it's taking so long With high levels of clearance, Bradley Manning downloads millions military reports, diplomatic cables, strategy memos about Iraq Bradley Manning first offers his documents to the Washington Post who don't respond. Then, he contacted WikiLeaks. Alone, He chats with Adrian Lamo, Unfazed by the circumstances, Adrian Lamo reports Bradley Manning a move he explained What I was doing at that time is, private first class Manning was doing, In that case, I felt compelled. Compelled, I don't believe, Bradley Manning However, of conservative commentators. Hi, I'm Bill O'Reilly, There are traitors in America. That's the subject Whoever leaked to the WikiLeaks website is a traitor and should be executed Whoever in our government leaked Anything less than execution Bradley Manning is incarcerated During his trial, the soldier admits to leaking documents He is convicted of espionage and theft. Thirty-five years behind bars. That is the sentence for this man, the US soldier convicted The fate of Bradley Manning does not prevent WikiLeaks The site is now associated including The Guardian. In the property of the news giant, a headquarters is set up this time about Afghanistan. We set up a secret office that nobody else was allowed in, and we had or war room. Essentially, what we found These are incident logs, war reports in Afghanistan, and to some parts We did a lot of work trying to decode them. A lot of them were written full of abbreviations and acronyms. One of the main findings was that the Pakistani military closely supports some of the Taliban in Afghanistan as a way of keeping Whistle-blowing website WikiLeaks Last time, it was Iraq. This time, it's Afghanistan. The discoveries make the front page and, of course, The Guardian, by doing so This is the Guardian from this morning. Fourteen pages about this topic. Also concurrently in the Spiegel, The real story of this material is that it's war. It's one damn thing after another. Washington is inevitably furious. The United States strongly condemns the illegal disclosure In the documents published by WikiLeaks, There are some names that appear. In Afghanistan or Iraq, In the eyes of the insurgents, Disclosing their identity Good afternoon. At the Pentagon, WikiLeaks is denounced The battlefield consequences of the release of these documents Mr. Assange can say whatever he likes about the greater good but the truth is, the blood of some young soldier It was, of course, were published there, but it has been overplayed quite a bit from the Pentagon on its hands. That coming from an organization that has quite a bit of blood As of now, of anyone What do you expect I hope it creates disincentives for engaging in immoral conduct in war, disincentives for engaging It gives the victims a better understanding of how war goes, Possibly the most valuable thing WikiLeaks is releasing one story The media world who is this enigmatic Julian Assange? The founder of WikiLeaks, Julian Assange which has proven Julian's approach was to rush things And concentrate only on those leaks. Yes, because they are and that's not the approach. I'm not into being popular. It was the approach become Time Magazine Man of the Year, or something like this, with respect -That's enough. For Assange's colleague, The two men clash He suspended me for being disloyal This is some kind that he uses himself -You felt betrayed? -Yes. Because I did not betray him Daniel Domscheit-Berg Criticized by his friends, who sometimes call The man can't leak stuff. This guy's a traitor, a treasonous, I think Assange should be assassinated. I think Obama should put out a contract These are 120 people headed up but target us. Defense Intelligence Agency and FBI internally called the WikiLeaks war room. In the United States, at the moment, there is an attempt to get and other people Plus the military so 120 is actually not so bad. Perhaps a bit overconfident since 2010, the American authorities are, and an opportunity presents itself In the summer of 2010, two young women accused Julian Assange The press takes the case The judge opens an investigation. Without proof, but it is surprisingly revived. Julian Assange accuses WikiLeaks It appears to be highly irregular, It's clearly a smear campaign, we do not know. Behind closed doors, however, Julian Assange speaks aimed at his extradition The more you look at the case, Particularly in Sweden, the more we become aware of the fact that there is trying to get him extradited Even more, he has been portrayed as evil, which is also the work British police have arrested the founder The WikiLeaks founder has been arrested by British police In December 2010, British police issued Imprisoned in London for a week, Julian Assange denies For a year and a half, he does everything in his power which is, according to him, the first step of his extradition When all legal remedies were exhausted, Julian sought refuge and they decided of extradition to the United States, which granted him a safe haven The Assange case mobilized Among them, former magistrate Baltasar Garzon. He coordinates, free of charge, Why did Assange choose It was a popular government. Clearly opposed of both the judicial and economic spheres of the united States. Ecuador was one of those that could stand firmly In June 2012, Julian Assange became the world's barricaded in this Victorian house I asked President Obama The United States against WikiLeaks. What appeared to be temporary Julian Assange receives many visitors, lawyers, ministers, and journalists, It's a picture that was taken in a room I remember having dinner When you say embassy, In reality, the Ecuadorian Embassy It was small. It was certainly bigger but he was in prison. The room he lived in was impenetrable. Cardboard boxes You couldn't see anything In other words, without any possibility of going out. He was placed in a state His life was very much like that of an inmate without a yard. I often met At that time, Julian was obsessed. He thought to record him and all his visitors to the point that we, lawyers, Obsessed with his safety, locked inside, Julian Assange In 2015, of French papers. Chirac, Sarkozy, and Holland We'll return to the beginning of the paper For at least six years, three French presidents the American intelligence services. In the United States, they are militarily occupying as a civilian space. The essential ingredients have been built. The engine, the wheels, The key is in the ignition, It has been turned on for some people. WikiLeaks is an example of it spreading Julian Assange's obsession, The 2016 presidential campaign will give him the opportunity Ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running and we are going America can't succeed unless you succeed. That is why I am running Clinton versus Trump. Their campaigns promised to be brutal. Opposed to Hillary Clinton since 2010, An internal message sent leaving no doubt about his opinion. What we are drawing attention to of Hillary Clinton into being the national security party In the American liberal press, in falling over themselves, are erecting a demon that is going to put nooses as soon as you wins the election, In the spring of 2016, tens of thousands of emails were published online. The most sensitive documents Hillary Clinton may have violated They are revealed When GUCCIFER appears on the web, WikiLeaks partners to get more information. On June 22nd, 2016, WikiLeaks sends him New message. The 6th of July. &quot;Send us any new material &quot;It'll have a higher impact &quot;If you have anything Hillary-related, &quot;preferably US investigators claim behind this fictitious character, Could WikiLeaks be complicit in an attempt It is a wrongful depiction. Julian has stated was neither Russian nor a state entity. Where the material came from I mean, you get information, and you decide to publish That is the core Saying that WikiLeaks or Julian or follows Russian interests is absurd. It doesn't hold up any scrutiny. There is one, however, about Hillary Clinton. I'll tell you, WikiLeaks, WikiLeaks. That came out on WikiLeaks. WikiLeaks, I love WikiLeaks. Destabilized, as best she can The Kremlin, are directing the attacks, to influence our election, as are other sites. In November 2016, Donald Trump was elected president I pledge to every citizen of our land and this is so important to me. President Trump did not remain In 2017, the site published new findings his administration's attitude We at the CIA find to be both perplexing and deeply troubling because while we do our best on those who pose individuals such as Julian Assange seek to use that information It's time a non-state hostile intelligence service In France, suspicions have been raised that WikiLeaks to destabilize I wish to become your president. The president of all the people of France. A president who protects, in the face of the threat of nationalists. My dear compatriots. The end of Emmanuel Macron's campaign Hands are full preparing for the second round but a rumor is out. The inboxes have been hacked. It's May the 5th, 2017, 7:30 PM. Towards the end of the day, They say that there are things Then, we talk about the first elements, and at one point, I open it, and I see that it's actually emails Several thousand documents were extensively hacked, broadcast less than 48 hours before the second round The emails are posted by an unknown source. One and a half hours later, WikiLeaks publishes this tweet This message makes MacronLeaks The En Marche movement has been the victim of a massive Emails of Emmanuel Macron It comes just hours before... Thousands of emails, but most with little and sometimes even fake documents. This is obviously a campaign WikiLeaks is useful when it is used to hide and that allows democracy When you publish information, the personal, friendly, of a person onto a search engine you are no longer in the pursuit This invasion of privacy of these published e-mails this act is unforgivable. This is where Wikileaks strayed No evidence was ever found in this operation. They did not publish anything and the French police nor formally identified the hacker, As of now, for five years. A rare look a private security firm during his asylum In a surveillance video obtained he's seen in shorts Assange's espionage began The head of the Spanish security company decided to replace the video cameras He also had microphones placed in the main hall Finally, he asks these employees Since Julian didn't trust anyone, in the women's bathroom. Well, even there, Initially, was not to spy on Julian Assange, but to protect him Then, a major political change occurred. This took place between President Raphael Correa and we were all convinced that, in this matter, of his predecessor, but when he came to power, This is obviously the result It is from that moment that started, a massive surveillance operation, at all levels of Julian, with all his guests, The sponsors were, in fact, what we were saying, In short, they were watching everything. Julian Assange On the job, UC Global. His movements, Everything is noted Here, the meeting between the client, including Baltasar Garzon. At 11:20 AM, the client, his wife Stella, and his attorney head Here is the man a former marine commander David Morales is the brains and the leader In the documents Morales makes it clear to his employers that all the information can be traced That he has crossed over to the dark side by working It can be said to a North American intelligence service. We cannot say which one exactly. There is no formal, but the suspicions, are very important, very important. For me and all lawyers, this is an operation run and its intelligence services. That is quite clear. How is it possible that the state that granted could have given all this information that is the United States? This is completely nonsensical Thanks to the information the United States now knows the details to avoid his extradition. In 2018, the founder of WikiLeaks American pressure Julian Assange becomes a priority target. On April the 11th, 2019, appeared on national television. Hello, Today, I confirm and aggressive behavior and impossible. Ecuador, sovereignly decides to put an end to the diplomatic asylum granted The government for everyone. The same day, within the compound The United States immediately called You must resist. You can resist. After his removal from the embassy, Julian has been sent and placed in total isolation, so much I went to visit him and his conditions Julian is disoriented, He can only go out for one hour a day. Alone in a small courtyard, We denounced these conditions In February 2020, for the first time His supporters gathered, -Hello, John. Did you have a chance No, I didn't have a chance, I'll just go to the hearing first, -Is that cool with you? -That's fine. -Thank you. -That's cool. -Good morning, everyone. -Good morning. Good morning. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Exceptionally, What was very impressive in that courtroom was the fact that he was behind glass treated and very far away as if he couldn't participate. You could see that obviously controls him. There was a tense atmosphere. We were waiting, and of course, We could see him, and the truth is of character. I remember this prosecutor who talks but is unable to name one. There are a number that end up being without proof, Free, free Julian Assange! Among Julian Assange's now Chelsea Manning. Good afternoon, everyone. Two months ago, the federal government... The former soldier spent released, incarcerated, the justice system hopes Facing jail again, potentially today, The prosecutors are placing me Go to jail or in the alternative, the strong positions that I have, It doesn't matter what it is I'm just not going to comply or cooperate. I think that's it. All right, thank you, everybody. These statements will get Chelsea Manning, Her determination If extradited to the United States, the founder of WikiLeaks 175 years for publishing information There is only one journalist for doing his job and that's Julian Assange. You can criticize Assange, his personality, but if there's one thing it's his contribution What is central to the procedure and that's what makes it so dangerous. Free, free Julian Assange! Free, free Julian Assange! Breaking news out of London this morning. WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange On January 4th, 2021, the British courts ruled he would not be extradited. A half-hearted victory for his supporters as the United States The lawyers for the US government They should not, and pressure to say enough is enough. Julian Assange The WikiLeaks founder to the United States. Free, free! The content of the extradition request has given us the opportunity is nothing more What's at stake for Assange's extradition is what is at stake for a person, It's what's at stake and therefore for the right Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange! Free, free, free Assange!