There are quite a few rotating houses for people who want their Maybe they're built as an maybe as an engineering challenge, or sometimes to give the Over the years, I have asked to but I've always been turned down. They're private homes. near San Diego, California, The real estate agent and asked if I wanted To be clear, They're not paying me. But I just wasn't going Because there are two things First of all, how on earth And second, if this is and it is, then why are they - My wife and I decided we're Just so happened, this lot went We happened to see the sign, we bought it. I'm trying to figure out I said, you know, That way, more rooms And my wife said, fine. Then I thought, some rooms still So I said, To my surprise, And I thought, crap, I've got to So I started to figure out something that would rotate, so - Yes, of course I asked if I could - Go up to a thousand. Good. That's it. - It's very strange to push a button start to rotate around you. - That's lovely. - My wife and I started It took a good two years where we had a structure. We did hire some people and and I found that they would and I would be here 'til seven because they're used to building square The fella at San Diego County and he says, &quot;I just &quot;you're building something that's &quot;No way you can rotate that much So I said, &quot;do you care He says, &quot;hell, I don't care And I said, &quot;well then can we &quot;and you let me go ahead And he said &quot;all right&quot;. In doing all the calculations, I came up with needing a so I put in Have you ever driven your car It goes like that, and that's Cut it down to a one-and-a-half It goes through a 25:1 a 71:1 torque hub that drives We can turn the You can go to bed to the sunset, and wake up to the sunrise You have guests over, during dinner, everybody at the dinner table - In a lot of rotating buildings, the things that require plumbing, don't move at all. But here, the sinks and toilets all rotate as part of the house, and all the explanations I can find They just say that there's a that handles the pipes. For electricity, there are that can deal with rotation. - There's a thing called a slip ring. Which is a very standard Just like a merry-go-round. A merry-go-round goes around and it doesn't have to go backwards. Same thing here. 16 brushes that go around a and they ride on the copper - For telephone and internet, there's A mercury slip ring, a sealed connector conductive liquid metal, Both sides can rotate. They just stay connected to the liquid. But that's not the difficult part. I can understand having one connection for water or wastewater or gas. They can just sit on a But how can you have all three The topology doesn't work. But if they're offset, surely the lengths of the pipes Or if there's slack, surely Turns out Al has a very clever - Obviously you don't want to mix the gas, the gray water, So I designed a slip ring Big piece of steel, This is fixed. We grooved it, it's about a 3&quot; by 3&quot; groove Top groove is sewer. The next groove is drinking water. And there are holes drilled from the gray water and so forth, They're all separate holes Then there's a piece that This piece rotates with the house. You have a sewer line that comes down and then you have gray water, then you have gas. There are seals inbetween They're all alarmed. There's a seal, a sensor ring, A seal, a sensor ring, so forth for all of them. You would have to have two seals before you had any mixture of fluids The seals are good for 75 years, so I don't think we're gonna have a problem! - Yes, I had to commission It's really clever until Al explained it to me. It's like four intersecting funnels. - The total maintenance, once a year, We have a young man who has It's done in an hour. - Which brings me to the After designing and constructing after 20 years of living here, why sell it? - I've had 18 heart procedures. My wife is in perfect health. The odds of me outliving her She was born and raised in Coronado. We're moving back to Coronado. Because this is a complex house, For her to try and teach somebody else would be difficult So we're just kind of jumping ahead. And Coronado's a pretty nice place to go. - Will this place sell quickly? I don't know. but I certainly hope that who want to live somewhere in a home that's this different.