Welcome to my channel! Wishing you a nice day! To help you have many choices when caring for orchids at home using natural methods. In this video, I continue to share new methods. Helps orchids bloom continuously all year round, with large, beautiful flowers. The orchid grows many new, plump and healthy roots. Do you have coffee? Put 2 teaspoons in the pot Add 0.5 liters of boiling water Stirred Cover and let the water cool. Garlic is always the top choice when caring for orchids Helps protect orchids from disease At the same time, adding nutrients, stimulating root spread and bud growth very quickly. Thinly slice 5-6 small garlic cloves Put it in the cup Pour into the cup 500ml of warm water Add to it 1/2 lemon Cover and let stand for 2 hours. After 2 hours Take garlic solution, stir well Filter out residue Use a cotton ball to absorb the garlic-lemon juice solution Then clean both the top and bottom sides of the orchid leaves. Helps leaves clean of dirt, mold and insects residing on leaves. Cleaning the leaves regularly will keep your orchid lush and shiny The stomata will open and the plant will photosynthesize better It also helps quickly heal leaf damage. With abundant vitamin C, it will help strengthen the plant's resistance. Next 1 hour Take the coffee solution and stir well. Then filter out the residue Filter through a thin layer of cheesecloth to retain the smallest coffee residue. Mix the 2 solutions together Dilute further with 2 liters of water and you will have a very good liquid fertilizer for orchids. Method 1 You use a spray bottle containing the solution And spray mist on all leaves and roots of the orchid. This method has the same effect as using foliar fertilizer Provides plants with nutrients that are easy to penetrate and absorb through the leaf surface With powerful antioxidant compounds This type of fertilizer will help orchids increase their resistance Protect orchids from developing comprehensively from roots, stems and leaves Promotes buds and flowers to bloom. Regularly water your orchid every 2 weeks this way Method 2 You water each orchid with this liquid fertilizer. Coffee contains many minerals and organic substances that help provide nutrients for orchids to grow. It contains very high levels of nitrogen, potassium and magnesium, Important nutritional elements for the healthy growth of orchids. It stimulates orchids to bloom early with more vibrant flowers. If you water your orchids regularly every 1-2 weeks it will be very good. Once a month, you can soak the orchid pot in this fertilizer solution for about 20-30 minutes. With simple methods, you can take care of your orchids Grows healthily from roots, stems and leaves This stimulates the orchid to bud and bloom more. This is an orchid with wilted leaves and roots that I replanted with coconut fiber 6 weeks ago The new roots that grow are very healthy and plump Please join me to see if the tree grows well! New roots have grown in abundance and are healthy I will cut off damaged or dead roots The tree has recovered and grown very well, I will repot it And take care of it like other normal orchids. Coconut fiber holds moisture well and it is a porous, breathable substrate This is a very good environment for weak orchids to recover and develop strong roots. This is an onion Slice into thin slices Put it in a jar Add 0.5 liters of boiling water Cover and incubate for 2 hours Next is orange Peel 1 orange Orange peel contains many nutrients necessary for orchid growth Cut into small pieces Put the orange peel in the jar This is bread yeast Add 2 spoon of yeast to the jar Add 1.5 liters of boiling water Stir well so that the yeast completely dissolves in the solution Cover and incubate for 3 hours 2 hours later Take the onion solution and stir well Then filter out the residue Use a cotton ball to wet the solution Gently clean each leaf of the orchid. Onions are rich in minerals such as potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, iron,... With vitamins C, B6,... Has a very good effect of supplementing nutrients for orchids It is also rich in antioxidant compounds Helps orchids increase resistance against pests effectively. You should wipe the orchid's leaves at least once a month. Next 1 hour Take the orange peel solution and stir well Then filter the solution Mix the 2 solutions together Add 1 liter of water and you have a very good liquid fertilizer for orchids Method 1 You water the base and roots of the orchid with this fertilizer every 10-15 days. This fertilizer is rich in essential minerals and vitamins Very good support for orchid growth It creates a favorable environment for beneficial bacteria to grow At the same time, it also helps stabilize the pH of the orchid pot In particular, it stimulates orchids to bloom earlier with brilliant flowers that stay on the branches longer. Method 2 You pour this fertilizer into a spray bottle And spray mist on both leaves and orchid roots. The essential oil in orange peel has the effect of killing fungi and repelling harmful insects very well. This type of fertilizer also has very good antiseptic properties Protects leaves from growing healthy and green You water the orchids every 2 weeks this way. After 1 - 2 months of using this fertilizer The orchid will grow very healthy with a dense and stout root system Promotes plants to flower earlier with large and vibrant flowers. Thank you for watching the video! Goodbye and see you again in the next videos.