Translator: Oksana Molodoria I wonder if you can relate to this. Have you ever had trouble remembering Lines of writing like this? When I was at school, I used to read. And reading's But you know, sometimes my expression Because what I used to find was that and they just weren't going in. And I'd sometimes turn the paper over and my mind had just gone blank And then I'd start to get really worried. I'd start to sweat and fret and get all anxious, especially if it got near And I thought to myself, And I also thought to myself, &quot;There And there is. Because if we take that information and we remember it. Because when we draw, But you know the only trouble with that? People say, &quot;That's a great idea But I believe everybody can draw certainly And today I'd like to show you We're gonna start building up our So get your paper ready. Let's have a go. Have your paper this way around And we are gonna start Next, what I'd like you to do is and make them into eyes. Then a nose. And then a nice smile. And now over here let's try another one. Some more eyes, And this time let's do a circle which we can shade in Let's try one more just down here. Another circle! And this time and then a nose. And now watch carefully, (Laughter) A thoughtful expression. So that's our first shape And everything we're going to do So just turn your page over and we're gonna build This time again have your page and we're gonna begin over here. And the first shape we're going to do So just draw that. Then we think, Put a triangle on the end. Now I'm gonna put and a smile. Got a little fish! Perhaps some bubbles. There we are. In the centre draw a circle. Now connect the circle We'll call that number one. Now draw a line up here. We'll call that number two. We're gonna do a circle again. Just watch. Here it goes. And next a couple of eyes And now a nose and a smile. Something different. and next, three lines this way, and we've got a cat! Let's go over this way. Number three. Let's draw a circle at the top. Now let's draw a line down and then another line here to make a leg. Next, we're gonna draw a line at that way and now an arm to the side and the other one up like that. So we've got a figure. And if we put two little lines there could be a dancer. Let's draw number four. That's gonna be a triangle. And let's see what shape and what picture we could make it into. It looks like a boat with another We could even put a flag on top and a bit of water there. Next, come down here. Number five. We're gonna draw a rectangle. Just watch. Just like that. And let's put some circles here We could make a little bus A horizontal line, two lines vertically for windows, and some people who are inside the bus. Next, let's draw a vertical line. Number six. A totally different shape this time. Let's go with a shape But two vertical lines below and we can make it into a tree. Finally, number seven down here. We haven't done a square yet. Let's do a square and we can put a triangle on top, so we A little door and a couple of windows. So there we are. We've used the shapes in our and of course we could create many more different pictures with that. So... But the wonderful thing is the amazing power of your mind Because as you look at the picture now by just taking a mental picture, You can actually remember but exactly where they are So just turn your paper over and let's do a little experiment here What I'm gonna ask you to do now: I'm gonna point to different places and only when I point to the fish, So do you think the fish is up here? No. Is the fish over here? Is the fish here? Thank goodness for that. (Laughter) What about the bus? Is the bus up here? Is the bus down here? You've got it, haven't you? So, in fact you could remember And even if I'd made it more complicated, you probably could remember So drawing is a good way of remembering and there's some A particular study was done And what they did was they asked people and they gave them And they could either write the words So say a word like 'balloon'. They were all simple words like that. They wrote them. Or the other task they were asked to do So there's my balloon. Then they were given like a kind of filler task that was to do and then a surprise memory test. What did they find? What they found was that people typically when they'd drawn them So double the number of words I thought that was terrific, of course. And the other thing I thought the quality of the drawings In other words, people didn't need in order to create a drawing And they even looked at other ways For example, they got people they got people to write and they got people to look In every single case So drawing was a great way And in my experience, drawing can help us We can remember facts, we can remember abstract concept, And I'd like to show you One of the keys is So let me give you an example. Here we go. We've seen this before. We've got our tree. We could ask ourselves, It could mean lots of things, couldn't it? It might mean 'LIFE'. It could mean 'GROWTH'. It could mean 'STABILITY'. And you could think of And incidentally that's a fantastic thing because once we can draw we can link it to many, So it's useful to be able But of course, when we're trying we don't get the picture first. We've got the information first and then we have to think of a picture. So we have to start getting used So, for example, if I said to you a you might think, When I'm thinking of a spark, we could think of many more. So it's about thinking in pictures. So let's get a bit of practice at thinking in pictures. Now, I could take any topic And incidentally I am not a biologist, but one of the things that white blood cells one of the things they are very good for In fact, apparently they engulf bacteria So really good to have white blood cells. Let's think of what picture comes to mind. You could think what's important is that the picture We're all individual. But I was thinking of using my visual That's a white blood cell. There it is. And why is he looking so happy? Well, he's looking he's got a shield same shape as the fish and it's got 'STOP' written on it. And, there we are, he's holding it up. And the reason he's holding it up is And he's defending us against... See this shape? But this time I'm gonna There he is. Give him some legs. And he's looking particularly unhappy in fact, he's completely fed up because he's got his arms in the air, because he's surrendering. He's been completely defeated So once we've got a picture like that we'll remember it. And we could do things like which is great because So let's take an example Here's one. 'TRUST'. We might think: &quot;How could we possibly And people often say, Some of you might be thinking, A little tip from me: And I'm gonna show you a picture on a workshop that I was running. And it went like this. Have you ever had the experience that you'd wished (Laughter) Because as he started drawing this, You can see A little figure on the top, there we are. Helping us to remember 'TRUST'. Ok. And here we go. I wonder how well you can remember those I'd like you to take and make sure you hide the original. We'll do a little experiment here. And I want you to just to draw the circle and have about a minute to just start you can remember. So I'll give you some time Now, you may or may not If you get stuck on one, and pretend they're all there. Just see if you can see them in your mind. You may want to put the numbers on. There's a lot of concentrating going on. Can help each other Just quick sketches are fine. I can see a lot of activity down there. Ok, so you've had about a minute, just wherever you got to, that's fine. You may have got some Sometimes people draw in a bit more That's absolutely fine. So here we go. What I'd like you to do now is altogether Hold them up! All up! Fantastic! And I'm looking down here and wow! I can see... We've got all on most You can compare them So... Ok. (Laughter) Alright. So, we can actually... (Laughter) and making information And the great thing is what I'd invite for yourself and for others. You might have children, And you could help them to use drawings because after all, and the ability to draw can really So I invite you to get your drawings that when we draw, we remember more! Thank you! (Applause)