Fu Chenye is really tragic. Dad is only 30 years old. He was forced to jump off a building by his rival. He barely managed to revive the Fu family. He didn't enjoy it for a few years. He died in a plane crash abroad. Dead. Nephew. You stay underground. Keep your dead father company. Uncle, I will definitely take good care of the Fu family My poor daughter-in-law Chen Ye has been receiving treatment overseas Now that he's finally coming back There's a plane crash It's the Fu family that has wronged you No, mother-in-law It's my fault, I didn't have the fortune to keep Chen Ye Good child You're still young Your mother-in-law hopes that you Can find a man to rely on Don't end up like me Alone for a lifetime I won't leave What would you do if I left? I want to stay in the Fu family and be a widow for Chen Ye For the rest of my life With a mother-in-law who likes you No nagging husband and a huge inheritance Nothing could be more satisfying Whoever leaves is the fool Stop pretending to be a grieving widow and get out of here I think This wicked girl Is here to take over the Fu family Married for 3 years and only saw each other on the wedding day What's the point of pretending to be so devoted in front of the dead Chen Yan, shut your mouth Don't think I don't know what you're plotting. You'd love nothing more than for Chen Ye to die. So your good-for-nothing son can take his place. Who are you calling a good-for-nothing? Your son is quite the achiever. But what's the use? He's still a short-lived ghost. Chen Yan, get out! You're not welcome here. What are you saying? What are you doing? Chen Yan, I'll fight you! Let go of me, mother-in-law! Who do you think you are? Get out of here! You're an outsider. Who do you think you are? Scram! Mu An'an, this woman She's quite interesting. Should I call home and tell them? You missed that flight because of a meeting. No need. They've even set up a mourning hall for me at home. Why not take this chance to divorce Mu An'an? Yes, Mr. Fu. As soon as we arrive, I'll find the young mistress and have her sign the divorce agreement. Speaking of which, I've been doing business overseas since we got married. Mu An'an, though forced upon me by my mother, I was the one in the wrong to begin with. Settle the property division Don't mistreat her Alright, Mr. Fu I don't need to rely on getting promoted and rich in order to live without my late husband, Mu An'an, anymore I'm fed up with that deadpan husband from the Fu family He's actually dead now An'an I can't believe Fu Chenye made you a widow for three years. Now I see it clearly Congratulations Sis, I'll buy you a drink tonight Choose from 18 male models Suran, you're truly my best girl Where are the male models? Hurry, bring them in What's the rush? The one I just ordered is still on the way Drink up, drink up Sis Ran, let me do it Oh right This is from my dad I brought out my special stash of wine. It's quite valuable, you know. Let me pour it for you, sister. Alright. You're so thoughtful. You make your sister happy. Your sister will make you happy too. You make your sister happy. Your sister will make you happy too. Hold this. Thank you, sister Sister, I want it too, I want it too Don't rush, don't rush Everyone gets one, everyone gets one Come on Here you go Take it Here you go Tonight, the whole place I, Mu An'an, am treating everyone Young Master Fu The young mistress ordered eighteen male models for a wild night at the club How many Eighteen Are you sure you didn't mistake It's true, I saw them come down from the sky bar One after another, eighteen of them The agent told me it was a wealthy woman named Mu An'an Who called them Oh, what a sight As soon as I saw them coming down, I ran right over to report to you. She doesn't know. Hurry up and report to you. Shake it again. Ah, you drink. Sister, you're so amazing. Drink, drink, drink. Sister, it's your turn to drink. Okay. Caught one. Got it! Ah, got it! Have one Su Ran This one is still The icy mountain, the domineering CEO type Mu An'an I know, I understand Pay first Then get things done I understand I apologize, Mr. Fu, it was our mistake We'll leave right away Hurry up and go Who are you people really? Are you here to cause trouble? Miss Su, you should leave too This is the head of the Fu family, Fu Chenye Let's go, go, go Ah, what's this about Fu Chenye? Isn't he dead? You've got to be kidding me. Hey, hey, hey, don't push me, An'an. Why is everyone leaving? Where's my male model? Where are my eighteen male models? Su Ran Su Ran This male model Is this how you usually serve others? Is your service level a bit too rough? Mu An'an Look carefully Say it again, who am I How would I know who you are But you look A bit like my late husband What's going on Could you be Fu Chenye? Mu An'an Who told you I was dead? What? Seeing your husband come back alive, Disappointed? Telling everyone I'm dead, And that you'll mourn me for the rest of your life. Mu An'an, Is this how you mourn me? Ouch, let go! You little brat. What are you up to with Mu An'an? Fu Chenye is not dead at all. If you don't come back, I'll freeze all your cards. He, he It's really Fu Chenye. It's over, it's over. An'an, you'd better take care of yourself first. I'm out of here. Didn't Fu Chenye go overseas for three years to recuperate? How does he know everything? Oh no, it's over! Ha-ha Mu An'an Don't think you can get away with playing dumb Your husband just died And you order 18 male models You're really something If I hadn't survived I'd think this was all fake Why are you crying? Honey You're so young So handsome and yet you're gone I wish I could have gone with you Hiring eighteen male models was to Ease the pain of losing you I didn't expect you to visit me in a dream My dear husband I miss you so much Husband Why won't you let me kiss you in my dreams? Even though we only met once at the wedding, I fell in love with you at first sight. Fell in love at first sight. Hmm. Won't let me kiss. Hmm. Fell in love at first sight. Not letting me kiss. Not letting me kiss in my dreams. I really hate myself for liking you so much. Fu Chenye, I don't believe this won't soften your heart. I'm confessing my deep feelings to you. Mu An'an You're quite the cunning woman. I'll count to three, if you don't get up, I'll withdraw the investment from the Mu family immediately. Then I'll strip you naked, break your legs, and throw you onto the street. I'll count to three, if you don't get up, I'll withdraw the investment from the Mu family immediately. Strip you naked, break your legs, and drag you to the street. Husband Mu'an'an You really Scared me to death, it was indeed a dream. If it were really Fu Chenye, I probably wouldn't be able to Lay here with all my limbs intact. What are you doing, Susu? What are you doing? What else can I do? Sleeping. Mu An'an, how can you still sleep? What did your dead husband do to you last night? You're not talking about Fu Chenye, are you? What could he do to me? Could he jump out of the grave and strangle me? Alright, Su Ran, The male model you ordered yesterday was quite something. Remember to do it again next time. Good morning Good morning Mu An'an, what's wrong? Hello, hello Mu An'an Isn't there something you want To tell me? We didn't, you know, Ahem Do anything last night, right? Mu An'an You cunning woman You really don't remember anything, do you? So passionate, huh? You've forgotten, haven't you? Let me remind you Ah, Mr. Fu We're practically meeting for the first time This way of yours Isn't very appropriate, is it? Really? Yesterday You puked on me And took advantage of me changing clothes Acted so indecently towards me Even the secretary Qin couldn't stop you You say it's not a good time now Already offended Fu Chenye He's so detestable Then I'll just provoke him. Hey, Mu'an'an What are you doing? Good husband Let's see the abs Just take a look Come on, look Old man This is it This is the old man From the second son's family Last night, I was at a nightclub. And ah With a male model A room with a male model Aigoo is really shameful ah The Fu family's face Where can I put it? I don't think so. My grandson's daughter-in-law has always been a good girl. You can't be mistaken. Dad, look quickly! Look at this Niece-in-law to daughter-in-law Oh dear Oh There's one more in the bed What a sin Granddaughter-in-law What are you doing Grandpa, it's just a little misunderstanding Misunderstanding Aunt I advise you to be cautious Mu'an, what are you so guilty about? You dare to do it but not to admit it, right? Eldest sister-in-law Cousin has just passed away Can't you hold back a bit? You're so eager. If cousin knew about this in the afterlife He probably wouldn't rest in peace He is indeed not at peace Mu An'an, such a promiscuous and filthy woman These three years, who knows how many times she's Betrayed him with other men Aunt, can you please watch your language? Which eye did you see me in a hotel room with another man? Mu An'an Keep denying it as much as you want In bed, the man is the proof Old man, today I'll show you The true face of Mu An'an Today, I'm going to show you, old man, Mu Anan's true face. You, you, you, Where did you find a male model just like Fu Chenye? Tell me, Is there any chance that he is Fu Chenye? Impossible The flight that Fu Chenye was on No one survived I've made inquiries Fu Chenye is gone This Mu An'an is too sinister She must be in cahoots with this male model To deceive you and seize the family fortune You should get rid of this disaster quickly Yes, yes, yes When things are out of the ordinary, there must be a reason. This Mu An'an Is the demon in our Fu family. Aunt Cousin I'm not dead yet. You're in such a hurry To drive me out of the Fu family. Old Master Fu Fu Shao didn't board that flight. The overseas flight just landed last night I just found out that the Fu family's funeral has already been held I'm really sorry Aunt Where is my true face Where Grandpa I apologize It's too rushed I was planning to this morning Inform the Fu family again. Hahaha No need, no need, I'm just an old man. Knowing that you and An'an are so loving is better than anything. You and An'an can stay here for as long as you like. Eldest daughter-in-law, Why are you still here? What are you waiting for? If you dare to ruin my grandson's and granddaughter-in-law's happiness again, I won't spare you. Old man, it's me. You're leaving too. Oh oh. Finally, it's my turn. Mu An'an, it's time for us to settle the score. Mu An'an. You know, I never had a mother growing up. I was raised with abuse from my wicked stepmother and cruel father. Then I was sold to the Fu family. Me Mu An'an Don't play the victim here That Have you prepared the divorce agreement? I can sign it right now Pack up and vanish from your sight Wants to divorce and run away Let me tell you No way I've ordered eighteen male models, and he still won't divorce Could it be That Fu Chenye's long-standing illness is true He still needs me to put on a good face It was my fault yesterday I apologize, I'll do anything you say That's more like it Starting today Work at the company as my maid Until I'm no longer angry Who is this? Why are you dressed like that at the company? That's perverted. Good day, Mr. Fu. Coffee, tea, and water, please. Hot and cold water, one cup each. Are you a water leak? You drink so much. Are you done? Come here. This cup is for you. I'm not thirsty. Just drink, my dear husband. Drink. Drink. No. Mr. Fu. I'm a married woman, and no matter how wealthy you are, you can't force yourself on me. Mu An'an, be quiet. Mr. Fu. This abnormal relationship of ours If my husband finds out, he's definitely going to divorce me. Who is this wretched woman? Who is this wretched woman and why haven't you taken her out yet? Take her away quickly. Where is the security? Mr. Fu Didn't you say you didn't have a wife? Then who is she? Hurry up and tell me, tell me! Mu An'an, that's enough. You go out first, I have other matters to attend to. I'm not... Brother Chen Ye, I This young lady You are truly a righteous person who acts on behalf of heaven Mu An'an, you are a vulgar and lowly woman I warn you not to pester Brother Chen Ye I'm not pestering President Fu But President Fu Just won't let me go Mu An'an Shut your mouth. You leave first. Get out. Mr. Fu, I don't want it anymore, please let me go. Silence. It's said that Mr. Fu used to be Because he played too wildly and ruined it all. It took three years of treatment to come back. If the tongue can't speak, then cut it off. I'm sorry, Miss Meng. Mu An'an, I brought you here to atone as a maid. Not to cause a scene in the company. Fu Chenye, I've been serving you all morning. What more do you want from me? Mu An'an You keep pushing my limits, so should I teach you a lesson too? The one sweeping over there, bring me a latte. Hick A latte is coffee with milk. This cup Redo Look at you, you look so clueless I'm afraid you don't even know the types of coffee beans and the suitable afternoon milk that go together Do you know? Even if you know, can you give me a raise? What's going on What's happening Miss Meng, do you have a problem? Chenyue, big brother I'm the brand ambassador you personally invited. But this woman, is constantly disrespectful towards me. I just wanted her to make me a latte. Yet she humiliated me like that. And you, a big star, join in right away? Brother Chen Ye, Look at him, How could a rude and vulgar person like Fu be working as a cleaner here? Hurry up Fire her I'm vulgar and unreasonable Do you know who I am? Who are you? You're just a Menial cleaning woman Who else could you be? Miss Meng You're from the mountains 2G network? Don't even recognize the lady of the Fu family Fu Chenye He is my lawfully wedded husband Mu An'an, get off Brother Chenye It's all this woman's self-directed drama, right? How could such trash be your wife? I'm the trash My husband just loves it when I do this. See? Look at your husband. Notice the marks on him? I did that. Mu An'an, let go. Hubby. You worked hard all night and didn't sleep. Is your back still sore today? You... Hubby, don't speak. I'm willing to have ten sons with you. Mu An'an. Even if you marry Brother Chenye through improper means, So what? He will divorce you sooner or later. Alright, Then hurry up and have Fu Chenye divorce me. See if he agrees. Fu Chenye has a secret illness and probably still needs me, his fake wife, to maintain appearances. Even if he agrees to the divorce, That's exactly what I want. Brother Chen Ye, what are you waiting for? Hurry up and give her the divorce agreement. Grandpa's birthday banquet is coming up. I still need to use this woman to deal with the elders of the Fu family. We can't afford any complications. Mu An'an The cleaning crew needs help. Get over there right away. Young lady Thank you so much It's okay, ma'am I deserve it Meng Shuyi Are you just a heartless and despicable person? Mu An'an, you're just a plaything Do you really think a sparrow can become a phoenix? Remember this This is your true place You claim to be noble Then why hasn't Fu Chenye divorced me and married you? Mu An'an What makes you think you're worthy of speaking to me like that? Auntie What's that terrible smell? Is her mouth always licking the toilet bowl? Are you insane? Brother Chenye Brother Chenye I will never let Mu An'an, that wretched woman, off the hook. She's nothing but a troublemaker. You must divorce her. Take a break first. I have two more meetings to attend. Thanks for the help today. Haven't eaten yet, have you? Grab something to eat for now. This is for the elderly. He actually ate the offerings. It seems the servants in the Fu family are well-informed. Uncle My dad lent you a lot of money Now he's bankrupt And he's seriously ill Could you please hurry up and return some of the money to us Kid Don't worry Once your dad dies, I'll definitely burn more paper money for him Brother, are you hungry? I'll share one with you Not tasty? It's not tasty. Don't buy it again in the future. I owe you a favor, you can ask me to do anything. If needed, I can also be a wife for a lifetime. Play the role of my wife for a lifetime. You're welcome. Don't be too touched. Let's go. Shuyi has already booked a restaurant. Let's go together Lai Shuyi Eat vegetables Thank you, Brother Chen Ye, you always care about me the most Mu An'an What are you doing there Aren't you going to pour a drink for Miss Meng to apologize? What's going on? Can't my sister even pour a drink properly now? What's wrong? Just my sister, nothing much. Maybe she's never seen such fine wine before. My sister, after all, comes from a humble background. She doesn't have much knowledge. Mu An'an What's gotten into you? Fu Chenye I ran across dozens of streets to buy your favorite pastries. Yet you let your mistress trample me with glass shards. I wish you two lovebirds are locked in hell. This maid game I'm not playing along Young Master Fu According to our investigation, the madam didn't go to the Fu residence Nor did she return to the Mu family Could she have encountered any danger Young Master Fu This kind of pastry has reappeared Is it possible that the madam is the little girl who saved you back then Grandpa Have you seen a little girl in a red dress? How pitiful. Her cruel stepmother wouldn't feed her. She even beat her to a pulp, accusing her of stealing offerings and bringing bad luck. Eventually, she couldn't take it anymore and jumped into the water. But, Her body was never found, who knows where it ended up. Maybe someone saved her. It's possible. Is there a chance? She's not dead yet. Use all the connections of the Fu family. Even if we have to turn Jinghai upside down, Find her for me. Yes, sir. Brother Chenye. What is Mu An'an to you? Is she worth using all the Fu family's connections? Shuyi, Mu An'an is still my wife, Fu Chenye's. Please show some self-respect. Mu An'an You better be dead to me. Su Ran When did you start riding motorcycles? You know how much I love to have fun. But this Fu Chenye, He actually dares to treat you like this. Don't even mention it. I was still trying to get on his good side. That's so unfair. If he doesn't want you, I do. Come home with me, and I'll give you my brother. Stop messing around. Su Ran What's the fuss about? You didn't fall for that stiff, did you? I don't like him. I never want to see that gloomy face again. Let's go. Go find your brother. Let's go. Mu An'an Which brother are you going to look for? What's wrong with you? Let me go! This won't do, I'll take you to the hospital. Fu Chenye Why do you have the right to interfere with me? Is it any of your business if I live or die? Because I'm still your husband. Don't you find it ridiculous? You left me alone in the Fu family for three years. Now you want to tell me you're my husband. Miss It's getting late, shall we go back? I'll give you two million to run that woman over. I'll help you prove it was an accident. Excuse me. It's too late. I don't need it anymore. I was wrong about what happened to Mu'an'an before. You fool, how could you bump into Fu Chenye? The money can't be refunded, you know. Fu Chenye, wake up. Fu Chenye. Fu Chenye, please wake up, Fu Chenye. Brother Chenye. We mobilized all the connections of the Fu family to look for you all night. It's even almost jumped into the river for you. It's bad enough that you're partying in the nightclub. Ended up with him getting hit by a car. You witch! Mu An'an. You don't deserve to be here. Sorry, Miss Meng. The one lying here is my husband. It's none of your business. Come on, teach me a lesson. You two, stop arguing. Are you still planning to save the patient? I'm sorry, Doctor, please save my husband. My husband has plenty of money. Money is not an issue. Madam. Fu Shao has a concussion and a broken arm. The doctor said they don't know when he'll wake up. Why don't you go home and rest? I'm here, you can trust me. Fu Chenye saved me. I have to thank him no matter what. When will he wake up? When am I leaving? Fu Shao Do you really want me to go that badly? A medical miracle Mu An'an You see, I'm not dead You did this on purpose, didn't you? Speaking of which Why did you suddenly rush to save me? That's my business Is it any of your business? Fu is so unique. Don't worry. Just for saving me that day, I, Mu An'an, from now on Will never make you angry again. I will protect you Until we're ninety-nine. What ninety-nine? If it weren't for you, How could Brother Chen Ye possibly get into a car accident and end up in the hospital? Mu An'an, get out! Miss Meng, why are you everywhere? You're so eager. Being Mr. Fu Chenye's mistress. I'll go get you some face wash water. Brother Chenye, look at her. Doesn't have any manners, speaking such vulgar words. How dare you say that? Mu An'an. This is a hospital, leave immediately. You shameless woman, get down from there. I won't let you lie with him. No matter how much you jump around, Miss Meng, it won't change the fact that your brother Chen Ye and I are legally married. I'm not only going to sleep with him, but I'm also going to Mu An'an Bitch, shut your filthy mouth. I won't allow you to kiss him. Mind your own business. I touched him. I'm touching him again. Mu An'an, you shameless woman, I'll kill you. Miss Meng Calm down, let's go outside first. If anyone leaves, it should be her. Brother Chen Ye, don't you have no feelings for her at all? Why are you willing to let her kiss you? What's the matter? Are you really willing to sleep with me? Mu An'an Why did you just do that? Never mind, never mind. This deadpan face. I owe him for getting hurt to protect me. Darling husband, I will act as your good wife. Until you recover. And when you recover? We'll get a divorce. You better think so. Are you really not going to tell your mother about your injury? Are you planning to tell her That you're planning to Find a young guy for some fun tonight On your way there You got hit by a car What young guy Those common beauties Can't compare to you, my husband Mu An'an You don't have to try so hard to please me I'm going to take a bath now. Would you like to join me? Taking a bath is nice. Honey, let me help you undress. Why hasn't Fu Chenye come out yet? I'm just curious to see if Fu Chenye really has a secret illness. Fu Chenye Are you okay? Are you alright? Mu An'an Alright, alright, alright I won't look Are you planning to take a bath in those pants? Go get Secretary Qin Why make such a fuss? It's so late Why bother others? Mu An'an If you dare to peek again, I'll I'll gouge your eyes out Fine, fine, I'll close my eyes, alright? Alright You can leave now Fu Chenye Will it kill you if I take a look? Mu An'an Hand me the towel on your left Are you doing this on purpose? It's all because you insisted I get some towel It's making me blind Hey, are you hurt anywhere? Don't touch. Your parents never taught you about the difference between men and women? What about a sense of shame? My mom passed away early, and my dad doesn't care about me. No one has taught me about shame. Fu Chenye, you're so virtuous. Why don't you write a book? I'll have all my sisters promote it for free and support you. You Or perhaps someone might have saved me. Didn't I sleep on the ground yesterday? Get up. Help me get dressed. Mu An'an Are you doing this on purpose? Sorry about that. This is my first time dressing a man. You better be telling the truth. Hey, wait for me a moment. One minute This woman What's she up to now Take this chance to flatter Fu Chenye He'll surely give me more in the divorce You need more nutrients for your bone injury The sandwich is freshly made I put in three eggs, remember to eat it Thank you You've been staring at it for two hours If you don't eat it, it'll go bad. You say This Mu An'an Is she trying to poison me to death? This should Not likely Nonsense I mean, is it possible she wants to poison me? After all She's been hoping I'd die so she can inherit the family fortune. Although the madam usually acts a bit absurdly It's not that bad Brother Chen Ye, how's your hand? I brought you bone injury supplements imported from Germany Why are you here? Brother Chen Ye, what are you saying? How could I not come to see you when your hand is injured? Meng Shuyi I'm already married I advise you not to do anything unnecessary. Take all the things with you. I won't accept them. Alright, alright, alright. I'll handle this professionally. Brother Chen Ye. As for the new brand of the Fu family, when do you think we should sign the endorsement deal? Let's talk about it later. I'll notify your agent before signing. Who does Mu An'an think she is? I should be the lady of the Fu family. To capture a man's heart, first capture his stomach. Fu Chenye specially made this big bone soup for you. Remember to add some property after drinking. You're such a troublemaker, you even hurt Brother Chenye. You still have the face to come. I wonder who it is, it turns out to be the mistress. I'm here to inspect my husband's company. Is there a problem? Mu An'an Your existence is a joke to the Fu family. What status do you have? To speak so boldly here. Do you really think you're the young mistress of the Fu family? She's not. Could it be That you are? Greetings, Madam Fu We mustn't have any mishaps with Madam Fu arriving Mu'an An, you're in trouble If my aunt finds out That you've injured her son, she'll be furious Aunt, you've arrived Yesterday, this Mu'an An Caused Brother Chen Ye to get hurt I'm teaching her a lesson right now My daughter-in-law It's not your place to lecture us. Mother-in-law Yesterday, Chen Ye got hurt saving me. It was too late to inform you. Why didn't you tell me about such a big matter sooner? Let me see if you're injured. I'm fine. But Chen Ye, he has a fracture. I've made soup for him and am about to take it over. Why are you here? I haven't seen you in a while, I was worried so I came to check on you. Good child. Even made soup for Chen Ye. Mu An'an. Aunt must have been tricked by you this time. This time, I'll do whatever it takes to expose your facade. Mother Why are you here? You called for me. Get down on your knees. An'an, why are you kneeling? Kneel down. An'an, why are you kneeling? Get up quickly. Go and sit over there. You scared me to death. I thought it was about me ordering eighteen male models. The truth has come out. What you're doing is Firstly, You faked illness to deceive the Fu family. Secondly, You've neglected your new wife for three years. Do you realize your mistake? Fu Chenye pretended to be ill. So, does he actually have a secret illness? Mother I know I was wrong. Mother-in-law Chen Ye was trying to save me. I've injured my thigh. Please don't punish him just yet. When did I injure my thigh? This stubborn woman seems to be helping me. Since you saved me, I'll help you out. Mother, for my sake, Please spare him some face. An girl Do you have much face? My face Isn't it given by you? Aunt Mu An'an is promiscuous and full of lies She even secretly Brother Chen Ye Hired eighteen male models, you must not be deceived by her What are you saying? Oh no, Meng Shuyi I really appreciate it What did you say On the night when Brother Chen Ye returned to the country She ordered 18 male models An An Is that true Don't talk nonsense without evidence The lady was with me all night Grandpa knows about it too Brother Chen Ye Are you out of your mind? I have evidence on my phone Meng Shuyi, I called you here to discuss the project Not to Slander me like this I ask you To leave Fu's company Immediately Has he lost his mind? What I hate the most in my life Are those flies buzzing around men Who stop at nothing to destroy other people's marriages Aunt, I can assure you with my character Mu An'an She is truly a promiscuous slut Miss Meng You're an adult too You should know your limits Chen Ye is married So You'd better put away those thoughts you shouldn't have Mu An'an, what tricks are you playing To make the Fu family cover up your scandal Mother-in-law Actually, I Mother-in-law Actually, I Guards Arrest this person A scheming mistress trying to climb the social ladder Strip her and throw her out Go Anyone else who can't see clearly Will end up just like her Mu An'an One day, sooner or later I will expose your facade Just you wait and see Today For An's sake, I'll let you off this time. An, Live a good life with Chen Ye. In the future, If any tramp bothers Chen Ye, You just tell me, your mother-in-law. Got it, mother-in-law. I won't disturb you two anymore. Continue to build your bond. Fu Chenye Then I owe you another favor Mu An'an I'm only helping you this once If there's a next time You're on your own I thought you were dead You're dead and you're not letting me have some fun Mu An'an Alright, it's all in the past. Honey, come have some soup. Do you know who I am? Let me go, let me go! You're the mistress, so what if you know who I am? Get out of here now! Mu An'an The humiliation I've suffered today Someday I will make you pay double. Miss Meng, such a beauty My cousin really doesn't know how to cherish a delicate flower Why not come with me I'll make you the spokesperson for Fu's new brand Let me be The project director for Fu's Jewelry new Brand Fu Chenye Aren't you very committed to this project? You seem quite interested in jewelry, and I happen to have one right here. If you're not willing, that's fine. Willing, willing, I'm willing. However, The spokesperson for the new brand, I will replace. Okay. Fu Chenye would take the initiative, Let me into the core of the Fu family. How could I miss such a good opportunity? The new brand project can't be given to her. Fu Heng This matter It's not your place to comment. Cousin The family business is surnamed Fu, or is it surnamed Mu? You're entrusting such an important project to someone like Mu An'an. Have you lost your mind? Fu's second son, who only indulges in eating, drinking, and gambling on a daily basis, Why are you so bold today? You didn't get high on drugs, did you? Mu An'an How dare you speak like that? It seems I must teach you a lesson today, To show you what respect means. Fu Heng Teach my wife a lesson? You're not qualified enough. Get out He's not qualified What about me? Uncle Your whole family Are you planning a rebellion? I'm looking out for you You haven't been home in three years You don't know Mu Anan's character at all Don't be deceived by her These three years They've been bullying my mother-in-law everywhere I've set them up more than once It seems like they're here for revenge Tell me more This woman Talks her way out of everything Greedy to the core For three years, she's been manipulating my sister-in-law Willing to spend any amount of money on her Gemstones Almost two hundred million given away Your father Was deceived by an insider with fake raw stones Brought to financial ruin and took his own life by jumping off a building How could you allow A woman of low character and effort To enter the core of the Fu family Uncle As brothers of the Fu family, my father-in-law died by jumping off a building You managed to get away unscathed. You wouldn't be the mole, would you? You wretched woman, you're asking for death. Help! Help! Hey Dad, save me! My cousin has gone mad. Save me! My cousin has gone mad. He's going to kill me. Fu Chun-Ye. Are you sure you You want to make an enemy of me for this unfeeling bitch? For this unfeeling bitch Even if you have no feelings for her. My wife I can't be bullied by others. Is Fu Chen Ye always this mean? Then I've been a deadbeat before. Feels like my neck is all chilly and wet. Okay. Fu Chenye, you're really my good nephew. Fu Huaixiang If there's a next time, Your son Won't be so lucky. Maybe it'll be an arm or a leg. Or maybe, It'll be his life. Just let Mu An'an lead you to your doom. Honey, when you saved me just now, you were so handsome it made my knees weak. What was that move called again? When did you learn that? Stop flattering me. I'm not flattering, I'm just telling the truth. I hereby declare, from this day on, I, Mu An'an, am yours, Fu Chenye's. Top henchman Never betray Fu Chenye for life Mu An'an So eager to show loyalty Did you see how I treated Fu Heng Are you afraid I'll treat you the same way in the future? That's not true at all Fu Huaixiang and his son have wronged and humiliated me I absolutely stand on the same side as my husband This time, I'm not only going to make achievements with the new brand jewelry We must kick Fu Huaixiang and his son out of the Fu family with force. Mu An'an Actually You don't need to say this to please me. Fu Chenye Do you look down on me? I, Mu An'an, always keep my word. Then I will wait and see. Fu Chenye What's going on with you? How have you become as absurd and childish as Mu Anan? Actually, I have something I'd like to ask you. How did you manage to find that old-fashioned rice cake? Did you see it when you were a child? No, I haven't. I went from street to street, asking the elderly. I'd give free eggs to whoever told me. Finally. I found an old man. She made it by hand. I'm sure it's not her. Looks like that little girl Probably drowned a long time ago. Fu Chun-Yeol Why are you so interested in this pastry? Why are you so interested in this pastry? It's nothing. Tomorrow night the project meeting is very important Fu Huaixiang has arranged a live broadcast and asked the whole company to attend If you're scared, just tell me I, Mu An'an am only afraid they won't dare to come Fu Chenye, this time I will show you how I bring you honor Go No proper manners Why hasn't Fu Heng responded yet? The spokesperson matter What's the final decision? Fu Chenye's sudden change in attitude towards Mu An'an Could it be related to The traditional pastries he mentioned? Find out everything about Fu Chenye From his childhood to the present Who has he met? Especially someone related to old-fashioned pastries. Hello everyone, my name is Mu An'an. I am the project director in charge of the new brand of Fu's Jewelry. This meeting is to inform everyone that the brand needs to keep up with the times. Fu's new brand, Ye An Jewelry, requires a new spokesperson who is more in line with the brand image. This colleague Do you have any questions? Miss Meng was selected as a spokesperson after several rounds of screening and evaluation. New director As soon as you arrive, are you going to waste the efforts of so many people? If everyone uses hard work to cover up their incompetence, then Fu's wouldn't have made it this far. You If you have a better proposal, I suggest you prepare before speaking. The new director In terms of seniority In terms of works Anyone here Isn't stronger than you I advise you To listen to the advice of your seniors to avoid future failures The Fu's giant ship has sailed for too long Inevitably, some issues have arisen A frog that acts old and wise Otherwise Our General Fu wouldn't have sent me to be the project director Mu An'an Who are you talking about This little rascal Dares to use me as a stepping stone That's interesting This is a work area, please watch your language If you insist on disrupting office activities Fu's security is always at your service How dare you New director I'm curious Why did Fu's company Give up on me as a brand Spokesperson this time Who are you planning to invite as a spokesperson Miss Meng, that's a very good question Ye'an Jewelry is founded by the Fu family Mr. Fu Huailei An unfinished legacy Also a father's inexpressible love For his mischievous and active young son According to our latest assessment Ye'an will be signed Ji Xingran, with such a free-spirited personality Extremely full of tension Stars as brand endorsers Secretary Qin You said Mu An'an, with her small courage, how can she be so bold Madam She is indeed very unique Ji Xingran Did I hear that right The one who recently won a major award The youngest male movie emperor The talented actor Ji Xingran Yes Have you really done a thorough background check, new boss? The way you speak is really eye-opening. Laughably stupid. Hahaha. The actor Ji Xingran has an outstanding appearance. But his temper is famously eccentric. And his family background is extraordinary. Until now, no brand Has been able to recruit him. Forgot to inform everyone just now. Ji Xingran is very interested in Ye An Jewelry. He's already on his way. Director Mu, Are you hallucinating? Or have you been deceived by some shady talent agency? If you're incapable, I can find someone to replace you. Why lie and pretend to be capable? I've heard for a while that the new director has no qualifications. Rumors say it's all about physical connections. A rapid rise to the top. Seeing them today, It's indeed a joke. I think this meeting, There's no need to continue. It's a waste of time. Please calm down, everyone. The meeting is not over yet. Is Mr. Fu going to help his wife out of this situation? No. This little rascal is full of tricks. Wait a bit longer. Don't embarrass yourself here. As a woman, Hurry home and take care of your child. If Ji Xingran could come, I'd twist my head off and kick it to you like a ball. Hahaha. My apologies There's traffic It really is him He's so handsome Yes, indeed Hello, Mr. Ji. I'm the director of the new brand project at Fu's company My name is Mu An'an. Nice to meet you Director Mu My name is Ji Xingran It can't be Even I can't get a word with the Emperor Ji. Mu An'an, this nobody, How could she possibly invite The great Emperor Ji? Director Mu, what are you doing? Deputy Director, Didn't you say if Ji Xingran came, you'd twist his head off And use it as a ball to kick? I haven't kicked it yet. Why did you run away? General Huaixiang, please help me. Mu An'an Just a joke Are you even considering murder? A joke You've been broadcasting all sorts of suppression and humiliation throughout the company You haven't left me any room to breathe Director I didn't recognize your greatness, please spare me I think you said something very well Don't embarrass yourself here Deputy Director From now on You can just go home and take care of your kids No, I won't leave Huai Xiang, I'm on your side, you have to speak up for me Mu An'an The Deputy Director has twenty years of brand experience You're firing him Are you trying to dishearten the other veterans of the Fu family? Fu Huaixiang, don't disgust me with your old-timer attitude Don't forget Today, the whole company saw how foolish you both were If Boss Fu doesn't kick you out, where does he put his face? You wretched woman So you did this on purpose Uncle Did you forget everything I said this morning? Uncle, I'm getting old. Don't take offense at my words. At your age, you should rest more. Fu's new brand needs new blood. Mu Anan's performance today has already convinced everyone. Fu Chenye What are you talking about? Mr. Huaixiang After a collective vote from the higher-ups, Your retirement has been processed in advance. Go back So you two agreed to the live broadcast just to gang up on me, right? I'm not leaving I won't retire Mr. Fu, your cooperation this time I give you a hundred points It still has to be Director Mu's amazing performance directly made the whole company I'm truly convinced. Wow, Ji Xingran is so handsome! I can't believe I'm seeing Ji Xingran in person, just So handsome. Mr. Fu Mr. Fu I'm not sure if I should say this or not Lao Qin Speak your mind. I just passed by that During the time at the studio I saw Ji Xingran Many girls were there, screaming and surrounding him Um It seems the madam was also at the scene and She was enjoying it too But Mr. Fu Since you're planning to divorce her after the birthday banquet I think it's good for the madam to interact more with Ji Xingran It's not necessarily a bad thing Next time If this happens again, speak up earlier and skip the small talk Right Very good So cool Oh my God Truly a feast for the eyes Well done A male fox spirit has taken human form Does it look good? Is it good-looking? It looks good. It looks amazing. Move, move, don't block my view. Stop messing around. Fu Chenye Why are you here? Some people Can you wipe your drool? You're drooling all over the place. Aren't you known as the top dog at your beck and call? So why when a handsome guy shows up, you're nowhere to be seen? Oh dear, how could that be, honey? I'm just working, you know. Once I get off, I'll come find you. No way. I'm hungry, I need to eat. It's not easy for someone like Ji Xingran to come to the Fu's. I have to settle them in first before I can come to you. Right? Well, that's not right. My hand hurts. But you don't need your hands to eat. Sister An. Brother Xingran has had a tough day. Are you tired? I'm fine, sister An'an. Excuse me, Who is this? This is President Fu, Fu Chenye. Hello, President Fu. My name is Ji Xingran. I'm an old friend of sister An'an. Hello. This old man Why are you messing with An'an? Could it be? You want to take advantage of An'an, right? Still old friends? This young man is Mu An'an's admirer. Where did you find him? It's probably Mu An'an. In these three years, He's probably the wild man An'an knows. Dinner, I've already made a reservation, let's go eat together. Hello, Emperor Ji, I'm Meng Shuyi. I'm your fan. Aren't we supposed to have dinner? Let's eat together, let's go. Brother Xingran. Thank you for giving me face today, I'm really touched that you could come. Here's to you. Sister An'an. You're welcome. We've been friends for a long time. How long Fu Chenye You shouldn't drink with your bone injury Excuse me, I need to take a call Did my brother go quietly? Xing Ran is still very respectful He's been here for a while If he dares to disrespect you, just let me know Sis, I'll break his legs Alright, alright, alright How long have I known Sister An'an? I don't think I need to report this to you, Mr. Fu. Mr. Ji You're still young I advise you not to take a wrong turn because of a moment's mistake. Taking a wrong turn isn't scary. The scariest thing nowadays is many old men who are still young at heart. I love deceiving young girls the most. Mr. Fu Your hand is already injured. It's better to be restrained. Do you two need anything? Let me pour you some wine. Get out. Why does the atmosphere feel off? An'an Eat your vegetables before they get cold. Sister An'an The food at this place It's not authentic at all When are you coming over to my place? I'll cook for you Sure, I'll definitely come You're not allowed to go Mu An'an Don't forget you're a married woman Sister An'an, I heard about your husband He seems to have a serious illness, almost dying You've been neglecting me for three years. When are you planning to divorce? It should be Soon, I guess. Is something wrong with Fu Chenye today? My hand is not convenient. Help me pick up some food. Mr. Fu's hand is not convenient. Yet you insist on it. It's really enviable. Of course I got these bruises from saving you Sister An'an got hurt Unlike some people Who just rely on their looks and talk big Is that so Mr. Fu You can take your time to see If that's all I'm good for Everyone's tired from the day, let's eat, let's eat An'an How did you get to know Senior Ji? I've been in the industry for so long and I've never heard of Senior Li having a girlfriend. I'm not. Our relationship Is closer than that of a girlfriend. Fu Chenye How did the chopsticks break? Mu An'an I'm not as socially connected as you are. First, a male model, Then, a movie star. Xing Ran is Su Zai's younger brother. Su Ran and I are so close we could share a pair of pants. Naturally, I'm also very close to Xing Ran. But, Isn't Xing Ran's surname Ji? Su Zai and I are half-siblings. I took my mother's surname. Meng Shuyi Why do you have so many questions? I apologize. Come on, come on. Let's eat, let's eat. Xing Ran So handsome! Sister An'an If your good-for-nothing husband keeps bothering you and won't divorce you, You can tell me. I'm always here to help you Ignite me Ah, ignite Fu Chenye, what are you doing? Mu An'an, why didn't you tell him earlier? I'm your husband, what are you afraid of? Didn't you say to keep it a secret from others at work That you're my husband, right? That's what I said, but this guy Ji Xingran Clearly has ulterior motives towards you Senior Ji You should have told him earlier I am your husband Fu Chenye But telling him There's no point, is there? Didn't we agree to divorce Once you've recovered from your injury? What's wrong, don't you want a divorce? What are you doing, are you drunk? Mu An'an, let me tell you Remember your identity You are still my wife Whatever I want to do to you It's all reasonable Go Ah, Xingran Senior Ji Mu An'an is just a greedy and lustful wretch, that's all She's still a married woman now. Why don't you consider me? Meng Shuyi Don't forget It's only because of Sister An'an's sake That you have a chance to dine with us I'm warning you If you dare to disrespect Sister An'an again Our Ji family will make sure you Won't even qualify to be a companion in showbiz. Why does that wretched Mu An'an get to take everything so easily? And let Ji Xingran and Fu Chenye fight over her affections. Mu An'an You just wait I will take everything from you step by step. Fu Chenye What on earth do you want to do? Fu Chenye What do you really want to do? I want to take a bath. You help me. Didn't you used to not let me touch you? It was the past. The hand that saved you today hurts especially bad. I can't wash alone. Forget it, forget it. This person has saved me so many times, I can't be mad at him. Alright, alright, alright Honey, I'm coming to serve you in your bath right now I, I forgot, I forgot You go away I'll do it myself, oh, be careful You still have a wound on your hand, let me help you Mu An'an So You still worry about me I think you should stop, after all My life or death has nothing to do with you. Let me call Secretary Qin to help you. Secretary Qin has already left. It's late at night. Don't trouble him. You help me. Fu Chenye. But didn't you say I've said it all. Today is today. That was then Cut the crap, will you help or not? Cut the crap, will you help or not? Help This is a favor I must ask Mu An'an, can you be more reserved? You're insane You're right I should be more reserved I mean, how could Fu Chenye possibly like me? He's such a hypocrite He can't avoid me fast enough But Finally, we can reveal whether Fu Chenye has any hidden diseases Hehe Mu An'an Alright You can leave now I haven't finished undressing you and you're asking me to leave again Mu An'an What's with the feeling of disappointment? Are you that curious? I am, a bit. Mainly because I don't know, you see. There's a lot you don't know. So, you plan to meet everyone? Not necessarily. I'm just quite curious about you. What do you mean, curious about me? Who else have you been curious about? Can't you have some sense of shame? My dear husband. Are you really not going to let me help you bathe? No need. What's wrong with you? Why are you always getting upset for no reason? Forget it, forget it, I won't bother you anymore. Wow, so handsome! Why did you take my phone? You're not allowed to look at Ji Xingran anymore. Fu Chenye Do you live by the sea? You're being way too controlling. I forbid it. You should keep this in mind. You're a married woman. You're not allowed to look at other men besides your own husband. You're killing me with this again. You won't even let me see others'. And besides, We're just pretending to be a couple, not the real deal. What are you up to again, Fu Chenye? Mu An'an. If you really want to see, Well, It's not like it's not allowed. Oh my. Fu Chenye really took the wrong medicine. You're not feverish, how can you be so flirtatious? Of course, I'm not a casual person. I want to see this too. Mu An'an, you're a girl. Be more reserved. Fu Chenye, aren't you my husband? Hand over all your physical assets. I'll spare your life. Fu Chenye, so easy. I was scared off Damn it I almost lost control just now I need to take a shower to cool off Haha Fu Chenye, you finally got me Get off me Who told you to grab my phone? I'll bite you to death Mu An'an, you dare to bite me, you're dead Are you getting off or not? Put me down Can't go down, can't go down Fu Chenye, I'm dizzy, stop spinning Can't go down Put me down Dizzy, dizzy, I can't take it anymore Put me down, I'm going to throw up Wrong, not right Wrong, wrong Mom Where are you, Mom? I miss you so much, Mom. What a poor little thing. Why am I in bed? My head is so dizzy. Forget it, I won't go to work today. I'll take a leave. There's a jewelry exhibition in South City today. Many well-known collectors and designers will be there. Of course. If you see any jewelry you like, just go ahead and buy it. But you're sick today, so let's just forget it. Jewelry Where is it? I can manage. I have to go. Why hasn't this lady arrived yet? Shall I call and ask? Fu Chenye Why are you looking at me like that? What's up? Have you fallen for me? Ahem An'an You look really nice today What's this? It's the high-calcium breakfast milk for my dear hubby every day After drinking, your bone injury will heal right away Fu Shao has actually Let's go That young celestial in the white dress is truly beautiful Even my jewels seem to pale in comparison Of course Mr. Valentine That one But she is my muse Mu'an'an An'an, you look absolutely stunning today You do too, little Ranran How many boys are you planning to cut down today? Sis An is here. Xing Ran. I'm sorry. I didn't explain clearly yesterday. Is your face still hurting? Sis An. I'm fine. Brother Heng, they two got you hospitalized. Don't go after them today. If anything happens to you, I won't live either. Shuyi Mu'an'an, that wretched woman Has caused us, father and son, too much suffering If I don't teach her a lesson It won't quench my rage Just you wait Tonight I will make sure Mu'an'an is utterly disgraced Idiot Fainted for a day and a night, scared by Fu Chenye You'd better be of some use. Take your time. I'll go mingle. Friends attending the exhibition. Imperial jewelry of this caliber. My mother-in-law would definitely love it. This must be the legendary top collection, the Heart of Eros. Jewelry of this level is truly rare. This is a collection my family has passed down for eight hundred years. Never seen in public. I'm here to showcase because of Mr. Ji Xingran's invitation. Ah, there's a power outage. What's going on? What's happening? Why is there a power outage? What's going on? Why is the power out? I apologize. There was a sudden power outage for unknown reasons just now. My Heart of Eros. My family's treasure is gone. What's this about? It's missing. Catch the thief quickly! Seal off the entire exhibition immediately. Please cooperate with the search. With gems of this caliber, How could security make such a mistake? Miss Mu, The surveillance before the lights went out shows You were closest to the counter of the Heart of Eros. Please cooperate. You're blind. I really don't know. What identity do An'an and I have? Miss Mu, please cooperate. Otherwise, We will take coercive measures. You, Are you so sure? In my bag, there is Mu An'an. Don't tell me you're feeling guilty for stealing something. In your bag. Why are you afraid to show it? Mu An'an You despicable woman I knew it was you who stole it How could it be possible So it was him This thief It's impossible Mu An'an, it must be you After stealing What kind of trickery did you use? Fu Heng You can't be unaware There's a type of bag that unlocks with fingerprints, right? She can't open it Of course she can't put the jewelry in Mu An'an Mr. Fu, please help me Deputy Director You've really made progress Stealing with Fu Heng Mu An'an Meeting you is my misfortune Young Master Fu You are suspected of stealing a priceless collection Offended An'an An'an, you go back first I'll interrogate Fu Heng I'll be back later What Xiao Heng Has been imprisoned by Fu Chenye Master Please save our Xiao Heng This will ruin Our son's future and life Fu Chenye You've forced me into this I had to release the previous clues I have a grand gift for Fu Chenye. Fu Chenye I have nothing to say. You better let me go quickly. Mr. Fu The little girl who saved you years ago We have clues. Someone confirmed she was rescued from the river But since no one claimed her She was sent to the Star Orphanage. Later, I was adopted. Star Orphanage It closed down last year due to a purge. But we contacted the dean In the name of parents and children, He agreed to meet you. It's been more than a decade, I'm finally going to find her. Isn't Fu Chenye supposed to be interrogating Fu Heng? What's he doing here? Hello, you must be from the Star Orphanage. The former dean, right? Yes. You should come back tomorrow. You're here too late. Hello. You're from the Star Orphanage, the former dean, right? Yes, you should come back tomorrow. You're here too late. He's not the dean. Catch him Who are you? Mr. Fu Behave Speak Who are you really? Why are you here? I don't understand what you're saying Fu Chenye, be careful Mu An'an Mu An'an Lao Qin Hurry up Okay Mu An'an You must not die Did you hear me? Did you hear me? You must not die Why are you so foolish Why did you take the knife for me? What else could it be? I thought I could just push you away, but it backfired. It hurts so much. Fu Chenye, you have to make it up to me big time. I don't want you to die. I owe you. I want to repay you. You idiot. Fool. Who said I wanted you to repay me? Ouch, that hurts. Am I going to die? Mu An'an Fu Chenye, how are you as a husband? Why does she end up in the hospital as soon as you arrive? First, your mistress caused her hand injury, and now you go to what orphanage to find a love child, causing her to be in the ICU. Didn't you hide abroad for three years? If you don't want to get married, then hurry up and divorce An'an. Divorce. Mu An'an. You're finally going to die. Hurry up and die. Forget it, forget it. This is a hospital. Let's see what the doctor says first. You shameless mistress. What are you doing here again? Look at my An'an, she's in the hospital. Are you rushing here, waiting for the mistress to take her place? I'm not. Are the patient's parents here? Who among you is the patient's family? I'm Mu An'an's husband, may I ask? How is An'an now? An'an's parents are her adoptive parents. She has no biological parents. The patient is in a very critical condition now. I need a blood transfusion. Which one of you is type AB? I'm type AB. Take mine. Mu An An is not the daughter of the Mu family Then who is she? Why was she sent by the Mu family Why was she sent to the Fu family? Your wife has been married to you for three years You don't even know about this? An An is at the orphanage. Endured all kinds of suffering The Mu family groomed her as a pawn to seek benefits But she never uttered a word of grievance She deserves the best in this world Bastard Didn't I tell you to bring Your father's most valuable thing Just a tattered scarf, who are you trying to appease Stop hitting I was wrong I'll bring it to you next time. Please, don't hit him. I'll show you who's boss. You just don't learn, do you? Let him go! You're asking for trouble, you brat. Come with me, hurry up! Three years ago, I pretended to be ill for three years abroad to investigate a suspicious fund of the Fu family. I admit it I have been a bit cold to Mu An'an But the Fu family has never mistreated Mu An'an Never mistreated Fu Chenye You've made Sister An'an The laughingstock Among the socialites If you have any conscience, divorce her! If she needs it I will You better be telling the truth Fu Shao The dean was hit on the head and fell into a coma The files at the scene were also destroyed However The two thugs said that by the time they got to the scene The files had already been destroyed They were also hired to find that girl. Young Master Fu What you're doing is Assigning someone to guard the dean 24/7 Notify me the moment he wakes up Yes, sir This is the girl that Fu Chenye has been searching for all along The ones who adopted her turned out to be the Mu family Is Miss Meng interested? Be the mistress of the Fu family We didn't knock out the dean The dean was already lying on the ground when we got there We've been searching for information for a long time but couldn't find anything Please spare us I really don't know who the other party is It's just that Five million for the girl's file It must not be discovered Young Master Fu The person who tipped us off about the clue has gone missing. When our people got there, the house was empty. For all these years, I've been secretly searching with no news at all. This informant shows up, and suddenly three groups come knocking. It's quite interesting. Are we still looking? Yes, we are. Not only are we looking, but we're going to do it loudly and proudly. After all, some people Want to use this little girl to lure me in Then let's have some fun with them You little rascal Can you please wake up If you want my abs, my body, I can give it all to you It's me who's been wrong these three years If you want a divorce, then let's get a divorce If you want to find a younger brother I'll agree too Just please wake up, okay? I know you're full of mischief and always teasing me, But I don't want anything bad to happen to you, An'an. No matter what happens in the future, I will protect you. Fu Chenye actually said that, Seems like this knife wound wasn't for nothing. I can't hold it in, I need to pee. Ouch. When did you wake up? Do you need to use the restroom? Me. Do you need my help? It's not convenient with an injury on your back. Let me help you. I really need to go pee. I can't hold it. You go out. Let me help you, I'm not comfortable leaving you. Thank you so much, Fu Chenye. No need to thank me, it's what I should do. Fu Chenye is here. I can't pee at all. It's like a stain on my life. Um, Are you alright? You're here. I can't pee. Get out and wait for me. I can't leave you alone. How about I'll put a diaper on you. Fu Chenye, stop boasting. An An, just stop. You look cute when you get angry. Shut up. I never expected Fu Shao to be so good at serving others. You're quite skilled at taking care of people. Even peeling an orange, you do it so beautifully. If you become a maternity matron, you'll definitely win a gold medal. I didn't expect Your way of complimenting is quite unique President of the Fu Group Searching for a long-lost savior A generous reward for anyone with information I thought it was your illegitimate daughter So you were looking for your savior That's why you were following me in the middle of the night You thought I was watching you from behind Go out and have an illegitimate daughter You're jealous You're overthinking If you really had an illegitimate daughter, I'd tell your mother-in-law She'd be very happy And you? Would you be happy? I suppose Why? Orphans from the orphanage If one could find their biological parents, that would be a tremendous blessing. I'm certainly happy for him. An'an, Do you want to find your biological parents? Now that I know I'm not born to Mu Donghua, I'm sorry, An'an, I didn't know this before. I'm really sorry. Which orphanage did you grow up in? That place Treats you well? It's fine if you don't know It's not a great place anyway I'm a bit tired You go out first Hey, newbie, hurry up and change your clothes There will be a group of adopters coming later If you're lucky You could live a worry-free life I have mom and dad, I just lost my memory. If mom and dad can't find me, they will come to pick me up. What a fool. Who here hasn't been abandoned? What pipe dream are you still having? What's that in your hand? Don't touch it. It's from my parents. It's quite pretty. From now on, you're mine, you little brat. If you want to cry, go ahead. I won't tell. Mr. Fu How could I be blind Brother Chenye After our comparison and visits Miss Meng is the person you've been looking for all along Shuyi I didn't know You were in an orphanage And an adopted daughter of the Meng family Brother Chenye I've been afraid to tell you before because I worried you would look down on me for having been in that place But later I found out you were looking for me So I came to find you right away These documents and the hospital admission certificate indeed seem fine Miss Meng should have been at the Star Orphanage and then twelve years later Adopted by the Meng family Identical to that girl Are you interested In becoming the mistress of the Fu family What do you mean If Fu Chenye Finds out Mu An'an is the one who saved him back then You will never have a chance to enter the Fu family Why don't we cooperate? I'll fabricate an identity for you Eliminate Mu An'an General Huaixiang What do you want Fu Chenye ruthlessly expelled us, father and son from the Fu family and ruined my son's future I want him dead You want me to be a widow Miss Meng Once Fu Chenye is dead We'll split the Fu Corporation in half What kind of man couldn't you have then Uncle You're really ruthless Then let's cooperate happily Young Master Fu Is there a problem? Trouble Did I mess up? Shuyi I'm sorry Before It's all my fault You've suffered Meng Xiaosan She's indeed having an affair with that dog, Fu Chenye Girl What do you want? I'm willing to give it to you Even the stars in the sky, I'd be willing to pick them for you Brother Chenye, can you Divorce Mu'an'an and marry me Mr. Fu Your wife is still lying in the hospital ward How about You take it easy for now Brother Chenye Mu'an'an and I have never gotten along before I'm worried she might go mad. So Can you divorce her? Don't worry. Once An's illness is cured, I will consider this matter. You dog, you man. An took a knife for you, and this is how you treat her. I'm so angry. Mr. Meng I knew you were no good. His wife is still in the hospital bed, and you can't wait to get into bed. Brother Chen Ye, save me. Su Ran I advise you to calm down. This is a hospital. An An is still sleeping. She needs quiet. Fu Chen Ye, you dog. If you dare to interfere with me again, I'll hit you too. Sis If you really want to vent, I suggest a different approach. After all, Sister An is still sleeping and needs rest. Lucky for you, homewrecker. Su Ran, I advise you not to push it. You wouldn't dare to try to blacklist Shuyi, would you? Meng Shuyi If you dare to make my AnAn sad again I have ten thousand ways to make you unwelcome in the entertainment industry. Once I marry Fu Chenye, Do you think I'd still care about the grudges in showbiz? Miss Su, I truly adore Brother Chenye. I believe it. Sister AnAn will surely bless us, right? Right, Brother Chenye? I know you're sincere. That's great. When Sister AnAn wakes up. You two adulterous dogs, just hurry up and sign the divorce agreement. No need to read it. Sign it now. An'an. Are you really okay with this? Are you sure you want to sign it? Just sign it without reading. Fu Huaixiang is indeed a master of strategy. Mu An'an, you're finally leaving. Madam I advise you to take a close look at the property division clause It concerns your future life and prevents you from suddenly changing your mind later Yes, An'an sister You should take a close look After all, once you're kicked out There won't be a wealthy place like the Fu family to take you in Meng Shuyi You're right. Fu Chenye, you Sign it quickly after reading. After all, this opportunity won't come again. Secretary Qin, keep the divorce agreement and handle it as soon as possible. Yes, Mr. Fu. Hey, Fu Chenye. Mu An'an, Chenye brother, you're divorced now. What do you want to do? You wouldn't Be thinking of going back on your word, would you? An'an I'll take care of you until you're well and discharged from the hospital Discharged Then move out of the Fu family Brother Chenye When will we get married? I'll choose a good day Okay Hey, Fu Chenye, you haven't An'an, don't be sad. Divorce is great. The next one will be better What does Fu Chenye mean by transferring all the Fu family's shares to me? It's not some kind of trap, is it? I need to ask him for clarification Sister An'an, don't be sad Otherwise You should consider Who said I'm upset? Hey, stop him! Don't let him leave! An'an Are you driven mad by Meng Shuyi? Fu Chenye An'an Don't pull me! My An'an I haven't asked Fu Chenye clearly yet Hot and sour rice noodles Are they tasty? They're delicious! Hahaha My hot and sour rice noodles My hot and sour rice noodles Mu An'an Your wound isn't healed yet You're not allowed to eat this junk food Fu Chenye, I've been alone for days My mouth is so bland it could taste like a bird Just let me have a bite Let me have a few more bites Fu Chen You control the sky, the earth, and even what your ex-wife eats Are you insane? Ex-hubby Aren't you getting married to Meng Shuyi? What are you doing here? If you call me 'ex-husband' again I'll spank you But you clearly just You're trying to renege on your promise I haven't signed yet. Mu An'an You can't get a divorce so easily. Running away with the money. Then when can we get a divorce? I really want to fulfill your beautiful love with Meng Shuyi. You're such an ungrateful little thing, I take care of you every day. And you keep bullying me in different ways. But you've already told Meng Shuyi that you want to divorce me. And marry her. You wouldn't be thinking of Playing both sides, would you? Having your cake and eating it too The world of the wealthy Indeed, it's full of tricks But if you're sure about transferring the family shares to me It's not out of the question I'll turn a blind eye to you and Meng Shuyi's affair Mu An'an You're really magnanimous My husband is cheating on me. You're not jealous at all. To have a life, you've got to wear a little green on your head. Fu Chenye Why did you kiss me? You signed it. It's not a divorce agreement. Medical report It's a stock transfer agreement. It's me. I never intended to divorce you. Three years ago, while I was investigating a large sum of money from the Fu family, I was poisoned. If it hadn't been discovered early, I would have died. Fu Shao has vomited the poisoned blood. That's great. Thank you for your hard work, Qin Yue. It's okay The news of my recovery Don't tell the Fu family yet You and I tomorrow Will go abroad Mr. Fu Your condition is improving Aren't you going to tell the matriarch? No That huge sum of money overseas There must be a huge secret hidden. Moving forward, I must continue to pretend to be seriously ill. So you were poisoned. Someone behind Meng Shuyi forged her identity for her. I suspect It's the same group that poisoned me three years ago. Then why not just arrest Meng Shuyi and interrogate her? The enemy is in the shadows while I am in the light. It's been three years and we still haven't found any evidence, which shows how deeply hidden the person behind this is. I want them to come out themselves So you divorce me on paper Then transfer the shares to me It's for protecting me An'an Let's make a deal Sister Brother Xingran You're here. Sister An'an You look so haggard. Because of the divorce. Didn't sleep well last night? Wow, that smells great. Brother Xingran, did you make this soup? It seems the divorce has hit Sister An'an pretty hard. Sister An'an He's just a piece of trash. He doesn't want you. I want you. Xing Ran. It couldn't be Su Ran forced you to say these things, could it? Oh, I'm fine, I'm doing great. No. Su Ran couldn't have threatened him with something, could she? My sister really has what it takes. Just divorced Fu Chenye And there's already a young hunk to take over Don't tell me you've been involved for a while Shut up, Ha Mengshuyi You think everyone likes to meddle in other people's marriages like you do Brother Xingran is innocent Don't slander him Sister An'an It's cold outside Let's not waste words on her Let me carry you back. I can walk on my own. Fu Chenye Why are you here? You wretched woman We've only been apart for a moment And you're already fraternizing with some man. How about last night's matter? Have you thought it over? Haven't decided yet. Scum What's with this little brother Such a sense of justice Stop fighting Mu An'an Explain I'm going to the battleground Sister An'an Let's go Ignore this scum Pretty boy I'm warning you Mu'an'an is still married What's there to explain I saw with my own eyes My sister and Ji Xingran were all over each other Now I get it How could we have the honor to invite The great actor Ji Seems like you two are quite close You've got a new lover, ex-hubby. Still being so domineering. We agreed, Before the divorce, we play our own games. Mind your own business. Mu An'an. You're not allowed to leave. Brother Chen Ye, I've told you before, Mu An'an is a flirt. She's slept with countless men. Now you believe it, right? Meng Shuyi Don't think that just because you saved my life I won't lay a finger on you You better behave yourself If you speak ill of her again I'll make your life a living hell Mu An'an Even after divorcing Fu Chenye, you're still restless We'll see about that I don't care what methods you use Now Right now Destroy Mu An'an for me immediately Brother Xingran You're an actor who relies on your looks Don't be so impulsive next time The relationship between Fu Chenye and me is complicated You shouldn't get involved Sister An'an I'm serious How about you consider me My bad, my bad Such a cute little fierce dog, let's not mess with it As for me Ignite me Sis Don't move There seems to be a bug on your head Where, where Hurry up, hurry up! Mu An'an, what are you doing? It's not a bug. It's a leaf. Xing Ran. Su Ran is usually absurd. You should ignore her. Hey, Fu Chenye, you're taking advantage of me again. What do you really want to do? You really never change. You don't even spare someone so young. Oh, look who's here, my ex-hubby. Are you jealous now? Mu An'an, you dare to call me your ex again, huh? Alright, alright. Let's get down to business. I've thought it through. I agree to your deal. Once I, Mu An'an, receive the stock transfer agreement, I promise to take good care of it. Fu's family and Fu's Enterprise Promise to keep oneself clean Fu Chenye is dead I will not divorce Didn't you say you were afraid of being killed And no one would take care of the Fu family That's why you wanted my help There was no last sentence Then you were speaking so boldly at the memorial To keep me a widow for a lifetime? Add this line It doesn't really matter, does it? Fu Chenye Are you really planning to make me a widow for you? Are you an ancient corpse from the Qing Dynasty? Oh, you ungrateful little thing Once I'm dead The Fu's hundred billion assets will be yours Better you than someone else What do you think? Anyway, you won't be able to see it when you're dead. I'm not just looking for anyone. Never mind, never mind. Wait a moment. Let me check again. Let me check again. Honey, why are you here? Aren't you going to the company? Don't talk nonsense, be quiet. An'an is being discharged today. I'll handle her discharge procedures. Just go back to the company. Don't be angry, Brother Chenye. I know. My sister just got out of the hospital today. We've prepared a special celebration for her. A celebration banquet. Meng Shuyi, you're so kind. Don't just pretend to be nice on the surface. Brother Chenye. Can you hear what An'an sister is saying? I genuinely care for her She actually scolded me like that It's quite excessive Mu An'an You're not scared to go, are you? Why not go? Ran Ran A banquet of this caliber There's no need to come to a High-end clothing store. An'an That wretched Meng Shuyi is just showing off to you You must bring honor to me today The clothes here are worth millions each The clothes here are worth millions each And they are all hand-tailored limited editions Sister An'an, you're about to be kicked out by the Fu family So don't come to such high-end places Oh Meng, the homewrecker You haven't even made it to the top yet, and you're already coming to places like this. Would Fu Chenye be willing to buy this for you? See? It's from Brother Chenye. I can spend as much as I want. Waiter. The dress they're holding. I'll take it. But... This is what Mrs. Fu wanted to buy. Mrs. Fu Open your dog eyes and see clearly that I am Mrs. Fu The woman in front of you Is about to be kicked out of the family But But what? Oh, Miss Meng, such a temper It's just a piece of clothing, I'll give it to you Mu'an'an, I'll give you credit for being sensible Meng Shuyi, look at you, so unsophisticated If you have the ability to wrap up all the clothes in this store Fu Chenye won't just buy you one, right? An'an I, Su Ran, am a diamond VIP here Today I'll buy you every piece you like Waiter I'll take all the clothes here Alright, Miss Meng Two hundred and thirty million Swipe card completed If Fu Chenye knew, he'd probably scold me Never mind I don't care Thanks, Miss Meng Have a pleasant shopping experience next time What Madam, here's this month's sales report My mother-in-law says that girls She should dress up beautifully, so she bought Many fashion stores gave them to me I was hospitalized recently, my mind's a bit off Almost forgot I'm the boss here Mu An'an, you Hello Fighting is prohibited in this store Violators will be fined Mu An'an It's still got to be you. Mu An'an, you just wait. Hey, Mr. Sucker, you don't want these clothes anymore? Oh, it's my ex-husband. Came to my shop to spend money again, huh? Once sold, no returns or exchanges. Let me have a look. Who's this cunning, overcharging shopkeeper? Oh, it's the madam. In just a moment, you've charged me two hundred million. You really have the knack. Just spent two hundred million on you and you're already feeling the pinch. As the heir of the prestigious Fu family in the capital, Why are you so stingy? How could I be? I'm here to buy clothes. After all, there's a banquet tonight, isn't there? What do you think, madam? Could you recommend a few pieces? Take a look. Yes This one suits you I can't Madam, you really have morals You don't peek at customers changing clothes Hurry up, are you done? Done Oh, come on, come on Fu Chenye, so virtuous Why does it seem like you're showing off for me? Mistress Staring so blatantly at the client's body Isn't quite appropriate, is it? Fu Chenye, you flirtatious fox spirit, what are you doing? Put the clothes on for me I've said I won't wear this kind of gown, of course I have to Wait for the mistress To help me Oh, I'm sorry I forgot Mistress What are you doing? Why are you dressing so slowly? Are you still incorrigible? Are you lusting after the customers again? You just run out like that This is the men's fitting room It's hard not to be misunderstood Me? I'm actually helping you out here. Fu Chenye Aren't you the paragon of virtue? When did you start to go astray? I learned it for you. Do you like it? Fu Chenye Don't do this, we're in public. Don't get carried away. So, Mu An'an, you can still be shy, huh? You're really afraid of being caught by Su, aren't you? Who's talking? An'an, where are you exactly? Hey, madam, I'm not even dressed yet. What are you running for? Please, everyone, help yourselves to the food and drinks. What's going on here? I thought it was a small dinner prepared for Mrs. Fu? What kind of husband are you, still holding another woman's arm? That's the savior of the Fu family's crown prince. Young Master Fu is planning to divorce and marry her as a way to repay the favor. So they're playing their own games, huh? No wonder, they're the rich and famous. Their games are truly extravagant. Brother Xingran Thank you for coming today. It won't interfere with your work, will it? Of course not, sister. Sister's matters are of utmost importance. Mr. Fu May I ask what brings you here? Ji Xingran You really are a loyal dog, always circling around Mu An'an What are you talking about, Fu Chenye? I personally invited Xingran, unlike some people who are already married yet still fool around outside Mu An'an You clearly know My sister's private life is quite the talk too. The marks on her neck, Left by Senior Ji, right? What are you talking about, Meng Shuyi? It's just a mosquito bite, okay? That mosquito must be really venomous. Then you better be careful. Don't get bitten by mosquitoes again. Okay. I'll definitely spray more DDT next time. Kill all these annoying mosquitoes. It's great that you could come, thank you, Xingran. Sister. I specially ordered this cake to celebrate your discharge from the hospital. Thank you. Sister, is it delicious? Get me a glass of water. Xingran, my brother. You are such a warm-hearted man. Do you have a girlfriend? Nothing Sister An'an, what's wrong with you? Are you drunk? Let me help you back to your room. Sir, is this lady intoxicated? The banquet has prepared a rest room where you can take her to sober up. This is quite a scandal. Old man Mu An'an So many reporters You're in for a treat this time. What's going on here? Hey, what's the matter with you? How could you do this to someone? My sister really is... Wake up, wake up, we're almost at the hospital. How could this be possible? Get out, get out! No more filming! An'an Stay with me, we'll be at the hospital soon. What is this? Don't touch it, Xingran. Xingran, stop it from moving. An'an. Look at me closely. Fu Chenye. It's you. Where's Xingran? Mu An'an. You can't think of other men. You are mine It's so uncomfortable Uh, I want Secretary Qin Why is Mu An'an so hot? Young Master Fu Meng Shuyi has given the heavenly beings an aphrodisiac If they don't sleep with a man immediately They will die from blood explosion and fever How much longer until we get to the hospital? Something big just happened up ahead a major traffic accident looks like we might be stuck here for a while Mu An'an An'an An'an, look at me Are you willing to let me save you? It hurts It hurts so much Lao Qin Pull over Sister An'an Could it be that Sister An'an is in danger? Hey old man, get up, get up What's going on, pretty girl? How did you get so beautiful? Hey, hey, hey Come here Sister An'an Is Sister An in danger? Ji Xingran Why are you here? I understand It must be Mu An'an's doing It is indeed you Meng Shuyi, you're courting death Make an announcement Meng Shuyi is suspected of providing illegal services From today onwards A total ban on Meng Shuyi No, no, please don't Mu An'an You'll never have peace An'an Do you like me? I do I really want it Give it to me now An'an From now on You can only be mine Fu Chenye What exactly happened yesterday Why am I sleeping with Fu Chenye Meng Shuyi and Fu Huaixiang teamed up to drug you last night They wanted to humiliate you and film it, but I found out in time Will you blame me Forget it, it's done He did it to save me How could I not, Fu Chenye? I'm just grateful I haven't had the chance to thank you yet. An'an Are you alright? Is this guy an animal? Can't he be gentler? Do you need me to take you to the hospital? No, I'm fine. Where are you going? Wait. Why are you eating this? Fu Chenye Thanks for helping me with the antidote last night. After all, you and I are in a partnership Of course, we should also avoid causing trouble Mu An'an Say that again Fu Chenye Why are you so excited? Did I say something wrong? Mu An'an Is it that all you care about is money? Do you even have a heart? Young Master Fu, please calm down Master Fu urgently calls his wife back to the old residence. Fu Chenye, how come your grip is like a pair of pliers? You're hurting me. Mu An'an Since we are in a cooperative relationship, just play your part well. Act well as my wife, Fu Chenye. Understood. Old master, You must take charge for our eldest branch. Mu An'an had an affair She intended to frame her uncle and aunt Her intentions are unforgivable How shameless Granddaughter-in-law What exactly is going on here Why didn't you answer your phone yesterday Where did you go Mu An'an This despicable woman She's just a troublemaker. I saw Mu An'an with my own eyes at the dinner party yesterday checking into a hotel room with a strange man. When I found out, she tried to poison me. She brought in reporters to expose me. Turning the tables on me. The surveillance had been broken for a while. The aphrodisiac would be excreted through sweat. The attendants were also hired by me. Mu An'an, wait for your death. Uncle Have some decency, you two. I'm the real victim, okay? Sister An'an Although every time there's Brother Chen Ye to cover for you, many people saw with their own eyes you and a male actor having a close relationship. Meng Shuyi You really have the nerve to say that It seems like the one who's been flirting with my husband all along is you An'an Get down on your knees Mother-in-law Please let me explain He's my best friend's younger brother, he's still young You've disappointed me so much I've always trusted and pampered you. Now that you've got someone else, I can set you free. This divorce agreement, sign it, and leave the Fu family immediately. Mu An'an, haven't you been looking forward to a divorce for a long time? Why aren't you happy to get the divorce agreement? Mu An'an Why aren't you speaking? Why not explain? Do you really want a divorce from me? Is there some misunderstanding here, daughter-in-law? Should we look into it further? Maybe we've really wronged An'an. What's the point of checking anymore? There were so many people at the scene. Are we all blind? This is what I wanted. Divorce, split assets, live a leisurely and wealthy life. Fu Chenye, Fu Chenye. Looks like I have to keep my promise to you before. I will keep my word. That works too. I will read the divorce agreement again. After all, it involves asset division. I will sort it out clearly. Then let Mu An'an sign it. Wait a moment. Mu An'an has brought us all disgrace. This is not over. Auntie. I think you all know in your hearts who did this. If you dare to provoke me again, I will chop off Fu Heng's hand and feed it to the dogs. Ahh! Let's go. Fu Chenye, we're getting a divorce. What do you want to do? Don't be like this, I'm a bit scared. Mu An'an You, such a cold-blooded woman Would you be scared? What are you doing? Isn't it a bit inappropriate in broad daylight? What's inappropriate about it? This is our home. No one dares to disturb us. No. Fu Chenye, are you serious? I'm not feeling well. Give me a moment. Didn't you always crave my body before? Why are you playing hard to get with me now? Don't, Brother Fu. There might be some misunderstanding between us. If you have any issues, I can argue my way out. If you have any issues, I can explain. Really? Yes. Aren't we about to get a divorce? We'll go our separate ways. Let's skip the breakup sex. Mu An'an You promiscuous woman, do you even know what you're saying? Do you have any sense of decency? Alright, alright, alright. I don't have any sense of decency. But what you're doing to me now Is it innocent? Smooth talker Let me tell you You are still my wife, Fu Chenye Whatever I do to you It's all reasonable Brother Fu, can't I just say I'm wrong? I'll change, I'll change What are you wrong about? I was wrong to make you angry What else? What else? I was wrong to mention a breakup fling Ah, Fu Chenye, you don't want a divorce, do you? Mu An'an Remember this clearly In the Fu family, there are no divorces Only widowhood Didn't he used to hate me the most? A glance at him is like killing him He actually refused to divorce Since the mother-in-law has already spoken of divorce Take this opportunity Better prepare early Don't get too involved with Fu Chenye Isn't this the jade pendant that was taken from me at the orphanage? Mr. Mu We didn't do it Her temperament is too violent, she often fights and hurts people That's why I made her stand there How can you be so similar to Yuning This child I'll take her An'an You haven't been home for three years How's everything at the Fu's It's just like that My sister took my place to marry into the Fu family What's the fuss about now Don't forget You were just an unwanted love child Mu Yuning Shut up Did I say something wrong? If it wasn't for you dad adopting her She would have died in the orphanage from being beaten I want a divorce The Fu family, these three years The benefits delivered to the Mu family are enough to repay The upbringing fee you spent on raising me After this meal Let's not contact each other anymore Mu An'an, why are you so cold-blooded? You're not adopted by our family You're practically the ancestor our family has been supporting Enjoy your meal I'll leave first Stop Mu An'an Are you sure you want to divorce Fu Chenye? Once I sign, I'll leave this city. Thank you, Mu Donghua, for what you've done before. Goodbye. Sister doesn't know yet, right? For the past three years, I've been using the money from the Fu family to treat my illness. I can finally stand up. Since you don't appreciate the good times, Let me take your place and marry Fu Chenye. Sis, you Just quietly disappear Son-in-law Oh dear What brings you here Mu An'an, let's go Come home with me An'an Stop being stubborn You want a divorce I disagree. Mu An'an seems off today. Shut up, or I'll kill you right now. What's that noise? It's nothing, it's nothing. Maybe they're renovating upstairs. Fu Chenye. I'm a bit tired, let's go back. If you're tired, I'll take you back to rest. Let's go, An'an. There's a scent of perfume. Mu An'an never liked perfume. Fu Chenye. I've thought it through. I won't divorce you. An'an, I'm glad you've come to your senses. Don't worry. I'll arrange for you the most splendid wedding in all of Jinghai. I promise I won't neglect you anymore. Mu An'an You were born a bastard You only have all this happiness because you replaced me I will live your life for you An'an You Aren't you happy? Of course I am, honey I was just so happy I didn't know what to say An'an Don't even think about leaving me I love you Brother Chen Ye, you're finally back I've been waiting for you all day Shu Yi I've said it before Even though you're my savior Refrain from doing things you shouldn't Mu An'an Aren't you planning to divorce Brother Chen Ye? Even the old man Fu let you go, why are you still here? Who said I'm getting a divorce? From now on, I will never leave Fu Chenye. Is that so? What about your Ji Xingran then? Although I bribed the Fu family's nanny, To imitate Mu Anan's every move and word, But, I've never heard of Li Xingran, this wild man Sister You really hid it well Brother Chen Ye, look Mu An'an is just a Fickle woman She's been with Ji Xingran for a long time What Ji Xingran I don't know him From now on, my eyes will only have my husband You homewrecker, just get out of here. Sister An'an Ji Xingran is shooting at Fu's today. Let's see how you're going to handle this. You're not Ji Xingran, are you? Don't blame me for being heartless, I just don't want to waste unnecessary emotions. Senior Ji, don't leave! The new project's brand shoot is still waiting for you today. Hubby I want to be with you for the rest of my life. Jiang Wan Mu Donghua, what on earth do you want to do? I've said I'll live somewhere else. Why are you kidnapping me? An'an It's your own fault. Since you don't want to stay with the Fu family, I'll fulfill your wish. What are you going to do? An'an What's up? Su Ran An'an I heard you had a fight with Xing Ran I have a few things I want to say to you Didn't you plan to divorce? Why don't you suddenly divorce anymore? Don't come to me in the future I plan to live a good life with Fu Chenye An'an What are you talking about? Sister Why? Driver Drive An'an You saw it with your own eyes Fu Shao Absolutely true Madam's attitude towards Miss Su and Mr. Ji Is very indifferent Seems like a different person I also feel that Mu An'an is a bit different Can someone suddenly change in a short period of time? Either being stimulated by something Or Not the same person Mu Donghua that despicable thing doesn't know how to handle An'an Has threatened An'an I need to go to the Mu's house. Stop hitting. An An. Stop struggling in vain. Tell me all your assets. Just speak up. You might get less punishment. Stop hitting. Fu Chenye has an affair with Ji Xingran and I caught them cheating. He also gave me a share. Fu's 50% equity transfer document I put it put it You better hope you're telling the truth Where did you put it I just left it at home Let me think about it Wait a minute Don't think being Mrs. Fu Is very comfortable Fu Chenye He likes men You little bastard, stop making things up Hurry up and say Where did you put it Let me think about it What's there to think about Hurry up and say Mu Donghua Jiang Wan You're ruthless. Go ahead and kill me. Kill me. Fu Chenye won't just hand over the stock transfer document to you. 50% of the shares. You think he's foolish. I definitely won't kill you. You can't leave now anyway. Just stay here quietly. Just live out your life and die old. Son-in-law Son-in-law, you're here. Did An'an upset you again? Why does it smell like blood in the house? Son-in-law I just killed a fish in the living room, sorry about that. It does smell a bit fishy. Thank you for saving me. This is for you. Wow, this is so beautiful! Thank you, brother. A while ago, Meng Shuyi Didn't you give it to me? How did it end up here? Who is this child, sir? He came to play at our house. Lost it. Mu An'an took my jade pendant. Back to the Mu family. But Mu An'an adores jewelry and jade. She wouldn't just throw them around. Master, master! Please don't mind the mess at home. This is my youngest daughter who's been ill for a long time. I apologize. She has a tendency towards self-harm. Why do I have this absurd feeling? It feels like the real Mu An'an is the one on the ground. Wake up Secretary Qin Call 110 Okay Ah, son-in-law, son-in-law She has mental issues Let us handle it We'll take care of it Secretary Qin Restrain both of them Take them to prison for interrogation. Strange. Where is the stock transfer document Dad mentioned? There's nothing like that at all. Husband. Why are you here? Madam. I've missed you. Have a child for me, will you? You're so naughty. Speak Who are you really? I'm Mu An'an, honey. What's wrong with you? Brother Chen Ye, you're looking for me? Brother Chen Ye, listen to me. It was Fu Huaixiang who forced me to deceive you. He wants you dead. Then he plans to seize the family fortune. So, did Fu Huaixiang tell you who that little girl really is? Meng Shuyi, this will be your last chance. Otherwise I'll make your life a living hell Banned from the internet Worse than a beggar It's Mu An'an That jade pendant Also belongs to Mu An'an Meng Shuyi You should be glad you told the truth The orphanage director has woken up He's told me everything. He's told me everything. I'm sorry, brother Dusty. Please forgive me I won't appear in front of you again. No, I won't. You still need to do me a favor. It's so late. Why did you let her come over? Why else? Because I'm pregnant. Brother Chenye's child This will be my home from now on Get out of here right now What are you, the mistress, even saying Brother Chenye, don't you make her leave You, the illegitimate wretch, should be the one to leave Xing Ran Su Ran Why are you here Fu Chenye I believe what you're saying This person Absolutely cannot be Mu An'an I am Mu An'an Xing Ran Su Ran Husband Are you all out of your minds? Even if you have an identical face You can't be Sister An'an You're talking nonsense I saw it with my own eyes Sister An'an taking on a grown man She's nothing like you, a cowardly piece of trash Who are you really I am Yes Mother-in-law An'an My An'an An'an Fu Shao The patient suffered a gravitational impact Fainted due to severe pain But the leg bones are in relatively good condition With some rest, they can walk again I'm sorry I didn't take good care of you I'm sorry I'm sorry Fu Shao Mu Donghua has a daughter with congenital paralysis Her name is Mu Yuning Mu An'an looks very similar to her Mu An'an bears a striking resemblance to her Mu Yuning's treatment requires an exorbitant surgery fee Mu Donghua is also in debt He exploits Mu An'an's wealth in various ways To treat his daughter And to fund their family's extravagant spending Well done These vampires I've put out a city-wide wanted notice for Mu Yunning to make the Mu family's actions known I want this family of vampires To pay the price Xing Ran Count me in I told you to kill that little wild child To end it all It's all your fault What do you know? That's 50% of the Fu's shares. Do you understand what this means? You old fool, still thinking about shares. It's all out in the open now. My precious daughter. I wonder how she's doing now. How she's getting by. Don't worry. Mu Anan's legs I've interrupted it all You'll be crippled from now on Our daughter Is sure to make Fu Chenye fall for her You two must be the Mu couple I've heard so much about you My son-in-law Is the crown prince of the Fu family It's best to be polite Shut your damn mouth What are you doing? The deeds of you two old men have spread all over Jinghai. It's really shocking. Your family of three, Brothers, beat them to death for me. But don't kill them, just break their limbs. Otherwise, the Fu, Ji, and Su families won't give the reward. Get out of my way, all of you. Cousin, You must get me out of here. An'an We just want you to find a boy you like and live a good life If we had known the Mu family was so vile Mother-in-law would never have let you go It's time for a new dressing Before I've never seen you around here Wait a moment What medication are you using? Someone, come here! Security! Don't come any closer! Don't! Mu Yunning Don't do anything rash. As long as you let Mu An'an go, We can talk about everything. Fu Chenye What's so special about Mu An'an? This woman This Is just an unwanted stray Married you under my name If it weren't for my father taking her in, she'd have starved on the streets Why do you insist on proving I'm not Mu An'an? We look exactly the same Because you can never be her No matter how similar your appearance You're not her either Do you love her? Fu Chenye I'm asking you Answer me Mu Yunning I I don't like Mu An'an It's not impossible for you to be with me As long as you let Mu An'an go I'll marry you right away. Hahaha Who would want to be with you, you jerk? It took me so long to cure this illness and you've ruined me. You've ruined my whole family! An'an Mu Yunning, you bitch What's going on here? Meng Shuyi Your rival in love is going to die Haven't you always wanted Mu An'an to die If you want her dead, then don't interfere with anything Fu Chenye I'm going to see just how far a ruthless man like you is willing to go for a woman Get down on your knees Bark like a dog Crawl like a dog Kneel down Okay Hahaha Fu Chenye Do you know how foolish you look right now? Hahaha This is killing me, haha Big brother Don't do this Stand up An'an You're awake I had such a long dream I'm sorry I've lost my memory I actually forgot about you An'an So the little girl who used to steal offerings to eat with me It really was you Young man You've become so impressive now You've made so much money You no longer have to deal with People like me who steal I'm sorry Fu Chenye, let's be together in the next life In the next life, we'll be Actually I kind of like you An'an Later, just pretend to be knocked down by him Create your chance encounter Treating your sister's leg will cost a lot of money An'an Don't blame Dad, okay? But someone like me probably doesn't match up to you, right? An'an Just wait a little longer I'll get you out right away Mu An'an Since you like him so much Then I'll see If he still has the chance Go to hell I almost thought I'd never see you again Mu An'an, you wretched woman You stole my life I'll kill you Mu An'an Wait for my Ning Ning to come back You all Will die Mu Donghua Jiang Wan Mu Yuning is right next to you Your retribution is coming Next door Impossible Mu An'an, you lied to me. Mu Donghua, this is the proof of your daughter's imprisonment. Ningning My Ningning Mu An'an You will suffer for this. Fu Chenye Aren't you curious about the truth before you were poisoned? I'll tell you if you let me go. Fu Chenye Fu Chenye I'll tell you everything In order to get Mu An'an to marry into a wealthy family I conspired with Fu Huaixiang to poison you If you let me go, I'll help you take down Fu Huaixiang What he says might be true An'an For me You are what matters most Money, power, status Nothing Can compare to your safety An'an, let's go Fu Chenye Do you trust Mu An'an that much? Let me tell you She's nothing but a thief A vagrant Orphans Beggar. She'll do anything for money. She'd do anything for money. But it doesn't matter. I still love this woman across the street But Fu Chen Ye Where are we going now? To do one thing. Very, very important. Fu Chenye What important matter did you just mention? Get in the car Car You want to have a wedding of the century with me Where? Where is it? I haven't chosen my wedding dress yet Let's go to the bridal shop to pick out a wedding dress now Oh, right, I also want that sapphire from last time Whatever you say