We like to throw around the word rise of the microcomputer really was a revolution. In 1981, IBM joined that revolution with the But the giant, for all of its saw its leading place in the revolution We all know how the story ends. can we learn from it? In this video, how ## The IBM PC IBM wanted to do a microcomputer. The question was like Big Blue keep up with the small and IBM had many times before attempted end&quot;. In the early 1970s, they produced the Later sold as the IBM 5100, it was but at $10,000 still way more than an Apple II. Thus in July 1980, with IBM lagging Entry Level Systems Unit in Boca Raton, Florida New York to make a proposal to the IBM Management He had with him a prototype demo of the product or PC. It couldn't really do all that much, Lowe was most concerned about what the committee company to build and even sell the PC machine. the company's massive bureaucracy and In his view, previous products like the their scopes due to input from various internal software to be more complicated, in turn Lowe saw precedent for his approach. The entirely built with components sourced from Shugart, RAM and ROM from Mostek or NEC, boards But the Management Committee, though this unusual approach, nevertheless could eventually be fixed. One member later said: &gt; The general attitude was that you and we thought the personal They were wrong of course. But ## Proprietary Though Lowe proposed the project, he was He handed duties over to visionary Estridge thus shepherded year - putting the PC system together Inspired by the Apple II's approach of having Estridge adopted the same for the IBM PC. The allowing third parties to make expansion Estridge also gathered together a small ecosystem spreadsheets and word processing. He was aided in whose job was to go to outside vendors and However, the team was aware that third parties. Like the central And the operating system - a modified version Moreover, many of the technical specs for literature. This potentially &quot;IBM-compatible&quot; clones - like an This small problem became a much hit the market in August 1981. Armed with the PC quickly became the de facto the number one target for the clone-makers. ## BIOS IBM decided to change the code for the The BIOS is a piece of low-level firmware. It between an operating system and its computer also performs system checks, initializes MS-DOS allows its BIOS to be implemented chose to implement a part of the PC read-only memory chip on the computer's board. The IBM team published its BIOS code book. Sounds strange, I know, but the Atari and Apple too published large chunks Accessory partners needed to know this code And by publishing the BIOS code, IBM PC-wannabes copied the BIOS code to make Achieving compatibility required more several top softwares bypassed the hardware. So ensuring compatibility would But generally speaking. So long as IBM bridge between hardware and software - that were fully compatible with ## The Founding It is September 1981 and three friends Jim Harris, William &quot;Bill&quot; Murto managers at Texas Instruments and in their and had been working together Rod Canion then met Bill in Austin in 1977 Instruments entered the Winchester if you are not familiar with the name The three eventually decided to start a market opportunity, but because they respected in an environment But what would this company do? Their first initially been thrown around - was an drive for the IBM PC. At the time, only They took the idea to LJ Sevin - one of the now venture capitalist - and his partner So the three turned in their resignations and founded a corporation with the Then suddenly, Sevin and Rosen got cold Winchester drive add-on and backed out of ## The Idea During breakfast, Rod is pondering the He started thinking about the IBM that it wasn't the hardware, but programs. Including those There were many microcomputers running was liberally licensing it out. But HP-150 or DEC's Rainbow 100 or Lacking complete compatibility, such computers thus cannot run IBM's the ecosystem's flagship spreadsheet program. At the same time, Rod and the team the Osborne 1. It was a commercial success, but Rod thought it to be ugly. And he wanted Thus, Rod mashed the two ideas together: A small, portable computer that also ran all of the Emphasis on the &quot;all&quot;. A few IBM but they were only partly compatible. As most famous PC-DOS softwares. Rosen joked LJ Sevin, Ben Rosen, and the VC and Byers decided to invest in this new idea, putting in about $1.5 million for a 55% stake ## Clean Room Now the team just had to make So the team started putting together computer - named the Compaq Portable - including a But getting the software was way trickier. In of MS-DOS compatible with PC software. on this. He then too much valued Microsoft's the exact version of the MS-DOS software he So Gateway decided to do some reverse-engineering. those specific lines of code rather But avoiding that copyright took few lines and calling it a day. where a team of people slowly put together a It was a long, slow process that required a great deal of trial and error. One group read IBM's code and produced Those specifications were handed who wrote code from scratch Full compatibility with everything inside the IBM his team that, without it they might as well shut Over fifteen people at Gateway were involved in and the effort cost the company $1 million. A few years later, a company called the same path. But they licensed which can then pair with a Microsoft MS-DOS ## The Portable Gateway was not the first company PC BIOS and bring a product to the market with it. That honor belongs to the which released their MPC 1600 &quot;Multi But the Compaq Portable's compatibility was compromises throughout the development Reviewers marveled at the Compaq's ability to run Moreover, the Portable was more than just was also ... portable. I mean, at 28 pounds, But everything - monitor, disk drives, so on - all that was in one package. And it was cheaper than IBM's stuff - a Compaq $3,735. This made it a fine second computer for office people who wanted to The pitch is right in the headline, Finally, the company specifically sold IBM PCs like Sears and ComputerLand. because Compaq gave them a bigger And critically, the company did not have a direct own sales partner was competing against them. Such ## Blowing Up Dealer demand for the Portable was Compaq Computer Company scrambled to ramp up They raised another $30 million from VCs and to fund this effort. The company went to 10,000 a month in December - flooding Deciding to keep the supply chain in America ramped up. 1983 was a hard time for in particular. So Compaq's expansion was a boon. Rod Canion recalls the news came of applicants stretched around the block. The Compaq expected about $20 already a very ambitious number. Based million of sales. Staggering. But even In 1983, Compaq shipped over 53,000 Portables Their growth trajectory was so voracious to sell shares to the public in an IPO to Apple Computer was then the poster child industry and it still took them four years past that. It was the most successful ## Squish Flat Even so, Compaq knew they held a neighborhood - which included From the very beginning, people entirely to IBM not having a portable and being So many market observers felt that IBM can easily or changing something in the PC to lock down the Compaq's backlog of orders But Compaq cofounder James Harris &gt; &quot;We realize a niche like this for an long ... [but] we have a number of ## Building a Standard In March 1983, IBM released its This computer did not change with the exception of adding But while reverse-engineering the XT, drive broke some of the PC's older software. to the XT also had to pay their software Who knows how or why IBM let this pass Quality they felt that since they owned the standard, But IBM - like the US Union General William in 1863 - did not know that they were And that Compaq was positioning to In October 1983, Rod Canion the Compaq Plus. It might look the same, but First, the Plus had this brand new 3.5 inches, the disk drive was small and light. Provided by a Scottish company called specially mounted inside a 5.25 inch drive The hard disk drive was the headlining feature, and what everyone in the press paid more important - from a strategic standpoint At the Compaq Plus announcement, Rod Canion said, &quot;To us, compatibility means to be able to In other words, Compaq was slightly expanding With the XT, IBM - whatever its intention dance to its tune. Compaq was saying no. &gt; IBM has set a standard that all companies have adopted. So many customers the standard doesn't really belong to IBM anymore By early 1984, Compaq had turned this into Canion told Computerworld that the standard - independent even of IBM - because Compaq backed their words with action. gained a market reputation for good they licensed this variant back to Microsoft, ## The Deskpro Compaq stay in its portable niche and So Compaq decided to get into desktop the company pulled together a team for than a speeding bullet&quot;. In just Released in June 1984, the Deskpro came IBM AT. Powered by the Intel 286 CPU, the it also cost significantly more - about The PC AT was a seriously impressive computer and the company sold a lot of them. IBM's impact on the PC clone market, and many of But there were a few issues. the IBM AT computer suffered serious inadequate testing of the controller And of increasing importance, the AT again written for older PC hardware. On the surface, IBM emerged from 1984 profits of $6.58 billion, their highest yet. A They owned 63% of the IBM-compatible market, at large. Poor Apple was then in free Compaq also had a good year, surviving the PC and $12.8 million in profit. Mind you, that Looking back at it, the IBM AT marked the on its ecosystem. After this, that valuable ## The 386 The 286 CPU, though quite good, had its flaws various modes. With the 386, on the other special - particularly with how it ran Despite this, IBM insisted on sticking with that the 386 was so powerful that it could But the biggest reason was that IBM to take back control of the ecosystem. IBM and opted to go forward with that. ## The Operating System Since the early 1980s, there was a more intuitive interface than a terminal The question was how to make that transition. For visual interface extension to MS-DOS essentially a defensive measure, shipped That same year, in the wake of the collaborating on a new operating system called CP/DOS and later renamed to DOS While IBM did consider dropping Microsoft of sheer inertia - though with IBM did the design and Microsoft did the coding. But this deeper partnership quickly between the IBM programmers who did things and the Microsoft cowboys who did As the relationship deteriorated, MS-DOS grew making Gates a billionaire at age 31 and people started to wonder why and how their Gates wanted IBM to help boost Windows in the market just as it did for MS-DOS. then head of the IBM PC team, told Gates that IBM in the operating system. The two continued ## Deskpro 386 IBM's attempt to walk away from Intel Needing to find someone to sell its hot with whom they had previously worked together The two worked together to produce the where a company other than IBM introduced waiting for IBM to make a 386 PC first was a Rod Canion called it the &quot;most powerful the September 1986 introduction, Compaq Intel, Lotus 1-2-3, and so on. Rod Canion Intel, and Microsoft setting the &gt; We were not held back by IBM ... we were able to leverage the industry standard and add doing. The ability to move on to the pain of separation ... is absolutely the IBM was pissed. Intel was where it choosing them for the PC. So for IBM to competitor wrestle the PC standard IBM broke off whatever non-contractual including non-contractual purchasing and custom co-development initiatives. They also But Intel nevertheless kept selling Compaq's revenues along with all the other Compaq entered the Fortune 500, ## The PS/2 Compaq's self-coronation as the leader were determined to take back control In April 1987, IBM announced the comprising of four computers. New insisted that they be called Systems, The PS/2 introduced things that many the Video Graphics Array or VGA at 640x480 pixel resolution. It made the mouse a standard for the that the PC's future interface would many mice used the PS/2's iconic mouse port And the 3.5 inch floppy disk! Smaller, denser, and cuter too. First made by Sony and then the 3.5 inch floppy is a fundamental But the thing most technical was an obscure bit of the system data between the PC's various pieces It shares few physical features with that in Taipei carries people from one The PS/2 had changed the AT's old, open when the team had to re-engineer the bus This re-engineering necessitated changes in the slot connections between the William Lowe decided to take introduce a brand new PC bus standard The Micro Channel expansion bus worked better most existing add-on peripherals and deliberately hobbled so that IBM can later, And finally, the operating system. that it was developing in collaboration with OS/2's headlining feature was a next ## No Clones! IBM has abruptly changed its systems by IBM-compatible makers. But what aggressively asserted its presumed Anyone wanting to make an expansion board for onerous - 5% of revenue not only for every PS/2 IBM also put special effort to make the laying a variety of technical, First, unlike with the original PC, stuff - circuit boards, sockets, etc - each little thing has to be closely Second, IBM extensively applied for patents and software. At the time of the PS/2's entailed - but IBM made it clear that And perhaps most tricky of all, the PS/2 makes Circuits or ASICs - custom chips. These custom functions, and their masks/designs are protected IBM knew it was impossible to cut off was to make it economically impractical to quickly produce a &quot;compatible&quot; PS/2 clone ## Do We Follow? As a final push to get everyone IBM announced that it would The AT was the best-selling IBM PC up until of clone-makers like Compaq to soar. Compaq one of the fastest ever companies to But people feared that IBM was finally pinching One senior executive at ARCO, the oil &gt; IBM sets the standards, IBM drives then it can lock out all PC vendors Even so, a few customers balked at adopting already had. For instance, the Union Bank of designed its communication boards using boards will force them to redesign the whole In the end though, corporate buyers will probably But what about the ordinary consumer? Would the rest of the industry follow - and in ## Gang of Nine Over the next year and a half, a massive the PS/2's forthcoming market entrance in 1988. Soon after the April 1987 announcement, the doubt about making PS/2 clones, while still The argument soon narrowed down to the but was that so necessary when the AT bus's Everyone saw what IBM was playing at. But if Compaq presented an alternative, Compaq itself was the number two in the they came up the idea of uniting the other PC Compaq quit working on the Micro on a new standard. Meanwhile, Canion brought it his full support - pledging to help Intel was a bit more skeptical at the offered them the opportunity to supply Then throughout the summer of 1988, Compaq with Gates encouraging them to listen closely Hewlett-Packard, NEC, Olivetti, In September 1988, the nine companies old PC AT-style bus and offer it as Micro Channel. The new standard was called the Together, these nine companies controlled 33.5% The Wall Street Journal called it calling the nine clone-makers the &quot;Gang of Nine&quot;. That Intel and Microsoft sent Steve Ballmer to speak at the Gang of Nine critical partners - once beholden to the ## OS/2 IBM's experience with OS/2 was The work between Microsoft and IBM continued again. OS/2 grew in scope and by late 1986, that it would be better if it ran on the In the end, when the OS/2 version 1.0 only ran in text mode. The headlining GUI feature So OS/2 did not have much to distinguish it, market analyst at the time confidently just like how DOS overtook That did not happen. IBM's own the market later in 1988, just in memory chip shortage in wake of the 1986 By then, Intel and Microsoft had transformed into of anonymous companies slapping together prices. Intel chip. Microsoft OS. That was In 1990, Microsoft released Windows were awful and failed. But this one sold IBM on the other hand only sold about OS/2's release. Afterwards, they took full control of it and funneled billions of dollars ## Conclusion The PS/2's technologies delivered reasonable prices, and they were much appreciated. Had IBM not been so aggressive then one can argue that the rest of new products and adopted them as the But IBM wanted to retain control of a standard Ironically, their attempts to squeeze that grip I am reminded of another situation like this: AT&amp;T and Unix. Unix was a unique thing that AT&amp;T sought to monetize. Their heavy handed In the end, IBM went off on its fine. Cuz their heart really was in the and in the end they returned there. For those