This is the first known analog computer. It was designed 2000 years ago to when the moon passes in front of the Eclipses are intimately tied into It's sort of a triumph of exact science become possible over the course of eclipse will arrive to We can very accurately predict the how it's going to happen for Eclipse prediction is the giant but the real thing that had to be solved of the motion of the Earth, moon and sun. What do you actually have to work out Eclipses are part of a really larger set lots of ancient governments had in regulating time and predicting astronomical events. For centuries, people were keeping good records The Babylonians, they recorded what planets were where in It's probably the longest running They started being able to see patterns. Ancient astronomers saw three periodic hidden in the movements of the moon. They noticed it takes 29.5 days to This full lunar phase cycle is They also saw that the sun and the moon two different paths in the sky. That's because of a cosmic quirk. The moon's orbit is tilted at five degrees known as the plane of the ecliptic. Every 27.2 days, the draconic month, the moon passes through the plane of Finally, ancient astronomers observe that the returning to the same size This is the anomalistic month caused Armed with centuries of data, the Babylonians noticed every 6,585 days and eight hours, These cycles sync up and this happens. This number came to be known as the saros, a harmonic separating two eclipses. After a saros length of time, Earth, moon system repeats again. The Babylonians realized that lunar phase cycle, you would have 239 repetitions and 242 plunges through the plane of the ecliptic. All of these roughly That coincidence is what Every saros cycle, the postiion of the moon relative to and relative to the plane of the ecliptic That's what produces an eclipse. A few centuries after the Greek astronomers combined it with new of celestial objects to create the Antikythera mechanism. It's this clockwork computer. and as you turn these gears around, it's kind of simulating the motions and it encodes the saros approximation to predicting eclipses. But there are limitations. The saros can predict roughly not where it will be visible on Earth. For the next 2000 years, the quest for a precise method of innovation across the world. You go from the earliest days of then the calculusization of astronomy But then the race was on to figure out, given Newton's law's of motion, well, then we should be able to figure out and exactly when eclipses are going to occur. People were impressed Newton had how hard can it now be to solve Well, it turned out to be really hard. We've got these differential equations according to Newton's laws. A differential equation says that determined by some other thing. When people say solve they typically mean find a formula That formula we can't find, but we can perfectly well work positions of these bodies. In the 1960s, NASA started directly computing numerical But to solve these differential equations, you first need to know the Earth, sun, and moon's initial conditions or the positions and Roger tower. Now we know where the moon is because the Apollo astronauts put. There are five reflectors on the moon. We send the laser pulse to it, it bounces back and returns to the And from that information, we can figure out the distance information between the Earth and the moon. And we can usually process this So the moon's position and understood than almost anywhere else To find the Earth's position NASA uses data from an array of spacecraft missions The part that most occupied the ancients, where will the celestial bodies be because NASA has missions all over the all of these missions, and then they're crunching it This mathematical model is called It's stores, the positions and and other gravitational variables A special kind of function that is convenient for finding new data points based on existing data points. So you have bunch of points which curve gives us the minimum observation and the fitted line. So of course, what we are but the essence of how we do Think of the Antikythera well now we've got 20,000 cogs that we to compute when eclipses will occur. To predict the next eclipse, and ones NASA uses the JPL Ephemeris and moon will line up. Then using a handful of scientists can predict when and where Earth's surface. One of the things that's kind of nice pinnacle of kind of, achievement for with great precision on the basis We no longer rely on the but it remains a powerful The saros series will be At any given time, there are multiple The North American Total Solar Eclipse is part of the Saros Series 139, which started in 1501. And eventually what happens is that the And then that's the Saros 139 will end in 2750, beginning another chapter in