Can you celebrate life and not cling to it? Can you give up control and still get things Can you achieve your goals without forcing? These are all themes we find in the ancient was written by a mysterious sage named Lao There isn't much known about this character even doubt that he truly existed. But whoever wrote the Tao Te Ching has inspired Taoism deeply respects the passive, receptive By becoming aware of the strength of, what 'yin'-aspects of life, we'll see that tools in the toolbox for getting things done. In a previous video, The Philosophy of Flow, known as the soft power of 'wu wei' or being 'in the zone' when participating This video, however, explores how the wisdom a more general sense. How can we let go, and let ourselves be carried How can we live more effortlessly, with less How can we live a rich life and enjoy it to the natural course? The following five lessons based on the writings in an entirely different way. 1) Don't force anything. The Master does not force virtue on others, The ordinary person who uses force, will find In several chapters of the Tao Te Ching, Lao When we force, we go against the natural flow Oftentimes, a fallacy we make is thinking that when we push hard enough, we'll eventually For some things, pushing hard consistently But no matter what we do, there are always Lao Tzu observed that nature has its own way Living in this world, we see that nature manifests Some things are big and heavy, other things Some things take ages to grow, other things We humans are bound to the flow of nature the way we learn, the way our bodies function; If we force things, we put ourselves in a against us. This happens, for example, when we swim against We can swim against the stream for a while, And when we finally give in, and accept that we let go and start to flow along. When we, somehow, find a way to work with get much easier, and we won't exhaust ourselves This means 'working smart', instead of and navigating diligently, so that the wind 2) Don't overburden yourself. Those who stand on tiptoes do not stand firmly. Those who rush ahead don't get very far. Those who try to outshine others dim their A typical phenomenon that we see in current push themselves too far. Pushing boundaries isn't wrong in itself, If we look at strength training, for example, the muscles. By breaking down the muscles during a lifting come back stronger and bigger overtime. But there's one necessary ingredient when lifters tend to overlook, which is rest. When we repeatedly overburden the muscles, training, as they don't get enough time Even though our intention was making ourselves chronic exhaustion leads to a lower immune according to countless studies. So, why do people do this? It's because they want to become very muscular, very quickly. But by pushing themselves too hard, they've Lao Tzu would describe this as standing on our tiptoes we don't stand firmly. There always needs to be a balance between put into things and the time we let the body Stretching ourselves beyond our means may but, as Lao Tzu observed, it will make us Another example are people who take out a as long as they keep earning what they earn, Yes, this will lead to a big house in the people to always stay on the hamster wheel, They're chained to a payment obligation, less stressful, if that decreases their income. And why? Often it's not because they need it, but And this comes with a price. "The more wealth you possess, the harder And when one fills a cup to the brim, it becomes So, ideally, if we take Lao Tzu's wisdom feet on the ground with everything we do. 3) Stop controlling the world. Do you want to rule the world and control I don't think it can ever be done. The world is a sacred vessel and it can not You will only make it worse if you try. It may slip through your fingers and disappear. Have you ever observed that many of our problems Intervening isn't always necessary. Moreover, in many cases intervention only Everything is in motion, which means that today's problems can become tomorrow's We can see this in the workplace often, as tries to control all processes, and only causes Deadlines aren't being met, coworkers hate But when this manager is away for a few weeks, Lao Tzu states that a good leader doesn't she lets people do things themselves, and There's a difference between delegating Leading and delegating can be done softly go with the flow. Controlling and imposing often go together In practice, we might want to take a step In many cases, the natural course will make This basically comes down to trusting the 4) Enough is enough. Those who know they have enough are truly As we tend to overburden ourselves, we also more than we need. We see that the wealthy try to get wealthier. For them, increasing their possessions is But when we always aim for getting more, don't Our needs come with natural limits. We only need enough food to stay energized to stay hydrated. Too much is harmful. Taoist sage Zhuangzi invigorates this argument, a bellyful of water when drinking at the pond. A mouse naturally refrains from over-encumbering toll on the body. Nevertheless, humans often accumulate more The main reason for this seems to be fear: diminishes who they are. It's an ego thing: having more, means "I We also fear that we won't have enough in But as we know; the future is uncertain. We can die tomorrow, and everything we own "Whoever knows contentment will be at peace But we can only know when we have enough if external things is based on delusion. We aren't what we have, as none of these This includes even our own bodies. Having an excess of external things eventually "The things you own end up owning you." As with the mouse, there's only so much Of course, it's not a bad idea to have, bank, as long as we don't become slaves Moderation is the key. 5) Don't cling to life. I have heard that those who celebrate life When they go into battle, they remain unharmed. There's a difference between celebrating If you cling to life there's nothing to Life has become immensely serious and even We're anxious because we see death, the The fear of death is what makes us cling to are stiff and rigid are the disciples of death. Those who are soft and yielding are the disciples Those who don't cling to life, therefore, and wild animals don't see the need to attack Now, the fear of death manifests within us Many people claim that they don't fear death, of what death is. But this mere idea rarely resembles truth, to be'. There's something, however, that lies quite which is 'losing what we cling to'. We may cling to our beauty, so we are afraid We may cling to our reputation, so we are other people say or think about us. We may cling to our wealth, so we're always Now, an aging body, a bad reputation, or poverty, and live well, while enduring these things. However, it may equal the death of our self-image; For most people, this is where the fear of Thus, the true fear of death lies in the idea That's why in war, soldiers fear the idea of 'not dying in honor' more than dying itself. But by clinging to the idea of ourselves and the universe, which is that change is the The story we tell ourselves about ourselves The same goes for the story we tell ourselves When we cling to one thing, we resist another. And what we resist will stick, but what we The ability to let go and go with the flow, universe, is what makes us disciples of life. And these were five lessons based on the writings Thank you for watching.