Before Auto-Tune, musicians had to have brimming with it. Fats would go on to become of a new music genre called rock n' roll. Sometimes, it's impossible for parents to tell In the case of Antoine Domino Jr., it was a piano when the instrument was moved into the family was so captivated by the piano that his parents According to The New York Times, came in the form of his brother-in-law. and he gave young Domino an understanding From there onwards, it was all Domino. It turned After listening to a record just a handful Domino dropped out of school in many of his generation did -- went right to delivering ice to houses all across the Lower &quot;In the houses where people had a piano in their There's a few different stories about and it ultimately led to his breakout hit. and that's when he and longtime songwriting The record would go on to sell more than But Domino was already &quot;Fats,&quot; a nickname that leader Billy Diamond. It wasn't a comment It was a nod to two jazz pianists Domino reminded the release of &quot;The Fat Man,&quot; however, the name easily embraced it. Standing just 5'5&quot;, he was While Fats Domino might not have today as someone like Elvis Presley, it's he was to shaping the genre as a whole. &quot;A lot of people seem to think I started this time before I came along. [...] Let's face it: I Presley pointed Domino out as, quote, &quot;the According to American Blues Scene, Fats marketed as a pure musician. He broke out of the and fans knew they were listening to With record sales of more than 65 million, He's also credited for recording Questions about what defines the genre means but according to The Guardian, the When Fats Domino was in his heyday, and Jim Crow laws were still a Fats Domino and the Lost Dawn of Rock 'n' Roll most important artists who kicked down the Domino's concerts became notorious for integrating Virginia. Brian Ward, who's a professor or says the concert was originally segregated, fans in the balcony, which was crammed to about down to the floor, less accepting fans started Integration -- a highly controversial sight at Domino's concerts as Black and white fans The subsequent fights that broke PBS, however, says that wasn't the case who didn't like the idea of fans breaking who then used things like tear gas to try to continued to play integrated concerts, and had As the face of this new and controversial kind questions. After a riot broke out at one of he was asked if the music was to blame. &quot;Well, you know how it is when the &quot;You don't think it was the music?&quot; He was perfectly aware of the racial tension that new musical style. And there were no shortage of Virginia. After the show, a white mob congregated which was located in the Black section of Roanoke. of their chart-topping popularity, even the Rock has always had a bit of a reputation There's good reason for that, and in hindsight, inoffensive event in the world. However, 7, 1956 show at the Palomar According to the Los Angeles Times, when the band was around two hours late. most of the 3,500 people there had but everything was fine when Domino and his for an intermission, it just took one person Overhead lights were broken and fights broke hundreds broke windows and fled that way, while got worse when someone threw firecrackers into the The media ran stories of the &quot;rock 'n roll banning rock music, they rethought that &quot;Well, as far as I know, music makes The Belleville News-Democrat says Pat Boone was covering songs from Black artists -- including Fats out by 1955, and the story goes that when they said they preferred Boone's version. It and he went on to make comments like this: &quot;They were thrilled because they wrote my records than they did from their larger audience that they didn't Boone's comments, however, don't tell the studies at Northumbria University, says that and Chuck Berry -- had, quote, &quot;major hits on record companies continued the trend of offering and then raked in the big bucks So here's a question: Why don't we remember Filmmaker Joe Lauro was invited to make &quot;[H]e was just being forgotten because of his un-crazy life. The man was on the road for piano on fire. [...] Of course, his extreme With Domino, there was none of the jail time, none of the controversy. When he he was cooking. Domino's longtime collaborator &quot;Because you're kind of a shy guy, aren't you?&quot; &quot;Yeah, I guess so. I don't know.&quot; NOLA says that it was much more than shyness. Tipitina's -- but no one knew if he was going to been away from performing for a while, and they had been his longtime and constant companion. pushed partially by the fact that it was a benefit Fats Domino had an insanely long career, and be inaugurated into the Rock and Roll Hall of the time. His last official tour happened in That tour, says NOLA, was a pretty bad one. Domino exhaustion as he and his band made their way of performances when he started to feel very, performing live could severely damage his health. even declining a trip to Washington, D.C. to From there on out, live performances In 2005, Hurricane Katrina devastating everything it touched and For a short time, Fats Domino's name was Even after the warnings to evacuate were the Lower Ninth -- partially, says the Independent, quote, &quot;out of stubbornness.&quot; Domino was after the water had risen to 15 feet. he was taken to the Superdome with other refugees. In the end, Domino lost everything From his gold records and it was all washed away. Just a year later, he It was called Alive and Kickin', a reference continuing existence. Part of the proceeds Fats Domino left his home on Caffin Avenue in would ultimately return to live in Louisiana hadn't gone home, and was asked if he was hoping &quot;I would like to keep the house.&quot; Sadly, that day would never come. When he passed away in his home in Harvey, Louisiana -- New Orleans. He was 89 years old, and it was Through it all, Domino considered himself &quot;I was lucky enough to write songs that carry could feel was their story, too -- something Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit