How well can you understand native speakers? Well, let's find out because today you're going to test your listening skills of You're going to see if you can And doing this will help you improve And you'll expand your Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course. I'm Jennifer Nella. Let's get started. Here are your instructions for the entire lesson. First, you're going to see a sentence, and you need to complete the To do that, you're going to listen to a clip After, you'll learn how to Here we go, our first listening exercise. Whatever she you need to complete the Whatever she dishes out, you Whatever she dishes out, you Whatever she dishes out, you How'd you do with this one? Whatever she dishes out, our Now let's review how to use This simply means to criticize. So when you criticize someone or something, For example, she really dished She really criticized Tom at the meeting. Now notice I said dished it out. What's the IT the IT represents the criticism. She dished out the criticism. She dished it out to Tom. And we always use this expression with criticism. So you don't need to specify that with you because we have a very You can dish it out, but you can't take it. You can dish it out, which means but you can't take it, which means if somebody You become very upset or very angry. So if someone is being very well, you can dish it out, but can you take it? Can you receive the criticism that you're giving? It's a way to remind someone that You can dish it out, but you can't take it. Amazing job. Now pay close attention because I'm going to quiz you to make sure you Let's do this listening exercise again. Here's your sentence, and you I'll play it three times. We're all just muddling through art way. We're all just muddling through art way. We're all just muddling through art way. How'd you do with this one? We're all just muddling through. Let's learn how to use to muddle through. This is when you do or achieve something For example, I muddled through making the cake. So maybe I had no idea how to make this cake. I didn't know the procedure, I muddled through making the cake, So sometimes when you muddle through something, the result isn't very positive because Other times it can be positive in the end. Amazing job number three. Here's your sentence. You need to complete the sentence. I'll play it three times. I'm. Excited to nerd out on it. I'm excited to nerd out on He's excited to nerd out on Let's learn how to use it to nerd out. Oh, I love this one. When you nerd out on something, it Greater detail than the average For example, I can nerd out I can discuss sentence structure, But my friends who are native English speakers have no interest in discussing To them that is boring. But to me as an English teacher, and we can nerd out on the English language all day. I can also nerd out on different types of plants, looking at plants. I really love plants as well, doesn't want to discuss it What about you? What's something that you could nerd out on? Nerd out on this specific topic all day. Share that in the comments. Number four, complete the sentence. I'll play it three times. Of course I'll stick around. Of course I'll stick around. Of course, I'll stick around. Of course, I'll stick around. Let's learn how to use this to stick around. This is a very common phrasal verb, and it simply Let's say you just finished dinner with but your friend took the bus. So you can just get in your car and leave. But your friend has to wait until the bus comes. So you could say, oh, don't worry, I'll stay with you at this specific location, the Or let's say you're in the You might say, well, let's just So let's stay at this specific You'll absolutely use this in your daily speech and hear native speakers using this one Wash up for dinner, guys. Wash up for dinner, guys. Wash up for dinner guys, did you Let's review this phrasal verb to wash up. This simply means to clean your hands, to So before dinner you could say, oh, I just need to wash up and most likely And I commonly say this in the I could say to my husband, oh, just give me 5 And for me, it's to wash my face because I love It's a lot more comfortable. So women might use the wash up So it can be for both hands and face. Number six, here's your sentence. Let's see if you can complete it. I'll play it three times. Now make sure if you leave, you lock up the house. Now make sure if you leave, you lock up the house. Now make sure if you leave you lock up the house. How'd you do with this one? Now make sure if you leave, you lock up the house. Very good advice. Let's review this one to lock up. This is when you securely close your windows and So it's another way of simply saying lock. For example, make sure you lock U before And that's, of course, good advice. But if you work in a building, someone is likely responsible for So one person might be responsible for that building are securely closed or locked. So, for example, Sally is responsible for locking up #7 We're going to review one of Let's see if you can complete this sentence. And while he was yammering on about whatever, and while he was yammering on about And while he was yammering on, This is when you talk For example, I ran into Kate at hours and I missed my bus so I ran into Kate. I saw Kate but I wasn't expecting to see her. I saw her accidentally. I ran into Kate at the mall and she yammered on, oh, hi Jennifer, I'd love to And then 10 minutes later she's still talking I'm not that interested in her vacation Yammer on #8 They've been let's listen. Three times they've been mounting off They've been mouthing off to me. Did you get this one? They've been mouthing off to me. Oh no. Let's review this one. Tell mouth off. When you mouth off to someone, you speak to that So this is something that kids, And when I was a teenager, if I moused When you're grounded, this means that So if you're grounded, maybe you can't go to the you can't use the computer privileges You're grounded. You're grounded. And as adults, we also don't want to mouth authority figure, like a police officer is But I let's listen three times. Yeah, but IMAX stole my credit card. Yeah, but IMAX stole my credit card. Yeah, but I maxed out my credit. Card. Did you get this one? Yeah, but I maxed out my credit card. Uh oh. Let's review this to Max out. When you Max something out, it means For example, I maxed out my So your credit card has a limit, maybe $10,000. If you maxed out that credit card, the maximum amount, the limit of that credit card. Likely not the best idea. And finally #10 this is a fun one. I'm let's listen three times. I'm loading up on carbs. I'm loading up on carbs. I'm loading up on carbs. How'd you do? I'm loading up on carbs. Let's learn how to use this to load up on. When you load up on something, it means or you purchase a lot of that So let's say you're an athlete. Right before a raise or a competition, Carbs are carbohydrates, energy for your Jim loaded up on carbs before the race. Or you could say we loaded up on So we purchased a large amount of So now you have 10 new phrasal verbs. Plus you've improved your So Are you ready for your quiz? Here are the questions. Hit pause. Take as much time as you need, and when How would you do with that quiz? Let's find out. Here are the answers. Hit pause, review them, and So how would you do? Share your score in the comments. And did you like this lesson? Do you want me to create more lessons where I If you do put let's go, let's go, And of course, make sure you like this lesson, So you're notified every time I post a new lesson. And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And you can keep improving your listening