Hello Ding-a-lings. My name is Michale Stevens and you are here Toys. Have you ever spun a penny? It's amazing. Watch this. As the penny comes to a stop it's wobble That's what you're hearing but its spin Watch how Abraham Lincoln spins slower and Of course a penny will not spin forever here friction, vibration, all those kinds of things and lays flat right down there on the table. But how long can a coin spin for? Well, in 1990 Joseph Bendik invented Euler's It's a spinning course. Of course the coin in this case is a very There are no batteries here. There's no magnets. Nothing like that. It's just a piece of metal spinning on a secret but watch how well this spins. Your ready? Here we go. Euler's disk. Quite phenomenal. The disk spins because that's what I made it because of gravity. Precession is a change in the orientation As far Euler's disk goes, precession works When I first spin the disk, it spins around whoa! We're not ready for the tilting yet. It spins around an access like this right? But unless I spin it perfectly such that it gravity will do it work and gravity causes so we've got a disk spinning this way and all around in a circle. Ahh yeah, I'm actually getting pretty good A little precession puppeteering, you're Now the reason Euler's disk spins for so to lose energy as slowly as possible. Now we don't know exactly how the inventor as a trade secret. Only one company sells this toy but you can If it was lighter it wouldn't have as much kind of stuff would take more of its motion But if it was too heavy. If it was heavier than this it might have deformation of the base of itself because it. It also has this interesting curve on one to roll along. The way that curve works as opposed to the disk lose less energy as its angle to the The final result is phenomenal. In many ways Euler's disk operates like It's why it precesses and it's why it So let's take a look at a gyroscope but What is it? Well, it we imagine that this baseball is that the satellite's orbit is somewhat like Now what happens if, while it's orbiting it down? I apply a force, a quick little impulse, boom, What will happen? Will it get hit by the force and go straight No. The acceleration induced by my impulse will has in the horizontal plane. So we have this kind of motion. The motion from my force going down and we'll motion. That means that the ball will when struck, BOOM! Will start orbiting like this and what is Now this is really really interesting because is pushing down is not felt within the line ahead in the original rotation. Take a look at my favorite demonstration of I just love to play with this as like a fidget Little disk of cardboard and a pencil. If the disk is not spinning and I blow here The part that I blow on is pushed down. It's pretty obvious especially if you've do this same demonstration but watch what do the same thing. I blow on the back. It tilts to the right. Keep in mind that the disk is spinning when And just like what I was saying with the orbiting blowing down on the disk here is seen 90 degrees going down here it goes down 90 degrees ahead. That's because the acceleration from my mass of the disk already has. If I blow here, tilts to the right. If I spin the disk counterclockwise it should Pretty awesome right? So this is where gyroscopic stability and Now watch what happens if I always blow on The lowest part of the disk. It precesses. Its access of rotation moves around. This is exactly what happens in a gyroscope. Of course its not breath moving around. It's just gravity constantly putting a torque Let me show you what I mean. Here's a gyroscope which consists of just cage so that it can be held and manipulated If the disk is not rotating and you balance But if the disk is spinning you're going cardboard disk. It'll balance but because no one's perfect skewness that causes a torque from gravity. Gravity operates from the center of gravity it's pretty much right there in the middle this. Those two forces are not in line so we get Rotation. Well if gravity starts pushing this way what's We know that that effect of gravity will be disk is rotation clockwise when seen from A torque this way will manifest as motion 90 degrees ahead of the rotation but look Now because the center of gravity is here of gravity from my perspective, the torque way if it weren't spinning but it is so ahead of the rotateon here. So the gyroscope tilts that way. Now the torque operates like this which means way. So it'll tilt like this and all of a sudden doesn't fall over. Instead it precesses. Alright let's see this in action. I'm gonna take a string and poke it through This end is a little sharper. Ow. Okay perfect. Now I'm going to turn the gyroscope and Perfect. When I pull the string while holding the cage The disk will spin up really quickly and it's above. But I think I'm gonna turn it over so that the string is not the one on the base. So the disk will be spinning counterclockwise precession. Here we go. I'm holding the cage, pulling the string, It appears to be defying gravity but in reality and constantly relocating it around in a circle the thing over. But as the disk slows down due to friction torque becomes a larger part of the influence, disk has and the precession becomes greater As you can see the precession is much more lowering and the precession will speed up up and it falls down to the ground. It's pretty dang amazing. Spinning objects can behave quite unintuitively. And what is Euler's disk but a spinning Well a few other things. Euler's disk has no axel and there's no So when it precesses instead of moving around here, it just sticks one of its edges right of Euler's disk's precession it also rolls. One of the edges is in contact with the surface And there's a relationship between the speed how quickly it spins. That relationship is caused by the fact that disk and the table, the smaller the circle Once the disk is really low like this as it out a circle that's much closer in size At the limit when the disk is flat on the is touching a circle with the same circumference You can observe this effect yourself. I'm gonna use a roll of tape because this If we mark off a line on the circumference roll without slipping the ring of tape around a lot smaller than the circumference after some space left if we roll in this direction back to the purple line that I've drawn So it will appear as though the ring is spinning. Watch this. I'll start with the line on the ground and the tape around a little tiny circle. And look at that. I've completed one precession but where's It's not down there anymore. Now it's all the way up here. The disk has spun quite a bit but if the disk's that then a rotation takes us around...well the circumference and when we get back the The disk has only spun a little bit so that's vigorous. That's because the precessions' making or the tail side appears to be spinning even Both of those are true. The disk is spinning more slowly but precessing But wait hold on hold on. Why does the rate of precession increase. Well just like as we mentioned with the gyroscope friction which means that gravitational torque on all the mass. But also as the disk loses to gravity and and the table gets smaller the moment arm You can think of the disk like a lever right? When it's really steep like this it's to point it's pivoting from a point right of mass basically like right there. But as the disk obtains a shallower and shallower the center of gravity increases and gravity arm. It's the difference between using a crowbar like this. You're gonna get more leverage this way. For that reason gravity's torque increases And precession increases in rate. Okay I think you guys are ready to see a magic Terror. You ready? So here we are with just a regular old penny. In fact the very same penny that was in my But watch. Corn cob. Whoa! Amazing right? But of course this isn't a real penny. You couldn't spend this in a store. If you want something of true value try this Cob corn. Curiosity Box 12. Now shipping. We only have a few of these units left but The stuff inside here is basically a mystery The deck of cards that we specially designed I tweeted about those earlier. And this shirt. This is the shirt in the next box. It works in very cool ways with the red blue Now Euler's disk and the gyroscope are not Not at all. However you can buy them in the Curiosity That's right. Our store is really maturing. I'm pretty much in love with it right now. It's full of fantastic stuff. Vsauce T-shirts. Cypher Wheels. Mobile Microscopes. Vapor Equilibrium Demonstrators. Galton boards. Yeah. I'm talking the kind of brain food that But I've got some really big news for you You know Curiosity Stream? The streaming service that is just full of They've got that new one Return to the Moon. Very good. Almost all of their content guys is just extremely MM love it. Anyways they've done something really really Because of them the next 1,000 people to subscribe shipping inside the United States. If you're international you'll get $8 Are you already a subscriber? Because of Curiosity stream you're going Box store. Pretty pretty cool. So thank you so much to them. Curiosity stream has a great mission. To get 30 days free you can use the code down Oh by the way that's not even all they did. They also enabled us to put an extra item So thank you Curiosity Stream. Stay curious everyone. And as always, thanks for watching. Bonus content alert. That was just me Michael not a robot. Gotcha right? Anyways this is bonus content as my robot This is footage we shot in slow motion of It's pretty cool. We have also an arrow on top so you can see mirror get smaller the precession gets faster. And because of that the spin becomes slower As you watch you can see that the arrow rotates Enjoy.