[Music] When people that have never seen my work their eyes when they see it, it's like Each single piece is individually cut by hand, shaped by hand and welded on by hand. So this is Welcome to my shop. We're here an hour out of Vancouver BC. I rent a big [Music] I had a hot rod shop before and it became full-time work for me the side with a hot rod shop anymore. relocated out to here. Now we're One of the biggest opportunities back in 2011 I and they were building the world's first winged Wild Eagle. So they commissioned me as you to become more popular the opportunity arose to building large-scale artwork. [Music] So Everything is hand formed, handmade. These every one of these hammer marks is is done with a So it's an old 110 year old machine that we purchased from another hot rod friend of mine and he saw me hammering using a hammer and a sandbag. He's like &quot;holy crap man like And I mean what a lifesaver it was this to do it takes hours and hours and hours and I'm thinking that it's probably got about three to four thousand square feet of stainless steel just to skin it. I kind of create sculptures one problem at a time. Putting it together and engineering it, so that's one is I've used um stainless steel angle and I had these rings, you can see the rings in here I kind of look at each piece of the sculpture the years in my whole career 30 plus years of It's like a friend after a while you you know that it's Designing is consuming that's the only way I can describe it because I live eat and sleep my sculptures. Everybody asks like do you have to cut But everything I do has to fit through And if it fits through the doorway it'll and fit under most bridges so we're So this is probably the greatest This is a almost a full-scale replica I based it on Drogon which is the original dragon I would say the dragon has been my most complicated most detailed and most time consuming sculpture to date. He's about 12 feet tall. He's about 44 feet wide with his wings folded. Spread out they'd probably be about 100 foot wingspan. Assembled he's probably fifteen thousand So I started with the inside of the mouth and then worked my way around using round bar. So all the teeth were shaped bent and ground to points. Round bar for his gums, sheet metal for the Up inside is the fire system at the corners of his mouth. So I have two electric igniters and the gas tube coming out of his mouth. All the texture was done by welding and by and curved and welded together half inch round the thickness, I just welded and welded and welded and the roughness and texture to it because I thought that gave it a real you know kind of a horn kind of feel to it. And then these are all made by hand so each scale is laid out on a full sheet of metal. We draw them all with ink on each single piece is individually laid out by So it's a completely handmade piece. I like all the different layers of the skin and stuff. and forth like this with the torch on there and torch and keep that color flowing. It gives it create is kind of that feel of skin or leather These scales represent that chest armor but the scales go from armor scales to full length So you can see these patterns of paper these treated and these these wrap around the belly and them to cover the whole belly all the way to the structural frame that supports the wings and that down to the ground here and eventually where his anchors can be put into the concrete. His feet are concrete slip his feet back on to cover the anchor Not many people get to see inside my sculptures but as you can see it's a heavy and quite a massive structural frame inside here. 10 inch steel pipe to support neat perspective. Here we've got a propane hookup will provide the flow of the propane to the My lifetime achievement goal for what I If you do a little have been made around the world now, they're puny, so I would love to be involved in doing largest but something that would last like the My life-size Steel Dragon is [Music]