Al Jazeera Podcasts. Today, the aftermath of Sri Lanka's political earthquake. The people have spoken, choosing a candidate who's pledged change and a country free of corruption. With a parliamentary election around the corner, can the new president I'm Kevin Hirten and this is The Take. In Sri Lanka, the presidency has been something of a family business for decades. It's not one political dynasty, it's another. But not Sri Lanka's new president. Excitement reached fever pitch as the man who won Sri Lanka's presidential election arrived at the Election Commission. Plain speaking and outside the country's dynasty politics, Anura Kumara Dissanayake turned up in the most modest of figures among many of the candidates. He's someone from a rural area, a member of a political party that has led two armed uprisings against the state decades ago. But until very recently, We announced that Anura Kumara Dissanayake has been legally elected It's people's support and their mandate Therefore, in order to come out of the mess we felt the need to restore rule that has the people's mandate. So how could he become president? It has been a massive change of fortunes from three percent that he garnered when he contested the last presidential election Minelle Fernandez as the country heads to its next election I work as the Colombo correspondent for Al Jazeera. I've been covering Sri Lanka for Al Jazeera And in that time, Minelle has seen how the elite have dominated the highest levels of Sri Lankan politics. This country has always had members of the largely elite communities about one who was very much sort of a populist president. Most of them come from very privileged backgrounds and things like that. And that was the difference with the winner this time round. So how could this happen? Well, it all started with an economic collapse. In the last sort of two or three years, we hit rock bottom where the economy was concerned. We had the country's worst economic crisis in memory. There is trouble in the island paradise. 500,000 Sri Lankans have fallen into poverty Doctors say the economic crisis Basically, what had happened was there was a huge amount of debt that previous leaders had taken on and the debt servicing, it was just unsustainable. We were paying a huge amount of money servicing these debts and things like that. Top of that, we basically almost ran short of all foreign reserves. We couldn't afford the basics. Food, medicine, fuel -- there were queues. There were people that were in queues At the peak of it, three, four days in queues for fuel. And that too, it was on a ration basis. People were very, very frustrated. They were very, very angry. We work even when it rains and while the leeches suck our blood. We can't afford to buy chicken, fish or any other meat. We only eat vegetables and leaves. It is difficult for us to even send our children to schools and provide them with proper meals. We are going through a very hard time. And ultimately, when it came to looking at the causal factors, many people felt that it was the bad management of the economy. It was huge amounts of corruption. It was this unsustainable debt that the country had taken on. So all of those factors made people sort of And then one day in March 2022, at a street junction near Colombo to protest electricity cuts. At their peak, the power was cut for about 13 hours a day. These were boys by taking on some part-time And they were feeling really, that they were being sort of obstructed by going ahead. They gathered steam under the name Aragalaya, You had more people joining, then you had that duplicated in other street corners, in junctions. And these weren't violent by any means. It was just people holding a bunch of placards, holding And that began sort of a momentum which took a few months and ultimately which kind of culminated in this massive protest outside the Presidential Secretariat, the presidential complex, the office. Protesters in the capital of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, demanding his resignation. And then ultimately, what we did see was when people, you know, stormed the president's house, literally leave, or flee, his house and the country. So into this came the movement under Anura Kumara Dissanayake, the alliance that he is part of, that looked at look, what is the main issue here The answer says, meanwhile, was systemic change. That's really what the Aragalaya movement was after. What people said was, look, decades of the same old politicians, the same mindset, the same approach, It depended on who you knew. And people said, enough is enough, you know, we need something to change. And Anura Kumara Dissanyake and his team, when they talk about it, And it's been a long journey for them since the last election, but obviously one that their strategy has paid off. They have addressed and promised to bring in that change of rooting out corruption, which is a key sort of pillar of their entire campaign, but overall sort of build trust. People saying, you know what? We've tried everyone before These guys might be untested, but what do we have to lose? But as Dissanayake's party, the JVP, and its allies rose in the polls Sri Lankans could hardly be blamed for having concerns, The JVP has in fact quite a past. When he announced his candidacy and when he started, you know, building a momentum, there was a lot of scaremongering by the opposition parties and his closest rivals because the JVP in the 70s and in the late 80s and 90s were responsible for two militant uprisings against the state at a time when this was sort of an insurrection by the youth of this country in response to what they felt was, you know, being disenfranchised, In essence, Minelle says they were talking about a socialist state. And the JVP launched two armed rebellions against the government. They started targeting government servants, military people. They were basically responsible for hit-and-runs. They started calling, you know, enforcing shutdowns of, you know, entire cities, the country all of a sudden. You used to get warnings that, you know, The government's response to the rebellions was brutal. On both occasions, they were crushed. Between both conflicts, 80,000 people were killed. Minelle says many leaders were killed, Even the now-president wasn't spared. Now, even under Anura Kumara Dissanayake, in where he was in that north-central part of the country where this kind of involvement and activity was rife, talks about how a very, very close, sort of a cousin, a very close and then he was also involved in it It got so bad that Dissanayake had to put his university education on the back-burner. But things would soon change. The JVP, after that sort of violent crushing of the second rebellion, did enter the political process in the mid 90s. And they did say that they were -- not that they were putting their past behind them, but they were moving to a more democratic form of politics. In fact, Anura Kumara Dissanayake is the only one of the JVP's sort of senior leaders that has gone on record and apologized for some of those atrocities that were committed. So you have seen that face changing since they came into the democratic process. I think the very first election, And now they have moved into -- I mean, it started with three seats, but look at their fortunes. They've gone on to capture the presidency. The shadows of the past also loomed large when it came to policies. Now, there are those who are skeptical, obviously, because they say, you know, But what the president as well as his team have kept saying, we are here for the long haul in the sense of and we have identified where the issues are We don't want to, you know, go back to, you know, hackneyed systems and whatever, but we want So that's the rhetoric. And so far in terms of what he's doing, people are sort of watching to see, you know, what it So what are the promises that need to be delivered? That's after the break. Sri Lanka's new president has made many promises, but fulfilling them won't be easy. To start with, Dissanayake has vowed to fight austerity. However, Sri Lanka has to pay back its debts to the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, known for its penchant for, well, austerity. That IMF deal was brokered by Dissanayake's Finally, some respite for Sri Lanka. However, the government has reached an agreement on an emergency loan with the IMF. Minelle explained how that could play out. So the immediate challenge for Anura Kumara Dissanayake and the NPP is about guiding Sri Lanka out of these sort of choppy waters. Now, for the moment, in the last sort of year or so, the economy has settled, if you like. That doesn't mean we're out of the woods. By no means are we. We are still sort of using that International Monetary Fund bailout to, you know, strengthen the economy and essentially be able to afford those essentials while we shore up reserves and things like that. But what Anura Kumara Dissanayake issue of sort of more equitable sort of distribution and also addressing the needs of the poorer segments of society, which everyone one realizes and admits have been the worst affected by these austerity measures agreed to in order to secure the IMF bailout package. Now, Anura Kumara Dissanayake has on the one hand the challenge of making life a bit more easier to handle. But obviously he has to balance that with the IMF. In short, he has to deliver on his promise but also has to pay back debt to the IMF. one of Dissanayake's most notable early actions He dissolved the parliament The political landscape of Sri Lanka is changing pretty swiftly. The island nation's new president, Anura Kumara on the 14th of November, just moments He dissolved Parliament, which is what he said he would do. Because it's not just winning the executive presidency -- he is going to have to have the power in Parliament to bring the changes he's promised. Dissanayake says he needs a majority to govern, but it's a tall order for a party that had just three seats in a parliament of 225 seats, and he has vowed to not make alliances with traditional parties. The JVP is part of just one alliance, The NPP and the JVP have always said that they will not go into sort of electoral alliances just in order to win. So they have said that, sort of dogged a lot of the political parties, they've said they're not going to get into any unholy alliances just for the sake of securing and maintaining power. So with that, the NPP is going to have to really work hard to bring in those seats at the parliamentary election because there's no point having the presidency if they are not going to be able to have the power in Parliament to bring those changes, to bring legislation, to sort of give effect to all those promises and put those into action. The challenges don't end there. A 26-year civil war rocked the island, ending in 2009. Sewing up the wounds is no easy task, but it's one the new president must tackle to succeed. Its ghosts haunt present-day Sri Lanka. For me, growing up, it was something that was very, very real. The sort of starting point was in the 80s, specifically in 1983, there was a massive, sort of an explosion of violence against the Tamil community. The Tamils are Sri Lanka's biggest ethnic minority. They've endured discriminatory policies at the hands of government seeking to benefit the Sinhalese majority, And there's been a long movement for an independent Tamil state. This was the time that the Tamil Tigers, that had basically come up to challenge the state, they were demanding a separate state and this was, started off in the north, the north and the east of the country. So there was a group of soldiers that got caught in either a land mine, Claymore mine, and the bodies of those soldiers were sent down to Colombo, the capital, for the final rites. And with that day that the funerals were supposed to take place, there was just a massive explosion of violence targeted at the Tamil community. So it was basically, the Tamil community was identified as a sort of a payback for what had been done to the Sinhalese soldiers. And I still remember even at that time, because there was complete chaos for two or three days on the roads, because there were mobs that were wielding knives, broken bottles that were going around neighborhoods, pulling Tamil people out of vehicles, pouring petrol on them and burning them. They were going into houses. They were looting houses. They were burning houses. This was something that happened, and I still have memories of that happening And that did escalate. As for the first few years, it was largely sort of limited to the north and east, where the fighting was. But there were times when that conflict Minelle spent her first years as a young reporter covering these attacks by the Tamil Tigers, the LTTE. There used to be suicide bomb attacks. Families were worried. You know, there used to be families the mother would take the bus because you might find So that was the kind of sort of fear In the final days of the civil war, the United Nations estimates that at least 40,000 and Sri Lanka's military was accused of widespread human rights violations. You had the LTTE conflict in the north of the country, and you had the JVP militant insurgency being waged in the south. So they were stretched thin. And it was a really, really violent time for this country. Although the war is over, have ratcheted up rhetoric For now, that seems to be in the past. For Sri Lanka, This election, the just-concluded presidential election was a welcome sort of a change we didn't see the race card We didn't see that racist rhetoric, you know, almost dehumanizing members of the minorities However, abstaining from racially charged rhetoric didn't do enough to overcome the history of the JVP. And it didn't do much to help Dissanayake's The president has not had a major sort of presence with his party in the north and east, like the NPP has not traditionally had a lot of support. And also the JVP had been seen as a movement with a slightly nationalist bent, but Anura Kumara Dissanayake did go to campaign in the north and east. You know, he's going to have his work cut out, him and his team, especially as they go into a general election. And Anura Kumara Dissanayake is aware that he is going to have to carry the hopes and the futures of the whole of the country, When it comes to many Sri Lankans biggest concern, Minelle says things are slowly getting better. Things aren't as dire. We are not standing in queues until we get some gas for cooking and things like that. It's still a very difficult sort of an ask for the average Sri Lankan, because during that crisis, the Sri Lankan currency really fell. I mean, your sort of, you know, the value of the currency dropped I mean, certain things went up four or five times what they originally were. Inflation went to 70 percent. Yes, today it is single digits. And there is after many, many, sort of quarters of contraction the government talking about growth of the economy. But for your average citizen, it's about being able to afford at least the bare necessities, you know, sending kids to school, you know, ensuring that you're not having to cut corners and compromise. Previously, you had children going to school hungry and sort of fainting from hunger. People don't want that, because at the end of the day, as a parent, And if you are unable to do that, that is what is frustrating. And that's when Minelle says Dissanayake's campaign You don't want to stop hoping because once you have fallen to rock bottom, what many people felt about Let's give these guys a chance. We tried everybody else. We've fallen flat on our faces and been disappointed. So maybe these guys will help us to, And that's The Take. So, do you think Sri Lanka can pay off its debts Let us know in the comments below. And if you want to catch more episodes like this one, That's where you're going to find all of our recent content, And while you're at it, hit that subscribe button so you stay in the loop with all things Al Jazeera English. See you tomorrow.