Ok, I am not going to lie to you guys. (what is it) I am not looking forward to this because I know I'm gonna be recording for, like, two or three hours... TRYING to do this which is why I kinda put it off... I was gonna tackle it yesterday but instead I played the Roblox version. (wow) which was MUCH EASIER! (awesome dan) But no, back with Baldi and apparently... ...his cursor has changed into his hand which was pretty nice. (lol) The little fat chubby fingers. (ikr) So nothing has changed since the last time, we're still kinda stuck with all the new characters (yup) seven notebooks to find, all that good stuff. And let's just do it because... I know it's gonna take me sooooooooooo long (that means VERY long). The closest we've got so far is we've literally got to the &quot;end&quot; (okay) Out one of the exits, but then we have to find four more. So, I'm not really su- (wrong Dan just quit) I'm gonna start this again... Are you sure you want to quit? Yes *exaggerated tapping &quot;0&quot; key* Get angry, buddy. (he is now run) Get real angry. Okay, so Baldi has got faster at the beginning which we already knew. (everyone knows) Apparently he might've gotten faster... Again? (O_O) (okay I'm stepping back) Which is a little bit unfair... I'm gonna go left. (creator plz fix for it to be fair) And then I'm gonna go right and see what happens. This is just gonna be trial and error... To see how on Earth we do this. I'm gonna need BSODA (Blue Screen Of Death soda) (LOL) and then I'm also gonna need as much of these as possible. Preferably, maybe even two of these right at the end when you get to the &quot;red world&quot; or whatever it's called.(red screen) The angry version of Baldi. Not that he's the nicest guy in the first place. (in 2nd MAD! and triggered) But I'm gonna need as much energy and as much other stuff as I can get. Let's buy this as well.(good job and good thinking) Thank you for the soda (NP bro) And let's see what we can do here. So you know what we also haven't tried is that alarm clock and I can't remember where it is... Principal: &quot;No entering school faculty&quot; Great. I'm in detention already.(sarcasam) I should've grabbed the tape! What am I doin?(Running into the principal) Oh he's huggin me... He's actually hugging me, get off me.(GET OFF Dan 1st prize) I need help (heres a BSODA) BSODA! Let's go get both of you out of here! I need to find... That clock because I feel like it-it's gonna be a good item. I have no idea what it does...(Me neither) But what I think it does from using it last time is... It puts an alarm clock down that attracts Baldi so you can attract him to the wrong section where you aren't chilling out trying to do his stupid notebooks...(just get a chill pill) Here it is! Here it is, let me grab the quarter... And then lemme grab the alarm clock as well. *in the background*: GOTTA SWEEP SWEEP SWEEP I need everyone to stay quiet... *baldi not being quiet* *sets clock* *slow &amp; deep ticking coming from monstrous clock* I'm thinking it's gonna attract him that way. If not... I have no idea what it does. Do not push me. I can hear him behind me. Don't push me! DON'T PUSH ME! NOOOOOOOOOOO! AHHHHHHHHH *game ovah boi* (RIP HEADPHONE USERS) You ruined my plan... I don't think the time worked. Maybe it slows him down..? Which would be really handy, actually. Oh no... Oh no. Oh no this is going bad This is already going bad OHHHHHHH why did I come in here... Yeah, it's game over. Definitely game over, and guys... I'm not kidding you, I've already been playing this... (RIP HEADPHONE USERS) For 35 MINUTES! 35 minutes and I just... It's- It's crazy how hard this game is. With the addition of the two characters, Even with the extra items... It's so hard!!! And it also relies on luck which I think is why it's, um... Why it's so hard. Cus if you don't have things going your way... Then it's- it's pretty much impossible. Especially when you get to the last parts of the game. its REALLY, REALLY DIFFICULT! see i think i got a decent route planned out but... it depends like if I find uh... First Prize, or the Jump Rope Girl (LETS PLAYYY ) then It just completely messes with your plans! It's unreal. Like ABSOLUTELY unreal aaannnd I hate every character in this game Already There he is little First Prize All confused and worried about what he's doing This one is going better though. I think the plan is to get as far away from Baldi as possible Make sure I get these math problems right Otherwise we are gonna be in trouble Then... hopefully even though he speeds up you'll be a lot safer Why are you there? Why are you there?! What are you doing! No. No no no NO! I didn't realize he was so close why did I run towards him?! *whistle* Oh your joking *laughs* (TAKE THAT BULLY) Principal: No bullying in the halls. Did you see that?! No bullying in the halls Ohhh he got absolutely destroyed I'm so pleased Ok plan is to grab this padlock.... And hopefully he hasn't caught up to me tooo awwwww... yeah he's there, he's there Ok I need to do this as quickly as possible I have no chocolate bar!!! Cmon I wanna do the math problems I actually wanna do the math problems. 1! 4! And 5! (quick maths) Ok cmon we need to sprint to the next door and hopefully..... He hasn't made it there. Let's go... Don't get caught on the chair is he gonna come in?, Is he gonna come in? AHHHHHHHHHH (JUMP SCARE) It's because I ran towards him isn't it I got lucky with the bully But not with Baldi (oh no it rhymes) THIS GAME. Oh no... He's gonna push him! He's gonna push him all the way towards me! JUMP ROPE GIRL: *LET'S PLAY!!! * GET OUTTA HERE! L'LL CUT YOUR ROPE IN HALF I made this one better... But I've only got one notebook left And I'm pretty sure...