Brady: Should we start at the beginning? - As a child were you good at mathematics? Like was mathematics a natural thing for you which-? always liked it. I like counting, I like continually multiplying things by two- although by the time I got to a 1024 or whatever it is I was- had enough of it. But I liked- I liked math. I discovered as a very young kid, maybe 4, something called Zeno's paradox - d'you ever hear of Zeno's paradox? My father told me that the car could run out of gas, and I was disturbed by that notion, it never occurred to me, but then I thought well, it shouldn't run out; you could always use half of what it has and then it could use half of that and then half of that and then you go on forever and so it would never run out. So, now, it didn't occur to me, 'yes but it wouldn't get very far either' but but the idea that in principle you didn't have to run out of gas was a kind of a profound thought for for a very little boy. this was where your career was going to take you or were you like another boy who dreamed of being a baseball or or something-? thought about was I would be a mathematician. Whatever exactly that meant. I didn't know quite what it meant except that mathematics was the only subject I really liked. They wanted me to go to Berkeley and get away from MIT, meet some new faculty because I was quite close to the MIT faculty and they thought- I think they didn't want to get rid of me so much as they thought I was probably pretty good so I should get exposed to a certain guy named Chern who was just coming to Berkeley that year. And I got this very nice fellowship and I went there, I was very eager to work with Chern; meet Chern except he wasn't there. He celebrated his first year at Berkeley, he had just come to Berkeley and he celebrated that first year by taking a sabbatical so he wasn't there. So I work with another guy which which was fine and by the time Chern came in the second year I was already pretty far along with the, with the thesis project. I was giving a seminar at the beginning of my second year at Berkeley and in walked this tall Chinese guy, and I said to guy next me 'who's that?' He said 'that's Chern'. That's Chern? know he was Chinese; I thought Chern was probably short for Chernovski or something, or he was probably some Polish guy who who had shortened his name to Chern. If it had been Chen or Chan I would have known it was Chinese, but Chern with the R I didn't know but anyway. So I met Chern then and we became friends; of course much younger than he but we became friends, and later collaborators. So we worked together and we came up with these results, this whole structure. In fact there's- that's the slides of the presentation that Chern made at the International Congress in the early 70s. It was very nice geometry. I pushed on with it and we defined some things called differential characters which was another chapter, I with working with a guy named Cheeger, but the Chern-Simons invariants, about ten years later, the physicists got a hold of it. And it seemed to be very good for what ailed them, whatever might have ailed them. And so- and it wasn't just string theory, as I subsequently developed, it was kind of all areas of physics including condensed matter theory, even some astronomers seemed to want to look at those terms. That's really what's great about basic science, in this case mathematics. I mean I didn't know any physics; it didn't occur to me that this material that Chern and I had developed would find use somewhere else altogether. This happens in basic science all the time, that one guy's discovery leads to someone else's invention and leads to another guy's machine. Actually in the middle of my mathematics career, which ended when I was about 37 or 38, was that I spent four years at a place called the Institute for Defense Analyses down in Princeton which was a super-secret government based, national security agency based, place for code-cracking. But I also learned about computers and algorithms. And I did one thing there that was I cannot tell you what it was it's all classified. So I had a good career there, both doing mathematics and learning about the fun of computer modelling. My father had made a little bit of money and I had the opportunity to try investing it, and that was interesting. And I thought, you know I'm going to try another career altogether. And so I went into the money management business, so to speak. dad's money and that got you a interest in it? then some other people put up some money. And I did that- no models. No models for the first two years. doing then? You were just using cunning and you know just- you know like normal people do? brought in a couple of people to work with me and we were extremely successful. I think it was just plain good luck but nonetheless we were very successful. But I could see that this was a very gut wrenching business. You know you come in one morning, you think you're a genius, the markets are for you; we were trading currencies and commodities and financial instruments and so on, not stocks but those kinds of things. And the you come and you feel like a jerk, the market's against you - it was very gut wrenching. And in looking at the patterns of prices I could see that there was something we could study here, that there were maybe some ways to predict prices mathematically or statistically. And I started working on that and then brought in some other people, and models and the models got better and better and finally the models replaced the fundamental stuff, so it took a while. - I would have thought, with your background - a mathematician - this would have almost occurred to you immediately, like you would have straightaway seen this. What, what was the two-year delay? - Well two things. I saw it pretty early but- and I brought in a guy who was a wonderful guy, also from the code-cracking place, and he was I thought together we'll we'll start building models. That was fairly early but it wasn't right away. But he got more fundamental stuff and he says, the models aren't going to be very strong and so on and so forth so we didn't get very far. But I knew there were models to be made. Then I brought in another mathematician and a couple more, and a better computer guy, and then we started making models which really worked. But you know, the the general- there's something called the efficient market theory which says that there's nothing in the data, let's say price data, which will indicate anything about the future because the of always right, the price is always right in some sense. But that's just not true. So there are anomalies in the data, even in the price history data. For one thing, commodities especially used to trend; not dramatically trend but trend so if you could get the trend right you'd bet on the trend and you'd make money more often than you wouldn't, whether it was going down or going up. That was an anomaly in the data, but gradually we found more and more and more and more anomalies. None of them is so overwhelming that you're going to clean up on a particular anomaly; because if they were other people would have seen them, so they have to be subtle things. And you put together a collection of these subtle anomalies and you begin to get something that will predict pretty well. It's it's what's called machine learning. So you find things that are predictive. You might guess 'Oh, such and such should be predictive, might be predictive' and you test it out in the computer and maybe it is maybe it isn't. discipline of mathematics, or disciplines- is that multidisciplinary or - It's mostly statistics. It's mostly statistics and some some probability theory and- but I can't get into, you know, what things we do use and what things we don't use; we we reach for different things that might come that might be effective. - I would imagine lots of people want to be financially successful, most pe- most people want that of course. - And lots of people are good at mathematics and know a lot about computers like, you know, at your level I would imagine. Why did you do it? Why didn't someone else do it? - I don't know. Well, first of all some other people have done it. I think that we're- our firm is better, but I'm pretty sure of that - but nonetheless other people have done some very good modelling and so we're not alone. But it's not easy to do and there's a big barrier to entry. For example, huge data sets that we've collected over the years; programs that we've written to make it really easy to test hypotheses and so on. The infrastructure is exceptionally good so everything is tuned right; it took years to learn how to do that. made the model, so you do have the ownership of it and feel proud of it; but it's hard to follow the model religiously? Like is it hard for your ego to think all the success is because of the computer? Like and I just I just sat there and watched? tool that we use to be it's- a good cabinet maker doesn't say it's all because of my wonderful chisel. you may have great film equipment but that's not why you're a success at doing what you're doing, you're working with good equipment but another guy would make a mess of it with the same equipment so no we no we don't feel 'oh the computer is doing everything'. The computer does what you tell it to do. - Given that you will put some of it down to luck, what are you more proud of? this and the business or the- or the mathematics from that first half of your career? proud- I think I'm proud of both. I think, yeah I've done some mathematics and some of it's had a positive effect guess I'm proud of that. And I've built a nice business and I'm proud of that; I don't say I'm prouder of one than the other. And now for the last number of years I've been working with my wife on this foundation, which she started actually in '94 with my money but nonetheless she started the foundation and then I joined, I got more and more involved with the foundation as time went on and now that's my know I'm pretty proud of the foundation. - Let me focus your- focus you the mathematics versus the business then. Would you, would you trade any of your- any or all of your business success for for being the man who cracked the Riemann hypothesis or something like that? Huh, would I trade that for- well I'd probably trade some of it. I mean for the Riemann hypothesis it would certainly I guess be a thrill to to solve the Riemann hypothesis. I'm pleased, mostly, with what with the way my career has gone so would I trade part of it for something - I don't know. It's- I've never looked back and said, I wish - at least in business - I wish I hadn't done that or I wish I had done this and not that whatever it is, I've never looked back The foundation is focused research. Primarily basic science but not completely, because we have a large autism project which involves a lot of basic science but the- but treatment's our a goal. But the rest is support of mathematics, physics, computer science, biology of all sorts, neuroscience, genetics - we support basic science. And that is what we like to do. There's a certain amount of outreach, we have a Math for America pro- we we spend maybe 10 to 15% on outreach; outreach and education. But 80-85% is support of basic science. money into mathematics, so you're- you've got some right to comment on it - how are you feeling about it? mathematics is is really going quite well worldwide, the research end of it. A lot of new ideas are coming up, new fields or sort of are flourishing. It feels like a pretty healthy enterprise to me. What's not healthy is the state of mathematics education in our country, that's very unhealthy for young people; that's why we have- we started this thing called Math for America and so on. But we don't have enough teachers in mathematics who know it and who know the subject, and even of science, and that's for a simple reason: 30-40 years ago if you knew some mathematics, enough to teach let's say in high school there weren't a million other things you could do with that knowledge. Oh yeah maybe you could become a professor but let's suppose you- you're not quite at that level but you you were good at math and so on. Being a math teacher was a nice job. But today if you know that much mathematics you could get a job at Google, you could you could get a job at Goldman Sachs; I mean there's plenty of opportunities that are going to pay more than being a high school teacher, right? There weren't so many when I was going to high school, such thing. So the quality of high school teachers in math has declined simply because if you know enough to teach in high school you know enough to work for Google. And well they're not going to pay that much in high school so how do you redress that? How do we redress that as a country? Well you have- so we work, a person works for a combination of financial reward and respect, right? So a guy becomes a Supreme Court justice; he's not doing it because he's going to make a fortune, he'll be well-paid I suppose but you know Supreme Court justice everyone says, huh deal, you have a lot of respect and you respect yourself presumably. So there are many- so you can't pay let's say high school teachers of math as much as they would get at Google, but you can give them a bump, pay them $15,000 a year more than they their regular salary. But we also create a community of math and science teachers which they love and it makes them feel important, and they are important. give your money to basic research because you feel somehow indebted to it for your own success? Or do you do it just out of like a belief? Or do you feel that you're giving something back to, to what gave something to you? an interesting question. I do it because it feels good. I like science, I like to see it flourish. I like to be around scientists, I like to learn new things - and my wife feels the loves science. So we're very happy to to do this. Do I feel I'm giving back? Not especially. You know, I could give back in a lot of ways, there's a lot of things I could do besides support science. have a favorite number? - Do you have a favorite mathematician? - Well Archimedes and Euler are my current favorites, but maybe you meant somebody- ah I'm very impressed with those two guys. Thank you so much for so All right, well this was kind of fun.