This time, we will introduce Yamada Kogyosho, a wok manufacturer that has been loved for many years by professional Chinese chefs in the Chinatown as well as professinal cooks. The Chinese restaurant &quot;Wanchan&quot; near the Chinatown also uses Yamada Kogyosho's pots. The overseas Chinese chef shaking this pan said, &quot;Many Chinese restaurants use Yamada Kogyosho's woks.&quot; I came to Kanazawa Ward, Yokohama City, Kanagawa Prefecture. There are many small and medium-sized factories and companies in the waterfront area of Kanazawa Ward. Yamada Kogyosho is located in the Yokohama Metal Park, where metal processing manufacturers are concentrated. This is Yamada Kogyosho. It was relocated from Nishikubo-cho, Hodogaya Ward in 1983. Hey, it's cool in here. This is Toyoaki Yamada, the second-generation president of Yamada Kogyosho. President Yamada's father started manufacturing woks.Soon after the WWII, he cut up some scrap drums and pounded them with a hammer to make pots. Toyoaki took over the factory in 1983. A day at Yamada Kogyosho starts at 8:30am. What President Yamada does first thing in the morning is packing. His granddaughter helps him pack the items. She has been working in a factory for three years. Apparently, the packaging work is done by President Yamada and his granddaughter. How many pots are packed in there now? About 20 to 25 pots. About 20 kg. Yamada Kogyosho manufactures a variety of woks in different sizes and shapes. There are also woks made of titanium, which are lightweight and rust-resistant. On this day, 13 boxes were packed in one hour. It seems to be less than usual. Doesn't it take a lot of energy? Not at all. I feel it easier as I can end it up this much. This is the end I can still walk up these stairs If I can't , I will retire. That's pretty steep, huh? After President Yamada finishes packing in the morning, he answers the phone and holds business meetings with clients in the reception room This is his son, Kenji, the 3rd generation. He has been helping out at the factory since he was a teenager. I didn't have any sense for pounding a pot. It was no good at all. But, my grandpa told me to learn how to pound pot. So I did. There are still craftsmen who taught me, but as the president's son, no one really says it's no good. 1 year after pounding pots, I suddenly noticed that all the pots were piled up in a corner. Those are ones that I was failed to make. When I wasn't around, they hit and fixed them all. So, when I heard that I felt like my feelings had changed. Many of the workers at the factory are friends and acquaintances of President Yamada and Kenji. &quot;Cutting the iron plate&quot; Cut one large iron plate into two pieces. &quot;Cutting-out&quot; Cut the iron plate into the shape of a pot. The steel plate is carefully cut out so as not to waste any part. Four pieces are cut out. 42cm iron plate for a two-handled pot is completed. Even the one-handled pot is cut out from a single sheet of iron. This time, we will be showing you how to make a one-handled pot. &quot;Hit out&quot; The liquid is oil that makes the hammer slide better. Stack about 10 sheets at a time and beat them together. Continue beating for about 30 minutes until the pot takes shape. Depending on the type, it is hit over 4000 times at least. This is the iron plate after it has been hammered. A beautiful oil pattern is created. The edge is lifted with a press machine. The edge is wavy after pressing, so it will be smoothed out Wavy edge has been smoothed out. Use a hammer to flatten the bottom of the pot. Makes the edge smoother. Engrave and drill holes here. &quot;Stamping&quot; It is stamped &quot;hammered&quot;. &quot;Process the handle&quot; I'm going to round this part, from now. Welding is done on the second floor. First, I weld a part of this pipe. &quot;Gas welding&quot; The contact area between the pot and the handle is weak, so we will weld a &quot;reinforcement plate&quot; to it What is that? It's an adjusting thingie for semi-automatic welding machine. If you look at it with your naked eyes, they will be burned and it's dangerous. &quot;Arc welding&quot; is a welding method to join the same metals together, which uses the discharge phenomenon (arc discharge) in the air. The temperature is approximately 5,000 to 20,000degC. It is higher than gas welding, and the welding speed is faster as well. Gas welding is done again to seal any small gaps. Removes slags that come out of the metal during welding. &quot;Handle angle adjustment&quot; Adjust it at this angle then... Easier to hold. &quot;Deburring&quot; Use grinder to remove any unevenness on the cross section and give it a nice finish. The edge is now smooth. &quot;Washing&quot; After cleaning with cleaning oil, add gloss with varnish. &quot;Rust prevention&quot; (applying varnish) If you don't keep it dry like this, (Varnish's) adhesion becomes poor. It is already attached to the surface. Dry it for a day and it's done. This is the wok after drying. It's beautiful luster. The area exposed to the fire is thinned. Compared to other areas, it's about half-thickness. The fried rice becomes way more nicely baked and tasty. Besides, we have no molds so we can meet the needs of our users. Regardless of thickness, depth, and size. Regarding the pot and curving thingies, we are professionals. Since my father's generation, we have been helped by people surrounding us. So I have thought that I do the same thing back to them. &quot;Numerous woks that we have manufactured on request&quot; &quot;Wok object&quot; &quot;Musical instrument&quot; &quot;An autograph of sumo wrestlers as thanks for manufacturing a pot for chanko&quot; Because that person is having trouble with that, I think I have to do something about it for him or her.