Transcriber: LYONNH Q (audience cheering and clapping) Imagine yourself standing aboard a floating village in the middle hundreds of nautical miles away The air is crisp and salty. Whipping past The horizon stretching out before you The rhythmic, steady rocking of the the immense power of the currents the endless expanse beneath your feet. This vast stretch, our world ocean covers provides 50% of the oxygen currently and holds deep within its unknown swathes. Solutions that are an essential element and reducing global decline. It's Your most critical teammate. As part of this expedition you take your seat in the control room. A dark, cold room about the size filled with lit up buttons, switches and humming screens displaying and multiple angles of its view as it descends into thousands of meters the ocean's surface, almost You are tethered back to reality by equally entranced scientists, navigators and submersible pilots the occasional joke over the airwaves This is where the real adventure begins, where every shadow holds a secret a marvel waiting to be discovered As the submersible glides through the an alien view unfolds. A huge chimney and it is spewing thick, smoky For centuries, we as humans have captivated by outer space. Our fascination with the night sky and cultural advancement. tangible final frontier lies not among Welcome to the world of ocean exploration. The deep sea layer of our ocean, has an estimated economic value of It is the source of societal and and a birthplace of theories about on other planets. And yet humans know and faraway planets like Mars than the darkness beneath us. The deepest Challenger Deep. It's located in the To put this distance into perspective, you could submerge Mount Everest and its summit would still be Let's turn our focus upward. The moon orbits at an average away. The International Space Station Between 1969 to 1972, in the span of just Over 280 individuals from over the International Space Station. The first human voyage to Challenger And this record setting descent was not These two initial descents brought the total visitors to this region of that we really ramped things up in 2019. As of July 2022, only 27 people have made So 64 years, 11km, 27 people. If you're (laughter and applause) Within the ocean science community, Many career aspirations were rightfully the sea, and I myself grew up in a so the ocean didn't exactly play a direct regular influence Instead, I found myself drawn to films and documentaries like James I wanted to dive head first into the treasure trove These pieces of media, coupled were the lifeline that tethered me to my I stand today. I have spent over 110 days individuals collaboratively exploring Now, being a heavily biased person, I believe that the single starkest example for revolutionary discovery that our ocean hydrothermal vents. Though the world of these super heated 1977, it completely flipped our Just broke all of the rules. Thousands of meters below the ocean darkness where photosynthesis couldn't Explorers found dense communities not only existing and surviving, Thriving under crushing a heavy volcanic activity next to plumes and known toxins reaching up to 400degC. These are incredibly tumultuous and No two vents are ever exactly alike. Over 180 species that are found found nowhere else in the world. And still no two vents host exactly And this is especially true when you look ocean. In the East Pacific, giant tower over our submersibles and resemble each a slender white tube with a blood Half a world away in the Indian Ocean, you get golden snails with their Their hearts are so large a human heart of equivalent proportions But perhaps more fascinating hosts are the solutions that Our societies with enzymes from heat for genetic diseases, infectious and even coronaviruses like the They have improved our forensic allowing us to solve crimes and have the entire human genome. The deep sea has of self on a cellular and DNA level. Hydrothermal fungus and yes, there But fungus has allowed us. Compounds from fungus has allowed us to the spread of multi-drug And this is a serious issue By 2050, drug resistant infections are per year. For some, the ocean For others, it is a source of fear with Whether you find solace or trepidation in Understanding this alien world Sustainable innovation provided a critical factor in ensuring the The ocean absorbs 90% of heat It is also the largest greenhouse trapping significant drivers of ozone and carbon dioxide. If we can understand and releases these gases, we can and to develop efficient climate Changes in deep sea biodiversity are disturbances, but if we don't then we cannot determine So studying these unknown ecosystems and create bench markers for normalcy. This, in turn, allows us to understand and in turn, terrestrial life. Because, Deep sea animals, large and small, have provided us with valuable genetic things like develop resilient crops, new biopharmaceuticals and Glass sponges, mussels and the depths of polar to tropical oceans compounds that allow us to combat inflammation and even nerve damage. Lastly, seabed sediment the same way that and drought. Seabed sediments are and oceanic conditions. Core sampling the ocean floor allows us to create a layered snapshot of environmental and this decodes our natural which in turn helps us to improve And despite the boundless possibility over 99% of the deep sea remains overshadowed by space exploration. Ocean and space exploration Both have significantly contributed to But while space exploration provides us own understanding, and preserving our to our future. The ocean as a key part of Earth's biosphere, controls and regulates our climate Planet forward choices enacted will essential data about our oceans when and where to intervene. Ocean exploration provides this data and sustainable management practices. It offers valuable tools for protection Putting those solutions into action. So in this age of billionaire space races, If you're here. (laughter) In this age of billionaire space races, I Why do we spend so little time, familiarizing ourselves with what lies In what ways could we better dedicate protecting, and improving The most fascinating part about this work and the potential for discovery. Thousands of meters below the ocean and thrives in the absence of sunlight. Here, interdisciplinary teams of the earth few have seen and contribute to an area of our planet that holds the keys to understanding environmental and even unlocking the origins In short, the answer is lie beneath us (clapping)