Whether you know it or not you're living out stories but somewhere in the back of your mind things you don't say, in the countless choices you important question you can ask is &quot;what story psychologist Dan McAdams points out that we folktales we tell, in the myths and legends we every known culture. He says that: &quot;the stories they're who we are, they're the identity we choose can change and grow, and when we rewrite our we're not just changing the way we remember the will become.&quot; This idea is called &quot;narrative the way we think that our brains do something of storytelling; it's called episodic memory. and events from your past, like your first day or or a sunny afternoon with a loved one, and episodes one after another. But to make sense you have to organize them into a story and that have happened in your past, the way your life imagine in your future. As you move throughout you aren't sure where to go next, this is the have long known that storytelling is one of the What this means is that if you really want to have to understand the story you're telling about One of my favorite things about Christopher really about the physical battle between Batman It's really about asking the deeper question of us two different stories about what it means to nature and then it asks us to decide: which of great place to start when we're thinking about two main ways we tell the story of our lives. The sequence. If you imagine your life as a timeline, your story where good things happen but they end it. We see it in a lot of the &quot;if only&quot; stories if only I made different choices when I was clicked the like button. Anyway the basic idea of happened in the past; something so terrible that came before it and so now we're stuck. We can't life story this way often point to an early loss This loss then sets the tone for the rest of their they expect something bad to come and ruin it. good things always turn bad, old injuries never again and again, and they can never move forward. the past. Research shows that the more someone more depressed and anxious they tend to be, the more they suffer from mental and physical health grace&quot; in the Bible where Adam and Eve lived in a disobeyed the Creator this was the contaminating and from that point on they were cast out and if there's one character that embodies the he asks &quot;want to know how I got these scars?&quot; he that made him the way he is. His scars are and since scars never really go away, they're the emotional wounds that won't heal. In one who was scarred in a terrible injury. &quot;I just he scarred himself thinking it would make her The message of contamination is clear: &quot;I was ugly and I was abandoned in the end.&quot; In another it's his father who gave him the scars. &quot;Why so abusive drinker who came after him one night. Each We have no idea if any of these things really is always the same: &quot;horrific things happened in it made me the way I am.&quot; The fact that the Joker because as McAdams says a life story is less about make sense of what happened. It's the meaning we and for the Joker this message of contamination the way he sees every other person he meets. He our darkest and most horrifying impulses. &quot;You dropped at the first sign of trouble. People be. I'll show you. When the chips are down these Joker isn't looking for money or fame, he can't to show the world that deep down everyone is as up impossible choices, he puts innocent people in to show that even the most upstanding people can they've lost everything; all it takes is one bad &quot;You know what I've noticed? Nobody panics when is horrifying. If tomorrow I tell the press that will get blown up, nobody panics. If you introduce everything becomes chaos. I am an agent of chaos, little push.&quot; It's an incredibly bleak world view different from what the psychologist Sigmund Freud we're all motivated by dangerous and aggressive because we're not even aware of them; they're ruled by inner conflict that could push us into laws and institutions that keep us from acting These concepts are rooted in the ancient Greek mean? It's the idea that you have a fundamental internal qualities, your personality, the basic and if that character is selfish and cruel then But Batman believes in a very different it's what you do that defines you. In that makes you act in a certain way, determine your character. Who you are at your no matter what happened in your past no matter you can change your fate by making a different approach is that he downplays the role of positive theories came out of studying patients with do you generalize what you find in these cases to without ending up with a hopelessly distorted and was really giving us a psychology of the sick, he What's missing is a psychology that can point That's what psychologists like Abraham Maslow set of the problems with Freud's theory. Maslow highest potential. His research led him to create saw that people can do destructive things when mean we're inherently evil. All it means is that it's almost impossible to think about anything you can move to higher aspirations Okay but what about situations that are truly no choice but to do horrifying things to each let's look at some examples where you might think a psychiatrist who survived Auschwitz in the you can imagine. He saw the unspeakable horrors potential for good and transcendence: &quot;We who men who walked through huts comforting others they show us proof that everything can the last of all human freedoms: to choose to choose one's own way. In the final analysis became was the result of an inner decision and every example of brutality and violence there are volunteered to heal the sick and give comfort who risked her life to help hundreds of children can't be explained by pessimistic theories of of Bruce Wayne's transformation into Batman is flaws humans are worth fighting for. Bruce isn't loses his faith in humanity. We see it in his because no one is beyond saving. This is the McAdams calls the Redemption sequence. This is things happen but they eventually lead to good healed. We all suffer tragedy and loss but we of facing these things transforms us and makes us Probably the most well-known Redemption story is the Incarnation of the divine who comes into day he's betrayed. He's put on trial, he faces them. He gives up his life so that humanity can be broken and sinful world is restored. Notice that where nothing bad happens; it's a story where something positive in the end. We need adversity the story. In a similar way Bruce's transformation it throughout his life and in one of the earliest we can learn to pick ourselves up again.&quot; But the suffers the most tragic loss of his life. His him terrified, alone, and with a profound sense his life. He has every reason to be angry at the and yet he doesn't become one. Why? What makes one of the major themes in the Dark Knight night is evil, sanity from madness, heroes from villains. to see yourself become the villain.&quot; In many ways each other. Each one is living out the unchosen loss. Both are outcasts who live on the margins similar they really are. &quot;Why do you want to kill without you? You complete me.&quot; &quot;You're garbage who you're not, even if you'd like to be. To them right now but when they don't they'll cast you out Batman has been deeply wounded by a tragic past he wants to admit, and so he tries to push Batman 'you can stop pretending, take off the mask and puts more and more lives in danger he's trying to a human life and if he can do that then he can show the world that there are no heroes and that just villains underneath the mask. For the rest of playing out their world view and the question with the Joker? And even if he does will he still become a villain? Which view of human nature will separates them; it lies in what the psychologist we're about to see, understanding it is one of We looked at the shadow in this video but briefly, It's made up of all the things inside of us that line up with how we see ourselves. In childhood acceptable and other things aren't. We learn to away deep into the unconscious mind. This happens and find more and more things about ourselves that are and the shadow grows bigger and stronger, they influence everything we do without us even awareness. And so the more we try to deny it the damaging ways. So what do you do? You have to face not become enlightened by imagining figures of saw that we all have the capacity for good as something that exists outside of themselves. people or in certain groups of people, then you to them. We see it throughout history where some believed they were doing good. The psychologist Criminal Mind,&quot; he ran one of the longest most lasting 17 years and he found that overwhelmingly, themselves as good: &quot;no matter how long their caused, every one of them retained the view that see himself as a bad person. &quot;You know what I am? to do with one if I caught it. I just do things. Like every villain he projects all of the outward into the world. That's the nature of we see the world as we are&quot; and so the only real the world is to become conscious of the shadow in the Joker does, it means becoming aware of the over them. Jung says that &quot;the shadow is a moral for no one can become conscious of the Shadow conscious of it involves recognizing the dark And when you do that you'll find that the shadow it has enormous positive potential. Many of you left behind in your childhood, are hidden then becomes to reclaim these lost parts of who become whole. &quot;Wholeness is not achieved but by integration of the contraries.&quot; And so try to destroy, it's a part of ourselves that sense of self and make it a conscious part of Jung says that the meeting with oneself is shadow is a tight passage, a narrow door whose down the deep well. Jung uses the analogy of the Shadow and that image is exactly what we One of Bruce's early memories is falling into a he surrounded by bats, it's a terrifying scene be afraid,&quot; he says &quot;every creature feels fear, because they were scared of you.&quot; His father takes opera Mefistofele, but when monsters start dancing we please leave?&quot; They go out into the alleyway They run into a mugger and in a botched robbery blames himself for the way they died. &quot;If only I of his shadow. As he gets older the bat comes to Inner demons. Feelings of guilt and grief. The protect good and innocent people. He tries to push look at the darkness in themselves because do but it's just the opposite: the shadow takes Because &quot;until you make the unconscious conscious it fate.&quot; In one of his darkest moments Bruce is the first test of courage of the inner way, but if we're able to see our own shadow and of the problem has already been solved.&quot; The it's where you have to go to find your true his childhood well where he first saw the bats all he finds that it actually leads into a huge cave; It's a metaphor for going inward down into the the symbol of the darkest most terrifying &quot;People need dramatic examples to shake Bruce Wayne. As a man I'm flesh and but as a symbol I can be incorruptible, I can be something terrifying.&quot; Bruce's transformation into shadow. It's how we can transform the pain of through a kind of inner alchemy we also change and what it represents is completely transformed; becomes a symbol of hope, a signal that good and that even a city as fallen and corrupt as Gotham heal our broken world. We see the same Motif finds himself deep underground in a dark pit, but it's a strange prison that opens up into a wide surrounded by prisoners who've given up on life. there, what's the difference?&quot; Bruce tries has to make a huge jump to the other side. He in a literal pit of despair. Why does Most people think that psychological growth put in a certain amount of work on yourself then only ever goes up. We expect growth to be linear Jung says that &quot;there is no linear evolution there that mean? For me it means that growth is a lot like a spiral. Life moves us towards challenges different forms. It doesn't mean we failed, it new insights that we couldn't have understood the straight line, it's a spiral, you continually come see deeper truths.&quot; It's no coincidence then like a spiral. To find his way out he has to move each turn of the spiral we build on the lessons of are, and we move closer to becoming whole. It's some point we all find ourselves in a dark pit. out the way you wanted it to. Maybe you had a you're back where you started. It can feel like it's not. Everything in life moves between times passes through these cycles, but in these low that feels uncomfortable. Tap into the Shadow and Shadow,&quot; the psychologist Connie Zweig says that renewal. The new and productive impulse cannot When there's an impasse and a sterile time in is the door to our individuality. No progress or confronted. It's not until we have truly been instead of as we wish or hopefully assume we are reality.&quot; To see ourselves as we really are is to of. Most people try to ignore these feelings and regret can be a powerful force for change. Regret regret is to believe you have nothing to learn, with your life. Instead of denying these feelings those lessons a part of your life story. To do old man tells Bruce that every single person who's all except for one. Many years ago there was a isn't about strength, the body makes the jump, but the climb as the child did: without the rope.&quot; leap of faith we all have to take to move into a to cut the cord. You have to leave behind all the to a past that isn't serving you anymore. This it's about the human spirit, the divine spark that to retell your story in a different way. It's how you might become. Because &quot;it's not who you are Cutting the rope means letting go of your old the death of an old self and the resurrection of he finally makes the jump, and he's no longer a free. Telling this new story of redemption doesn't but it gives new meaning to it. Fundamentally this because the most cynical people really just want pit of despair. They want to spread their feels as miserable and as hateful as they do, but lead to destruction and endless repeating of the Shadow. But there's another part of us that sees the best in us, that still believes in the the part that wants to tell a new story about someone comes along who's bold enough to give us a the mountaintop, the promised land. They show us and in sharing the beauty of what they see, they there with us, they inspire us to dream that we living imperfect lives trying to do our best but the fundamental power to change our story is of kindness and self-sacrifice that happen even someone doing something as simple and shoulders to let him know that the world hadn't understand your life story you might be wondering: can use to retell my story in a more empowering video. As always thanks so much for watching [Music]