[MUSIC PLAYING] Good afternoon, and welcome to the presentation by the Series [INAUDIBLE]. We are honored to have the president and of NeXT Computer Corporation. Steve has consistently been foremost entrepreneurs. Along with partner their entrance into by the traditional of building computers [INAUDIBLE] auspicious the creation of Apple, to IBM in the personal A true visionary, at an early age for could be put on every desk and Educationally, he had to make it big in the because he dropped [LAUGHTER] [INAUDIBLE] and the diverged, both eventually their entrepreneurial roots. In 1985, Steve founded NeXT Corporation, to design a the Cube. Targeting the high end NeXT has found the going competitors, such However, with 1991 revenues business has grown With the backing shouldn't be short of Or in a more unlikely in the White House. The current plans involve a public offering, We hope to hear today just what be. Steve has consistently been to America's largest Most recently, he was appointed Council last August, to advise on government affect trade performance. Outside of work, Steve is an MBA student at and also a sister of one of The couple met when Steve to this afternoon's at Stanford, earthquake. Let's hope that history [LAUGHTER] Ladies and gentlemen, we are to giving up his time to Could you please to our distinguished [APPLAUSE] Thank you. Hi. I guess we get to spend an And most of the time, talking about what and answering some questions. But I thought if you wanted, minutes upfront and tell and why the world might need Is that something you guys OK. I thought I'd tell you Maybe that would be more useful. We have a lot of scar tissue. There is a really that was written by a guy And Paul has one of the more He's the Chief CIO of a very large organization And they really I had a conversation with him the lesson from the Gulf War will win the war. And so they're trying in the software area. He wrote a book, got this job called The It's rather thick, and it's But you can plow some incredible stuff in it. And he asked two One was, he surveyed from not very successful through really successful. And there's somebody [LAUGHTER] He asked how much they spent as a percentage of revenues. And he got a very right? You'd think that either the would either spend the not-successful companies, But it was exactly the same. They all spent on information technology. And he found this curious, and How did they spend their money? And he found out that the actually, let's start with As success increases he found out that the the majority of their money and the more the majority of their money applications. Now, this was not very because I spent the on management productivity, PCs and Macs never attacked They just attacked Why is that? Because you can't go down and buy an app that will or will help you run a in whatever operational you want to automate. Unless you're a very, then you can run some But other than that, if you business, these operational productivity. So we zoom out and we attacked operational with information technology? Well, in the '60s, they and they got some terminals and and they wrote a few apps. And most of them were And it sort of worked that could afford to do this. In the '70s, they got a and they did the same thing. And a few of them got a few and tried to do it In the '80s, nothing changed. Mainframe and terminals, Until maybe about two What happened two was that the front to realize that they needed that they couldn't depend They started taking life and sometimes working with the and getting some some industry-standard in the servers, and making and getting maybe and spending about some mission-critical Like trading apps for Wall And it kind of worked. And the reason that was because more and more, that things like new operational application. An example, if you're and you come up it's only three things. It's an idea, it's and it's a custom app to make the product real, or whatever it is Without the app, you And so there has been an from the front parts to create more and more and applications. And I think it's going where this becomes is the next big revolution is to attack the And as we start to we do things, to automate a lot Sounds a little strange Sounds like desktop Nobody knew what thought it was kind of a strange But my guess is it's And we're attacking that know they want this. And it's going extremely well. Sun is the only company that's and we're knocking Because we came up called NeXTSTEP which five to 10 times faster than And after you build them, by mere mortals, easy to use, this computer. And you can interoperate with a bunch of off-the-shelf So we go to these companies two years to write their about using Suns, and in about 90 days on a NeXT. Now, if you're on can create a new product in in two years, that's you can field for And you can start to see the can be created this way. Now, we had no idea that when we started NeXT. A lot of times you don't know is when you launch Let me give you When we created-- how Anybody? Good. [LAUGHTER] How many of you Oh, how many of you use a NeXT? Oh, that's not so bad. We'd like to change [LAUGHTER] We're on the right track. When we did the anticipated desktop publishing Sounds funny, because to be the Mac's compelling The thing that it did not one than everything else, but than anything else, where We never anticipated it. We anticipated bitmap but we never thought about really coming down Maybe we weren't smart enough. But we were smart enough nine to 12 months later. And we changed our entire to focus on desktop publishing, that eventually got the where it could show its owners it could do. Likewise, when we this revolutionary that we have, our coming from the PC world, where was Lotus and Adobe and all the shrinkwrapped And the purpose was to let them times faster for these And it worked. We have a ton of Best of breed in But it wasn't early last year, a that some really big you don't understand The same software that allows to 10 times faster our in-house mission-critical And this is the biggest This is a huge problem for all medium-sized have a solution in your hands, know it. And it took them about three heard it. And then last summer, we changed strategy around And it's taken And we grew about 4x last year, this year. And our customer list and growing like crazy. We just got back from spending a And we're talking to of talking to a year ago. So that's what we do. And our arch enemy Sun, Which is good. They should try to do because the sooner they will be for them. [LAUGHTER] I think it's gone past the And the greatest churns every 18 months. It's pretty impossible to advantage from hardware. If you're lucky, you can make times as good as your probably isn't enough to be And it only lasts But software seems to take to catch up with. I watched Microsoft years to catch up with whether they've even caught up. It takes a long time. And we think that going to have a true competitor So we've got that amount a $1 to $2 billion can compete with them on scale. See, today we can't We never have as many as Sun does. We don't have the ad So we've got to have And I hope we always and I think we can. But I'd also like to be a run for their money on scale. So we've got the next to run really fast, they even get close to we're at a large enough can start to compete with them. And that's what we're doing spending a lot of spending a lot of time and that kind of thing. So that's the strategic Does that make any sense to you? Have you run across the concept applications at all? I mean, most of you have come had work experience, right? And you've all done that? So do you have this problem in of a lot of pressure to write applications and hardly anything to satisfy this thirst? How many of you Good. [LAUGHTER] Good How many of you from Excellent. Where are the rest of you from? [LAUGHTER] Consulting. How many from consulting? Oh, that's bad. [LAUGHTER] A mind is too [LAUGHTER] You should do something. Why is that bad? A consultant can come into a and basically build in predictably short and show them a working product. The only consultants I've seen are the ones that help No seriously, I don't inherently evil in consulting. [LAUGHTER] I think that without over an extended like, a few years-- where one has a chance for one's has to see one's recommendations and accumulate scar and pick oneself up off the one learns a fraction Coming in and making and not owning the results, I think is a fraction and a fraction of to learn and get better. And so you do get a broad cut at It's like a picture of a-- I'm a vegetarian, so But it's like a [LAUGHTER] You might get a very but it's only two dimensional. And without the experience you never get three dimensional. So you might have a lot You can show it off You can say look, I've I've worked in peaches, But you never really taste it. And that's what I think. [APPLAUSE] You're also a variable expense. And in hard times, You find yourself If it's the software that's your company, how come you're Why don't you put it on Sun's? They have a much larger base. Right, very good question. I'm going to generalize Why don't we just become That's a very good question. It's a subtle question. I'm going to try to go and I'm sorry if I jump around. We got a lot of last year that they would on other platforms, Intel-based platforms So we decided to do just that. And we have ported and we're finishing it now. And it will ship in the And it's exactly the same stuff Same app, same user same development environment. And we're going to and we're OEMing it to a bunch recognize quite easily, at a much cheaper price. And everybody's coming out We're getting help from Novell. We're getting help from Intel's really helping us. And they really Why is that? Right. They all want to make sure that and they're all really And they see NeXTSTEP on the horizon Microsoft in system software So we're enjoying a lot of so that's good. Now, we've also had from companies to port And we're talking to some of Now, we've got a lot of the port NeXTSTEP to Sun. So a lot of them may not want to but we already bought want to throw them in the bay. So can we put your Because Sun's falling Now, Sun says they'd rather than help us do this. [LAUGHTER] That's a quote. And so we're evaluating will be worse for Sun, if we And since we're fairly we'll probably end up doing because we want to Now, this leads one should we just be And we think the answer is no. We think we should be a software In making the decision on more than our own decided that we will of the NeXTSTEP hardware. However, we think that and we will sell more And secondly, the charter is to make the best Might not be the cheapest, might But we think all in all, And I would love than if someday we of the NeXTSTEP hardware. But I still think that's a business. And I'll get into one other in a minute. There are some things I In addition to that, if you look right now, we have a of about 130 out selling NeXT computers. They spend 90% of their time and then 10% of their In other words, if they to buy into NeXTSTEP, going to sell the hardware, the only hardware it runs on. So they are out there And this is what is a new innovative product. The current for the computer industry have lost their ability They can fulfill demand, If a new product lucky if you can find somebody even knows how to demo it. So the more innovative the more revolutionary just an incremental improvement, Because the existing channel Matter of fact, it's getting wiped out, because there to fulfill demand, like the So we're seeing the channel to I think just telebusiness. So how does one bring We believe the only to do it right now is with out there in front of the products in the environment and discussing how be mated with these solutions. A software-only afford to field a With average selling prices you could never afford 130 With an average selling And that's why I going to see any more systems I don't think it's possible the market about a revolutionary And if it's not a I don't think the So our strategy got to be a hardware company business succeed. And we think we can do I know that's a long answer, Yes? [INAUDIBLE] Sure. If you ask us who we'll say really three things. One is Sun's Solaris software, and the third is Taligent. Let's take them in that order. Sun for a while had a because they had the best But the market's moved way Sun hasn't. So their software's falling and while we take we don't think Solaris is It doesn't have an object what they have today. Microsoft is doing NT, which that a Unix wannabe. And that's great, be better than the last But fundamentally, it's It's better plumbing That's a good way Unfortunately, you're in all of its glory, including environment that's And so we don't think going to present a challenge to are these apps, because the development it's not object-oriented, and we think it will be widely In terms of Taligent, the first true competitor They're going to ship if they execute to their plans. And I think if they do and work really hard, they'll have roughly And that's not meant as a joke. It still means we because they will have a lot I think there's a lot of will ever ship a product. I think they're a few years away unquote. But we take them very seriously. Now, they've helped because they've blessed And right now, that have it, and will be for So if we can't it's probably because we've You couldn't ask for IBM and Apple saying, these and come back in five years It's great. And so the ball's in our court. Yes, in the back. You describe NeXTSTEP as an system. And what I hear you talk to develop an application. I don't develop applications. I use other operating systems. Do you see a fracture of into a specialized niche and then the general who don't develop apps? Or are you saying bridge from an environment into an operating system that'll on a lot of machines? Well, let's get our We look at NeXTSTEP as Much more than an Unix, which is our operating So in these modern when you develop a it doesn't run on the It can't. You need all the objects to make it work. And let me go into a How many of you A lot, OK, great. Well, we've You don't write code than you do in any other environment that we know of. However, to do a particular app of the code that you do in any we know of. About 20% of the code than So the code that's the code that's the and the code that never breaks, So that's our strategy, And the way we do this is to use a lot of objects We ship six years worth You can create your own and then reuse them And there's now independent not selling system software, but selling objects. There's not quite 10 of And I think it's going So in order to deliver are created on the NeXTSTEP, so they can run on of this rich And that's why we're That's why you'll see NeXTSTEP platforms. And will there be a Sure, to some extent. And I tend to look at Was there a fracturing Yes. And there's been as people either move to Mac adopt what's good about the Mac. Same thing's going We believe very strongly from these object-oriented rapid development, but a If you use a NeXT, it's a even if you never Other environments will absorb and more and more people And things will tend to balance But there will be a transition. And our goal is to make Yeah. You spoke earlier that you felt lied in the fact that needing development on as opposed to the management. Many companies, though-- outsource their development. How does this change Good question. If our business strategy says well, but the tip of our which is getting us into these is our custom application then our growth is going to by the development community to develop these apps. Now, even though we have down to a fraction without developers out there, Fortunately, most increased the staffs of good dramatically in the last four or five years. There's now really know something about computer And most of the whether they're healthcare, law enforcement, places like in their IS teams. If not, they're starting and people out there in LA or in New York where have about 10 independent third of Wall Street develop things. So I think that's not going My personal opinion of people in applications It exploded in but now that industry It's consolidating down And there's a lot out there, that I think are into some of these other areas. So far, it hasn't But if you want to do that, because we always need more. So what are you guys all going You going to go back How many of you are How many aren't What are you going to do? [INAUDIBLE] [LAUGHTER] Well yeah, I think jobs for really smart, You know, And you guys are getting a Yeah, we'd love to Yes, sir. Well, I don't want to Go ahead. But where do you Apple would And specifically, could it as revolutionary in Well, these are deep questions. [LAUGHTER] I'll tell you, I've obviously And I don't want to But I will say that I I think I lost. And I wanted to I think Apple lost. I think customers lost. And having said You go on. It's not as bad as Not as bad as losing your arm. So people go on, And I think Apple-- I'm very happy every It makes me very, very happy. I think the PowerBooks I like them. But Apple has been struggling They've been having with who they want to be. And this is nothing new. We always had that. That was part of what And there were two Camp one wanted to be the and camp two wanted to sort And that struggling I think was And fortunately, the They've kind of decided to And so the PowerBooks but the Quadras suck wind And they're basically not onto the power and they've put most now on the portables that they're going to And I think they'll Now, there's a problem if you look at the sell over a million a year, you It turns out, there's not-- I mean, consumer not like toothbrushes. But electronics products. And so let's assume they have Let's say they have a product at a $500 ASP to them. So it sells to the consumer at That's what, a billion two million a year, $500 apiece. It's a billion dollars. They still have to get the somewhere. So it's going to be an as the ASPs get lower. The volumes have to and you run into when you look out at the Not that it's not possible. And I think it's going to be And we also see a lot of not but some movement in again towards taking and making it portable. But not giving the top third You know, System 7 on to be the second coming. And it wasn't. It turned out to be an OS/2 was supposed to take and it turned out to And they're going to after it just to make sure [LAUGHTER] And so there is a out there that the users and the sophisticated apps are-- they're in the desert And I think there's a to give them some solutions. Now, that doesn't going to be successful. It just means they're going to Who knows what had all this not happened. Yes, up in the corner? You've talked a lot I wonder if you could talk and if you see changing from $120 million company Sure. Yeah, we're-- we've done The most significant were, one, we hired Mike Slade is our He spent-- you can stand up. [INAUDIBLE] No. [LAUGHTER] And he's cheap, too. [LAUGHTER] And Mike spent seven or And I originally met him, he was when it first came running big pieces of So Mike runs all the And Mike came in to when we were finally hearing saying about mission And so we've worked to redefine the marketing And Mike is done just The second big thing we did a little over three consolidated our hardware design our worldwide distribution, all into one chunk called So from cradle to grave, they And we're in the process of right now, so that we're all but we have clarity that we've got to make The third thing and we have a running that, Rich Page, who And he's doing a great We hired a new CFO He's from Intel, spent some pretty interesting jobs. He ran all of He ran all of internal He ran all of manufacturing, for a while, and He's a pretty good guy, went to and then came to NeXT. And he's great. And then recently, about last week, I hired a named Peter van Cuylenburg. And Peter is someone we were looking for an to the Sales and Marketing. And he turned me And we subsequently decided And I've been chasing him almost. He's really good. He spent a lot of time at and about three years ago, went Communications in England-- and turned that company and then was promoted or half of Mercury's parent and was running-- they're about $6 billion. And he went there when he and computing were come together, but And he figured out is in the computer business. He's very, very so that's just It seems like all the good it seems take me a Them And it's always been Some of the best technical it always seemed to take me, of HP, or wherever, and took I think Mike has the award. You're about a year and a half. And they're all worth it. What happens is, I usually meet I think is very, very good. And you can't get them. And then you go try And nobody measures up. You know, when you meet just, you always compare And you know you're going to if you compromise. And I've always to compromise, and just So I think we're It feels like we're better now than we ever have. We've definitely made Yeah? What technological see coming over the and how is NeXTSTEP structured I'll give you a global answer. Then we can descend I believe that you can use windows opening, and And what I mean by that usually from fairly comes together, and makes leap forward possible. And it doesn't come If you poke around the labs, and here at MIT and other places, for some of those things. And usually, they're But, all of a sudden, you together, and the to where this is now And a window opens up. And it usually takes around-- my experience anyway, it takes around five years to that takes advantage of that Sometimes you start before And you can't get through it. And you push it up. And you push it up. Sometimes it just took that long took that long with the Mac. You know, it took a Lisa It takes a while. It's a expensive to And in our case, you know, We came out with this cube. And we sold 10,000 of them. Why? Because we weren't And we made some And we had to course correct. You know, Macintosh was a So with Apple II and III, It takes around five years, or to realize that window opening. And then it seems to take to really exploit it And let me give from my life. Apple II lasted 15 The hardware churned. But basically, it was DOS-- you know, DOS, I don't think anyone that it's going to easily unfortunately. And Mac, you know, Mac is No question it's going to years, right? These things are hard. They don't last because or even because it's economic. They last because this is hard stuff to do. And so when we are I think with our current we finally got the window open. After six years, it's open. We've got an extremely And we've got five years in the marketplace. You know, we'll Five years, we'll and say, OK, it's time to get It's time to get going four years from now. But we've got a lot just to move this thing and continue to refine it So everything I know about are open, or just about or we're working And these things generally They, kind of-- clumps has been my experience. So the things that aren't can talk about, there's really interesting, that's There some security stuff that's integrating in. But most of the core products are getting Products are getting But these things are well known. You know, the products that we can give to you are going to be that I find hard to believe. And I've been doing So I think the windows open. And I think is the biggest I have seen since with the graphical And I think it's It will prove to be Yes? I have a question. If the value like operational is a tool to help where do you draw the value between actually something like Word or builder to support those people more of the value? Where do you want to If you're a software company? If you're a software company. Well, Microsoft Repeat the question. Yeah, oh, sorry, if you're a software company, or should you develop And see, the software and Lotus, and WordPerfect Unless you've got $20 burning a hole in your pocket a few hundred people to develop of these polished shrink-wrapped then you don't have There's not a real assuming you had the you could easily marketing it before you'd because of just how expensive But that's only for If you're trying to develop a a different type of product. Well, assume that you have Again, on mainstream platforms, to just rise above the So what the brightest people is they're writing objects. They're writing hunks of are going to use to build apps. And they're going And that's, I think, going Yeah? You mentioned that a is the lack of developers who recommend it. Based on that view, of how to market itself I think your our philosophy on marketing our Mhm. Well, we started to higher education, which And But we've done And our hearts are there. And we sold a lot of when we were at Apple. And I think it's a no-brainer. I think you take your products. You discount them as You sell them into Higher education is to give you great to make your products better, And it's a great place that you can hire, and hire when they graduate, We have-- I think were in the United States. We are clearly the number across the US. And we're the number two at campuses, like right behind the Macintosh. We sell more computers through the institutional So we do as much as we can. And I think it's been What do you think? I mean, for example, Like, the support Right. I mean, I'm talking about, I'm talking about of institutionalized Well, what's happening is-- see, the Project Athenas They didn't succeed, because as a research project, necessary to and make them into necessarily the going to pioneer the ideas And so those projects The recipes, kind of, developed. And you make a few samples. And it's pretty good, is pretty advanced. And so other people and make them into And they, kind of, leave the if the researchers trying to commercialize stuff. And I can point to 100 examples So it's probably good a beginning, a so that those people trying to do commercial software It's, kind of, a mismatch. As far as we're concerned, there's a lot of put in in higher education. And we're winning almost And we really go so that people that can't have public access. And most universities now have networks. It's no longer a new And we plug right into those. So I think it's-- life's moved beyond where it those kind of projects And the knowledge to do that I think a few more and-- yeah? What's the most important learned at Apple, that Good question. I'm not sure I learned but I learned it based on And that is, I now take a In other words, when I see my first reaction It's to say, we're And we're going to do great just the next year, I need to do to help so that learns versus how do And that's painful sometimes. And I still have that first But that's taking and people is probably the And then and I don't know. That's maybe the part [LAUGHTER] Yes? To pull off on that to ask you about your and specifically, how in your organization? What's our management style? How do we resolve conflict? I've never believed that, if we're on the and a decision has to be that you don't like, and I say, You know, buy into it. Like, we're all you don't agree, Let's go make it happen. Because what happens is, paying somebody to do but then you're trying what they think isn't right. And sooner or later, it outs. And you end up So I've always way is to get and talk it through Now, that's not but that's everybody involved in that decision, And so that's how The way we run NeXT is, we call the Policy Team. There's eight people. Mike is on it. I'm on it. We have six other people on it. And the key-- we have One is, we try to differentiate important decisions and the And the really work on it until we all agree, to tell us what to do. In other words, I pay people to do things. That's easy, to find What's harder is to what should be done, right? That's what we look for. So we pay people a lot them to tell us what to do. And so when that's you shouldn't run off and do feel good about them. And the key to making that not that many things that any And we might have 25 we have to decide on So that's how we try to run it. Sometimes it works. And sometimes we're I can't think of once-- I can't-- maybe but I can't even recall a I'm the CEO. And we're doing it I can recall a time when I've and you're off the team. [LAUGHTER] You know? I've had to say over a prolonged period of wanted to go in the wanted to go in as a team. It's my job every once you want to go this way? We want to go this way. It's not working. But when people are on the Yeah? You've, kind of, this niche towards versus you've going into of these portability issues. Do you think portability Can you do that and still do stuff as well? I want to come back to characterization, because close to half of what Sun's do. And the reason they do is, factory in the industry. And we have a great which designs stuff Do you guys-- manufacturing, Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yeah. We should talk about The industry is And what's happening is, is know them today are all going your PowerBook. They're all going to be and smaller, before very long. And they're taking the not particularly changing off the desktop And they're giving up but nothing terribly profound. However, we're getting from certain parts that they want things that Well, what are they? Well, speed-- speed is because speed So the kind of speed it would run for 3 and And that's useless. The second thing want a lot more storage and a lot more memory, again, for power and size reasons. Another thing they want is right? The radio LANs on are going to go 19.2 Our customers want 100 You're not going to do anytime in the next five years. Another thing our has shifted to, like, 80% color. And they want true There is no flat panel that will do And they want big ones, because and you run a bunch you need a bigger window When you're using your computer you don't want to be looking You want something bigger. So these are all the And we're working on but it's really And we're optimizing because we see a for running these And what people are so that's what we're Let's talk about manufacturing. How many of you have a Oh, that's great. I love manufacturing. And what kinds of things? What kinds of companies? You have-- Pharmaceuticals. Pharmaceuticals? Any auto people here? Yeah. Him. Auto? Electronics? Which TI. TI, uh-huh. Motorola. Motorola? Is it true you're sending overseas, or just-- I heard-- Yeah, I heard that rumor, too. No, it couldn't be We love manufacturing at NeXT. And when I was at Apple, to lead the effort to And we designed, and built, And it was a real breakthrough. It was the best until we built the at NeXT. And we made a lot of-- [LAUGHTER] We made a lot of As an example, I remember You know, one of when you start building are really bad, right? Warehouses are bad, because And inventory is really bad. Inventory is really bad, you don't find out And you don't close the quality and correct the problem, until What you want to do the first one that and stop them from making more So warehouses also cost money, in them. And the stuff-- you have to or use money that could be used so warehouses are bad. And you want to go to JIT. I'm sure you've studied this I was walking through and the two biggest pieces were a giant small-part It was the totes And the second one in system at the end. And a few tens of millions of And I realized, unfortunately are warehouses. They're just And so when we said no warehouses of any kind. We have a true JIT factory. Stuff comes in, and is delivered on the factory floor. There is no warehouse. Deliveries are made daily, than that. There is no outgoing warehouse. Everything is visible. And the reason that we were able = because we looked at-- well, When we were learning we hired a Stanford at the time named Steven has since stolen away, I think. And he did a neat thing. He drew on the board a little He said, you can from a manufacturing You can say there's one, two, three, four, five. They all have these things. And stage one is companies as a necessary evil. They wish they didn't have to And all the way up which is companies as a competitive opportunity for We can get better and get new products out faster. We get lower costs. We get higher quality. And in general, you put the American flag here, [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] And that's changing, however. That's changing. And it's changing, are going into manufacturing. Companies are starting were great at this one time. And then we took it for granted. And people are starting to good people. And so we want to And we try very hard. By the way, just going back I often apply this scale and how they look at software. See, I think most computer They wish software had I put Compaq in that category. And IBM is maybe stage And I think there's only-- you know, Suns maybe, sort I think there's only and that's us, Apple, and We start everything with But anyway going back we started looking at the And the first people were some software engineers. We convinced them to move which was not easy. We had to give them bonuses. We had to cajole them. We had to promise them if they hated it. And they went over there. And we said, this is really with interesting I/O That's all it is. And so we started building And our first robots that And we bought them with the robot arms on them, and the software And we specced it out, And they didn't-- Some of them are still in And being software folks, They weren't elegant. We couldn't do what we We couldn't tie-in a quality and all this other So the second generation, and had somebody build but we wrote all the software We're object-oriented, so we quality objects, you to control this factory. And we found in our And so our whole on this object-oriented The last generation of-- our which we've deployed this year, I've been to Japan maybe-- 40 times. And I love to have They always amaze built everything themselves. They weren't afraid of anything. They needed a robot. They tried to buy one. But if they couldn't, engineer it and build it. And you'd think this but we found out It's actually cheaper And so we've actually and specced out our own robots. We don't mill the We get that all made. We put them all together. And we do the software And we have now some in the factory. And our computers are on the key components, by human hands. So we're pretty convinced We do it in Fremont, California, And we export them to Japan, And Canon is our And they do very, very And we're now at the shipped to stock with them. And they say we're a very How do your lines tie your development team? Because I had heard change the line from their Yeah, they can. Well, we don't give everybody [LAUGHTER] --yes, they can. Here's how it works. One of the things we when we want to build an see what happens in most-- one of the key things can contribute to competitive Why is that? Because the way you design your product here. And after you're done, you And you design your sorting out a bunch of things here, fixing them, changing the process design. What you want to do is right here while your And that's what we've been What we do is, we suck in engineering. We zing them around over to [INAUDIBLE] factory And in our own all of the robot placement We compute all the We check it against the bill And we download And we're ready to build in-between two production full surface mount with all Now, the key is that for engineering, that we in engineering for two years. We haven't built a wire wrap, in engineering for two years. Everything has been Now, what does that mean? What that means gets involved from day one. Because the-- the call up manufacturing go, hey, We're going to need these Take a look at this. Tell us what you think. We'd like to do it tomorrow. Let us know if that's They get involved from day one. And what it also means is-- so we get this parallelism. Secondly, a lot of times, it's not quite the as you're going to And so all the you get from building you throw away when to go into production. And you start over in Because we don't we don't throw anything away. We don't waste time. And it's led to one of the between an engineering and seen in my life. They're all working They're all working They're all working in a environment, to where, when they all get together and all buy into it. And it's not that hard. The key to it all, didn't go out and hire a We went out and hired engineers. And we convinced them that we We were going to pay as-- as a matter of a little more at the beginning. But we pay him exactly the There's migration, not just from manufacturing And they're not They have the same offices. They have the same They have the same And it took us a that we were really serious. For about the first few in manufacturing than we until design engineering So it's really paid think it's one of our for competitive advantage. Yeah, I think one or two And probably, you do too. Yes, up there, [INAUDIBLE]? So you have no You are doing true JIT? [INAUDIBLE] Yeah. How are you getting your How are we getting Yeah. You mean, like, what Or what do you mean? [LAUGHTER] Is it air? Is it truck? I mean, how are you getting See the key thing is, That's our suppliers' problem. So we agree with our supplier to arrive on our factory floor. And if they can-- if they're by truck, that's fine. If they have to ship it If they want to have a warehouse not good enough, well, Now, we're not go command people to do things. But what's happened is, is we base. We don't have three And they see tremendous We're pushing our quality to them. As an example, Motorola is Almost every key supplier And we send them statistical sometimes daily-- daily-- off our automated on their parts. And those kinds of things are So while we're a very valuable And so they really bend over And we try to push the If it's our problems, we take We own our process. But they-- it's their job to on-time, per agreements. And our philosophy is, our money to them, so their after they give them to us. [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] Yeah? Do you see any possibility to [INAUDIBLE] portable Macs? And do you see the future dying out, or what [INAUDIBLE]? You know, I think Macs are It depends on what Apple does. I think certain segments are going to continue to grow. I think certain segments are not going to be And I think Macs are good But to do the things are going to want to I don't think you I don't think you can do And so I think there's a Just like, you know, there a on DOS when the Mac came out, you just couldn't. And it would take a long time. And I think it's the Hey, we have to head back to California, to be with you [APPLAUSE]