Today I am brewing the oldest beer in the world, ancient Sumerian beer from 4,000 years ago, or at least as close as I can get. So thank you to Hellofresh for sponsoring this video as I make ancient Sumerian beer this time on Tasting History. There's an old Sumerian proverb that says &quot;He who does not know beer does not know what is good.&quot; and to that I say darn because we don't know beer or at least we don't know exactly what ancient Sumerian beer was like. It's one reason why I've taken so long to actually make this video because the more I learned about beer in ancient Mesopotamia, the less I felt I knew about beer in ancient Mesopotamia. There are so many unknowns about just how it was made, what was in it, and really exactly what it was. It's enough to make you curl up in the fetal position in the corner, but with a ton of wonderful information sent to me from one of the top scholars in the field Tate Paulette, and with the knowledge that no matter what I do I'm not going to get it exactly the way that they did it and this should really just be for fun so stop taking it so seriously, I've decided to have a Now the &quot;recipe&quot; that we're using is the 4,000 year and it's quite long, but I'm going to read just &quot;Ninkasi your father is Enki, Lord Nidimmud, your mother is Ninti, the queen of the sacred lake... it is you who handles the dough and [?] with a big shovel, mixing, in a pit, the bappir with sweet aromatics, ...with date honey... it is you who bakes the bappir in the big oven. Puts in order the Ninkasi, it is you who water the malt set on the ground, the noble dogs guard it even from the potentates. It is you who soaks the malt in a jar, the waves rise, the waves fall. It is you who spreads the cooked mash on large reed mats, coolness overcomes... It is you who holds with both hands the great sweet wort, brewing it with honey and wine... The fermenting vat, which makes a pleasant sound you place appropriately on a large collector vat... Ninkasi, it is you who pours out the filtered beer of the collector vat... It is like the onrush of the Tigris and Euphrates.&quot; Beautiful... but would we call that a recipe. No I don't think so. First of all it's missing and it's really not clear if the person who wrote it actually knew anything about the beer making process other than maybe he saw somebody make it once. So it's sort of like trying to recreate a birthday cake using the nursery rhyme Patty Cake as a recipe. I know that you roll it and pat it, and you mark it with a B and then you put it in an oven for baby and me, but I feel like there are some crucial details missing and it makes me grateful that today's sponsor Hellofresh does not write their recipes in poetic form. No, the recipes from Hellofresh are well written and very easy to follow because everything arrives to your door pre-portioned so you can get past all of the prep work and get right to the cooking, and it's quick. Many of their recipes take less than 30 minutes to make and you don't have to go to the grocery store to get ingredients. It's perfect for those busy weeknights or for me days where Hellofresh has lots of options too from pescetarian, and vegetarian to family friendly for those picky eaters at home and I've enjoyed pretty much every meal that I've got from them, but the one that I just made is most definitely my favorite. It was a Thai coconut curry chicken anit was wonderfully creamy and I got to choose the spice level which is not at all, and I think it's going to be on pretty much every order that I put and if you want to try this or any of the other wonderful meals from Hellofresh go to hellofresh.com and use my code tastinghistory21 That's hellofresh.com with my code tasting history 21, and I promise with Hellofresh you will never have to rely on archeology to know what you're supposed to put into a recipe which is exactly what we kind of have to do with Sumerian beer. Scientists have studied residues on the inside of vessels to learn some of the ingredients used and there are even more clues on receipts, delivery receipts like one that calls for 18 liters of emmer wheat, 30 liters malted barley, 18 liters of bappir to make 45 liters of golden beer. And it makes you wonder in 4,000 years what kind of information will be gleaned from the great receipts of CVS. Now that account is to make something called golden beer and that's another issue with recreating Sumerian beer, there were so many types. There are at least 9 types in writings from the Uruk Period and another set are mentioned a few centuries later: golden beer, dark beer, sweet dark beer, red they stop referring to them so much by how they look and more by their strength: ordinary beer, good beer, and very good beer. Good meaning strong and archaeologists believe that some of their beers had up to 5% alcohol by volume whereas others had almost no alcohol, so with all that said this is one version of Sumerian beer and it's going to take you about a week to make. So on day one you take about a cup of barley and cover it with with water, and leave it to soak. Other grains like emmer wheat may have been used but barley was most common. Now on day two is when things really start to ramp up because It's called bappir and anything like bread really that we know. Some translations and I actually use that version when I did a Babylonian stew about a year ago, but the version for the beer is probably more like There may have been other yeasts used but this yeast would work as long as you don't bake it so much that it kills all of the kind of let it dry out in the summer sun. There's actually a similar dried yeast that has been used for thousands of years to make alcoholic beverages in Korea so going with that theory what you'll need is: one and a half cups or 210 grams of barley flour, one and a and about a half cup or 120 milliliters of water. Now especially that has been made with barley flour you can just Then mix everything together and give it a good kneading for about five minutes and cover it and leave it to rise for a full day. Also on day two you are going to drain the barley that you'd soaked the night before, and then put it into a cheesecloth. Then you need to suspend said cheesecloth somehow and I'd kind of tied it onto onto a ring back here, and you can also just kind of put it into a jar and then have holding it in place, holding it up off of the bottom. You don't want it kind of pressed against anything. You also need it to stay fairly moist so spritz it two or three times a day, and after two or three days it'll actually begin to sprout, but we are not there yet. First we must attend to our &quot;bappir&quot; because on day three you want to form it into a loaf or cakes, and then let it sit again. And really you want it to dry out and get a get a nice crust on it. If you have a stove from 1947 that's always a little warm it's actually perfect. I didn't need to bake mine at if you don't have any of those things then you can put it into the oven. You'll do that on day four at 300 degrees Fahrenheit or 150 Celsius for maybe 10 minutes and I mean maybe 10 you don't want the inside to get above but even if you don't use the oven to dry your bappir you will need it to malt your barley. So on day four set the oven to 200 degrees Fahrenheit about 93 degrees Celsius and then set the barley out onto a baking sheet The grain should be nicely browned and start to have Then take the barley out of the oven and let them continue to dry. Now at this point the Hymn to Nikasi says that you should have a dog to guard the barley even Alas I have no dog and Jaime did not seem interested in helping so I took my chances but luckily no potentates came to steal my barley. Now the next day, day five, this is You take your barley and you crush it into a powder. I used a mortar and pestle, but if you want to save yourself the trouble a food processor works just as well. Then pour some water onto the crushed grain and let it soak In the meantime break up your bappir and let it sit to dry even more for those couple hours. Then add the bappir to a large jar, and pour in the barley mash along with any These may have actually been part of the bappir actually like kind of baked and dried into it, not sure. Another thing we're not sure of is exactly what those aromatics were. They had access to all sorts of herbs and spices, juniper berry, cumin, fennel, pomegranates, but I'm using cardamom and coriander because I like those scents and why not. Now they also often added date syrup so I am adding one half cup or 120 milliliters. This is going to add a lot of sugar which should help in the production of alcohol, even the god Enki used date syrup when making his beer. &quot;In kukuru containers which make the beer good he mixed beer mash. By adding date syrup to its taste, he made it strong.&quot; Clearly it also helped to make it sweet which seems to be the preferred way of drinking beer especially if you were a deity. &quot;They drank sweet wine, they enjoyed sweet beer. When they had drunk sweet wine and enjoyed sweet beer, they started a quarrel concerning the arable fields. They began a debate in the dining hall.&quot; Perhaps the first argument fueled by too much wine and beer but not the last. Now if you are worried that the yeast in your bappir is not enough or you've killed it or whatever, if you're worried about yeast not working you They would have possibly added things like fresh grains or or other things that would have natural yeast on them, not sure. So if you're worried at all go ahead and add about another teaspoon or two of yeast because after doing all this work it would be real real bummer if you'd killed all your yeast because then when you add a gallon or four liters of water you'll just end up with barley water instead of beer. But once the water is added give it a good stir and then cover it with a cheesecloth and leave it somewhere out of the sun, out of the light for two to three days to let Ninkasi work her magic during which time you can make sure your subscribed to Tasting History and I can tell you a little bit more about ancient Mesopotamia's love affair with beer. Long before the people of Mesopotamia were drinking beer, it In the Enuma Elis or story of creation before the fight against Tiamat, mother of dragons and releaser of monsters, those gods who backed Marduk as their champion &quot;...conversed and sat down at the feast, ate grain of the field and drank of the vine, let sweet beer trickle through their straws, they felt good from drinking the beer. They became carefree, their spirits rose, and they ordained the destiny of Marduk their champion.&quot; So not only did they set Marduk on the path of defeating Tiamat and thereby creating the world as we know it but they also dispelled the myth that ancient beers did not have enough alcohol to get you drunk. A lesson well learned by Enkidu the wild man from The Epic of Gilgamesh who had never drank beer until he met some &quot;They placed food in front of him, they placed beer in front of him; Enkidu knew nothing of eating bread for food, and drinking beer he had not been taught.&quot; But they said eat the bread, drink the beer, it's the civilized thing to do, it is our custom and so he ate the bread and &quot;He drank the beer- seven jugs full! And he became expansive and started to sing! His heart grew The epic does not discuss the subsequent hangover though there are myths like in the story of Inanna and Enki. Enki who happened was the Sumerian god of many things including That last one being something that one because one night the two are sitting around &quot;So it came about that Enki and Inanna were drinking beer together in the abzu.. the bronze aga vessels were filled to the brim, and the two of them started a competition, What happens next we don't exactly I know because there drinking competition did not go Enki's way and giving her all of his powers, the 'mes' or gifts all of them. &quot;I will give them to holy Inanna, my daughter... holy Inanna received the plundering of cities, making lamentations rejoicing...&quot; And it goes on for dozens and dozens of lines as he gives her more and more of these gifts of civilization. Everything from making fire to music, to metal work and and leather working, to the state of movement and this state of just being sedentary. He gives her absolutely everything and then she takes off, and Enki starts to sober up. &quot;As the effects of the beer cleared from father 'Isimud, my minister, my sweet Name of Heaven!... where are the noble scepter, the staff and crook, the noble dress, shepherdship, kingship?' 'My master has given them to his daughter.' We've all done things that we that one takes the cake. So Enki sends his it does not go well. So then he sends monsters okay you got him and she shares those gifts with So yay civilization! Though I'm guessing she did not share the moral of the story the ancient Sumerians were big fans of beer. Beer or kas in the Sumerian language appears in some of the earliest known It wasn't the tales of ancient great kings or the philosophy of the best minds of the time that they were writing down, no it was receipts for beer. Who got beer, how much they got, and what kind of beer it was. Beer is also the focus of several laws in the Code of Hammurabi specifically beer sold in taverns. &quot;If a tavern keeper should refuse to accept grain as payment for beer but accepts only silver... thereby reducing the value of beer in relation to the value of grain, they shall charge and convict that tavern Seems fair to me. This grain is legal tender you And it wasn't just grain that was used for payment but the beer itself. Early records show it being given to workers as part of their daily wages and this beer while drunk at work was probably on the weaker end of the alcoholic spectrum, but there were stronger beers that were drunk during social occasions. It was drunk at feasts communally out of large pots often to the point of drunkenness, so you bet it was strong, and I bet it was also strong beer that is depicted in some of the art at the time, and it's a rather erotic form of art. Now this art depicts beer being drunk probably in a tavern where prostitution was quite common, but beer was also drunk at home. In fact it was even brewed at home. Part of a woman's dowry was often some of the best brewing vessels that they could provide. And some of these vessels are subjects of a 4,000 year old drinking song. &quot;The gakkul vat, the gakkul vat. The gakkul vat, the lam-sa-re vat, The gakkul vat, which makes the liver happy, the lam-sare vat, which rejoices the heart The ugur-bal vat, a fitting in the house, the sa-gub jar, which is filled with beer, The am-am jar, which carries the beer of the lam-sa-re vat... The beautiful vessels are ready on (their) pot stands.&quot; Well now that's going to be stuck in my head all day. I really do wish though that I could hear what it actually sounded like because I am going to guess that is ever but that's okay. The song anyway goes on for a true dedication of this person's love of beer. &quot;As I spin around the lake of beer, while feeling wonderful feeling wonderful while drinking beer in a blissful mood, while drinking liquor and feeling exhilarated, with joy in the heart and a my heart is a heart filled with joy!&quot; And I think I'm ready to fill my heart with joy and content MY liver as I drink some Sumerian beer. So after a couple days your brew should be ready to pour out. The thing is we know that they often filtered their beer but exactly how they did it, not quite sure. To what degree it was filtered, not quite sure. Some of the the vats had &quot;we&quot; archaeologists have found strainers though it's really unclear. I'm going to filter it but it's still going to be somewhat cloudy. And here we are ancient Sumerian beer 4,000 years in the making. So I can see why they used a straw because there are some particulates on the top, there are some particulates on the bottom, definitely more on the bottom, so a straw is going to help you get *sips It's interesting. The reason I kind of held it was because there were some bubbles. It's not- it's not carbonated. It's ever so slightly effervescent. That's actually- it's actually not bad. I'm getting like a little bit of the cardamom. What I'm not getting a lot of is the the date I think that they probably added date syrup or there was just a lot more in there, I don't but it's not that sweet. it's also not sour. I was worried it would be sour, I know a lot of people who have made It's no more sour than a modern like Hefeweizen but it's not like unpleasantly sour. What you're getting it's like the nuttiness that you get in a brown ale but much I mean you can you can tell there is alcohol in this but it's not overwhelming at all. I mean we're gonna try some more. Yeah there's a little yeastiness so maybe it I think it's pretty much there and we don't yeah that's kind of fun. I don't mind that. The thing is it doesn't last very long, two days, maybe three but I'd say two days and drink up and hopefully you know, use some caution You know drink responsibly. So I'm going to put a link to a playlist down here of more Babylonian recipes and recipes kind of from Make sure to subscribe to Tasting History, have a wonderful new year and I will see you next time on Tasting History. I'm actually going to drink more of this. Not [Slurp]