I'm in Seoul, about 35 miles away And it's Sunday here in South Korea. And so I'm going to church. But this church, it's a little different than any other one I've been to. This is Saemoonan Presbyterian Church, The architects designed it as the mother of all churches in Seoul. This building opened in 2019, and it's high on the list of churches And I know a list of churches to visit but hear me out. Today, in a country that's smaller there are hundreds of churches There are three times There are more than 80,000 That's more than one Today, millions of South Koreans And this building, this church are today than in the past. they were met with resistance Christians were thought of as alien invaders, and they were persecuted Things look obviously very, very different here, but there's a case to be made that Despite its incredible growth, the South Korean church Only 13% of the younger generation and only 21% of the general population is even credible. Another report showed that more than 69% of those in their twenties I never would have guessed, to think that of the two Koreas, it's because in the North, there's a whole different story So what does it look like Since it's the very foundation, has treated Christianity North Korean society is split into three according to how politically safe or risky Protestants are categorized as hostile political prison camps The U.S. Department of State report Korea gives a picture that's honestly heartbreaking with children being arrested being taken away For as long as we've had persecution watchlists, North Korea has always been at the very top, and yet Christianity keeps making away. In the year 2000, essentially 0% of North Koreans inside North Korea But now today, as of the 2020 data, now more than 8% of North Koreans So we're at a point in time in history Koreans are reading the Bible where the church in North Korea is growing and the church in South Korea. And yet, the mindset we still have is, What can I do to bring the gospel there? And my response Waiting for it to happen. Yeah, right. This is Eric Foley. He's the co-founder and he's been serving the North Korean church for decades, on the ground in Pyongyang In South Korea and the West, the church But in North Korea, church holds a loosely to the form We think they must gather together But man, North Koreans You know, North Korea is 70% mountains in a mountain pass, you can look around, you just belt out a song. North Koreans, when they pray, you know, whispering, They figured out how to pray even with a state security Because I could say to you, &quot;Man, my sister has been so sick, you know, where the great leader knows and And so, I just I would I would want my sister's illness because I know that So we would say, &quot;What is that about?&quot; We'd say, &quot;That's a prayer.&quot; And in so in other words, by using the language, North Koreans pray. Even while facing the harshest conditions, North Korean Christians are finding ways It definitely involves a lot of secrecy, and sometimes, it even means hiding Christ In North Korea, school teachers, you know, all of the officials in a city, they're specially trained to know to cause children And so they ask questions like, you know, the songs with different words?&quot; Because again, many of the songs that Christians would sing This is a North Korean ideology, Does your family have a special book? Do your parents ever look like that they're sleeping which is seem like a prayer posture? So one of my favorite stories people have about North Korean There was this girl, she when she was seven years old She didn't know it. And so, she found in their home, And her immediate thought was, Right, because I think about that. Her thought I don't want you to get in trouble.&quot; Her thought is, And so, her parents tied her up in a chair until they could property evangelize her, So evangelism through tied chair may not sound like but in North Korea, there is no such thing So interesting, the girl grew up, and today, is associated and effective Christian ministries inside Estimates are that today believers. Tens of thousands of how does anyone become a Christian Basically, a person is going to become a Christian North Korea And this is the thing which is that I have known Christians who died for their faith only a few verses of Scripture because they know they treasure it as so It tells them who they are, And so, that's how Christians become in North Korea, through hearing grants them Strong towards Kim Il Sung, A lot of times, you know, about people becoming Christian you know? We don't Korean Christians, but we do hear where, for whatever reason, the Lord And often, that is their first experience right?&quot; In their world, the only thing that exists So when stuff happens that you can't But always is that someone someone gives them that That, to me, is the most encouraging He's not waiting for anybody. There's nothing There's no other foot that has to fall. There's nobody who has to get up The only question is whether you're going to join So that's entirely up to you. But as for God, as for the Lord about North Korea. He's called his saints there. He's equipped them. He's withholding from them no good thing. And in light of eternity, in ways that we could never imagine distracted by all the other stuff They have only Christ revealed and sometimes even just a few words here And for them it is sufficient. That to me is what's exciting. Thank you. Yeah, that's true. That is exciting. That's that's worth going to jail for. At the turn of the 20th century, Christianity was on the rise. Missionaries were opening hospitals and schools, and Christ was But Japan had also arrived to not just destroy the Church, but So a group of missionaries They wanted to see They'd been doing it for months, quitting, since in their own words, Soon after, however, as they gathered many of those present started weeping their sins. As the missionaries they realized that another was managing The Korean minister said at the time I saw some struggling Others again bounded to their feet to rid It seemed unwise that such confessions We were under mysterious and awful power, missionaries as well as Koreans.&quot; While the initial service that year, Over the next five years, Korea would have This was astonishing, that just a generation The revival services went on for days, Christians went from house to house to those whom they had wronged. Even schools had to close down confessing their wrongdoings Korea was flooded and repentance, and from that outpouring the first Korean Presbyterian Korean ministers were ordained But it didn't stop there. Samuel Moffet, and whose father was present in the Just as they were about to come &quot;We will be the first Korean ministers But a real church has more than ministers. It has missionaries.&quot; And they looked at a young man who had come a little late And said, &quot;You stoned the first missionary you are going to be our first missionary.&quot; my father, who happened to be 16 years before, ordained and the church sent him off as their own the southern coast where he in when he first stood up There's something so powerful here. The greatest revival Korea's ever seen first missionary, a true Saul to Paul who started 17 congregations And that's generally been true of Korean Wherever they go, I did and my parents were Muslims, But when Taliban took over, then of course and attending the mosque, you're So I was very zealous about the religion, And I saw four regime changes, This is Luke. He grew up in Afghanistan Islamic When he was in college, and that's when he met a Korean living in Afghanistan They printed one page of paper, They were nervous about that as well that I was very nervous. They had to really think about it. for the embassy, then Reading the Bible and hearing from them I don't meet any other Christians I don't know any other Korean Christians. I don't know any other foreign Christians. I don't know any other Afghan Christians. I just saw their life, not just going there the understanding of the Bibles, I see their lives. Luke received Christ, and currently serves and church planter among Afghan refugees. He needed to leave his country the faithfulness of Korean missionaries In the North of Afghanistan, there was a Korean construction company. An unknown man attacked They were trying to convert Afghans to Christianity. And I remember that our Korean friends, They were, it was very sad. But they said, &quot;As a Christian, Their entire purpose but they were also here to speak about the truth that they knew and even at the point And it's okay, we're not going to mourn for that, but we will see them. And in those days, Koreans, they came, there was hundreds of them around They went village This is what makes this story in Korea so incredibly relevant As amazing as Luke's story is, serving in Afghanistan. the Jerusalem of the East, And as we wonder and pray for the future we need to remember that to the Christians in the South. We found that we could work with North not according to Western ways of mission but according to the traditional North Korean underground ways When we train them, we take them out wherever North Koreans are found, Mongolia, Southeast Asia, Middle East, Our best missionary, in fact, and she's getting ready to go back inside And we're like, &quot;Hey, And she says, &quot;Look, I spent my whole life Why wouldn't You have the leadership. You have the scholarship. scholarship. You have the people. You know, when Billy Graham came to Seoul in 1973, They reportedly called Billy Graham And you might well think, you know, even though Billy's North Korea is probably But 20 years later, he was actually invited to visit North Graham wanted to hold the crusade to let that happen. However, he was able to preach one message sanctioned house of worship In a country where simply owning a copy could send you and your entire family here comes a foreign pastor, right to the man responsible Even though North Korea has been for decades, it doesn't mean God To believe that there's a place too hard is to believe in a God And we don't believe in a weak God. We believe in the God of hard One thing I learned from the Korean There's a tradition called Sey Byuk Gi Do-- early morning prayer. You can find people praying in church Perhaps we can join them in praying for the people in North Korea And maybe a glorious revival is