Over the course of your life your feet will head due to gravitational time dilation - and that you're quite tall. But that tiny difference in flow of time may all. Albert Einstein really enjoyed imagining people falling off buildings. He said it himself - he described his happiest thought as the following: "For an observer falling freely from the roof of a house, the We now know this as the equivalence principle - it states that there's no experiment that you can do to distinguish a frame of reference in freefall within a gravitational field from a frame of reference floating off in space Provided of course you're in a lab with and you haven't hit the ground yet. But otherwise, as far as the universe is concerned, the sense of floating you feel in both circumstances is exactly the same. Likewise, the sense of weight you feel stationary on the surface of the Earth is identical to the sense of weight you would feel accelerating at 1-g distant from any gravitational field - at least as far as the laws of physics are Einstein had his happy thought in 1907, a revolution with the special theory of relativity. It took him another 8 years and a lot of help of gravity - the general theory of relativity. General relativity, or "GR" explains the in space and time. Mass and energy change the lengths of rulers and the speeds of clocks - and somehow those changes lead to objects being attracted to John Archibald Wheeler put this notion the move; matter tells spacetime how to curve. A common way to depict this is with the classic balls-on-rubber-sheet analogy. Balls are constrained to move only on the the sheet is flat - but if the sheet is curved But the rubber sheet picture is at best a For one thing, it implies that curvature in - but that's only half - actually less than half the picture. Matter tells space AND time how to curve, mostly responsible for telling matter how There's a deep connection between gravity the pace of time in what we call gravitational And today we'll explore the origin of this And ultimately, we'll use what we learn gradient of time dilation - can be thought It would actually be really helpful if you've in special relativity. You could watch it now if you haven't. I would wait, but you know where the pause button work. We're going to start out by me totally convincing you that time must run slow in a gravitational field - an effect we call gravitational time But to do that I need to give you a quick tells us moving clocks must appear to tick This is from special relativity, rather than general relativity, but even special relativity Einstein also had help and built on prior But it's fair to say that relativity was brilliant thought- or gedankenexperiments. Einstein's thought laboratory - his gedankenlab - was filled with many incredible imaginary devices, but one of his favorites was the This is a simple pair of perfectly reflective, photon of light. A counter ticks over every time the photon The photon clock represents the simplest possible clock, and anything that we conclude for it also applies to any other clock. And, in fact, to any matter - anything that can experience time, which in practice means anything with mass. We've talked about why this is the case The amount of time taken for one tick of the photon clock is the distance the photon travels divided by its speed - so twice separation But let's say the gerdankenlab is moving They see the photon clock ticking, but the How long does it take to execute that one Here we have to invoke the great founding of light is always measured to be the same speed. From the stationary perspective, the photon the same speed - so it appears to take longer to complete a single up-down tick. Add an identical but stationary photon clock. It seems to tick more than once for a single And this apparent slowing of time appears for everything in the moving lab. But the whole situation is symmetric. For an observer in the moving lab, it appears that the stationary clock is ticking slow. That's because there's no preferred notion They see the world as moving, and themselves stationary. Time dilation due to motion is inevitable the speed of light. To get to gravitational time dilation all as our second axiom. It tells us that whatever we conclude about must also be true in a gravitational field. To get an accelerating frame we could strap worry, we will. But first, let's try this - build our lab If we set it rotating at the right speed then artificial gravity. Let's also suit up a physicist and have station turns. They're in a non-accelerating, or inertial We have a photon clock in the lab and an identical one with the physicist. One tick of either clock is very short, which only a tiny arc of the full circle. So we can approximate its motion as a straight Over that brief interval we know perfectly two frames of reference. Both observers see the other's time has But after a full revolution, both observers ticked. And it turns out that the stationary clock This seems paradoxical, but the solution is previous episode. The summary is this: two observers moving the other as time-dilated - slowed. But as soon as one of those observers changes direction, the symmetry is broken. In the twin paradox, the twin traveling to though both could see the other's clock We can see that when we use a spacetime diagram to show how the traveler tracks the passage of time back on Earth. Her perception of what is "simultaneous" point, so that she misses a bunch of the ticks of her brothers clock. Here's the spacetime diagram for our rotating Now 2 dimensions of space instead of one. The spacetime path or worldline of the lab "now" is this shifting plane. It's easier to see if we just take a slice Now the worldline is.a sine wave. The lines of constant time for the moving tilts it fast-fowards over the clock ticks The source of acceleration doesn't matter. You get the same result if you do strap rockets to the gendankenlab. The photon in the accelerating clock has to distance it needs to travel. On the way down the lower mirror catches up to it, reducing the down-tick distance. But overall, the distance for a single up-down tick is larger in a linearly accelerating frame compared to the inertial frame. OK, so what does all this have to do with The equivalence principle demands that there's no experiment that can distinguish between acceleration and gravity. Ergo someone standing in a gravitational field must experience the same sense of weight AND the same time dilation that you would get and speed, or accelerated with linear acceleration If both of our axioms are true - the constancy of the speed of light and the equivalence of acceleration and gravity, then time must It kind of blows me away that you can calculate the difference of the flow of time between an inertial and accelerating frame using pure special relativity with its kinematic time dilation plus shifting reference frames, OR the gravitational time dilation for the equivalent gravitational acceleration. And you get the same answers. You do have to be careful to choose the right relative distances between observers. In the case of the twin paradox, gravitational time dilation gives the right relative time flows if you consider the traveling twin to equal to her spaceship's acceleration. But how deep in the well? Well, as deep as the distance back to Earth - which is why the time dilation in this case is so huge, even if the acceleration is mild. Another note of caution: be aware that circular orbital motion in a gravitational field is very different from our rotating space station- then both gravitational time dilation and kinematic time dilation play separate roles. So is it some sort of cosmic coincidence that you get the same number with shifting reference frames as with artificial gravity? Well no, it's telling us that the source of the time dilation is fundamentally the same. OK, this is all fine and good. We've reasoned our way to seeing that gravitational are right. But that doesn't feel entirely satisfying What really is it about the gravitational Perhaps the photon - or whatever light-speed quantum components make up matter - actually do have to travel further - between mirrors or between the forces binding matter. So that photon clocks and matter do evolve more slowly in gravitational fields. Or is it that if you're inside a gravitational sweeping forward compared to regions further outside the gravitational field? Sure, both of there are valid and there are even more ways to think about this - and no one of them is closer to reality - they are, in a sense, just our But ultimately, asking "why does gravity A better question may be "why does slowed The curvature of space by matter isn't nearly enough to give gravity at the strength we feel it. You're held in your chair right now by the curvature in time. In short, you're held down because your And I'll show you exactly why that's true between time and gravity in a curved spacetime.