Hi, my loves. Welcome back to Lavendaire. Tonight, I'm taking you along My evenings are a time to recharge and nourish my body and fitness, and self-care. My evenings begin when I officially wrap up work for the day. There's something so satisfying about that moment when and know it's time to wind down. (soft upbeat music) First things first, it's time to feed Togi. He's kind of a picky eater, so I slightly switch up his Today, I'm mixing three (soft upbeat music) Sit. (soft upbeat music) Now onto my dinner. I'm feeling tired today, so I but still healthy. So I asked ChatGPT for recipe ideas that could be made in 20 minutes or less based on what I have on hand. So tonight I wanna make shimeji mushrooms, corn and bell pepper. I don't necessarily follow but I like doing this 'cause (soft upbeat music) Comment below, what is your go-to dish that you cook most often? I'd love some inspo. (door thudding) (gentle music) (knife tapping) Glasses for cutting onions (onion crunching) Oh god, I'm about to cry already. (knife tapping) (Aileen laughing) (water whooshing) (knife tapping) (gentle music) All right, time to make the sauce. Today, I'm using light soy a little rice vinegar, white pepper and black pepper. (gentle music) (spatula tapping) I'm serving this tofu dish with some rice, adding a couple yellow radish. I love these, I have these every day. And then topping it up Okay, so after dinner, I accidentally spent a little which is totally fine, it happens. But now I'm digested and it I currently just have this so I'm just laying out a small bedsheet and towel over the rug. I have a few YouTube playlists for different types of Today, I'm planning to do some dance and then some resistance training, and yes, I still enjoy doing I talked about this two years ago, but this is the playlist with Lately, I've been doing dance workouts from the channel Tara's Body, because I wanted to try, and it's been so fun. A lot of her videos are in I like getting to practice It's funny how I do workout I don't know, I like learning to count in different languages and just expose my For whatever reason, my while I'm exercising. Otherwise I get bored. Like, if there are workout videos with just music and no Or if there's workout videos but I can't watch that because something about the repetition, hearing the same words, same things they're saying each time kind of gets tiring, right? So when a workout video I can choose not to, and, like, it doesn't feel (person speaking in foreign language) - After dance, I'm doing this 10-minute This video is one of my favorites. It's tried and true. I've been doing it for Okay. Okay, okay. (soft upbeat music) Next, I'm doing this ab So this is something I recently I found this video and I just decided to try So I've been doing it and I'm doing four sets (soft upbeat music) After the workout, I stretch to cool down and relax my body. Stretching always feels because my body is warmed up. This is a flow of just some I also love this one, Pigeon Pose, for stretching the glutes. Stretching really is like a Sometimes I just close my eyes and go inward throughout the and take this time to listen to my body, tuning into how it (soft upbeat music) (bells chiming) Now it's time to shower. After showering, I'm applying some toner Before I continue on with more skincare, I'm gonna grab my red light mask and show you the newest Voila, introducing my new I just started using this mat last week. I got it from Amazon, and I'll share the link But if you haven't heard I recommend you look into it. Red light therapy uses that penetrate deep into the skin and stimulate cellular repair. It can help improve skin and boost collagen production. Red light masks are pretty popular. I got mine in 2019, and as you can see, some of the lights have I still use this all the time. The body mat supports overall wellness, so not only does it but it also helps with muscle recovery, reducing inflammation and You can set the light So I typically do, about three times a week. I love that I can just lay in this and bask my whole body in the red light. If I'm feeling extra, I will wear the face mask so I just look super crazy. I'll also take this time to journal my day in the Day One app, just writing some notes or the highlights from my day. I've been doing this every day and if you've seen my videos, you see that I always do Anyway, I also started and fitness journal as well, tracking my eating, (gentle music) All right, the session is over and I'm feeling so relaxed already. Now it's time for skincare, so I'm starting with and then going in with With each step of skincare, I like to incorporate some facial massage. It's similar to the movements of gua sha, but I prefer using my fingers just because it's easier. I don't have to wash the I'm continuing with some serum. Now I'm massaging my brow bone and the area around my eyes as This is, like, so relaxing to do. Doing some general lifting and a jawline massage as well. Now I'm applying tretinoin, I think this is one of the reasons why my skin has been so (hands smacking) Finally, I finish with a rich cream and I'm just being extra, I make sure I also do my hands, and then I am done with skincare. Then to quickly blow dry my hair. By this point of the night, I'm, like, impatient to get into bed, but what must be done must be done. You'll not be catching me It's a Chinese thing. In traditional Chinese medicine, sleeping with wet hair Your pores are open and Actually, I just asked and this is what it said. (gentle music) Finally, it's time to get into bed. So Togi's already in the bed We usually wipe him down but today he already got a head start, 'cause I've been taking extra so I'm just wiping him (gentle music) (sheets whooshing) All right, after I gently it's time for a quick evening reflection with my &quot;Artist of Life&quot; workbook. Today, I'm taking some I set for this year and and update my progress, see if I need to make any adjustments. I'm also taking a couple minutes to jot down some notes in the By the way, we are &quot;Artist of Life&quot; workbook on October 17th. Mark your calendars and see the description below Thank you so much for watching and being a part of our community. Don't forget to subscribe and hit that bell for and let me know what other videos or routines you'd like to see from me. Sending you love and light. I'll see you in the next one, bye. (gentle music) (soft bouncy music)