- [Narrator] In this video, at the inside of the Statue of Liberty. We'll take a quick look at the history, how the statue was built and (electronics buzzing) (logo exploding) This video was made possible by NordVPN. (pleasant music) The statue's official name is Liberty Enlightening the World, but today it's known as It was a gift to the United States from the people of If we zoom in on Europe, and across the ocean over The Statue of Liberty is If we zoom in here, you can and the state of New Jersey. Right in between the two often called the New York Harbor. The Statue of Liberty is And if we zoom out again, with all of its famous New York buildings. Here's Governor's Island, another popular tourist destination, and right here is Ellis entered the United As boats sailed into the harbor, the Statue of Liberty would that immigrants would see The Statue of Liberty has come to be known as a symbol of freedom. In her right hand, she holds a torch, and in her left hand, she holds of the Declaration of One thing you can't see from the ground is a broken shackle and chain. This is meant to symbolize The statue is 46 meters tall. If you count from the ground That's about as tall Here's the size of a person in comparison to the statue's big toe. When it was complete in 1886, it was the tallest statue in the world, but that title is now held by The Statue of Liberty That's right, it was originally It only took about 20 to slowly oxidize the metal The copper metal has a thickness That's less than the thickness The statue was built in pieces, and a statue this big The statue was designed Frederic August Bartholdi. First, he made the initial This was only 1.2 meters high. The average adult is a Next, a larger version and would be made out of plaster. The next version would be much bigger. This is 1/4 the size of the full statue. At each stage of enlargement, to further perfect the For the full-size version, so it would fit inside the workshop. At one point, to raise of the statue's head and the right arm and torch was displayed in the United States. Visitors could pay money to climb to the top of each of these. So how do we get from the to the finished copper version? Well, the final version was They used a method called They would take pieces of of the statue and build a This would then be used to They would hammer them in place until they would fit the After that, the copper was supported on the inside with iron straps. Now we have a completed piece By themselves, these to hold their own weight. It needs a supporting structure, and this was designed by Gustave Eiffel. His name might sound familiar to you. Just a few years later, he would go on to help build the Eiffel The Statue of Liberty has an You can think of this as the Then smaller support beams to support the copper The structure would allow the by up to 12 centimeters at the very top. This was all first built in Paris, France, and it took almost 10 years to build. (upbeat music) Then, once completed, it was taken apart into 350 different pieces. All of this was shipped across the ocean to the United States. It took another four months on top of the pedestal. The French paid for the statue itself, but the United States When the statue was finished in 1886, this was called Bedloe's Island, but today we call it Liberty Island. The Statue of Liberty has received a few renovations over the years. One of these renovations was the torch. It had been damaged and It was replaced in the 1980s. The original torch is still on display. I'll show you where later in the video. To get to Liberty Island, unless you're a really good swimmer, but I don't recommend that. A ferry leaves from two places, Liberty State Park in New Jersey and The Battery on the It takes about 15 minutes The island has a land area This is Flagpole Plaza, cafe and bookstore, and the gift shop. This is the Statue of Liberty Museum. This was opened in 2019, We head down this way There's plenty of areas That way you can see the statue up close from any angle you choose. The base of the statue This is the remnants called Fort Wood. It was used in the early 1800s, but now it's the base of This part is called the pedestal. When you buy a pedestal on top of the base of the statue and all the way up to If you want to go inside to buy a ticket to go all It's a little harder to get You usually have to reserve a few weeks or even months in advance. However, since the pandemic, but the public isn't allowed into any part of the pedestal or statue. Hopefully, that'll change soon. To get to the inside of the These doors are called Remember that you have to go inside. Enter here to get into the pedestal lobby. The original torch to used to be right here in the center. When the museum opened in 2019, the torch was moved over there. So now the pedestal The old museum used to but now most everything has been moved over to the new museum. Now it's time to make our way You've got two options. The elevator is here There are 192 steps to Inside here, you can and the stairs to climb There are seven floors So this is 1P, 2P and all the At level 3P, you can go outside and view the surrounding areas, and at level 6P is the You can go outside either here or here. Once outside, you'll get of anywhere in the harbor. If you have a ticket then head up to level 7P. This is where you start your climb up to the top of the statue. This is called the Double Helix Stairway, one way up and the other These stairs fit right in the middle of the support structure. There's not a lot of room on here, and I hope you're not afraid of heights. If you get tired, there And just in case, there's inside of the statue, not It carries only three people and can stop at a few of the platforms During your climb, you'll be that holds up the statue. You can even see the individual ripples of the statue's dress. And finally, we reach the This area is called the crown. Only a limited number of It's a great place to onto the harbor. There's a total of 25 On the inside, you can even of the statue's hair. On the back, You'll that will be turned on at night. Once you are finished up here, you can start making your way down the other side of the A lot of people ask about the torch. In 1916, there was an that damaged the statue. Since then, they've for public access. However, maintenance workers still have to occasionally Right at the statue's neck, you can see the gate that Once through here, there's It's not the easiest climb. Then onto another ladder, there's a tiny door that opens So hopefully, COVID restrictions and visits will once again be In the meantime, let's go They've been a longtime which is really helpful as I continue to make these animations. NordVPN is an app that which means your browsing This also means you can that would normally be blocked. For example, maybe there's that's only available in Well, NordVPN has over 3,500 servers in 59 different countries. Once connected, you can make it appear as though you are browsing from NordVPN is really easy Open up the app. You can choose a country or just click on the Quick Connect button. Then you're good to go. Now just browse the internet Visit NordVPN.com/JaredOwen, or use my coupon code on a two-year plan plus a bonus gift. My name's Jared, thanks for watching, and I will see you next time. (upbeat music)