- Hello, this is Inga, and I am back again having with a $155 blender. So this is part of a on the About To Eat team with a kitchen appliance or and then we come back and share with you our findings, our thoughts and feelings. I had a lovely time last And as somebody who uses as you might have seen I really wanted to give which in all honesty, I have been getting a which is part of the And I guess the ads worked a little bit. Now the price point of $155 for a blender, given that can cost double the amount or more. But considering how this kind of a personal blender, it is I also purchased a few add-ons some extra containers, a hydration system, which brings the price closer to $204. I'm very intrigued by the full potential of the Beast Blender here because it is designed to be sturdier than your average personal blender, which isn't known to But even the container and heavier than, I would that come with personal blenders. (knuckles rapping) And they actually also on the side that is supposed and therefore result I wanted to see if I could from sauces, to marinades, in my daily life and see how well it compares So, let's start with marinades. The first thing I'm making is for some pork chops. This is is one of my favorite dishes but I've actually never and I was curious to see I started by grabbing a bunch of aromatics like some shallots, some garlic, and then adding in some with some fish sauce and white pepper to balance that back out. Also added in some oil, and then I'm adding them But now that I think about it, I could have actually in the vessel itself. And then it was just a I wanted it to be on the chunkier side since I usually just and garlic by hand and mix So I'm really just giving it It worked out beautifully, and you can see bits of those aromatics in the marinade here still, which I'm now using to coat Once they're all coated, in the fridge until just where I'm just pan frying them and letting all that sugar and give the meat that What I end up with is a that is intensely sweet because it had a chance to sit which only took maybe under a which is super convenient. I'm honestly more impressed than anything by how it was able to retain which I was so afraid of losing. But you can see it even better on top of the pork chop, which is really just the into this sweet, sticky glaze. And then another marinade I tested was the Korean kalbi marinade, another one of my favorite I started with a mixture water, honey, and black pepper. And then to the blender, I like onions, garlic, and then which is a must-try if This is what it looks like up close here. It is sweeter and juicier but in terms of texture, almost like that of a crisp I'm adding a whole pear into this because I do like my marinades This did make it a little because there actually into the blender. But after giving it a few shakes, the pear was able to blend first, which created enough liquid, enough juice to make it easier for the to blend together until it formed this sort And this is what I'm adding to the soy sauce mixture from earlier, and it's just giving it Once they're well mixed, I just went ahead and I'm making sure each of them are before letting them rest just soaking up all that The next day, all I have in my cast iron pan kind of like how they And then I just let them before cutting them up The blender worked like because we did want and what it created was that helped the marinade coat each piece of meat beautifully, resulting in this sweet and onto the kalbi here. This was really, really good. I'm still thinking about it. But honestly, the best it made it so much easier for me to create a kalbi marinade from scratch. All I had to do was put it in a blender and it just did all the work. And so because the blender with that kalbi marinade, I decided to put it to the where smoothness is pretty This brings us into the dessert test. I've been really wanting by Taiwanese mango shaved ice. I started with some key lime, condensed milk, with the mango going in first and then layering everything else on top. I also wanted to make sure that my passion fruit I bought it frozen so I just This also makes it easier for everything to blend But because of just how much to cram in there, I completely ignored the maximum The blender did have some but again, after a few gentle shakes, it actually smoothed out without me needing to And now I have this very, very There's no lumps in there at all. I was genuinely so surprised. But the real test was to have it go through the ice cream machine and to see if it was still able to retain that sort of texture. Noting that I haven't even before putting it into I was so impressed by how It had almost like a gelato-like texture that was probably also brought but just the blender itself of making sure that it With just how much I rely to create recipes like this, I was just really pleasantly surprised by how effective this personal blender was at being able to create So similarly, in dessert land, I also whipped up some banana muffins because I had some frozen that I needed to get rid of. The best thing about this to combine everything both the wet and dry ingredients, like the eggs, brown sugar, flour, baking powder, spices, and then letting the I just had it blend on its auto setting until I that is once again perfectly smooth. There wasn't any pockets which I know sometimes so that was a nice surprise. My favorite part though is to twist the cap on and just let the batter rest I didn't have to pour it or anything like that. It was just ready to go The perks of using a The batter does thicken I did try pouring it out at first with the special drinking lid but that failed miserably so I resorted to using which works just as well. Now this recipe is one that I've made many, many times before. The muffins turned out great. But what really stood at which I was able to recreate it. I feel like because everything it was overall less effort on my part, it was less dishes to clean but the results were just as great, which is an amazing feeling. This then came in handy when I tried making some I started by roasting the two halves of one butternut squash. And while that's cooking in the oven, I'm also making some that's flavored with a bit of just for extra flavor. Once all the components are done, I'm just adding them and also some creme fraiche and some beef broth. I was a little worried that but it ended up not being a problem. The consistency here is a but given that I'm basically I'm not too concerned with that. And now I have a whole that's ready to go throughout the week. So for example, when I did it was really just a with some more broth and creme fraiche. Super simple, no frills, perfect for a cold And then later in the week, I so then I decided to by combining it with some maybe adding a splash and then adding in my lumache and finishing it off with some pine nuts, some more grated cheese, And that's two meals! And more, actually. That really did last me for a good week. So then, seeing how well I feel like that opened of possibilities in the sauce realm. So then I decided to create just to see how well the The first one I'm making which I usually make in my food processor because I want it to be I want it to be somewhat chunkier. I was a little worried at first because I have tried and it just failed. It was too paste-like for my liking. But I was able to create by leaning into the pulsing mode, which was just pressing the so that when I poured it out, of the ingredients, giving even when combined with the pasta. I also just really like how you of basil clinging onto the noodles here. That's what I want. And then the second sauce I'm which is combining a bunch cilantro, fresh oregano with some chili and garlic and then adding in some red Just like with the pesto though, I wanna be careful not to over blend this so I tried again to I will say this did come than I would've liked it to be so I could have probably gave But once I served it up with some salmon and some lemon zest, I feel like the difference as I thought it would be. I still very much enjoyed And we served it up with some bread. It's great to just soak up Moving on to the last sauce I'm making, which is a version of guava chutney, because I had a lot of ripe guavas at home and I wanted to create and maybe a little bit of spice. So I combined the guavas with fresh green chilies, ginger, Also a squeeze of lemon, just to give it a little bit of tang. And because the guavas were so ripe, this was able to blend though the consistency, is on the much thicker side. It's almost like a thick custard. I feel like it reminded me in the Thai foods for 24 hours video. I also think I should have at a later stage. I feel like it didn't with the other ingredients. It was still a little lumpy. But I still think it served for some of the parotta I had at home. The sweet and spicy flavor when paired with that of the flatbread. So I really enjoyed this. So at this point, I feel like some of the more complex recipes, and that's why at the I kind of wanted to go back which brings us back to Whether it's something like by combining a really ripe avocado with some condensed milk and ice cubes, giving me an almost I loved this sort of creaminess that goes so well with on the very top, creating that has this wonderful that balances out the of the avocado and condensed milk. Or this Frappucino situation, made with some coffee iced cubes, more regular ice cubes, some milk, a splash of maple syrup, The reason I'm calling is because this turned out than I had expected it to be, probably because my probably because I didn't But the wonderful surprise here being a lot frothier because as a milk frother, giving it that was actually more enjoyable in my opinion. I actually just made coffee because I liked it so much. And then because all these it also got me thinking, can this blender grind coffee beans? Mostly because I also don't at home, so I just wanted to So I gave that a try as it actually gave me a which I guess I just wasn't expecting. Granted that the downside of this is that you aren't really able to control the coffee grind size. It could be too coarse, But for someone who, again, doesn't have a coffee I thought this was a and I was able to enjoy a nice which I really wasn't expecting at all. So that really was quite And there's that. My 30 days with this $155 personal blender I was able to recreate a lot of recipes within the cooking realm that I thought I'd only be able to do with a full-sized blender And I was pleasantly surprised by the ease of which I was able to successfully make most of it actually. Having spent this time together now, I can say that the Beast than I had originally thought it to be and I think it could be a if you're mostly cooking you wanna experiment with and if you have limited storage space because it really doesn't Let me know in the comments below if you have any other blender recipes that you want me to test out. I am super down to give it a try. Other than that, I hope and I will see you next time, bye! (gentle music)