Excellent. Oh, yeah. Lots of lobster. Look at this. This is a gold mine, man. The shells are great. You know, you throw will boil right out. Look at this. I mean, who leaves the table Wow. Delicious. I offered to cook Stacey and her family a do it on the cheap. I try in my own life to spend under a dollar What do you get for those crabs? A large female. 218. He's going to have $30. $20 a dozen? Yeah, but what about these soft shells here? What do you want for those? Four bucks. I must be in the high rent district. $50 for PS2 of jumbo lump. Where's the cheap stuff? 745 I mean, it looks good, but 745 a pound, Now these prices are starting to look 287 a pound. I'm getting there. I'm getting there. Head down this way for something less What do you got? Catfish for 99. Holy smokes. Well, here's your fresh salmon. The carcass has just been flayed. Wow. That's a good one. What do these steaks. And filets. And what do they go for? They're going for, like, $2 each. What if I. Buy everything you have here? Well, you'll throw the heads in for free. Yeah, I'll throw it in. What can I do? $3 on these total. You can. Let's see what you're getting here. Oh, yeah. PS3. A little over three. Yeah. I think you've done real good. Close to PS10 of meat. Wow. For $3, you can't really can't beat it, He's a smart shopper. He knew a fresh fish from just a typical It's what's for dinner tonight. So we're just making a stock out of those. I'm going to try it, but I'm not sure what When you start with a carcass, you really You know what I mean? Trust me, this is A little overcooked. I hope they're hungry. That's a pretty dish, I would say. I spent under $10 to make that meal for the Come and get it. It's chowder time. Is everybody gonna. Eat what Jeff is making tonight? I doubt my son will eat it. He will probably not come anywhere near it. It's fish. It has a head looking at him. I don't think he's going to eat it. Is that enough for you, Celeste? Okay, Isaac. Miguel. I might try it, but if I don't like it, I'm You know, it's crazy and sad that fish has for you. And it used to be dirt cheap, sort Now it's very expensive. Dig in. Stop laughing. Not feeling well, Isaac. We can get into those heads now if you want. I know you can't wait any longer. The anticipation. I look at all that meat. There you go. Little, little treat. Little treat for you. You know, the thing remember there's a lot of fat. Can you stop using the word carcass? What would you prefer? Skeletons. There's a piece of meat. See it right there? Uh huh. Do you want that? Because they're so small, It's just one of those cheapskate things is smidgen of something. You're ready to go? All righty. Seems really awful with the fish heads. It's just gross. Let's do. It. I can't watch this. What's wrong, Isaac? I had to get up and leave because it was so I didn't like it. Each of my stops each day is contingent on best bargains. Grocery stores usually discount near expired So Todd has this thing where he goes to the looks at the dates. So he'll buy all the the fish that's on And he eats that. That's disgusting. When I get something cheap, when I find a It makes my day. Can he good deals on seafood today? I do. What are you looking for? Anything that's going to be past its Do you have anything that's old and anything You know, if the packages are broken open, There you go. Here's the deal. See that one broken? Yeah. You can have it for half price. What about this one? This one's looking a Yeah, go ahead. I'll take that for $0.99. How's that sound? Yeah, it's kind of. Kind of. Kind of cheap. What do you give me on that one? I see a lot of that one. Looks like it's That's cool. $0.99. I'll take that for $0.99. But it's this $0.99 thing that's back in the Okay, well, I'm just looking for a deal. How old is this? Is there an expiration date You want? $0.99. $0.99. Go for it. I estimate that I probably save about $75 a don't want. And I can save me up to about it's the lowest price I can get, then I buy like a king. Do you have any free samples I got chocolate for the women customers, but Go ahead. Getting something for free. It's great. I mean, I can't think of anything else more I just put a little bit of soup in my how quickly it heats up. I think people probably use their microwave a month. It's almost ready because my hot house. I decided to use it for multi Excellent. Oh, yeah. Lots of lobster. Look at this. This is a gold mine, man. The shells are great. You know, you throw will boil right out. When I pick up a discarded shell, I'm seeing I'm seeing things that weren't eaten within Wonderful. That are extremely valuable, a pound at least. Look at this. I mean, who leaves the table Wow. Delicious. Okay, everybody, now we're going to start And as you can see, I've got the lobster We're going to pull out these tails here. Lobster costs at least $30, $35 a pound. My lobster costs about $0.59 a can. Okay. Take the tuna and put it into the Boiling tuna with the lobster stock infuses We have our mustard. Notice there mustard packets, mustard, I got these free at any restaurant. And then we will mix it all around. Now, I don't feel it's necessary to go out Just take a wire hanger, stretch it, and together. And now what I've just created is Works just as well. And it costs you nothing. Why don't you sprinkle some breadcrumbs? Excellent. Okay, Next. This is a total blast. This makes me very, very happy. Getting everybody involved made a big simple it is to do. I'm going to put these into the oven and All right. I'm actually really interested in to see what change from lobster to tuna. You know, it smells like. It looks like it. We're going to find out if it tastes like It smells interesting. You have one, two, three, four, five, six This entire meal cost us less than $5 total. What we've done is we've created lobster dollars each person. This is my reusable boiling water. Yes, I know it may be a little chunky, but it bill by cutting on the water and putting doing it all over again. So that saved my water. Lunch time. Come on, let's eat. What? Are you going to change that water? I'll change it in due time. Just don't rush me, because the more you ask I'll never ask you that again. Is it good? It is. You gonna eat all your food? Yeah. Well, whatever you don't eat, I'm every food and drink that we have in this If it doesn't get all drunk up, I pour it If it doesn't get all slopped up, I put it Save this pasta sauce for the next spaghetti We do not have to be cheap. We really don't. She has money. I have money. Like, what's the point being like. She's been too cheap. With a strict monthly food budget of $400. There's no room in Stephanie's world for guests. I really begged her to have people over and I'm just not with the whole people coming I feel very uncomfortable hosting a football But I love Patrick. I have my ground beef over here. I'm going to stretch out the beef by adding to stretch it out for the lasagna. By supplementing the meat with the beef fat, her lasagna. This is why we saved the sauce. Now. Now, to save money, I multitask with dishwasher. I just got to make sure I wrap With the dishwasher reaching a temperature of The lasagna will be fully cooked in 1.5 oven. What else might put these dishes in here it's cooking fish, hot dogs, lasagna? I'm telling you, I do it. All the time. Hey, girl. Hey. How are you doing? Oh. Oh. Main course. Eat the meal. Yeah. This whole thing. He got his food. Yeah. It's good, right. To be cooked in a dishwasher. The lounge tastes like water. W-a-t-e-r water. Nasty. I thought it was very embarrassing. Very. Like, people were like, what the heck? She's pretty cheap. I get the utmost satisfaction being the It's for me and my family, not anybody else. I don't care what nobody says. It was the Stephanie Way. And the Stephanie As a family of six, we consume lots of water. Bottled water can cost $1 per bottle. If I was buying bottled water for my family, Instead of buying new bottles of spring them with tap water from the hose. And then just to create that magic final clear nail polish. So when you open the bottle, it makes that So they think that it's brand new. My dad, he thinks we don't notice. I notice right away. Kids fall for it, though. It works. It gets me so frustrated thinking that it's a It's just. It's something that I just I just saved a dollar right here. I love beer. Beer is one of my passions. Now that my kids are home for the summer, it I have these empty bottles of premium brand What I do is I buy this regular, cheap kind bottles, which I just put the cap back into And it seals them perfectly, just like My kids won't even notice. He thinks we don't notice, but we notice. I know that we recently just started It tastes like pee. Hey, Francesca. Got a job for you here. That's for you. I have to shake this for 10 to 15 minutes to And I've been doing this for as long as I The butter that I make, it's pretty good. I don't drink the water. I don't drink the beer. But the butter is actually good.