Nintendo has been trying to for the last 30-odd years: how do you Because here's the thing: Mario means On the one hand, he's a cultural icon, a Hollywood And so his games must be everyone - even to someone who has But on the other hand, Mario has gathered playing his adventures since 1985 and now have ground pounds, and infinite 1-UP shenanigans. And so they expect Mario's games to How on earth do you make a game that's suitable for both of those players "No matter how hard you try," says "it just isn't possible to settle on a Now, in another genre this might be You know... do you want to play on features are usually created by tweaking some the damage you do with each attack, But in a meticulously hand-crafted interactions between enemies and the Which is why, in more than 30 only one has anything even And besides: that's just Miyamoto says "one way is to add an method is when the player can adjust the How does that work? Well, In order to do this, I played through I mean, I'm talking a lot of Mario games. I mean, every single mainline entry Let's just put Super Mario Land That is not going to stay there. All of this in order to figure Mario's invisible difficulty setting. So, for the 200th time, I'm Mark Brown, and this is Game Maker's Toolkit, Okay. So I think the best metaphor think of three pipes, placed on top of each other. The central pipe represents the path To go from A to B. In a level, that's from the And in terms of the game itself, it's from the opening cutscene to This is the critical path - and it's designed But then there's the other two game is easier and more forgiving for new players. And in the pipe up above, the game is harder, and And then within the game's design there are If the game is proving too difficult, you can accept some help and drop into But if the game is a little too easy, you can rise to the top pipe and take Now this is an idea that Nintendo has used From World to Wonder, and from Galaxy to Odyssey. But the exact ways that players can move between We've seen these methods evolve and change as eras, game directors, and meta-level structures. So let's look at them all - by breaking I'll start by looking at the top pipe, with the stuff that allows the player And that starts in the levels themselves, with Take this block in the first underground it with his bonce, a 1-UP mushroom appears If you want it then you'll need to speed up, and make a daring leap to grab the extra Mario levels are absolutely Whether that's runaway power-ups, those few seconds, or the final tricky These are all entirely optional, meaning that if you're not confident But if you're feeling skilful then you can This is never more obvious than the star coins, which were formally introduced Every level has three special coins which require A Nintendo designer said "all of the courses but you can't get Star Coins without doing These star coins have become a recurring motif and now show up in just about every Mario game like the green stars and Miiverse stamps in Again: these things are entirely optional and - in many games - you can finish the game But, to an advanced player, they transform course where you have to risk life and Another idea is to reward the player if they Yoshi's Island is one of the very generous regenerating health system So it's entirely possible to limp through a But - the game will score your and one of the criteria is how much life you So if you want to max out the score card you'll need to finish the level with Score has always been part of the Mario games, But Super Mario Bros. Deluxe gives each level a is a more concrete goal than simply "get And in Super Mario Maker's 3DS port, every level comes with two medals which like fishing it while holding or speed-running through a level These are actually a lot of fun - I'd like So those are ways to place optional but what about if we zoom out In Super Mario Odyssey you can finish the This unlocks the climactic final battle with Roll credits. The game is over. Except, of course, it's not. Doing this unlocks access to new moons And tricky additional post-game levels that Basically: the most difficult content in Mario Odyssey doesn't even exist until So if we think about the game's difficulty curve, Nintendo could have forced players to But instead, they stop the story This means that pretty much everyone and wrap up whatever little But those wanting more This is a common refrain in the Mario series - heck, the very first Super Mario Bros. ended which is like a B-side remix of the entire Plus, if you find all 120 stars in Mario Galaxy, you're rewarded with the chance Finishing Super Mario 3D World unlocks three more worlds filled with difficult courses And all of the New Super Mario with more difficult courses, Of course, this does mean that expert game's worth of pretty easy content to So other games don't make you wait until the In Super Mario World, certain levels have secret some of which go to a mysterious place called Star Road, which hides a bunch of bonus There's even a secret world within filled with bizarre dream logic levels "Tubular"! "Groovy"! "Way Cool"! Other examples include the challenge which is unlocked gradually as you play the game. And the odd extra difficult courses that are But how about we go one further, and make the entire game be designed just Shortly after the release of the designers put together a sequel that with nonsense jumps, BS enemy poisonous mushrooms, and warp pipes that The entire game is a nightmare much so that it was hard to market it properly. Miyamoto has said "we were certain that this was a lot of fun for those who But we thought it would be so we put a sticker on the package That wasn't enough for Nintendo of America is why we got a completely different Anyway - this idea makes a lot more So, if the old eShop still existed then you could grab some stupidly hard levels Or, even better, the excellent New Super for platforming experts thanks to its tricky So, those are all ways that Nintendo Risky one-off rewards. Optional star coins. Challenging bonus criteria. Post-game content. Bonus levels. And expert-level DLC. But what about the opposite? What can Nintendo do if the difficult and players need a helping hand? Well, one very effective solution is to simply Super Mario 64 features 120 power of difficult levels - but you actually This means that outside of a few mandatory choose the levels they feel comfortable And because you can access multiple off a tricky level for the time This has become a common you never need all of the stars, shines, or to decide which levels you want to play, But we also see the option to skip that's using the warp zones in Super using the map screen in Super or using the job list in Super Mario Maker 2 to pick out the levels with the Another solution is to change the In Super Mario World there are Hit the big coloured button and new blocks that fill in tricky This makes levels much easier to play - Though, because you can't undo let you move back and forth between the pipes. Press the button and you're now stuck in Luckily, this idea would be revisited with a badge that makes some extra blocks appear. But only as long as you're wearing the badge. Take it off and the game goes back to normal. Nintendo can also change the difficulty by In the western version of Super Mario Bros. 2, Princess Toadstool is arguably the to her floaty jump that makes it less Same goes for her appearance This is taken even further in where Toadette and Nabbit are dedicated thanks to tighter physics, in Nabbit's case - the dude doesn't Changing the difficulty is as In New Super Mario Bros. Wii, Nintendo wanted over and over again, on the same level. These players are obviously getting stuck they be helped? The solution is the Super Guide. Activate this box and Luigi will show without getting secrets or star coins. When he's done you can either take Or use what you just saw to try This feature would appear again and in certain parts of Mario Galaxy 2 You could perhaps put the assist mode for the primary features of this system is to show you A slightly different version of this You'll still get an optional box times - but in this game it provides a power-up: an invincible tanooki suit which lets you float If that's not enough, then dying 10 The invincible tanooki suit is actually a Finishing a castle can sometimes net you a P-Wing infinite flight and soar over an entire level A similar assist system appears and there's a clever twist on the idea in can open a toolbox of items and blocks And finally... if you're stuck in a game, sometimes the best solution is to ask a But what if they could actually That was the idea behind Super where a second Wii Remote can be In Galaxy 2, the second There's also a particularly clever version where a second player can plop temporary blocks And, of course, the multiplayer modes in player help out less their skilled So if Nintendo wants to help Let players choose which levels they take on. Change the stage layout to be more forgiving. Introduce other characters Help out players who repeatedly die with Or allow players to get a So as we can see, simply getting Mario game - is supposed to be of a It might change from title to others are a little tougher - but on the whole, But as you play, there are all sorts of Intimidating trials like enticing extra and tricky optional conditions are there for Whereas generous assists like invincible stages are there to help out players who And so, ultimately, Mario games do have difficulty modes - because we can think of these But they're very different to a There, these pipes are separate and siloed. A player is sorted into one of the game - and typically stays in it But in a Mario game, the pipes are all connected, and so the player seamlessly Perhaps accepting help when but then pushing themselves to take on more And so instead of asking the player to predict Mario games let players opt in through the game... or even midway through a level. At every step of the journey, players And Nintendo wants them to say "yes". Because even though Nintendo adds in all of it still understands the value of difficulty. In an interview about Star Fox Zero, on a challenge is that the challenge Simply lowering the hurdle doesn't necessarily What's fun is you mastering the accomplishment--of achieving So part of this three pipe design is making move up - to stop using assists and And this is done in a number of ways. For one, assists are usually a one-off, temporary help - a thing that helps you But then it goes away and you Also, using assists usually means In Mario Galaxy 2, using the Cosmic Spirit nets You'll need to come back to get the real deal. In Super Mario Bros. 2, you won't unlock World And playing on easier mode in Super Mario Plus - Nintendo often hides the assists On New Super Mario Bros. Wii, the on exactly how many times you have to Late Nintendo president Satoru Iwata says "it's tears, but [not] if it pops up when you're Getting that timing right is extremely important". Nintendo also encourages players letting them proudly display their achievements. Ever since Super Mario Bros. 2, the games file select screen to let players show off that Further still, in some games, if the stars on the file select It's a way to stop expert players from giving And finally, Nintendo makes doesn't inadvertently make the game easier. What I mean by that is... in early Mario games, completing optional challenges in Super Mario World, finding all And in New Super Mario Bros., the star coins let This means that showing skill - player - rewards you with stuff that It's a nasty negative feedback loop that In more recent games, then, those expert-level challenges are instead They reward skilled players with even All of this means that players are and encouraged to seek out But, then again... players don't actually need all Provided it's fun, of course. Just look at how players create self-imposed challenges like speed running, no coin It's good to track the player's achievements to often surprise you in how they find ways So let's finish by looking at how all of the wonderful Super Mario Bros. Wonder. Things start with the character select screen - but Nabbit and Yoshi are cordoned off as easy-mode However, you can switch character at any time when you learn that these easier characters There's no "Elephant Nabbit" for instance. You can also change the difficulty Some make the game easier - like, another gives you a mushroom But other badges make the game more take on a self-inflicted challenge like going You can only wear one at a time, and you're encouraged to change The game's structure is designed to let players To finish a world you'll need to own Pipe-Rock Plateau you'll need 14 But, between the levels, secret exits, 30 of them in this hub - meaning you can This also allows Nintendo to that advanced players can enjoy - Nintendo game designer Koichi 2D Mario games have been in a format where But in this title, players who want a and beginners can start with an easier one". Each hub also hides a secret exit filled with the hardest levels in the game. And, again, they're entirely optional. There's even the customary end game level which you can only unlock if you've That involves getting every wonder seed, and getting to the top of every flag pole. This stuff is all represented so players can proudly track their Also: the game is multiplayer, so And the new online standee system lets you And in each level, there are lots of opportunities which are this game's version of the star coin. They don't confer any advantage on In fact, in this game, it's the less If you die you'll unlock a special gives you a chance to earn some more So Mario Wonder perfectly shows The main path through the game is of Nintendo offers plenty of ways to make And, on the other hand, the game keeps Enticing little challenges And it's entirely up to the But I don't think this shows that Nintendo has I expect they'll still be experimenting with In an interview for Wonder, a Nintendo designer Takashi Tezuka wanted difficulty level of the entire course, It proved too complicated for Wonder right? Maybe it'll be in the next game". Thank you so much for watching this That is quite the way to begin this 10th And to celebrate this milestone, I have Let me just, let me just... new GMTK t-shirts featuring this, if Let me find another one. So it's got the GMTK logo and little and franchises and videos that I've made. And then on the back of the t-shirts you've got little icons representing the five You've got a Mario question mark block obviously, a magnet for Mind Over Magnet, and a dice from the GMTK Game If you fancy getting one of these, please head you can find a link to the merch store my mission to provide free, high quality Places like Patreon and Substack, If you've found any value in the last 200 episodes Oh, and one more thing. No, I'm not retiring. Unlike a lot of YouTubers at the I still have so much I want to do. Speak to you soon.