Some call it the elixir of the gods, others A fancy cocktail might taste good but it comes Let's find out what the actual benefits Seconds after you stop drinking, your liver in the alcohol. The molecule ethanol is what makes you feel It does this by binding to receptors in your Most notably ethanol binds to glutamate neurotransmitters, slower to stimuli. Along with glutamate neurotransmitters there with that slows brain function. The result of these inhibited receptors is The reversal of this process can take a while, night of drinking is a mix of your body trying molecules, along with dehydration. Unfortunately, if enough ethanol builds up After about an hour, your body has filtered drinks you've had. The time it takes your body to break down consumed. About an hour after you stop drinking your amount of energy it uses to remove the alcohol And since it takes about six hours for your in your system and bring the sugar, water, the lingering effects of drunkenness will After you've had your last sip of alcohol from your attempts to poison it. Unfortunately, until you get past this stage, In fact, recent research suggests that alcohol the brain, which are only supposed to be present This implies that alcohol tricks the brain really trying to sleep. But there is good news, if you manage to not starts to change for the better. For one thing, alcohol has been shown to weaken This may leave you susceptible to viruses parties. About 24 hours after you stop drinking, however, This is the first of many changes that will If you are a heavy drinker or alcoholic another occur around 24 hours after you stop drinking. This is when withdrawal really starts to kick Your body may still crave the chemical changes you would start to develop symptoms such as nausea, and anxiety. These will eventually pass but the amount each person and how much alcohol they usually Congratulations! If you make it 3 to 5 days without drinking in. You may find that your blood pressure begins Doctors often recommend that people with high they consume, so even if this is not your your body will be grateful for the much needed You might also notice your appetite begins alcohol. This is one of the reasons that people tend The other reason is that on average each drink calories. And since the sugars in alcohol don't break stored as fat. If you can give up drinking for an entire feels better. This is because your body is now more hydrated. Not only does alcohol make you pee more often, levels, which play a role in allowing your Somewhere around the seven-day mark after back to normal and your body is retaining This is good not only for your skin but for Again it is important to remember that the seeing these benefits will vary depending consumed. A couple of weeks without alcohol you may This is because the brain, like many parts The damage done to your neural pathway by You will never regain memories from when you that were obliterated from overconsumption will heal themselves over the coming weeks You will see even bigger benefits if you quit WIthout the pressure of filtering alcohol, Like the liver, the kidneys filter out toxins. They are not quite as affected by alcohol cause damage over time. After a couple of weeks of no drinking, the fluid levels, waste excretion, and hormone If enough damage is caused to the kidneys better once they are healed. The organ that takes the brunt of the damage It is a vital structure and without it, you So, about three weeks to a month after you begin to thank you. It is around then that the tissue will start itself. Without having to worry about alcohol, your that are produced by the body, which overall The regeneration of damaged tissue takes time, drinking. A month or two after your last sip of alcohol Just reducing the amount of alcohol you consume liver. But if you really want to thank this vital there is nothing better than giving it a rest And if liver regeneration wasn't a big enough will occur to your body after not drinking I'm sure you've heard that a glass of heart. Well, too much drinking can also damage your a heart attack or a stroke. Around two months after you stop drinking damage caused by overconsumption of alcohol. However, the best thing you can do to increase By reducing or completely stopping your alcohol can become stronger and healthier. Even though this next change doesn't directly when you've stopped drinking for a few months. Your bank account suddenly start looking healthier Having more money could lead to less stress for your health. Research has shown that people who drink socially alcohol annually. But if you live in a more expensive city and numbers can be much higher. People who stopped drinking have noticed that on a car or to take the vacation they've These are clearly positive impacts on your happiness. Interestingly, stress has very similar effects It can increase blood pressure, cause heart cause depression. Months after you stop drinking your body may of less stress and allowing your organs to One of the most surprising changes to your you even feeling anything. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services This means that there is a chance the substance The research suggests that people who consume for certain types of cancer, which makes sense Since your body technically sees alcohol as removing that toxin, it is no surprise that risk of developing liver cancer. Some research also suggests that alcohol can as well. More research needs to be done, but there alcohol consumption and increased risk of This means that once you stop drinking, you body developing cancer. And this benefit doesn't just persist for Just to be clear, most doctors and scientists very minimal health risks. In fact, consuming alcohol in moderation may However, health problems arise when overconsumption But to be fair, this is true with almost anything When you stop drinking your body goes through But even if you only reduce the amount you If you are planning to do something like sober bit to see how it goes, just know that you shock to your system. However, the health effects that come from just in a single month. If you want to drink from time to time that's You can still receive some of the benefits alcohol consumption to one drink or less a By reducing alcohol intake your body can recover also having a glass of hooch every now and Now watch "Most Expensive Drink in the World." Or check out "I Went To A Bar Alone And