- [Narrator] In 2006, Anne and me on the idea that you could revolutionize healthcare with spit. - Spit. Spitting. - It's a whole lot of spit. - We had this big spit party. - [Narrator] Wojcicki has promised that 23andMe's accessible would show people their genetic lineage, help them take control of their health, and one day take drugs developed from the And for a moment, that promise paid off, gaining 23andMe a $6 and making Wojcicki a But now the one-time has become a penny stock, and could lose its spot on the NASDAQ. So what went wrong? - We felt that fundamentally fast enough in the research world. - Anne's mission is she wants to change the way we deliver In the process, she a great big business that solidifies her as one of the great - [Narrator] When Wojcicki founded 23andMe with genetics expert Linda Avey, she was dating Google who provided some of the initial funding. Wojcicki continued to build hosting spit parties for Between 2006 and 2012, to drop the price of its And by 2015 it gained FDA approval to provide health information to customers based on their DNA. Sales boomed. In the years following its FDA approval, the number of customers grew to almost 8 million. - Americans love learning - [Speaker] You always wonder, you know, who does make you who you are? - It just kind of went viral, Oh, this is a fun thing to - [Narrator] And 23andMe started investing in one of Wojcicki's long-term goals, using the test results to develop drugs. - We actually are looking that we've essentially crowdsourced, and can we actually make medications? - [Narrator] 23andMe's popularity grew, with celebrity endorsements... - I believe my DNA plays a big role in my musical style and influence. - [Narrator] Big ad campaigns, and even a guest stint for - I don't think it's so for that reason, I'm out. - [Narrator] But at the same time, she was pushing back on a data privacy. - What we really wanna do about how your data is being used. - [Narrator] The Golden State using DNA information from a database. And by 2019, 23andMe sales had slowed. - My hypothesis is that you you know, Facebook, people You had Golden State Killer, and so people, you know, people pause. - [Narrator] But there was with 23andMe's business model. - When you're running a business, you typically wanna have a product that consumers have to But with 23andMe, the key is that you only really need - [Narrator] Wojcicki's a subscription platform based on DNA results. Then in 2021, the company partnering with Richard briefly hitting that $6 billion valuation. - We're really at a point in time where I'm ready to, you know, explode. Like there's huge and huge opportunities - [Narrator] Using funding from that deal, 23andMe dialed up investments with its pharmaceutical partner, GSK, and acquired telehealth moves that increased - Developing drugs, getting and then running clinical trials, I mean, this is the kind of thing that costs a lot, a lot of money. - [Narrator] With that and falling sales, the company posted a loss of 312 million by the end of its 2023 fiscal year. At the same time, interest and funding was drying up. - That took a lot of the That's left them struggling for where are they gonna find that's gonna help them to develop drugs with that - [Narrator] Wojcicki cut by mid-2023. - [Anne] A smaller, more focused allows us to reduce our cash burn and provides the overall business - [Narrator] As 23andMe's privacy concerns were also catching up. - Hackers claiming to be from the genetics website 23andMe. - We've always said there's, you know, there's a theoretical but we do everything we can to make sure that we're ensuring the privacy and the - [Narrator] The company's share price pushed below a dollar. In November, NASDAQ gave the to get its stock back up or risk being delisted from the exchange. In 23andMe's Q3 earnings call, and the company said it's its consumer and drug - One additional piece of news that's gonna come later this year is data on whether one of the drugs that they're developing is effective. And if you can get on that pathway, well, then you can start to So there's a potential some of the momentum they've lost. (soft meditative music)