If you've ever ordered a coffee in Paris and probably are not yet aware of some unspoken rules I have to say that the stereotype of the rude think Parisians are rude, you have to know that Paris is a really big city--there's around 12 busy, it's very crowded, and also, people here called &quot;Why Do We Hate Parisians?&quot; I've learned Paris, and it often feels to me like a lot and then, when they're ready to have a chiller So you really need to keep that in mind when in every big city in the world--like, you people to be nice. New Yorkers are famous for part of the charm, the energy of the city. things to do, and if you're on the tourist interactions. So there's around 50 million people touristic places are really super crowded, you're just going to have interactions with people areas. And I can tell you that these people are the same question a thousand times a day. neighborhoods and you try your best, things what I'm about to tell you. So there's of my channel on whether or not Parisians are and those comments touch on a crucial point. you might yourself be rude as well. So Parisians--you maybe just don't know the rules. people do that might get them into trouble it so many times on the channel, but it's that an interaction. Hello in French is &quot;bonjour.&quot; but it is so important to acknowledge the other If you do not start your interactions with by French standards, and Parisians will let comments on my channel, people always say that But there's a few other things as and a big one is how you act in transportation. big source of frustration for Parisians. The the ninth busiest metro in the whole world--and mind other people's personal space. you want to get out of the way, you want to if you're not moving. And if you're not doing move past you and say &quot;pardon,&quot; which And you will not have a good time. but you're just inconveniencing people. And it's made you unhappy. We'll talk about that later In smaller French cities, I feel people but it's overall better to always mind your Then a really big one is the relationship to or restaurant, you're a guest in someone's them take the lead and tell you what to do. countries where, I feel, sometimes service and this is a big no-no in France. No one wants be patient with you because they don't have So people in the service industry are not required them. If you're just polite, you say hello and that in mind, and don't get frustrated at people, And I want to look together at this really &quot;I went to a restaurant in Paris last year and waiter to give us five minutes to decide only French,' and I tried explaining, had to get up and leave the restaurant.&quot; and the waiter or the service some big misunderstandings can happen. Often with a weird face that you might interpret What I recommend here is that you stay patient, and at worst, if you don't understand something someone is eating and say you're going to have works when people don't speak your language. start speaking louder and louder, people will give you an attitude because it is totally And you know, sometimes even if you know I still see people who have a bad experience into cultural differences and culture shocks. &quot;France Made Me Cry.&quot; So, this girl's name is the TikTok went pretty viral a few months ago, and First of all, I really want to empathize because and it's so hard when you're traveling solo, when and people are not very nice to you. mind when you're watching this video. We're try to analyze why someone might feel this way. Don't get me wrong, it's a beautiful city. So, a lot of people underestimate how different you know, people think they know the culture they've seen Ratatouille, they've seen Emily it's a pretty well-known country--and they might different from where they live. this couldn't be further from the truth. together for eight years. He has done so much work it has been a really long journey, and the frustrations but also the positive into a culture and understanding my culture. work but in the U.S. So I understand what it place that you feel is quite similar to your in New York compared to Paris, but things relate to each other is very different. more integrated into each other's easily is to do different group activities. tasting and food pairing class at this super cute about six different wines from different French which I can tell you was a really good time. is a long-term partner of the channel, and if have really great deals on activities and hotels they are running a special Black Friday sale you can click the link in the description below or All right, so I'm going to give you the key politeness is not the same thing in France France is not being friendly; it's not being social interactions, and I'm going to explain When I moved to the US at first, I was so time. There was a lot of small talk. I didn't know small talk with me, so it was very different. I'm &quot;bonjour&quot; to me, but then, you know, keeping in France, people value their personal space. You know, you don't speak the same way to someone many different levels, and for each level interacting. Keep that in mind, and don't be Also, in this video, Angela says something you feel bad for not knowing their culture most people don't want to make you feel bad. an agenda of making visitors feel awful. strong culture. When you grow up in France, movies are dubbed in French. We have a lot of songs, food--everything is French. And that doesn't mean France is not a There are a lot of people who have a foreign from many different countries live here. But and French people expect other people to So here, I'm not here to judge if it's good or it is. When you're in France, you'll be expected and people will let you know--sometimes in a way actually trying to help you. about that in the next section. been here for five to six days, and she hasn't met person, that is to be expected. And that's because As a French person, I can say with 100% such a short amount of time. Like, obviously, I've had good interactions with strangers. thing in France, so that's not how you meet and being overly friendly, French people might you have a serious issue. And it's I'm considered to be a very smiley person in I smile all the time, how I seem very happy. smile as much as, for example, in the US. being polite in France is having the right person, and you're being overly friendly, people will think you're being fake. bad. It's not a good thing. Like, for example, in hear the answer to. Like, for example, when you you would never do that in France. is "How are you?" in French), I would think I have blood running down my face, or it looks as a little thing people do to be polite. long-term thing, so this is why some people does take time to make friends in France. But friends forever if you keep in touch with people. you need to be introduced by And now, I want to take a bit of time to empathize when I moved to the US. Like, I could have made because I did cry. And here, I'm only half-joking. people can be very nice and overly friendly. nice micro-interactions with strangers. But this Like, for example, every random person I would to my house. You should hang out with me next as a French person, where being nice is not with your friends, I was reading the room wrong. with me when they were just being polite. tough. And when you're traveling somewhere, So my advice is to stay strong. Don't take things just try to adapt as much as you can. culture that I don't fully agree And one of the reasons this TikTok really went "I almost feel stupid for coming here, hat." And unfortunately, the comments were And I'm sure Angela might have had some because that's a thing that's really big in So here, for example, if you say something ahead and roast you. That's 100% part of French Pain au chocolat. So this scene is actually and they will think they are actually helping you. who are actually trying their best to I don't like being corrected. People And being honest and authentic is really a strong part of developing friendships. US and I ever say something bad about myself, doesn't fit me," every time people always answer You're beautiful." And I don't really like it. are just saying that to be polite and that it's And I do value the honesty of French where people will be like, "This dress does." So you know that when a French person is It's not realistic to expect everyone to be time. But if you're aware of those cultural while you're traveling to Paris. check out a local area and watch one of