I'm Jake O'Neal, creator of Animagraffs, The SR-71 entered service in the United aircraft, or in other words, a spy plane. Its main defense against enemy action is altitude sustaining Mach 3.2, that is 3.2 times the about 2,200+ miles per hour (3540.6 km/h), No SR-71 was ever shot down. To evade missiles the SR-71's altitude, pilots simply outran them. its mission goals. Let's have a general look goals translate into the physical on the finer details of each system. airplane compared to other fighter Flying at untouchable altitudes and Two-thirds of the fuselage are occupied by in the wings, for a total capacity of 12,219.2 80,285 pounds (36416.7 kg) of fuel. secured into the wings at both sides. called the nacelle, is dedicated to large as we'll see later, are critical for the A row of flaps along the back and rudders perched atop each nacelle, make Heading to the front, there are two cockpits and Reconnaissance Systems Officer respectively. and can be fitted with an array of as well as the removable nose section. starting with the exterior aerodynamics. downwards on the ground. speed they're closer to level, with the fuselage rotation or &quot;angle of attack&quot;. and personnel, the fuselage and The Blackbird has a delta wing design, like a greek delta character. or &quot;going supersonic&quot;, as the SR-71 was designed Air molecules are real physical things, and sound happens when those molecules physically jiggle your ear drum. their individual weight, the strength of gives this air mesh predictable behavior. than they can crash into themselves, On the ground, this happens at around 760 mph Since they can't move out of the way fast enough, air molecules bunch up when they hit forming shock waves that have Like angles that get sharper with be precise, at Mach 3.2 cruising speed. Because these wings have the nose shock wave blasts into them, causing If you try to sweep them back far the attachment point at the fuselage gets flimsy. Notice how the delta wing solves these issues. excellent for generating lift at slower speeds. and blunt leading edge cause air to bunch up Contributing to what's called the &quot;sound barrier&quot;. speed, the SR-71's sharp, thin The narrow leading edge allows the attach itself to the front of the wing. the plane's sharp features comb air into shock waves at leading and trailing edges spaced out from the center to avoid air but are still kept within the nose As we continue observing the exterior, each side of the fuselage. a sharp edge like this is called a chine. They help form more powerful vortices as which causes lower pressure above an impressive 20% of total lift at speed. long nose as it cuts through the air. reduce the radar cross section. Common rounded plane features will back for easier identification from many angles. likelihood of waves reflecting back to the source. the same reason. section makes it look much smaller than it is. with this kind of intentional stealth shaping. radar-absorbing composite material, called Composite wedges alternate with a zig-zag pattern to allow for expansion. cones and rudders. called the airframe, is mostly made of titanium, performance under extreme stress and heat. degrees F (371 C), and the entire plane Corrugations along the wing surface also Now that we've seen how the exterior shell and flight, let's see how the engines get us there. There's the inlet spike at the The actual jet engine sits behind that, Air enters the jet engine and is forced backwards Rings of stationary blades called stators make pressure, instead of just twisting with rotors. more powerful combustion. through separate nozzles, while fuel is sprayed through the center. jet engines, ignitor plugs, not But the SR-71 is different because of its requirements. We'll look at that a little later. &quot;cross-over&quot; tubes until all burner cans are lit. pushes against turbines, delivering Turbines are connected to to drive those forward compressor rotors, The exiting hot exhaust gas expands, creating a This setup, with compressor, is the basic turbojet engine design. engines if you want to see how this looks in High performance engines often have an afterburner Fuel has been consumed, but there's still Additional fuel is sprayed into this stream. The mixture wraps around V-shaped which provide a contained area of This mixture is ignited afterburner is fuel inefficient but very In contrast, the Blackbird is full afterburner at cruising speed, for an All this heat and built up pressure must There's a special section here Hot, pressurized jet exhaust speeds and then expands through the wide exit, and pressure into velocity. that can alter the size of the exhaust opening for There are free-floating ejector flaps that inside vs. outside the exhaust duct like sticking your thumb over a garden hose. harder against hose walls the more you block In hard numbers, if air exiting the ejector flaps has accelerated to Mach 3 or This late 1950's fighter jet technology is 3.2 on its own. In fact, the jet engine can't even extinguishing the combustor, among other things. A supersonic shock wave forms at the sharp into the inlet chamber. Some compression is Just at the inlet lip, another shock wave forms, and eventually reaches the narrowest supersonic energy is finally converted, The tremendous exchange of energy that happens as pressure, density and temperature, is key. but you can use the jet engine more supersonic air and convert it to pressure. stream could be crammed back into the hose. the inlet's narrowest point, to It flows through shock traps It surrounds and cools the engine, where it trades pressure for This process is so important that at Mach alone from the inlet spike and bypass air is This clever trick is also possible because there's need to hold or build up as much pressure inside At sea level the air is much thicker. Imagine The spike is adjustable. inlet spike at such high speeds, it's critical At Mach 1.6 the spike begins to to 26 inches (66 cm) of rearward travel the Blackbird's designed cruising speed. The At cruise, the spike shock wave Again, keeping this pre-designed For example, say some kind of internal mouth of the jet engine, pushing All that thrust is immediately lost, and slamming pilots helmets against cockpit windows. harrowing experiences for SR-71 pilots. With up If an unstart is detected, the onboard attempt to restart it. the famed J58 jet engines for getting the and the inlet spikes for comfortable This system is so good at capturing the energy in get better fuel mileage the faster it went. at the engine that help keep airflow There are computer controlled cowl bleed vents There are computer controlled forward and keep inlet air pressure balanced outside flow could cause drag. doors just before the engine that the pilot the nacelle bypass chamber instead. enough airflow yet for proper cooling. the nacelle that open to help out. of the jet engine to independently and a ring of blow-in doors full at lower speeds and avoid dead Above Mach 2.2, there are six bypass tubes compressor section directly to the afterburner, afterburner performance. Up to 40% of the engine for a significant thrust increase. and interior passages that take At higher speeds, a thin layer of air builds Boundary layers can do weird things as At curves, air might separate and clog up the These holes bleed off boundary For weight reduction, there's Start carts were used, with two muscle-car engines placed side by side, without Crew were said to enjoy the start A shaft with gears extends up and connects with to get everything spinning and Now let's move away from the engines, As shown in the intro, fuel tanks At takeoff, fuel flow rate could reach That's about 3 gallons of fuel per second, At Mach 3.15, fuel flow is more efficient, at a The tank is incorporated into the wing structure Since panels were designed to expand, panel gaps Maintenance personnel had charts for allowable the plane's panels had to have sealant reapplied. used for risk of auto-ignition A special fuel called JP-7 spontaneously ignite below 466 degrees F (241 degC) required, called triethylborane or TEB for short. with air alone. injected first to get the JP-7 fuel burning, which Additives in the fuel made it useful as a took on any of these roles throughout the plane, The SR-71 had to refuel shortly after takeoff stress the plane's landing gear and require too Fueling normally happens at about 25,000 an additional 60,000 lbs. (27,216 kg) of fuel. gear compartment to inert fuel tanks - as nitrogen is pumped in. it's considered inert, or chemically inactive, of extreme pressure and heat. Flight control surfaces are parts airflow to change the plane's attitude. has ailerons at each wingtip Moving elevators at the tail affects pitch, about the airplane's vertical axis. one above each engine. ailerons with elevators into a single These are called elevons. Opposite one another for roll, or some blended combination of both for maneuvers To achieve this blended, mixed device in the center tail section called a mixer. through pulleys and tubes to arrive at the mixer. for stick side-to-side or roll, At the mixer, pitch cables which is a partial wheel with Roll cables attach to the There's a mixed output bellcrank at the front either side. moves the entire bellcrank left or right. ends up rotating elevons in opposite directions. which tilts elevons the same way on both sides. the bell crank gracefully blends these This beautiful mechanical Take the roll components, for example. give the pilot felt feedback in the stick because, as we'll see in a minute, the elevons There's no direct mechanical connection. Trim adds more permanent adjustment to the stick in one place for long periods of time, The system still allows moment to The pilot controls the trim Pitch components also have these parts. at the bottom of the mixer. Now watch, as the bell crank executes with accompanying trim settings. there's a stick pusher. The stick pusher can shake the stick as a warning, to avoid or counter a stall. if the plane exceeds certain flight causing the plane to fall through the air. movements to individual servo units. into hydraulic pressure to regulate It has a sensing rod to monitor elevon position. linkages continues to an outboard servo There's a separate set of cables, pulleys, A rotating post with an attached actuator extends Landing gear steerable nose wheel at the front, The peculiar light grey rear tires are made of higher flash point, that is, the temperature pressurized to an unbelievable 400psi - your They're also inflated with nitrogen The Blackbird's aerodynamic qualities To further slow the plane down and take stress drag chute which is deployed at main gear Now, let's head to the front of the plane for The pilot sits in the forward cockpit with the Reconnaissance Systems Officer (RSO) in direct navigation along the mission flight path. the instruments and controls. grouping of main flight instruments. position relative to the horizon, indicator nearby for redundancy. Situation Indicator, shows the plane's position and the plane's relationship to the imaginary line distance, side-to-side deviation, and so on. film, and contains the entire flight route. standard to most airplanes. airspeed for general forward speed in knots, plane is moving up or down. high altitudes, outside air conditions, and components affects instrument accuracy. display indicator at speed. at the top for knots equivalent airspeed, at high altitude for an adjusted speed up to 100 knots difference between the normal Altitude is beneath that, Down and to the right, there are fuel flow Oil pressure gauges are nearby. pressure in various systems. instruments related to exhaust, including and exhaust temperature. 800 degrees Fahrenheit (426.6 C), and can be There are fire warning lights nearby, Idle is about 3900 RPM, while cruise difference in engine rotation speed for all There's an elapsed time gauge which is a sort of stopwatch used, for example, in monitoring used, but a government requirement. of attack indicator to track the plane's You'll recall from earlier, the 6 degrees angle of attack at cruise. and lights related to the previously For most of the flight, the inlets are but the pilot can take manual control if needed. inlet unstart warning lights, There's a spike position gauge, with and position switches. and pressure gauges to monitor conditions at the with a pair of switches for air There's a stick pusher/shaker the stick will shake if the pilot is approaching stick forward if the pilot ignores the shaking. since the RSO (the backseat officer) should go safety concerns with opening canopies and so on. actually ejected. These are also system between officers isn't working. At the bottom, there are indicator gauges The roll trim switch is at A combined pitch and yaw trim switch with left-to-right for yaw While we're at the stick, let's There's a button to switch the pilot's microphone The dual purpose button to the right either can use the stick during autopilot, or it can A button towards the front turns And a multi-purpose trigger at disconnecting air refueling components, While in flight, the rudder pedals when pressed inwards from the bottom. wheel braking for each side while on the ground. cockpit, there are instruments Balancing the massive fuel load front to back again, is designed to sit at a particular angle. Beneath that, the center of gravity forward tanks and works backwards, so the center At speed, this center of gravity There's a fuel forward transfer switch that moves And a corresponding fuel aft fuel rearward, and must be held down to operate. and gauges to measure nitrogen quantity in as we saw in the fuel system explanation. thousands of pounds of fuel, for example Emergency fuel shutoff switches are nearby. Now let's head over to the left There's a grouping of dials for environmental face heat and suit heat, which control and a nearby temperature gauge with a switch For equipment survival, cockpit temps Which I'm sure the crew would appreciate as well. Crew could choose cabin pressurization equivalent And a liquid oxygen level indicator beneath. into crew's helmets for breathing. associated indicator lights, switches, and so on. we see the dual throttle levers. the pilot's microphone. manually initiate the inlet spike restart sequence how many shots of TEB are used, from For example, the throttles move forward up to a The pilot must lift throttles up over Doing so fires a shot of TEB and the counters tick down each time this happens. along the stick travel. settings control panel behind that. Other panels here include a radio panel, a panel for various lights such Controls for the map projector are found Corresponding banks of handle things like internal comms system, landing and takeoff, autopilot, and more. switches, and indicators, There's a view sight monitor which lets with magnification settings, and more. and a large map projector pane. navigation device, which we'll cover in a bit. indicators for reconnaissance equipment. to engage onboard defensive systems, which could surface to air missiles, air to air missiles, There are also radio and As we move away from the controls, we can The RSO has retractable sun shades. wings. Sun glare at altitude could make instrument Both cockpits have small mirrors to help crew see in their bulky flight suits in confined quarters. the plane looking aft for things like and to check rudder position. panes with an air gap. temperatures of 400-500 degrees Fahrenheit pane's surface in the 250 degree (121 C) range. keep interior temps at a comfortable 60 own climate controlled flight suits. critical layers, starting with a thin followed by an inflatable rubber bladder layer event of emergency exit from the cockpit. its proper shape when inflated, which is fire resistant up to 800 F (426.7 C). attach points. connections for climate and breathing air. and velcro pads just above knees The helmet has a face shield with a sun visor, food out of tubes. around the face to allow pressurization to sea of the suit matched cockpit pressure levels. and is anchored to a support rack upon There are cables at the bottom for attachment These cables pull the pilot's feet tight to the as the seat blasts out of the cockpit. The nose and side bays at the front of the functionality and mission-specific objectives. and then we'll zoom out so you can see ft (24,384 m) down to the earth's surface. probes which feeds air pressure data to like airspeed, angle of attack, and more. be swapped out between flights There are three noses, two with optical bar camera which I've featured here. 10,500 ft (3,200 m) of 5-inch (12.7 cm) wide would use 8,100 feet (2,468.8 m) of 35mm film to help identify objectives easier. oxygen supply bottles. components for the SR-71's defensive systems. equipment. The Blackbird's unusual speed radar and missile systems along its flight path. better understand their capabilities. objective cameras for more detailed Just behind the rear cockpit, there's the to precisely monitor airplane location. 30 seconds after leaving the hangar, no matter pinpointed to within 300 feet (91 m) anywhere well before the existence of GPS satellites. batteries, radio equipment, antennas, other components related to mission And here's a zoomed out diagram to The optical bar camera can continuously miles (3.7 km) long patch. 11 mile (17.7 km) area from 23 to 115 Signal (radar etc.) recorders Technical objective cameras locate and 6 inches (15 cm) of resolution within Perhaps what makes the SR-71 so special is talents come together, with proper funding, is apparently a very rare thing indeed, Hey everyone, Jake here, creator of being on the channel and enjoying my work! going to be releasing a behind the scenes detailing everything that went into making this dig deep to get, to crafting the model, and doing building the moving mechanical objects. The items how they would in real life! These are real it and bring you into the magic and The Madness I might even tell a few light jokes here and [Music] Later!