Hi I'm Dr Bernard (YS). I'm a toxicologist. People have been doing this for hundreds of years. Stop doing it. Don't do it. A TikToker Drank 1 Bottle Nutmeg Spice In A Protein Shake. This Is What Happened To His Brain. GG is a 19 year old man, presenting to the nausea. He tells the admitting nurse that tiny little some of them had turned into pickles. It was the funniest thing he had ever seen. GG was an average 19 year old in 2020 America. Because schools were closed, his classes were He skipped them, so he could meme on the internet. Over the past few days, hashtag nutmeg challenge Nutmeg is when soccer players kick the ball But that name could be taken literally. And in GG's mind, he was gonna take it literally. He was going to drink a protein shake flavored the video online. Immediately after drinking a bottle of nutmeg It didn't taste good. It felt grainy in his throat on the way down. It left a funny aftertaste, that he thought The shake was mixed in cold water and he instantly Im BadlandsChugs now he thought. Time to post the video online and play some As the hours passed, GG's mouth started He felt his tongue become like sandpaper, He drank a gallon of water, but the more he In the bathroom now. GG saw himself running in the mirror. But the faster he ran, the rounder he got. His walls started melting. His heart started pounding. But then little bugs started crawling underneath He tried to drink more water and told his His face was as red as a beet. He was hot and flush and could feel himself, He drank a total of 4 gallons of water over He became visibly agitated, and as hard as the water out. His bladder was like a balloon, ready to pop. In the bathroom, again. GG collapses. He starts seizing. In the commotion, his mom finds him on the She calls for 911, as he's brought to the At examination, GG was agitated, but alert. He was flushed, but had no fever. Breathing was normal. His heart rate was fast, his blood pressure He told doctors that little elves were crawling He warned the doctors that the elves were carrots. He said that even after drinking the entire day. But GG hung his head in silence. He gripped the armrests of his chair, fighting the second time. Doctors had no idea that GG drank a whole He didn't tell them that. But given this history of present illness, GG complained of dry mouth. This is why he was so thirsty. But if 4 gallons of water didn't fix it, Well, it looks like he wasn't producing His body was flushed and red, but he didn't This brings us to the idea of "rest and When you take a nap in the middle of the day, Your heart rate slows. That's the rest. When you see or smell delicious food, you That's the digest. Both of these, are controlled by your nervous But GG isn't sweating despite being flushed. He doesn't have any saliva in his mouth. His heart is pounding. All of this means that he has a blockage of But where did this come from? At this point, GG didn't know who he was He unlocked his phone and showed the doctors they need to know, because the nutmeg spice his brain, and his heart. Nutmeg spice is from nutmeg tree. Ignore the spice part because if you drink you're not treating it like a spice. Like everything herbal and natural, nutmeg Natural things are all made of chemicals. Inside the spice, is a chemical named Myristicin. GG drank it, it went through his stomach, his liver, where it was broken down and metabolized. This metabolism, is so that parts of the chemicals they can't damage other parts of the body. But how does this myristicin get broken down? Scientists thought this could happen, which phenyl-ethyl-amine. Am. feta. Amine. Something we know as treatment for ADHD, among In the synapse where nerves connect, chemicals When the signal is done, the synapse needs nonstop. This means those chemicals need to be pumped But if an alpha, methyl, phenyl-ethyl-amine It goes into the cell and forces more chemical stimulating the nerve. This is why we call it a stimulant. This could be the reason for GG's problems Alpha, methyl, phenyl-ethyl-amine in large What happens during an adrenaline rush? Your heart starts to race. Your body temperature increases. You might even urinate yourself. The adrenaline rush puts you in "fight or This is the exact opposite of "rest and Both of these are controlled by opposite ends Blockage of "rest and digest" which is promotion of "fight or flight" mode. If the nutmeg he ate, became a large dose body, then he should be in fight or flight He wouldn't be holding on to urine like temperature, which would mean fever. But he doesn't have those, meaning myristicin And this isn't the only chemical in nutmeg Elemicin, which is only 1 change away from After liver metabolism, elemicin could look One that comes from a cactus, and causes hallucinations. This could explain GG's tweaked out state. But the reality is, we're not sure these GG has a blockage of "rest and digest" While nutmeg is a funny spice and haha tiktok Maybe it does become psychoactive chemicals psychoactive in themselves, when consumed protein shake, but we still don't know for This isn't something to play around with. The reason that something hasn't been done says the experience is pleasant. Overwhelmingly, no one ever wants to do it You shouldn't ever do it in the first place. Usually, herbal products that are common today don't grow anywhere near Greece or Rome. Western Ancients never wrote about nutmeg. They probably didn't know about it. 1195 AD was the first written account of it the streets were fumigated with Myristica, myristicin was. It was Arabian traders who imported it in The effects of nutmeg on the brain and the now. In the 1300's a book of remedies, written to get drunk. In 1576, Flemish physician Lobelius described eating 10 or 12 nutmegs. The English thought it could treat gas, but Nutmeg has been around, and well known for when they're happening. The Illinois Poison Center looked back and but not sure if it was because it was with For GG, the only thing that can be done is something's wrong. While huge amounts of nutmeg can affect the usually say it causes seizures. GG said he drank 4 gallons of water since And he also noted that he didn't and couldn't If he drank all that water, and none of it where could that water be? As this question is raised, GG seizes again And he doesn't regain consciousness after Doctor's suspicions are confirmed to find he also has hyponatremia. Hypo meaning low. Natre referring to sodium, or more formally table of elements. And Emia meaning presence in blood. Low sodium presence in blood. GG wasn't able to urinate. Urinary retention is a blockage of &quot;rest and digest.&quot; As his bladder stretched and distended, it releasing something called anti-diuretic hormone, If a diuretic causes someone to urinate, then If the bladder is stretched, the body doesn't stretch the bladder more, so it lets out hormone water. GG was also nauseous. Vomiting is a way that someone will lose water. So nausea is a powerful stimulus for the release All of this meaning that those 4 gallons of him, unable to get out. But if nothing has left his body, then how Nothing has left his body, so there shouldn't Yes.. but the water in your body is made of So, for every 1 L of water, there is 9g of Most of the water in your body is inside your chloride. In the medical world, we call this "Normal The interesting thing about sodium is that In this small science experiment, I dissolve I submerge the tube in a pool of distilled And you'll see that water flows towards That water flows towards the sodium. If water flows towards where there's salt, blood, then it means that his body water is This would mean that his organs are swelling This would mean that it's going into his That should be ok, because your abdomen is But the water would also be going in to his It would be flowing into his heart and his hard space either, so it wouldn't be too But how about the brain? The brain is enclosed inside a hard space, The brain only has space to expand 8% in volume of the skull, and ooze out the sutures. As water keeps flowing into the sodium-rich to crush up against the sides of his skull, blood flow and causing hypoxia, or the deprivation This damage upon brain expansion is called in GG's case. The psychosis. The hallucinations. The final seizure without regain of consciousness. Since GG is still breathing, it may not be just yet. The easiest way to treat this problem of his, that diagnosed his hyponatremia. If water follows sodium, and water is flowing water out of his organs with even saltier If 0.9% sodium chloride is the standard in his body, that gradient, then infusing 3% hypertonic flow of that water, back into his blood stream, Doctors use a catheter to pull urine out of There's not much they can do to reverse All of these are the reasons why it's not If nutmeg does become an alpha, methyl, phenyl body to release lots of anti-diuretic hormone, But did that actually happen? Or was it because nutmeg caused anticholinergic Holding on to urine and stretching the bladder Nausea also stimulates it too. Which one was it? The psychoactive events following nutmeg could agitation and delirium that is also caused when the water starts to swell into the brain, skull. Luckily for GG, no herniation occurred in enough to solve the hyponatremia and draw Upon regaining consciousness, he realized experience worth it. Thank you so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.