the Netherlands is one of the most prominent countries in Europe especially for lovers of Arts after all it is home to one of the most prolific 19th century painters Vincent van Gogh but it's much more than that renowned for its innovative urban planning tulips canals water management and liberal attitude this is a must visit location for tourists in this video we will shed light on all the fun things hidden in this beautiful European nation get ready to learn all the fascinating facts about the Netherlands 1. the Netherlands was known worldwide as Holland for a long time however it is not an actual name but was only a nickname for the Dutch Country 2. it has one of the highest population densities in Europe three the Netherlands holds the distinction of being the world's second largest exporter in the agricultural sector in fact it is the world's main producer of cheese peppers tomatoes and cucumber numbers 4. Amsterdam the Dutch capital has more canals than Venice Italy 5. one-third of the Dutch territory roughly speaking is below sea level while another one-third is very close to the official zero measure level 6. the Dutch are known for their Innovative approach to Water Management including the construction of Delta work to protect against flooding 7. the Netherlands ranks among the top five happiest countries in the world 8. and not only in the happiness index but the Dutch are also the healthiest in the world when it comes to diet the Netherlands ranks number one for having the most plentiful nutritious healthy and affordable food 9. the Netherlands boasts a total of 20 national parks within its borders some famous ones are the Hogue Valley by Bosch zweed Kane Merlin National Park in Uther shell National Park Dutch Cuisine includes traditional dishes such as erwan swoop green pea soup stompot mashed potato meat and vegetable Haring raw herring in bitterbalen deep fried meat in stew balls 11. Rotterdam is Europe's largest port and a major hub for international trade to 12 fletherland a province in the Netherlands is a polder a piece of land reclaimed from underwater it was created from the zuder z a former Inlet of the North Sea so fledland is literally land that was once underwater 13. one Prejudice about the Dutch is that they can be greedy which has even led to the term going dutch which means that everyone pays for themselves when participating in a group activity 14. the Netherlands is the world leader in cultivating and maintaining flowers and plants and it is a significant part of the Dutch economy tulips are the most widespread flowers in the country and may be found in public parks and many Gardens 15. the Dutch Flowers are so famous that there's even an attraction Park called Quicken half Gardens also known as The Gardens of Europe where you can find beautiful touch tulips among other flowers 16. another nice place to visit is guitorn a picturesque Village surrounded by canals in the country's Eastern part when you visit this Village don't forget to take a boat trip 17. the Netherlands takes its love for bicycles to the next level with a staggering number of over 22 million bicycles outnumbering the country's population of 17 million residents it's a peddled powered Paradise 18. with their love for cycling it's no surprise that in the Netherlands cyclists are legally obligated to have a working Bell on their bicycles the Dutch are also not allowed to ride a bicycle when drunk 19. due to the country's flat terrain the highest point in the Netherlands standing at approximately 323 meters is referred to as a mountain 20. although the Dutch country has the highest English Proficiency in the world the Netherlands has only one official language the Dutch language it is spoken by at least 95 percent of the total population a majority of which also speak English as a second language 21. in the Netherlands one-fifth of the population is foreign born with over 3 million residents representing diverse backgrounds 22. more than half of the country's immigrants are of non-western origin from countries like turkey a Suriname and Morocco this Multicultural mix is the reason behind many delicious ethnic foods in major Dutch cities 23. did you know that the Dutch invented the first stock market in the world the Amsterdam stock exchange was invented by Dutch legislators and businessmen back in 1602 24 the Dutch are the world's tallest people with an average height of 175.62 centimeters 25. the Netherlands is famous for its clean energy initiatives especially through windmills the Netherlands is home to over 1 000 windmills offering visitors the chance to explore these iconic structures all year round 26. the Dutch always consult their agenda and do not appreciate surprise visits 27. almost all Dutch people can swim skate ice skate and ride a bike 28. the Dutch have been wearing a pair of wooden clogs since Medieval Times to protect their feet while doing hard labor however they aren't worn anymore except in some rural areas a whopping 6 million souvenir clogs are still produced each year 29. besides the Netherlands is a world leader in producing beer popular brands like Heineken and Amstel have originated here 30. gin is also one of the Native Dutch products in fact the Netherlands is credited with inventing the Gin which was then passed on to the Brits in the 16th century 31. the national color of the Netherlands is orange symbolizing the Royal House of orange 32 in celebration of their Rich Heritage the such proudly done the color orange on days of national pride in even their sports teams sport vibrant orange uniforms 33. the Dutch celebrate King's Day on 27th April every year in which they dress in Orange and celebrate their country with outdoor parties picnics and parades 34. the flag of the Netherlands features a horizontal tri-color of red white and blue resembling the French flag turned 90 degrees to the left 35 according to UNICEF the Netherlands is one of the best countries for children to live in 36. the Netherlands has one of the highest concentrations of museums in the world Rembrandt Vermeer Steen Van Gogh and Mondrian are some of the most famous Dutch painters 37. every city has its own opening hours for shopping on Sundays 38. the Dutch national anthem The Wilhelm moose was composed in 1572 and is the oldest in the world 39 places of worship can be found all across the country even though the Dutch are quite secular only 20 percent of them attend services on a regular basis 40. they are the fifth biggest coffee drinkers in the world 41. one out of three Dutch belongs to a sports club 42. The Dutch have the longest average lifespans in the entire world 43. the Dutch were the first Europeans to discover Australia and New Zealand 44. the Netherlands is the fourth largest investor in the U.S 45 Dutch inventions include the compact disc the microscope the telescope the mercury thermometer and the artificial heart 46. the Hague is dubbed the legal capital of the world since five International courts are located nearby 47. the Netherlands proudly holds the distinction of being a founding member of the EU the NATO and the oecd 48 there's a famous myth that in the 17th century the Netherlands started cultivating orange carrots as a tribute to William of Orange who led the struggle for Dutch Independence 49. the Netherlands is known to be a progressive and liberal nation and this is partly due to the fact that the Netherlands was the first country to legalize same-sex marriage in 2001. 50. as many as one in eight Dutch babies are born at home this is one of the highest rates of of Home births in the developed world 51. as part of the Dutch government's efforts to combat climate change they have set a goal to reduce emissions by 49 percent by 2030. one of the measures included in their National Climate agreement is the plan to ensure that all new cars in the country are emission free by 2030. 52 the Netherlands is the only country with a national dog called the kishond also known as The Smiling Dutchman 53. most windmills in the Netherlands were wind driven pumps nowadays they have been replaced by Electric pumping stations 54. there is a canal system throughout the Netherlands made for defense and transportation Amsterdam has over 60 miles of canals 55 Holland's soft subsoil has a great Advantage all cables tubes and pipes can be neatly hidden underground 56. the Dutch are famous for their Circle parties in which they all sit together in a Circle chatting with the person next to them this is how they celebrate birthdays and Even parties 57. Dutch ladies have to get kissed on the cheek three times right left right expats may get by with shaking hands though 58 the Dutch may not be known for initiating conversations but when you address them they respond promptly and with enthusiasm 59. Amsterdam airport sheeple offers the most direct flights in Europe with at least 4861 direct flights each week Amsterdam airport sheeple offers the greatest direct connectivity of All European airports 60. CDs DVDs and Blu-rays were all invented in the Netherlands by Phillips 61. the company also developed and popularized many home electronics in Europe such as TVs and blenders 62. after 33 years of ruling the Netherlands Queen Beatrix abdicated the throne in 2013 teen and handed it to her son Prince the 75 year old Monarch's abdication made William Alexander the first king in the Netherlands since 1890 63 the Dutch king flies for KLM Willem Alexander is known to have a passion for flying he worked as a co-pilot for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines for over two decades 64. you will be surprised to know that Amsterdam is built on wooden poles to keep the city above sea level 65 the area of Holland has narrow buildings because of the taxes which were levied in the last century 66 a Dutch man named Van Hooten created the cocoa powder pressing method in 1870 turning it into an industry 67. everyone in the Dutch supermarkets is required to bring their own bags for fruit and vegetables to reduce plastic 68. some trains in the Netherlands are powered solely by wind power 69. the Netherlands is known for its cheese but the Dutch are one of the most lactose intolerant people in the world 70. the Dutch country is one of the biggest exporters of pork over 70 percent of the world's bacon comes from the Netherlands thank you for watching this video about the beautiful country of the Netherlands did you learn anything which of the fun facts was your favorite kindly let us know in the comments below and make sure to subscribe to the channel if you are still curious about this neglected location you may have to spend your next vacation in the Netherlands we hope this video inspires you to continue learning and exploring the beautiful countries in Europe