Hey guys, Toby Mathis here. And today we're going to be talking And I just want to get the 10,000ft view. in estate planning, You can fall into. The first category is the one unfortunately, They don't have a will, And, they pass away in their state, goes it's called something called intestate, which means that And you're going to be distributed Most famous case out there right now, if somebody who died you know, his estate for years and years The other route is to have a will according to a written document, and a judge in a courtroom, It's called the probate process. And then there's number three, which is a It is handled privately via so long as it is properly funded, we're going to be talking about today. So I have with me attorney John Anderson. And John, first off, welcome. Thank you. And the big one today is really going over the myths And, and I know that, you mean but let's make this into kind of a list and let's go down the big myths and so I'm going to hand it to you Sure. So probably the number one myth that's promoted by even attorneys, will or the schedules in my trust And the problem with this is it actually doesn't avoid probate. No point of the trust, probate primarily. But if I just use this schedules hey, these are all in my trust, And I can kind of illustrate this. So let's say, for example, and you want that bank account to go to me And then you do something Let's say you wrote that down in a will. So I take that will down to the bank It says here that I get Tobys bank account So give me the bank account. Right. What's the making a Right? And so I've got to go to court. I got to go to probate it. That will verify that it's valid and You didn't make another one, And then I can go to the bank Well, let's say I you created a trust This bank account goes in my after I say, hey, look, bank. It was in a trust. And it says on the schedule that this bank What's the bank going to do? Exactly the same thing. They're going to tell me, go get a court order How do we know he didn't make a new trust or there's a lot of different and they're not going to pay out twice. So they're going to make me go And then come back Now, if you create the trust and you actually go to the bank and say, hey, I have a trust and And they they do some paperwork and get And then when I go they're going to check their records and And the trust says although technically it would be show me a death certificate. Show me ID. Great. You now have access to that account So, sure, if I'm hearing you right, just to list an asset out in a If it's if it's held by a third party or if it's titled with a third party, Correct. And a lot of times attorneys we put all your assets on this schedule Well what they're actually doing is because after you pass away, you're going to have to probate it, to that attorney So so you mentioned a pour over Will and I know it's it's something that's And I am in a nutshell, a pour over will trust the sole beneficiary of the estate Right now we don't have a whole bunch We only have one. Correct. Is, is that whether they they're used? So the pour over will is primarily there that may have been missed. a will, a pour over will is just a will and a will, in order for it to be So if you just leave it up to the pour you have to go through probate. And yes, it will be more simplified. But a simple probate is still ten times I've administered both. I would much rather just work than have to go through probate and then get it into the trust I'm what are we talking about Just loose numbers. So, for a typical probate, A minimum, in a lot of different states, as far as time wise, it's But even some of the most simple probate it's at least 3 to 4 months for a really quick one. If you're in a state like California, Yeah, it's it's, you always hear this. It's not a big deal in my state. Then you say, well defined. Not a big deal, right? It's like it's, not a big deal for you. Might be. Hey, this was not a four year ordeal Oh, it's less than four years. That might be insignificant. Or less than two years But for you, two months, period of time. If you're going through and there's uncertainty, and especially and then along those lines, if you have Oh, it's in probate. So if you have, for example, how many patients if you can't do anything for 3 That that practice is worthless Whereas if it's in a trust, they could sell it immediately and transfer that over to someone else. All right. So that's myth number one is that for What's myth number two that you see. So the other one that I see quite commonly is that I can just use so you see this a lot where Mom and dad have a home. They want that to go to the kids So they add the kids on the deed with right rights of survivorship. And yes, this does avoid probate, but it can create One is that you while they're a while you're still alive Every owner is 100% owner, for some reason gets in trouble, Your home just became an asset of that kid I've actually seen it where mom and dad because they put the kid the other issues you run into can be tax It's considered a gift So you're going to get a decreased in that you may not have been able to. If you would use the trust, it's public information whereas a trust is private. So because you have the deed everyone knows that it's the other problem is a lot of times just put one of my kids on there, but, to divide up the house Nope. Just had that one child put on it. Dad said, hey, And he told them all to parents and yeah, because once, They don't have to give it to anyone Expenses two right. Like all these things, all of a sudden you estate as well. And, you know, it's like, oops. they have any, any sort of legal problems. They, it's the parents problem Right. And then the other issue is if and the kid in the same event, right, we're still in probate, whereas But we also have contingencies written within the trust we've already got someone set up if the the current beneficiary So this is a big one. It's not a topic for today, There's a lot The last thing you want where you can be removed from your home or you know, you have medical issues You need to have access to that asset, because it gets that's not that's I'm not going to let you take it, And they say it All right. So that's number two There's some situations maybe but otherwise, we've just seen too many bad things anyway, so, you know, make sure. Yeah, make sure to get it into your trust. You have a new deed as the new owner, and then you get that There's a few states for most states, you would record this property is in this trust, And you just mentioned some there. We call it a pocket deed and you don't want to transfer it, implication for doing You hold it in your safe. Once somebody passes, then you file It's effective all the way back to But you avoid having to probate it because All right. What's number three? We I we've we've hit the four over What's number three. So this one is when you try and fund, a bank And the bank just won't let you transfer They're going to go in and tell you, oh, you need to set up a whole new bank and, you know, you've maybe have, bill pages that are coming you know, and you just don't want to have to go Just to get it into the trust. There are ways of establishing the trust without having to create And the way you would do this is you or a payable on that's sometimes called and you go into the bank, say, the trust, this trust that I've created so that I still own the account I don't need but when I pass away, automatically transfers into this The trustee can get immediate access and we don't have to run into the issue with new bill paying, you direct deposit already have set up with your account So like for those folks I just want to add somebody to my account It's like, hey, look, You don't have to mess around. Just go down to the bank Be the living trust and voila, We're getting to the same place. We're avoiding going to court. We're not. Months and months of annoyance We don't have to worry about that. The bank just needs a death certificate. Goes into the trust you give in your trust documents That summary correct. All right. What's number four? I think we're at number four. Yeah. So transferring a business so people So this is the method. Hey, if you transfer that business, You're going to do what? It's going to trigger a bunch of tax. If you transfer it in there. That's either either it triggers a tax or it changes the tax hey, I'm an s-corp And the trust will destroy it. It's not true. Right? Right. Or it's, husband and wife And if they transfer it into the trust, a sole proprietorship, This is not true with the trust. It is typically a grand tour trust, revocable trust, The IRS doesn't even want to know They don't care until until you pass away Right? Right. So the tax ID number When you file your taxes, nothing is going to show up on your tax If you get k ones those still report to you So for example, with the husband and wife, there are still two owners for tax because it's a joint trust, listed Fantastic. All right. So that's number four. And the myth is that it's going to cause That's not true to Grand Tour trust. It's ignored for tax purposes. What's number five? The number five is that or or even life insurance, anything with your trust It'll just automatically I hear them all the time, I hear it, but I don't put the IRA into your trust, And it's like, yes, but. And then what's the butt? So the butt is who's in control If you just name your kid as the beneficiary of your life the life insurance actually won't Actually have a family member that's dealing with this right now The kids are younger and life insurance is just sitting there and so just naming the individual, yes. Will avoid probate, but it can create so what you can actually do as the beneficiary, name and the trustee will collect that life and then pay it out to the beneficiaries under the terms So, for example, if you didn't necessarily want everything to go to your kids and you just named them I would care life insurance, they get that At that point, I can go and blow it versus Your successor trustee takes control of it under the terms of your trust, or you may be holding it before they actually get full So that's really and that's way still like We're not saying make the living trust You're making it So like the primary beneficiary Then where does that asset go. And there's actually some interesting I remember the Supreme Court rights for somebody that was a non trust beneficiary. Like they they ended up being attachable. Whereas when it went into the trust, the trustee was actually able from being collected So like sometimes we don't know child or a grandkid or something else and they have creditors, you have no idea whether they're going to be going through And, that was like a wake up call we always just said, Maybe it should be. Maybe we need to make sure that we're so that we can prevent a creditor but your point is well taken. in addition to that, with life insurance, to have that go into the trust right. Because after you pass away, There's taxes that going to be owed. And if you don't necessarily to pay for those things, and you don't have the life insurance they may have to liquidate some assets, and you may not necessarily Yeah. so if we have the life insurance that's going to provide liquidity the debt in taxes without having to do And there's just common sense. We don't want to like, insurance policy, And if you're trying and you have a complex estate, is give one kid a big pile of cash Yeah, right. So, so, yeah, that, that living trust and that that goes Either you would make it but for, life insurance, It doesn't hurt anything from a tax It's still nontaxable. But now at least you can control it. All right, what's the, What's what's the big myths? Number six. So this is where we have It's that my family will have no problems after I die. most of the fights It's over the personal belongings. And I hear it all the time from people. Oh my kids get along well. They'll have no problems And then you pass away Right? Until they're like, You. My mom let me pass. Yeah. The thing is that when you're gone, right there becomes an attachment to those things And so while you were here, But now that you've passed away, attached to those things, And so that's where the fights happen You know, I've seen fights over a trash can. It gets crazy. and so if you watch the craziest what's the one where you just sat there and you're like, I can't believe I'm The trash cans. They're fighting over a trash can. It was a stainless steel trash I don't know why I mean they were fighting over everything, it was the fact that they were fighting That was, it was a case in Georgia I was a plastic Tweety Bird. I put this in a lot of my presentations. I got a little plastic. I thought I'd, putting and the lawyer found an identical copy of it on eBay for, like, and, said, hey, to the there was a brother just put him in a box, will shake him up, Oh, they won. I don't know how it ended up, like, guys, three bucks? You think? No. Yeah. It you want to be in front of a judge how do you avoid that So typically within a living trust, a, we call it Sometimes it's a schedule and then designate who it goes to When you pass away, you know, gets the shotgun. and then if they want to trade, right, they get they can trade But that's entirely up to them. Whether they want to do it or not. And if they're mad about it, great. They can go jump up and down on your grave But it's not the kid's, and being mad about it. You also have it. You have a trustee in place, and then can if somebody does decide or their brother or their sibling there's there's a ramification for that. Yeah. So a lot of times in trust, that if anybody challenges distributed, So if they if they do want to fight Yep. That's the one that tends to do you really want to do this when you go ahead and do it. But, it's unlike the contest, they're actually egging it on Many situations, in the living trust is the opposite. And especially if you have a third party They'll be like, nope. You guys want to do this? this is what the ramification is. And, we're going to go ahead like it's going to come out of your share. anything else on that? Yeah. So there's another way of doing it as well as far as dividing up personal property, this is how my family has always done it, which is we have an auction. So my grandparents passed away, and we just started So it's a way of assigning to US assets as opposed to, like, Because like you said, with that the most sought after, the most expensive Oh my right. versus, you know, my, and he found the exact same cookie Has got no monetary value, So by doing this family auction, this much as opposed to other things, put that in place. Do you just have a trustee I've seen people use cards as well, like, you know, and they do a up and down pick an item, pick an item and list them. so my dad's a computer nerd. He actually built a website You can buy that basically on eBay for the family But no, no, it would track versus, your total value So we could do it over everybody could do it I have seen it where they have they actually hold an auction you know, I've also seen it where you pulled names Those can work. Okay. But, if if you can't decide. Yeah, you need to have some type and say can can do this after the fact. The trustee can say, here's Yeah, right. And it could impose it Right? Yeah. But if your kid is the owner is the Yeah that's great. The trustee Give your kids to the trustees, should you have, beneficiaries But topic for another day, probably. Okay. So that's number six. We just went over, all right. So number six is dividing up my personal belongings. That's the myth. What's number seven? So this one is as long as I have in my trust, So the big items typically are real If I've got those in my trust, I'm good. I don't need. I'm going to avoid probate. Everything will go smoothly As long as you have those big three in the but it doesn't mean everything's There are a lot of smaller items and the beneficiaries after you pass away So, for example, your, logins to your email or the password to your phone, things like this think about as being a big deal, a lot of issues if you don't do that. So I'm going to just put this in the show that's actually free It has all that in there. That's that. You know, It's it's But it's an organizer that you can use Dentists, things like that. But it goes over It doesn't have your password It actually has a separate password sheet perhaps inside your living trust, perhaps but it does not have your username It has the passwords So it doesn't even like somebody they wouldn't know what It's even two. They'd need the emergency binder. But that's absolutely You know that or if you want to, I'll send you the link. You can just type in emergency Just put emergency binder down there absolutely free. because this is a big one Those little things can cause or worse yet, Period. Right? Right. Yeah. So for example, with the social, social media account, if they it can be just sitting there for months like meta and or Facebook or whatever you want to call a Twitter account Like they have terms of use. And a lot of the times, So you see, these accounts And you see other accounts, they get it. And it's usually the kids or somebody this is such and such is going to be and something and let let people know But, impossible especially that password. And they can also, help them find things. I had a friend whose father passed away, and I was helping her out with, Luckily, and on the phone were where the emails. And eventually there were some invoices through that email about, So, storage units that nobody knew about. And they were able to find those storage If she didn't have that, No one would have even known about it. Everything. And there would have just been auctioned off It would have been storage. Worse. You wouldn't even know. Yeah, it would have been All right. So that's, what was that number seven. So let's go to number eight. What's the eighth myth that you hear So that I should keep my trust in a safe yeah. Yeah. The problem with the safe deposit they have to one have the key, and two, bank as an authorized opener. And so if I leave the key to my trustee, as an authorized opener, they cannot go and they probably will have to actually so if you are going to keep your trust deposit box, make sure that you have as an authorized opener on that safe my suggestion typically to people for your trust is that you're not going to lose it, So if you put it in a, gun the combination of that gun safe, If they can't get to those documents. Again, guy, as it does And how to access safes Obviously with the safety deposit box, But even knowing that it's because people will go through where they have accounts, maintaining bank accounts or other types whether they have safety deposit box, I found many a safe behind a wall. and properties that we purchased, you find them in the floor, and you're like, oh my gosh, I wonder And answers, no, I have a friend and he keeps getting mail the previous owner. He passed away. And there's a brokerage account with a decent amount of money sitting in it, He keeps getting statements for it. eventually they'll go to the estate. They go to the state, right? Eventually they. Yeah, I it's been decades. Yes. It's happened and it's still So so the moral of the story is don't put your living trust in a safe If you put it in a safe, and how to get into that safe. Otherwise I usually just tell people, in the area Like if you have a home office in my checks or keep my check books or to, put it there where somebody can see it Now, some people are worried what if somebody steals it? All right, we'll print it out It's like, But, it's certainly If, if they can't get Ahold especially actually if they're locked away even exists, I would recommend keeping, and keeping that on, like, a cloud location. Because if, for example, and your your trust you can still, what we call restate we have the electronic signature showing So not all is lost don't don't try and lose your documents. That's a whole nother issue that I've run They have no idea where it's at. and then they pass away. But keep it somewhere safe. But not, you know, if it does burn up it's not the end of the world. As long as you have an electronic there and not. All right. So that's number eight. So that brings us to number nine, which So this will be the last myth to cover. What is that ninth myth. So this is dealing with foreign assets. as long as you then I can put my assets That is not true. They may recognize trusts, the issue you run into is So, for example, in Canada, it's a it's a common law, country Right. They have trust just like us, but and you actually, you're going to get hit with a huge tax bill if you try and use So you have to be careful of they will let me own it in a trust, So I would be careful of transferring into a trust that was created because they're going and we want to make sure that you're And there's there's things like personal You can hold on a trust, businesses physical property that are going to be governed a local practitioner to make sure It's the flip sides We see this all the time. The rules are very different. If you're not a green card holder, the estate I think it's 60,000 So somebody foreign has million dollars The tax bill on that, it's going to be And so there's definitely something The same could be true So make sure that talking to somebody in their jurisdiction, Yeah. Yeah. Don't just rely on putting it into your trust Because a lot of times When we're dealing with foreign assets. All right. So that's let's see if I could do this. Nine myths that John just hammered away for covering those. any parting words for anybody out there? Yeah. make sure you do this. Don't put it off. And but also don't feel like You know, do this in pieces, right? Create the trust, and then worry about, Right. Let's get the business And then then we can worry about okay, And then let's work on this next piece. Don't feel like you have to get it all done all at once, Focus on each piece that you need And the best thing is, unless you want to change, there's not really anything you kind of you. It's like the old Ron Popeil commercials. You said it and you forget it. Great advice. Somebody wants to get Ahold of you. put your, your email so they can just reach out to John. if you want to talk about a living trust Actually, I'll make it even easier. Just write Living Trust Just type in Living Trust. And John, will send you a link so So you could talk to him about whether as always, please like and subscribe. And if you think somebody could benefit We can. The stuff is out there to help the public and you can make a great legacy. Thanks again, John, for joining me. And I really appreciate you going over the