Let's face it, A good rivalry is the basis for most of the world's best tales. France versus England. Spartans versus the Persians. Rocky versus Creed. Tesla versus Edison. Alien versus predator. Seinfeld versus... Newman. You get the point. The bloody clash is what gives us greatness. And in 1966, rivalries began at the third Japan's most prestigious race It would take place at the newly opened There, Nissan and Toyota would fire the first shots in a war On the grid and Daihatsus, was set one of Toyota's The Toyota 2000 GT. On that day, And cement Toyota as Japan's Sadly though, the Prince Nissan R380 After 60 grueling laps around Fuji, would make a mockery Jiro Kawano, 2000GT project, Was furious. Their very, very good Passenger car had just lost And so Jiro set about building a real race car machine that would become Toyota's The Toyota 7 A car that Toyota would rather you forget But more about that in another video. Like the 2000 GT before it. The seven was a product of the Toyota powered by their new Toyota designed V8 and inspired by Ford's Gt40. It would debut against Nissan's At the fifth Japanese Grand Prix To Jiro, Nissan's new R381 was a disgrace and a machine, a sort of Frankenstein's a Japanese car powered by an American Chevrolet V8. A desperate act by Nissan's team Now American powered or not, some of Japan's greatest, among them Kunimitsu Takahashi or Rider Kunimitsu. Yes, every video we make has a connection to another video, and we do it on purpose. Kuni-san would shatter Toyota's hopes He would set a pole position over five seconds Sadly, the 7 had proven Jiro and Toyota as Nissan stood in the heart of Jiro, and likely This rivalry had truly begun. Every win by Nissan made Toyota write bigger checks The following year, Toyota unveiled from Nissan's R381 and even tested The New 7 had a blank check A machine made As Toyota rolled their for the 69 Japanese Grand Prix, with pride, proud so powerful and so well-engineered It was powered by a massive Cosworth and shaped by Yamaha in a wind tunnel. Nothing could stop the New 7. Nothing except Nissan, of course. Those clever bastards pulled the sheets a V12 powered colossus known as the R382. it would shout into the hills around Fuji with the roar of over 600 horsepower. It shared almost nothing with the R381 that Toyota had And so Toyota would once again Nissans R382 would conquer Toyota's New 7 And once again, Toyota would stare from They would vow to defeat Nissan Revenge, and Toyota's revenge As the 1970s progressed Honda, Mazda and Toyota would spend year staring at the bright red 49 consecutive wins over four years. Nissan had a knack for ruining racing Team Nissan would conquer Group five Group C would see the return of Toyota but their efforts were downright Regularly failing Podium finishes were all but a dream in Group B. Nissan and Toyota would trade blows, a victory and then Group A, you know the story. Nissan cements itself as their Godzilla conquers By 1993, Japanese racing had become almost boring. Nissan had become the de facto fast car from Japan, but thankfully things were about to change. By the early 90s, organizers could see the boredom with foreigners having ruined the Group A. A change was needed. And so in 1993, Japanese Auto Federation, or JAF, Created the All-Japan Otherwise known to You and Me as the JGTC. This new series would be a return focused racing with a field of mostly Japanese cars and podiums full of Japanese drivers. This new series would be competitive, and wouldn't be dominated by Nissan, The class of vehicles to be raced a type of regulation loosely meant to replace Group A. meant that cars were closer This would keep costs for teams lower and inspire manufacturers so that racing fans would go home and buy Weary from the years of Nissan GT-R manufacturers were timid to And so to keep those manufacturers Stringent rules were put in place. Horsepower of the competitors On top of that, to keep another Godzilla winners of each race would have weight in subsequent competitions These were rules keep fans glued to the action at its best when anyone can win a race on Even with those regulations in place, bothered to show up to challenge Those brave teams were ready the JAF had done everything they could do But Nissan did it anyway. All the rules and regulations Every race in 1993, the podium The star among them was Masahiko Kageyama, winning a majority of the races and rarely ever missing a spot Despite the predictable a few scattered competitors Among them a Porsche 962C Mazda's RX-7's, a Carrera RS, Exotics like Ferrari's F40 and Lamborghini's Countach and more curiously, Mark IV Supras... Introducing the revolutionary new Toyota Supra. It's taken and crossed the line. The Mark IV Supra was Toyota's biggest weapon that had been fought It was, to many, And so it was pretty weird that for the 94 season of the JGTC, It was probably because and that writing was GT-R Toyota knew they couldn't take down Nissan's Mega monster, so they stayed home And so those two supra were actually privateers as they would field the only 2JZ-GTE powered competitors in JGTC history. They had been competing in Pro-Am series and thought to themselves, step up to the big leagues. Adorned in brilliant Supra. It would arrive relatively unmodified. and, The other entry, The Blitz Mark IV Supra with a widened body and aggressive aero. Blitz's car would go on for the extremely limited but their dedication and their grit Nissan had gotten far too good at this. the opening race would see and worse yet, And the results would not get much better The shift point team got the message but the blitz team would carry on. Sadly though, it would be a wasted effort because the twin turbo Far too thirsty, in the to overcome Godzilla's terrible breath. Luckily, the sight of two new Toyotas caught the attention of someone at Toyota as mid-season, A third Mark IV Supra this one sporting a wider body team Sard, would field the first factory back But unlike the privateers, Sard's supra was wider than Blitz's It was lower and this one had Its body was clad in simple test its vents and fenders This was clearly a race car made in days, It would seem that Perhaps thanks to the Blitz and Gre-co Toyota had actually seen And so they had created their own supra But unlike the supers this one would sing a different song. So how do you spend your weekend at home? We spend hours at the racetrack testing to make the Toyota you buy After all, we wouldn't I love what you do This is the Toyota 503E. A puny little power plant That is perhaps one of the greatest racing Period. Don't believe me? Ask Dan Gurney The inventor of spraying champagne and perhaps one of American racing's in the late 80s and early 90s. Gurney needed an engine so he teamed up with Toyota's who had just gotten their hands One of the most reliable and fun but it was minuscule What it lacked in might, though, it and so TRD They would redesign almost every inch of the block, and push its limits so hard Together they created the 503E, sharpest little daggers of fuel, Gurney's 503E powered 21 of 27 trophies in its short GTP run. Their domination and Say It with Me Boy, I repeat myself a lot. Need more proof? Ask Rod Millen. If you don't know the name. You should listen up because Rod is a Kiwi rally racing God. And in 1994, he took a machine that sorta looked like a Toyota Celica There, he turned the key Revved the mighty 503E Wrestled it up 156 turns breathed its turbos at over 14,000ft, and shattered the record of the Rod Millen. That Celica and the 503 E held the record for 13 Hecking years. Hell, they had to pave the road for anyone The racing prepped 503E would make upwards without even breaking a sweat, The engines that powered Rod Millen's were putting down between 600 and 1000 and reportedly around to above 1000ft pounds of torque. Now, yes, it's a race engine. It doesn't have to survive daily But the 503 E was reportedly a team could ask for, happily sucking down nearly endless revving up to 8500 rpm for hours and hours And Rod Millen they never had to do much Over its lifespan, the 503E without issue. It would win endurance races, sprint The 503E would just win. And if you ask me, 503E is the Toyota engine that deserves But sadly, it never gets the respect it deserves. Either way, it was the peak of Toyota's an unlimited budget, had created unfathomable reliability. And of course, none of the fat. in an era where Toyota themselves Nissan had thrown at them, the 503E, was their secret weapon. It was their savior. when Toyota finally mustered the courage and step into the world of JGTC. There, in the GT1 class. Nissan's GT-R Toyota wanted in, and they wanted to slit So in 1994, they had a decision to make. Sure, they could leave the 2JZ's and go toe to toe with Nissan's RB. I mean, with only slight modifications That 2JZ would make plenty of power. But the 2JZ was unproven. It was thirsty and it was massive. It was akin to using a broadsword heavy. Unwieldy. And my god, you might spill beer Mmmm, beer. Meanwhile, back in the States, the 503 E was winning races. It was doing it while being minuscule, and with power outputs twice So the decision was simple Rip out the 2JZ, swap in the 503E Strip down and widen a Supra chassis and set it on top of the suspension and brakes of their successful, but now retired, What they created then was the first true JGTC supra, its suspension, proven in Group C racing, and its claws Now, the results in the 94 season weren't immediately lucrative, Nissan, of course, would continue throughout the year, and it was annoying as hell. and so for the 95 season, And to do so they would need help from a friend named Tom. Way, way back in 1964, at the second Japanese Grand Prix. A young man watched Datsun Fairladys around Tsukuba's winding blacktop. And the sight of it all, the smell Inspired a young man named Nobuhide Tachi It also made him sick. As a kid, Tachi hated cars and riding in them made him nauseous. but watching Japan's finest racers flipped a switch in young Tachi Shortly license and be behind the wheel of a car There, in control of the machine himself, managing its momentum He was no longer carsick. In fact, he was in heaven. [It's a miracle!] Only a year later, he would and a few short years after that, with Toyota In 1971. And then say it with me. The oil crisis. Yuck. By 1973, racing cars that burned expensive gasoline was getting harder But Tachi wasn't ready Rather than relying on being picked from one of the few racing teams he just started one of his own. teaming up with a Toyota dealership They formed Tachi Oiwa Motorsports or, Tom's. Tom's would stay competitive Their team would push small output engines and right out of the gate would be winning The Tom's Starlet would dominate for three seasons in Japanese At the time, but withdrawn from racing competition. But Tachi and Oiwa rubbing Nissan's face convinced them to make Tom's a factory Having a new business daddy meant that the Tom's team And together, Tom's and Toyota would Throughout the 80s and 90s. From winning Group their partnership was pivotal to Toyota's From then on. So it was that when Toyota wanted they called on their best partners GET FUNKY! GET FUNKY! For the 95 season. Toyota fully committed to JGTC. To do so, Number eight. Team FET Power Craft Number 38 Team Cerumo Number 39 Team Sard And number 36 team Tom's. all four vying to be the first to bring Toyota to the JGTC podium. The teams had spent the offseason against Nissans R32. But their hearts must have sank as they arrived at Suzuka There, parked on a bigger monster, the R33 GT-R. with its predecessor Expectations were sky high Nissan knew how to build champions, On the streets, the new production model GT-R was sleeker, It was stiffer, reinforced with rigidity, This, along with a number of other updates GT-R was a full 20 seconds faster And there it was at Suzuka. Stripped down, widened and unchained, staring the Toyota teams in the face with bloody teeth and fiery confidence. The JOMO R33, clad in green and white, was the car to beat, There would be a total of seven GT-Rs Most of them, though, All of them were unbeatable The standout This was the team and they had come to the JGTC The car was piloted by none Nissan's factory driver since 1964 and two time champion of JTTC in the R 32 GT-R. He was a Japanese racing demon and his blood bled for Nissan. Hasemi would take the pole position slightly edging ahead of Nissan's an embarrassing the best Supra lap The best Toyota teams could Jeff Krosnoff would start the race Staring at the It mattered not, Krosnoff, his and the folks back were still optimistic Also optimistic was Team Toms, who were vital in the development and whose driver, Masanori Sekiya for Team Toms in Le Mans for a decade. As the race got underway, things Sekiya's Supra failed to start and as the race began, Hasemi followed by two more GT-Rs, all confident that they would dominate the day's podium. Krosnoff's Supra would duke it out But Kageyama's JGTC experience would have Kageyama would even overtake and chase down Hasemi. By the end of the race, It was a dramatic battle Two champions battling for the top spot was exciting, but more interesting There, Krosnoff and his supra had gone and emerged victorious. Third place for the first time in JGTC history, a Toyota driver would taste champagne. the other supra, weren't far behind We're just a couple of seconds behind the R33 GT-R The mood around the JGTC had changed. Toyota had come to fight Godzilla Round two at Fuji would see supras with three of the top four positions, and mostly Porsche's, In one of the most, crash filled the flame nothing went as planned for Toyota. And by race's end, as the supra fell far behind. So far, the season was full of surprises. R33s losing to R32s. Supras nipping at their heels As the JGTC Carnival came to Sendai Circuit no one knew what to expect. After a contentious qualifying round of a second separated pole position It was Porsche GT-R and supra ready to tear at each other's throats Erik Comas in the Cerumo Supra sprinted ahead of the pack But all eyes quickly turned to another the Toms team as the race went on, None were spared in their angry hunt Not even teammate Erik Comas who would be shunted as the Toms As the dust settled and the cameras turned for the first time, Toyota's drivers Finally, Toyota had seen Nissan's Beast bleed. And then, in a flash, it was back to business as usual, with few upsets Nissan would resume podium dominance. Sure, Toyota had won a battle, but Nissan would predictably win the war and take home championship bragging rights once again. Still, and Toyota's as they looked ahead to the 96 season. A newfound optimism but it was quickly tempered they'd be facing for the new year Their R33 GT-R in full But now, with a year of racing it would be more reliable, the familiar faces of rider would be stepping out of Germany's into Japan's newest a perfectly balanced, mid-engine fighter into every GT-R Sure, the first two years of JGTC to a rocky start, the same way But 1996 was shaping up to be the greatest year of Japanese All eyes on the big three NSX, GT-R, supra. Three Japanese titans and claw each other's throats Nothing could stand in their way. Nothing. Except perhaps the greatest car ever made. Every year, the competition in JGTC increased Teams would keep trying to step up And the JAF kept changing the rules things competitive and, What had remained consistent of the two classes, from GT1 and GT2 to the much cooler sounding GT 300 and GT 500. Toyota, who had started seeing victories weren't about to rest on their laurels And Was the 171F. An evolution of the 503E battered and abused in some of the most demanding The WRC. 171F was the 503 E, But it was 20 kilos lighter. It had proven itself and it would power the new lineup of JGTC The only thing missing Back in Yokohama, Every team in their lineup and seeing the fire in Toyota's eyes, and reinforced the designs Team Kunimitsu, with their signature For had been competing in the 24 Hours and they'd been doing it in Honda's Kuni San and Keiichi decided the boring old Porsche The stage was set Everyone in Japan but unfortunately, a few pompous to rewrite the entire script Three men with a boatload of cash had just changed McLaren F1 had been breaking supercars, and one of its creators, to have it break the rules of the world's And unfortunately for everyone in Japan, he had set his tired, Ron Dennis's blank a Japanese man who'd been involved With his pasty friends financial backing, and its first job that they had no idea what they were doing They would do it with Gordon Murray's the McLaren F1. Now in racing spec, known as the F1 GTR, It was a V12 powered from ten years in the automotive future It had just took home most difficult and prestigious race, so taking down a couple of Nissans little races would be a cakewalk. the rule makers of the JGTC, They saw what the F1 was and they threw every disadvantage at it First, its V12 engine that breathes out over 600 nearly to death, its roar far below the 500 horsepower limit Additionally, at the time, there were Sure, there was the Taisan NSX, but it wasn't built So the JAF would burden Team Goh with adding to their F1, just to make it nearly as the GT-R's and Supras Those limitations might have convinced in the JGTC to just say But Team Goh had something They had Ron Dennis and Ron that could overpower That meant that Team Goh would show up and mechanics who had sharpened It meant not by just very good drivers, Michael Schumacher's little brother 60 McLaren F1, and he was out to prove as his older brother opposite David Brabham, One racing royalty sir Jack Brabham. In both of their veins was race was possibly almost ironically, just to really paint they would be the only JGTC team ever Their cars were shrouded in black an American cancer smoking landscape of 90s Japan. It's kind of crazy to picture Masonori Sekiya's mind as he gridded up gripping the wheel of the number 36 supra, It was the combined effort of TRD, Toms its power plant, And its suspension and chassis honed over only a year earlier, Sekiya had been And he did it in that very same McLaren F1 He knew how light it was. He knew how fast it was. He knew how deep the pockets No restrictor plates or added that F1 was too funky fast. Sekiya and the rest of the drivers on but the results were just predictable. were six races in JGTC Every single one of them Would start Nissan's R33's were still unbalanced. the new NSX, despite being the world's was proving And even though the Supras were in top none of Toyota's best could stop That's not to say Hard battles were fought. They were just always When the dust settled, Godzilla had finally been struck down, but its reign had ended in the worst way. Billionaires from Britain took home The best Japan could muster But everyone knew that it was only because As the champagne dried, McLaren teams polished the shiny trophies, Depending on who you ask, Ron Dennis to do. Let's go home. Or JAF Officials slapped So many disadvantages for the upcoming season This is a Japanese racing series We don't want you here. So far. The entire reason the JAF had started JGTC playing field to racing in If it wasn't Nissan dominating, No matter what, someone was ruining But maybe, just maybe, McLaren shakeup was just what Lessons learned from watching formula one teams would make Nissan, Toyota and step up to the task of proper I mean, if you just ignore that the F1 Nissan and Toyota had duked it out, for the first time. And second place doesn't mean sheep You're just the fastest loser. So thankfully, in 1997, it was finally going to be GT-R, NSX, supra. and well, some Porsches. Lessons had been learned and hurdles It was time for the greatest In the late Stuck in the middle of the Lost Decade strangled by debt, failing wages in 1997, if you walk down the pit lane of the JGTC, you'd never know it. There in those garages brands Toyota, Nissan, Honda, some of the most expensive racing machines Legendary drivers stood the most coveted title of Japan JGTC champion. The spirit of competition was alive in Likely because they in the previous season. Nissan put their full weight And had given them the R33 GT-R chassis Nissan's new iteration of the It would push the competition GT-R meaning that even if someone else it likely be in second place by turn one. they not only just perfected revise their driver lineup Erik Comas, French Formula One driver third place spot in the previous year's and was now piloting the Zexel GT-R. The bastard Not to be outdone, Among the three Castrol Masonori Sekiya's new who last year was piloting KURE's GT-R. For 1996, a total of six Team 5Zigen, Driven by Eiichi Team Sard in the hands of Olivier Team power craft driven And of course, Team Castrol two feel the by Toms and one by Cerumo The Cerumo Supra, Had, of course, lost Erik Comas Hironori Takeuchi Their number would also change from number The new number 37 and Michael Krumm and Pedro de la Honda would now officially enter the JGTC with the new Mugen Dome NSX race car, but sadly it failed to make it bad luck throughout the season rest of the grid in 1997 was pretty wildly From the JLOC Diablo, A v8 powered Le Mans Winning A Chevy Camaro would make an attempt, and even Keiichi Tsuchiya would Wild. None of them mattered, though, because all eyes were on the rivalry as the green flag dropped in Suzuka. It was a dramatic opening competition. Nissans bounced off each other, unfortunately, supra number 36 and drop out of the race, leaving a wide Comas to take the top spot in his Zexel GT-R. It was the 100th win for a GT-R and signaled that perhaps this season too But as the championship and not between Nissan and Toyota. No. It was to be a war between the Supras In round two at Fuji, the Nissan drivers They would start the race A lot of tail lights. Five Supras took the top qualifying spots The battle for the top was fierce, and falling behind as the track dried It would be Sard Toyota at the top. Zexel's GT-R Toyota's drivers had started to outnumber By the third race, it became clear Nissan was now taking punches The race in Sendai was a nail biter, but Comas and Suzuki in the Zexel GT-R The Zexel team were proving Sekiya in number 37, would get cut It would seem that the Zexel team were But as the Zexel team came into the pits Castrol's number 36 car had come and was now planted inches behind the GT-R In some of the closest racing in JGTC history, Krumm would deftly dance around the Zexel GT-R and eventually emerge When the JGTC returned to Fuji for round four. There was a new energy in the air. No longer were Nissans ruining everything, and Toyota's drivers This time it was team Sard with Krumm Their championship points The Zexels team's consistency as they suffered a huge loss, The team at Nissan saw their grasp and we can probably assume Erik Comas started to regret his decision By the middle of the season, and now Mothra and King Ghidorah This was now but to be the best Toyota tuner. Team Sard was a poetic rival as they had a nearly identical upbringing. A small team started in the oil crisis taken under the wing of Big Toyota For round five at MINE circuit, with a Porsche and never recover. The Cerumo Supra would go for an overtake and the Sard supra would get taken out With every heavy hitter out of the race, 36 was clear, and the number 36 Castrol Neck and neck. do have As difficult in this condition But, I think we have a chance. But we try to finish the race And thank you very much. Almost as if the racing gods Decades later. did everything in their power For the final round. scores between number 36 though the Castrol team had a slight lead. final round would be a tie breaker. And on race day would be covered in water as rain poured from the sky. Mechanics Toyota's drivers And Nissan This was going to be Toyota's year, and The green flag drops, that shot out to the lead Among the top three spots are two Supras But the two in contention for the title Kageyama in the number 39, Sard, Supra Duke it out in the opening laps. It doesn't matter The television cameras Perhaps because of the wet conditions Zexel's GT-R gives Kageyama Nearly sending him into a spin, but thankfully His lead, though ahead of Krumm, had all but disappeared. Later in the race, as the Zexel GT-R is taken out Both championship contention Supras actually kind of drove Neither one wanting to make a mistake the coveted title. But then the sun came out and disaster would strike. as the track dried out, Krumm's Supra pitched sideways into a spin He recovered quickly, but Krumm with a third of the race Gone now were any conservative driving tactics. Krumm would hunt down anyone and was soon within striking as the two cars flew nose to tail down the back Kageyama tried to defend his position But Krumm was on the inside Kageyama decides to cut him off sending number 36 the suspension. The Castrol team, fearing the worst but never giving up, worked fast as the pitstop went on and on. The mood around the Toms pit was bleak. A few laps A quick stop team were about to cruise But those racing gods As the Sard team pitted in, their teams struggled to remove the wheel the time lost in the pit and the damage suffered in the crash The Sard supra now piloted by Tatsuya Tanigawa, can't seem to catch up to the pack and to become the champion they need sixth place or better. Meanwhile, the damage on number 36 proves And De La Rosa pilots Team Tom's just needs to finish, and Sard needs to get seventh place or worse. And they will be crowned champion Team Sard continues to struggle with their damaged supra which drops them further as the race goes on, the weather the track gets wet and Tanigawa falls further Until eventually he goes off the track and never returns. with no one left within points position, a broken, battered, taped together A winner. 15th place in a race, but number Toyota and Team Toms had just won the JGTC. I really thought we lost So I'm. When I cross the line, I saw 97 P1 it was for our teammates But actually it was for us so I am really really happy Really today we got lucky. But on the first round So I think it balanced out. It had been 30 years since the rivalry between Toyota And it had been three bitter decades of Toyota But in 1997, team Tom's Pedro de la They had gotten in the ring with Japan's heaviest hitter, fought them for years, edged out wins and suffered brutal losses, Learned their lessons. Rose up from the bloody pavement Fair and square. As the battle worn, 36 supra skidded across the finish line. It breathed its last breath to give Toyota what they had been wishing for A shining JGTC trophy This victory was likely the catalyst into competitive racing. Throughout the late 90s with that championship title. team at Tom's had proven that. Winning wasn't easy, but it was possible. quickly, though life would carry on and crews would set about preparing the racetracks Toyota's rivals geared up for war, and as the 1998 season loomed, The air in Japan Because, you see, despite the absurd this is only the beginning of a much, much grander tale. All The story of the JGTC itself. When we started working on this story, the origin of one of the most important But as we dove into the magazine forum posts and old VHS tapes, what we found was the heart 90s so powerful, so awe inspiring, so important. Yes, the JGTC machines were fantastic I above all, what made the JGTC magic was that it was really funky competitive. Every lap, the driver behind you Every race, And every year, the title spot the JGTC was the culmination of Japan's A championship fielded by the greatest Kageyama Sekiya Tsuchiya Kunimitsu and so many others all driving the most important machines GT-R, NSX, RX-7 And of course, supra. This was a magic age of racing. we're not likely to see repeated And Toyota's battle Unlike most of the racing stories to the top of the JGTC because it is Because a real victory It's about losing Most of them. Toyota's 1997 victory wasn't about just one machine. It was the shared effort of many. It wasn't just the Tom' Supra was every racing car Toyota built machines built out of pride for Japan. Created out of spite for the rivals and even those built Every cylinder fired before powering the mighty 503E This championship perfect design, one driver's skilled edge, or one man's grand vision. No, it took hundreds of beating hearts, brave spirits and skilled hands In 1997. Powercraft 5Zigen Cerumo Sard Tom's. Each team fighting Every driver pushing their car Mechanics. Engineers. Coaches. Every person in the pits. Giving whatever And of course, each fighting tooth and nail for lap after lap. Shining examples of the humble The story of number 36 And unlike the other tales told here this one didn't end Toyota's title didn't ruin the series. In fact, from 1998 onward, Nissan would come back with a vengeance. Honda and the JGTC There is no end to the amount of stories to be told about that the story of that red, it's a pretty good start.