I have a bit of a bone I want to pick with I just bought the T7i a little over a month THIS What's this? This is the SL2 Basically the T7i, but smaller - I want a smaller camera... and $200 cheaper - I want a cheaper camera... Canon...like...like really? If I knew that was coming I can promise you, a little bit longer. Now there are some things that are a little bit better But, to be honest it's hard to be that upset, I'm Titus, welcome to The Search For Awesome Let's get to one of the T7i's weaker aspects It's plastic, like completely plastic. The buttons are swishy, not clicky if that If you were expecting a premium feeling camera, enough and it does make the camera more light There is metal on the lens ring so there is I would be very hesitant to buy this camera Repeatedly taking lens off would surely take You have one adjustment dial to make adjustments, Cameras have two for adjusting aperture and But one adjustment dial is totally workable. It defaults to shutter speed and then if you aperture. It's really not that bad of a compromise. The software is a mixed bag. It's definitely tuned with photo in mind and options. For instance there isn't any way to see my previous camera could do. The knob of options is confusing for video. Most of the options don't seem to do anything are related to photos. Even when you roll to a mode that does work that the mode has changed. The only way you can tell if you've changed in the top left corner. And some of the icons aren't exactly clear. Like what is this? It's a camera...with a speech bubble. What are you trying to say to Canon? Oh it's filters! And why would I ever want to use filters again? Also shutter priority and aperture priority From what I can tell, but it's entirely tinker with some settings like white balance In video mode the camera just expects you information provided. The photo mode has a nice friendly ui with And once you understand the camera you can gets in the way. I really wish it did this with video. As it is it's just a bunch of guesswork trying It does have a quick menu for video, so people left out in the cold. This gives you quick access to a bunch of Speaking of the mode knob, I remember looking mechanism so after locking the knob you couldn't I honestly thought that was overkill. I couldn't think of a time I changed a mode But the T7i would have uniquely benefited The on and off and video camera switches are And it's super easy to accidentally brush camera on. The first time I ran into this was at an aquarium. I brushed the knob over a few clicks into staticy and brown attempting to replicate Which again why is filters an option. I understand other camera companies do this I ever want my video of a majestic whale playing get attacked by a cowboy. The footage produced on this camera is very There isn't a 4k option so you can only shoot at it in retrospect made me wonder why I bought It helped me realize more pixels, doesn't There is something about the color and image special. And this goes for most of the Canon DSLRs. It just has an accurate realism while looking I've heard that Canon color science is really camera to look more like Canon by playing I totally get it. This camera isn't as good as let's say a RED a lot of the competition in terms of quality. If you want to see some footage from the T7i of you ... It's on that bright thing you're looking at And keep in mind most of this footage was I didn't have much time to compose shots or Also this is just the default settings with I have the white balance set to auto w. And that does a pretty good job for me. If you want more footage, what you're seeing family going to several awesome landmarks Bryce Canyon, Horseshoe Bend, Vegas. I'll have a link to that vlog at the end These are just some of the most beautiful got to bring this camera there to capture We even went to antelope canyon... but I wasn't But I got pictures! Each of these were taken with the T7i and I wasn't planning on talking about the photo but I have to say for a non-pro camera, I'm If you're curious a RAW image from the T7i of your memory card can only take about 30 want to take a lot of these RAW pictures. You can always take JPG pictures which are and you're lame for thinking of doing that. I'm just joking you're awesome! JPGs still look fine and are good option if One thing that sets Canon apart is their lens. There are a lot of them and there are several To put things into perspective, I bought my new that lens was about $1000. That's not out of the norm for a Panasonic But, Canon has several lens options that are I was able to grab a wide angle lens for about wide shots. I also got a 50mm 1.8 which is good for closer This is one reason why I think Canon is a Sure these lens, like the T7i itself are mostly from competition are just metal. ...but the images from these cheaper lens cheaper...and they're lighter...Also I don't completely metal is a little overkill for Plastic is still plenty durable and I get ice cream. This isn't to say Canon doesn't have expensive They got plenty. Now let's talk about the battery life. I was about to criticize Canon pretty hard good. I found the battery life to be great. I had just one battery out west using my camera course of 2 weeks and as long as I charged a day. Now, I was consciously turning the camera No issues here. No, what I was going to give them a hard time Many people have reported on several of their up warnings for using a non-Canon battery. From what I understand, you could still use single time you would turn the camera on you actually put the camera to use. Now you might be thinking oh that's fine I'll Canon is get this - $70! And that's just one additional battery! A good third-party battery could be as cheap an additional charger. There is great news here, though. This doesn't appear to be the case with the Actually l maybe I'm getting ahead of myself Some people are reporting that some 3rd party found a particular 3rd party battery that And here it is - Link in the description. I don't know the full story here, like if batteries for their cameras, if maybe 3rd this one slipped by Canon. I honestly don't know, but I can confirm personally and everything works just like a Canon battery. The T7i has dual pixel autofocus for video man band. I can't always check to make sure my camera the Panasonic Lumix G7 kinda stunk. If you've watched some of my previous videos, G7's autofocusing system just not being I've had multiple times where in the editing middle of recording ruining footage. So I tried the Panasonic GH5 which was much autofocusing system, but I found that not The autofocus was slightly better but only This is why I decided to try a Canon camera I heard it was a much better system and the Dual Pixel autofocus is fantastic. Almost every time it gets the focus perfect. It's also pretty smart. In any given image there are dozens of things job of figuring out the right thing to lock Here is an example of a more difficult situation I wanted to show a close up of this burger Now at first it didn't catch so I brought It was in perfect focus. I didn't have to push any buttons, or wave It is truly an impressive piece of tech. One feature I am missing from Lumix G7 was with the push of a button. That feature is really nice when you have to go schizophrenic and change the focus or Unfortunately the T7i doesn't have this feature if need be. You do this by using autofocus and once you switch changing the camera to manual focus The smartphone app works as expected. There is a bit of latency, but it works with Once you go through the setup, you can download control the camera via your smartphone flawlessly. The only thing the smartphone can't control, Oddly, you still have to switch that manually you do the app screen updates and allows you I'm a bit embarrassed to admit this but coming viewfinder would work for video. On my G7 this was great because if it was something I could still get the shot even from the bright sun. That's because mirrorless cameras use a digital Theirs are optical. Needless to say I'm disappointed but to be than the digital option, but the downside There is good news though, the LCD screen even in bright sunlight. So I don't feel like the camera is useless I can say that confidently and I don't even One of the things I was concerned with when If you don't know what that is, a preamp is external microphone and greatly impacts audio Basically if you have good preamps, sound If you have bad preamps, sound is staticy noise. It can even sound unnatural and digital or You can sometimes make up for not having great battery boosting the signal, but I don't have I have the Rode Video Micro which is totally The good news is the T7i's preamp are good. And here is what they sound like. This is a test of the T7i with the Rode Video So you can actually get to hear what the preamps My previous camera - the G7 had great preamps. And here is what they sound like in that same And this is a test of Lumix G7 with the Rode one. I personally think the preamps from this one little bit. I personally think the T7i's preamps are - it's close though. But please feel free to decide for yourself. I said I would talk about the differences why the SL2 is a better deal so let's do that Neither the T7i or SL2 are weatherproof so 80d. Also neither record over 30 mins of footage The rumor is it's something to do with taxes But... I...don't live in Europe...like most of the here? To be fair, other camera companies do this nonetheless. They both have flip out screens, which is cameras. These cameras have the same the same sensor So the picture quality and overall zippyness And you'd think with the same processor, This is where the T7i starts to separate itself If you're really wanting this for photography, while the SL2 can only shoot up to 5. Also the SL2 has 9 autofocus points for photos Literally it's 5 times as many so I imagine a bit slower. To be clear though the video autofocus should Dual Pixel system for that. The T7i can record HDR video which is a really is true HDR. Maybe you need an HDR display to appreciate would be at least a little different. Brighter? More contrast? More colorful? Seriously something. I tried pulling the files in final cut and have more control of the colors or something Even file sizes were roughly the same size. All I did notice that was different was the higher frame rate it uses to get the HDR image. I did try a portrait with the sun at my side and I sorta see some differences here. The shadows from the HDR are much less defined You know what, just take my HDR opinion with I'm not an HDR expert by any stretch. One more weird note, you can only record HDR bizarre. Why no 24 frames per second option? Okay I'm done. Another thing the T7i one ups the SL2 with Basically, it's a way using software the camera holding it perfectly still. I talked about this feature in my unboxing So I did some vlogging tests where I held There are 3 options for this feature. Active, Enabled, or you can leave it off entirely. Active being the most extreme image stabilization Also, the lens I'm using here is wide angle in so the lens itself is reducing the shakes You'll notice Active mode is zoomed in quite That's because this is how the digital stabilization It zooms in the image a bit to give the camera smooth the shakes and the jitters. In this experiment, I can see slight improvements look at the rails of the bridge, but it's dusk and dawn. But for this test, Active doesn't offer it's really zoomed in for this type of shot. And looking at this footage right now, I'm wasn't annoyed. But my face apparently didn't know that. My apologies. For the next test, I changed my lens to my lens is it doesn't have optical stabilization. So with the T7i, I can use the digital stabilization doesn't traditionally have stabilization. Cool! That is a sweet side benefit that hadn't For this test I'm just trying to control the center of the frame. 50mm is fairly zoomed in so this isn't as I feel like with this test you can see more The footage from both enabled and active significantly Active almost looks like the camera is on This is really impressive stabilization, but digital stabilization feature justifies the I can just use a tripod if I need something But for vlogs, it's a slight improvement, Also I don't know if the SL2 does this but word to most camera lovers, but in this case This is because even with a 3x zoom you're sensor has so many more pixels than is needed You can push the zoom further up to 10x but I'd just stick with 3x. This is really cool because just like with zoom to lens that doesn't have zoom. I have a wide angle lens with barely any zoom feature it can take that 18mm zoom and take A few things though. Because you're one using a part of the sensor isn't quite as good. Also there isn't any middle option before A 1.5x, a 2x or a 2.5x zoom would be nice woo-bam! 3x. The T7i also has a timelapse feature where It works, but it's not in a convenient location It's in the menu which others cameras do as on top of the camera in mode wheel? Just a thought. It allows you set your timing between shots settings and then it just goes. It even let's you know how long the time lapse It does a pretty nice job too. While I love the overall quality and color odd pixelly compression in some of the minor Like in this shot the leaves just look sorta I want to say this is an aliasing issue but sure. I'm not sure if you'll be able to see it in compresses the videos, but I can assure you If you want to capture something with a lot you might run into this issue. It would be cool if Canon could fix but who In conclusion this is the good enough camera. In some aspects it accels like with the footage But it has weaknesses with its build quality But at the end of day I can almost wholeheartedly Except I actually have to recommend the SL2 But to be fair, I haven't used the SL2 so I'm basing that opinion solely on a spec sheet. Maybe you can use that extra savings to buy For me, if I could build a time machine, I ride a Woolly Mammoth and purchase the Canon Thanks so much for watching this video. I hope you liked it. I can't return the T7i, so all my videos on the T7i, so please subscribe so you don't down the pipe. If nothing else you can see what I'm doing If you're looking for more on this camera completely recorded with the T7i. The first few seconds were my phone camera, Or here is the unboxing I did of the T7i a Thanks and I'll see you next time.