On the 10th of December, 2021, a small group of a 14-page-long, investigative report into from Jcool114. Prior to the release of the most prolific players of the SMB series, over the past 11 years, many of which no other However, the report detailed the ever seen in Super Monkey Ball's 20-year-long evidence of foul play across three different Once the report was published, Jcool didn't unlisted his videos of cheated scores and edited he'd done. He eventually went on to provide a more but has since gone back and removed his original leaderboards have been completely wiped of all his indefinitely banned from submitting any future video, we're going to break down the different as well as how Jcool was ultimately caught out, grand scale. The methods he used are all fairly kinds of situations, and tailored for Monkey Ball Situations like this shouldn't be seen as an competitive gaming, because that's really not the into the investigation is a demonstration of the Monkey Ball, and how important it is to maintain Now, before I get into the meat and spunk of anticipate some wiseguys in the comments will be made a video 3 years ago about how it is nigh and I still stand by every point I made at the was real-time speedruns (or RTAs) of full, Normal solely on high scores for individual levels is a totally different kettle of fish. For performed in Practice Mode, as it gives the player as well as an infinite number of attempts with from the term "high score ILs", the objective floor. This is done by collecting bananas where possible. If the floor contains either a green or in these for extra points. Collecting a single which is equal to the number of points earned or more likely half-a-second of in-game which will almost always be the case. Each bunch of in-game time, or 5 seconds with the time of potential trade-offs between collecting more has encouraged a lot of variety in strategies and These strategies can range from easily-completable players have had the dedication to pull them off heavily skill-based gameplay, and seemingly make it seem as though the developers this type of competition in mind. This idea allowing the player to save replays of their best This prevents the need to capture gigabytes only to have to trim it down to a single the most convenient means of proving a score, and with players sharing their replays online as early having replays as the accepted proof standard The main issue with the replay system is the pausing". Rapid pausing involves pausing the game gameplay and giving the player a potentially no penalty in Monkey Ball ILs, as pausing the no negative impact on your score. Rapid pausing and can be used to huge competitive advantage microgame in Warioware. The NES Advantage that was just programmed to rapid pause and rapid pausing is a feasible technique, it will competition trivial, and frankly just not being a game developers to specifically program the pause having precautions such as obscuring the entire subsequent pauses. The best floor to demonstrate Expert 09. E09 is considered a legendary due to its especially high skill ceiling. The with the player being incentivised to traverse The leftmost path is only 0.1 ball units thick, in any vanilla Monkey Ball game. Completing it experienced players have never done before, and tried to push how fast they can go on this wire. the hardest obstacle in the entire game becomes minutes of trying. The increased reaction time and allows for players to react accordingly been gonezoned. With a little bit of practice, curves and complete the path faster than any As you can see, rapid pausing completely enjoyable floor. Were the technique to be be a matter of who was the most skillful at When the technique was first discovered and not very well received by the community. told me that he could remember trying it out and was sickened by how easy it made the level It was promptly decided that rapid pausing would decision on this ruling continues to be upheld Deciding to ban the technique was simple enough, straightforward. The problem was that the any instance the game was paused during the still appear as though it were regular gameplay. a replay by paying close attention to the monkey's from jerky adjustments along wires that were it can just as easily be completely undetectable, proof standard under the new ruling. To be able would need to be updated to require a video where pauses - or rather lack thereof - can very to as a "liveplay". A liveplay was a much bigger limitations and how uncommon it was to own a should be about finding the right balance and back then requiring liveplays would've too weren't even a requirement in 2002, and the entire But despite technology advancing over the years, far more accessible and convenient for the until as recently as May of 2020. For 18 years, not telling anyone that you did it. The community archaic trust system from 2002, and inevitably Jcool first started competing in and promptly began claiming impressive scores on In his very first video of SMB1 titled "Epic edge grind on E07, as well as balancing along Two extraordinarily tough strategies that most In July of 2011, Jcool claimed a score of This score would mark only the 2nd time the first time being the previous who was still considered the game's most Alongside his A11 score, E09 was one of had even come close to touching, so for somebody skill on wires was a big deal. It should be noted it's heavily suspected that packattack was been removed from the IL spreadsheet. The genuine set by smilingjack13 in 2003. In hindsight, genuinely beat packattack's E09 score and especially not in just 4 and a half hours people were evidently willing to give despite their suspicions. These old, blatantly investigation in the grand scheme of things, but In the years to follow, Jcool's means of cheating however rapid pausing would remain The report mainly focuses on a number of scores as well as a few scores submitted after then. The it was the 6 months leading up to the creation and This was a project that Jcool announced he'd be high score competition was far more active than to be included in the compilations. It was during own, commercially and artistically, living up to Blitzkrieg on the Monkey Ball leaderboards. His rose from an already impressive 28, all the way up packattack from a 13-year-long reign as champion, previous decade. Jcool's most impressive score score on E09; a 396 point improvement over his went out of his way to provide a liveplay of his achieved with rapid pausing. This higher standard but if there was ever suspicion of rapid pausing, some kind of liveplay to back up their claimed had been asked of Jcool multiple times, but he only existing liveplay prior to this, was a score Clearly, the Teapot score strategy isn't anywhere E09, and Jcool's score had already been totally This meant that E09 was the only significant Not only was it considered indisputable evidence but it also dispelled any doubts people may which he only provided a replay. Especially so not have possibly provided a more substantial so it really held a lot of weight with regard to Naturally though, Jcool's E09 and his decision to go the extra mile to provide Suspicion. Recent suspicion into Jcool's scores was primarily namely from community members eddy0777 and Ike. Ike set himself the goal to outdo it. After he was successful in his endeavour, and even weeks later. However, after playing E09 for real limits of human ability on the floor, given scores and what anyone else had been able to set their scores using a "3 wire strat", which collecting a total of 220 bananas and If performed fast enough, some additional score common term for this strategy is the "23k strat", finish with over 10 seconds remaining, resulting this would probably require completing the 0.1 recorded liveplay of a 0.1 path completion, exit by eddy, and was the culmination of around eddy has only ever achieved two 0.1 exits at So, if we were to combine eddy's 44.5 0.1 exit of the 0.2 and 0.3 paths, then we can estimate being somewhere in the 23.9k range, or Now, compare this to the strategy score. This is a slight variation of the 25k from the 0.3 path right at the start, making it the player must then complete the 0.1 and 0.2 and doing so quickly enough to then Since only two trips are taken across wires, clip over the wall in the middle of the floor. The 23k strat requires the player to meaning on average you'd have about 16.7 seconds player complete just 2 paths, in a maximum of average is only 15 seconds per path. However, this to collect the first bunch and then clip over the taking the average down to just 11 seconds per the 0.2 path was completed at full speed, the 0.1 completion than eddy's 44.5 exit. And then its 0.1 completion window increases run finishes 4.5 seconds ahead of time bonus, To make completing the 0.1 path that quickly the inside of both curves of the wire, which supposedly ever had the ability to do. Nobody else curve even a single time without immediately make it pretty clear that the 26k strat is and why Ike began to question the authenticity Given Jcool's E09 run was a liveplay, the most straightforward cheating method of saving If the score was illegitimate, then a must have been employed to be able This opened the window to potentially finding had there been some kind of oversight on Jcool's that could only be explained by the footage being a liveplay to have been faked, would either be or through the use of splicing. Though it was E09 score was TASed, no signs were ever found that was community member scrap651 who first proposed Splicing is a common cheating technique where separate segments of a run are performed and stitched together in editing software to create Typically, clips will be stitched together loading screens, where it's easiest to However, community members didn't anticipate since there's no point during gameplay that As I mentioned earlier, I made a video back in trying to splice a speedrun of Super Monkey do flawlessly without some serious expertise in upon the splicing method that turned out to be take the time to explain it again here as I'd and it's quite different to traditional splicing this cheating method doesn't strictly fall under segments of the run separately, one continuous then later edited down to remove the pauses from it was performed legitimately. By taking a look menu behaves, we can easily see what makes of an attempt just one frame before the game is the display on the timer, 57:20. Since 57:19 isn't frame of gameplay. Advancing to the next frame, Note there has been no change to Aiai's position frames, the menu will gradually come into before the game is unpaused. Now when I advance immediately, and both Aiai's position and the 57:18. These distinct transitions between effectively be treated the same way as a level and after removing every frame where the game unedited gameplay. While this is all that's needed consistent, tackling the audio is a tougher in my old video. Though somewhat convoluted, and I worked with the investigators to help as a proof-of-concept. The first step We chose to do a fast completion of the 0.1 path individually edit out every single pause. Albeit part of the whole process. With the pauses You should clearly have been able to hear remnants of the pause menu sound effect present which would be an obvious giveaway if not would be to mute the entire clip and completely recreating the game audio using rips of Certain sound effects, such as would be a nightmarish task to try and there's a simple trick that will do most of the settings menu that completely disables all music a clean rip of the bulk of the sound effects by We also used the glitch to capture any additional Once we had all the sound effects recorded, as step was to correctly assemble it all in editing. shows where and how we used each different As you can see, this method of cheating other splicing methods, but this means it's After being subjected to heavy Jcool's E09 video was found to have two noteworthy a very specific circumstance, the other is These mistakes were so slight that they went under but were enough to conclude the run had The first issue with the run is the absence of a video of a Monkey Ball liveplay, the first thing noise from selecting to retry on the previous is missing... There are a couple of reasons as to The first explanation could be that Jcool The only circumstances in which this could've and proceeded to watch the fall out replays play session the player will retry a bad attempt to fall out. Very occasionally they may let the of this happening in Jcool's only liveplay seem that Jcool overlooked including this sound effect While the absence of this sound effect in and of itself, it's not strictly occurs at the start of the instant If you pay close attention, you might notice If you didn't hear anything wrong, then it's almost impossible to notice even after I To properly understand what the issue is, we determining these screaming or wavering noises: wavering noises it could play for Aiai... As long then wavering noises from this selection This is true for both live gameplay and the line here is the point the instant replay begins, wire. In the case of most E09 runs, Aiai will be so the space between these two points is the replay. This means that a set of wavering noises begins until the point Aiai exits the wire, as this in both of Ike's 22k scores, by listening to and comparing it with one of the 7 possible But if we do the same thing with The sound that actually plays is soon followed by this sound effect... To have a wavering noise cut off like this, the was about to start teetering, and began playing replay even starting. The rest of the noise starts teetering, and the following noises this is not at all how the game works and doesn't in normal gameplay, and is definitive proof With Jcool's only significant liveplay being other records was inevitably brought into on this score, and if he was willing to invent new who knew how far the extent of his cheating truly replays as proofs, then it was impossible for them and, as I mentioned previously, rapid pausing from a replay alone. However, the investigators had been achieved using a different method irrefutably from a replay. The technique is something you've already seen if you've watched where it remains a legal strategy. Pause each of which will have its own set of inputs pauses to extend reaction time, the objective and re-pause the game to advance gameplay only able to perform the predetermined inputs at the desired outcome if done successfully. If that was performing a pause strat on Expert 14 from the RTA so I want to hold this direction from the frame, 58:90. Now that I'm paused on this frame, up left, before unpausing. I then want to of which I hit the latter, then switch to the make a slight adjustment at the end to make it the strategy and performing the shortcut. As you reducing a difficult strategy down to just a few, complete it, which will work 100% of the time The visible in-game timer gives a clear and using both the B and Start buttons the game as little as one frame at a time, and So, if ever you see someone perform a pause strat it's kind of deceptive in that pause buffering typically be considered a frame perfect strategy from hitting a single pause frame for consistent absurd shortcuts, that would otherwise never buffering being a legal strategy in RTAs, it most an advantage" for ILs. If you take a moment to for one, it won't negatively since pausing the game will also pause the timer, could use pause frames to consistently get fast or even find a complete set of frames and do so with a higher score than the current equally to any floor in the game, whereas actually the method that I used to cheat a number so I find it quite funny that both me and in the same timeframe. Though this method is once a working frame set has been found, going Then all you'd need to do is keep schtum about off. By far, the biggest drawback to using pause the risk of someone else finding the exact same facsimile of their replay. Unfortunately that's a engineer Jcool's replays to find the pause strats spent on the investigation. The process boiled painstakingly testing frames, then overlaying it if they didn't, then go back This was made even more irksome by the live camera so a replay had to be saved for every single it against Jcool's run. After putting countless with a focus on the scores Jcool achieved in the least partial matching frame sets were found E28, E36, EX01 and M08 in Super Monkey Ball, BX01 in Super Monkey Ball 2, as well as A54 Labyrinth, Ball Deluxe... That's 13 more verifiably cheated and this is just what the investigators One of the quirks about this cheating method, anyone can verify the original run was cheated by Here is a demonstration of this on M14 I first needed to successfully execute the pause on an Xbox controller, but I still managed to hit After tying the record, I then saved the replay Score reel. Since there's a lot of waiting at the the first frame the carpet comes into view. Bear to this point, Jcool would have already had to I'll now start advancing each replay frame the two continue to stay in sync. It is flat out unless the exact same inputs were done on every of this pause strat on Spring Master, you would control stick movements. That means performing single frame, which will be under 1/60th of This is completely unnecessary in normal play, directional changes outside of pause strats, and attempting to hit the six pause frames without human to do. Even if we assume for a moment 1) Why would he not disclose that? And 2) Why and robotic that would actually look, this is had he done it in real time with an input As I near the end of the replay, there was input wasn't found, or Jcool finished off to see how big of a desync occurs after This same frame-by-frame analysis can be applied proving that Jcool used them to achieve his Hopefully you found this breakdown of cheating and enjoyable to learn about. If you're interested you to read through the document for some extra Cheating scandals like this can do a treating legitimate players with and stealing the credit and prestige This is something I came to realise myself, and scores of my own volition. Just as an example, one 12,340 score on E28. Since Jcool submitted his achieved his record, he deleted the replay having we're left with this video as the only surviving in the upcoming record compilation. We're honestly very many scores. I strongly suggest you go as what some people are capable of achieving scrap has been active within the community further than anyone else. Even with both Jcool and scrap managed to overtake them both and lead retain his #1 spot on the SMB2 medal table I'll leave links in the description to a Anyway, that's it from me. Thanks