Several people lay motionless on the playground The scene was quite chaotic. There is also security coming out, Vivian. The situation is quite tragic. This is the evening of the 11th. It happened at the Xiangzhou District Sports Center in Zhuhai. Indiscriminate collision event Resulting in 35 deaths. The police rushed to the scene immediately after the explosion. More than six o'clock in the evening on the 16th Jiangsu Yixing Wuxi commonweal Technical and Vocational School Pour into a large number of police cars and ambulances An indiscriminate killing is taking place on campus. The first time, students send messages to each other through chat rooms. Wow, look what's going on. I've been standing for a long time. Dying. From the hallway of the school building to the open campus There was blood everywhere. You can also see a number of students falling to the ground. Students exhort each other to close dormitory doors and windows Don't go back to school if you're out there. Some netizens left messages and their roommates were stabbed. That man stabs when he sees someone. Don't go out. Some students even said that more than 50 people had been cut. The police were still killing when they arrived. But the campus crisis is not over yet. The school began to maintain stability. Students are prohibited from spreading films to the outside world. Hello, everyone. I'm your Uncle Xia. Just now. At the beginning of the film, you see these two videos. I believe many people are already very familiar with it. It is Zhuhai, Guangdong. And two social terrorist incidents in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province. There is no difference between these two cases. Social terrorist incidents that harm civilians Caused countless deaths. The casualties are even more serious. It has brought great panic to this society. Many people are concerned about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Communist Party of China. Repeatedly declared to the whole world The safest country in the world There are deep doubts. These two social events It's been happening for a while. Why, Uncle? Didn't come out to talk about it in the first place. To rub against the heat? Because we all know At the end of the year China can be said to be full of Zhang Xianzhong. Terrorist incidents occur frequently. From the stabbing of foreign teachers in Jilin in the first half of the year To the Suzhou school bus incident that caused a sensation in both countries. To the sensational assassination of a Japanese child in Shenzhen And then to the unemployed youth in Shanghai because of their despair of society. And go to the supermarket to make no difference in the slashing incident. Then to Zhuhai And then Wuxi, Jiangsu at the moment. All of these are on. All the big social events on the front page And in those news, it wasn't reported. Or it's the first clue. In the corner that was oppressed by the government. And how many such terrible things are happening? Or it's about to happen. In the face of endless terrorist incidents In the face of accidental events Has become Basically Normal social events that occur every day There was once a man Asked me a very tricky question. It's also something I've been thinking deeply about. He said Xiahe The perpetrators of these events on Chinese mainland Most of them come from the bottom of society. They went out into society. Injure ordinary people indiscriminately The reason for most people It's all because of being cornered by life. Why would they choose? Foreign language teachers who do not have the original sin Why would they want to kill Those underage children who are still young Even if you eat and sleep alone, Out of ammunition Why did he enter the ordinary supermarket in Shanghai with a knife? Slash at ordinary people who are shopping for food. Why didn't he go to the Shanghai municipal government? Frankly I am also very confused about this question. If a man has a knife, There is no way to enter the Shanghai municipal government. What about Zhuhai? The perpetrators of the terrorist incident in Zhuhai Is driving an SUV. Rushed into a stadium in Zhuhai Later, it was proved by many reports. On the first day of the murder, the assailant Already in this venue. Start surveying and stepping on the spot. Looks like it was premeditated. A planned and vicious murder. Well, since it was premeditated, Why would he put the premeditated location Set in a Uncles and aunts What about in the stadium where square dancing is going? Why didn't he go to the gate of the Guangdong military region? Isn't there a report that His real reason for despair and anger at this society Because when dealing with his divorce lawsuit, The matrimonial property involved is unevenly distributed He is dissatisfied with the court Why didn't he step on the spot? The home address of the court officer Every assailant Are all in this society. Ordinary people who feel injustice and despair But when their lives are forced into a corner, When you can't stand it They didn't hesitate. Hold the knife edge Aimed at ordinary people as ordinary as themselves. Since it is the same death Why before you die? Drag a few dead ghosts to cover their backs. And only dare to choose civilians. Dare not put the knife edge Aim at those powerful classes who really commit violence against the people. Why do Chinese people's pain come from class contradictions? And the most extreme way for the Chinese to vent their pain Is to bully your own kind. Or someone who is weaker than himself. In the indifference of injury Make a differential presupposition in advance Is it true that before every criminal commits an attack, It's thoughtful. Or something they never thought about. A physiological response to muscle memory These are criminals in these Chinese mainland areas. I can even say in a broad sense It's the muscle memory of everyone in China. This muscle memory. We can call it servility. In the world of muscle memory Have aggressive muscle memory There is also defensive muscle memory. We don't have to explain too much about the offensive type. When everyone is at the critical point of emotional impulse May have such a muscle response. What is defensive muscle memory? Is that you have a needle. Walk over to the children in the kindergarten You haven't hit him yet. He has cried bitterly. Do you know why? Because his muscle memory tells him He should have felt the pain. So in this year, It happens all the time. Of all the social terrorist incidents These criminals Both have these two muscle memories at the same time. The first is very simple. Is that they are cornered by society. They choose to retaliate against society. The second muscle memory That they don't even realize. A defensive type. Is that they didn't even think about it before they died. Why do I go to the supermarket? Why don't I go to the city hall? Why would I kill an old man and an old lady in the square? Why are they guilty? Why am I not stuck in front of the Inland Revenue Bureau? Kill those corrupt officials. He didn't mean to dodge. Because muscle memory will tell him Even in the case of murder You should also choose what you call a safe zone. In this land of China Everyone has experienced more than two thousand years Enslavement, training and rule. There are a lot of things It can be done completely subconsciously. You don't need to think independently. And before the murder, Who should I kill? This belongs to the category of independent thinking. Uncle just mentioned a key word of time. It's called more than 2000 years. Why do I call Chinese people in their bones This indelible servility Is it the perfect result of more than two thousand years of training? Speaking of which, I'm going to introduce you to someone Maybe many people are old acquaintances who are not new to them. His name is Shang Yang Shang Yang What kind of person? Shang Yang was a representative of Legalist thought in the warring States period. He has a classic work. I think of this book. I really hate the roots of my teeth. This is the only piece of land For more than two thousand years, evil and ignorance can coexist. Can be in everyone's bones. Are planted with deep inferiority. And can't detoxify all his life. Shang Yang and his Shang Jun Book It can be said that it has played an important role. So what kind of book is Shang Jun Shu? I believe many people have not interpreted it in detail. First of all, this is a banned book. During the feudal dynasties in ancient China This book is basically impossible. What ordinary people get. But it is the emperor of all the feudal dynasties in China. A must-read strategy for foolish people Shang Yang in this book Put forward a policy of governing the country. It's a classic. It even makes sense. The theory he put forward is that The way of governing the country Lies in the weak and strong country. Translated, that is to say If ordinary people become richer This country must be weak. If the country wants to be strong, Must be above the very poor and weak foundation of the common people He thinks There is a natural contradiction between the state and the common people. Hear this truth Many people may not be able to understand Because we have been educated in patriotism for many years. Believe that the dignity of our lives And the rise and fall of this country. Is completely integrated. But this is not the case. Even the exact opposite. We look at the world today. All countries with a high degree of centralization The living standards of the people Even human rights issues. There is no solution at all. And in the relatively developed Or it is more advanced in the pace of civilization. For example, Japan under my feet It's all standard small government. Well, since Shang Yang was before the year 2000, We can see the essence of this logic. The people are rich and the country is strong They contradict each other. So he's in this book. What kind of civil bending has been created? For the use of emperors? We can make it simple. Put the art of the people in the book of the monarch of Shang There are five kinds of spells. Five steps Are Stupid, weak, poor, humiliated. Let's start with the first fool. Shang Yang believes that People should not have too much independent thinking. Should be willing to be the production tool of a society. In addition to killing the enemy and farming The natural behavior of all the people It is essentially superfluous for society. This point And the CPC's policy of governing the country in the past 75 years. It can be said to be the same. as everyone knows The founding son of the CPC dynasty His name is Mao Zedong. Mao Zedong is a sinner in history. It is the number one devil in the land of China. There were countless little pinkies who battle with me. I have been battle for 20 years. From 20 years old to 40 years old, battle with me. They think that Mao Zedong is no better. It's also thirty-seven. Where can I open it? Mao Zedong accomplished at least two things. He claimed to have overthrown three mountains. Although I think he merged the three into one. Put pressure on the same group of people again. No difference Second, he thinks he has founded the new China. You know, In the existing people's Republic of China Among the species of this continent When it comes to New China, It seems to have natural legitimacy. Here I want to ask the rhetorical question of the soul. Every friend who can watch this channel New China and Old China Is there any logical difference? The old and the new are nothing more than a chronological order. Right? Then if I rise up today, Establish a newer China Do I have the legal sense? A new one is right. New equals good. Who told you that? It's the Communist Party of China, right? Well, since the CPC thinks the new China is so good, Why doesn't it allow other people? To establish a new China? Is this a simple question? That's such a simple question. No one seems to dare to think about it. Right? Why can't you think about it? Because you're servile. Your servility sounded the alarm in your mind at any time. I'm telling you, Don't even think about such a question. I can't even think about it. This is the stupid word foolish people. Play an important role. And Shang Yang, more than 2,000 years ago, The era without the Internet In order to form the word of mouth among the foolish people. Viral transmission He just had a life show. What's the name of this show? It's called standing wood as a letter. He's the one who put a piece of wood at the north gate of the city. Tell everyone. Who can move this piece of wood to the south gate for me? I'll give him 52 gold. No one dares to move Because people think it's unreasonable. This is ridiculous. No one can believe it. 52 gold is earned by simply moving a piece of wood. This is a fantasy. Besides, a piece of wood is not worth so much. Who has nothing to do with it? Well, at this time, there is a person. It's like lucky luck. I don't believe in this evil. Moved this piece of wood to the south gate. So Reward him with 52 gold. From then on There is an idiom. Call Li Mu as a letter A letter is a letter of credibility. It seems that this country is very honest. Be true to your word But in fact, you think about this logic carefully. Does it convey the issue of national credibility? This is just the surface of it. Standing wood is a letter. Its fundamental purpose Is to shake everyone's ability to think independently. What is the ability to think independently? It sure is We see anything unreasonable. When it happens, First of all, we have to ask 100,000 why. But the standing wood is the letter. What it has to do. What is a fundamental means of governance? I told you never to ask why. Because it was an order issued by the court. This is the imperial edict. Face the imperial edict You don't have to ask why. You just have to do it. No matter how unreasonable it is. You just have to do it. Nothing can go wrong. In modern society During the period of communist rule Excuse me, has anyone ever say no? Certainly not If someone dares to treat himself in the depths of his soul Ask this society why. Well, the three words New China It doesn't have any political correctness at all. Right? Because there is no new China. There is no old China. The land of China No matter who rules this land It's always there. What's the difference between the old and the new? There is only a better China and a worse time. So this formed the later. The Great Leap forward doesn't need why. There is no need to oppose the left and the right. The Cultural Revolution doesn't need why. Carry out reform and opening up after overthrowing the Gang of four Opened the door that was closed for thousands of years. With the so-called Britain and America And the capitalism. Imperialist countries embrace and cooperate deeply And people are not allowed to ask why. Even though at that time There are already some people Deeply want to ask a why That is, if we have reached the reform and opening up, Is a historical necessity. What have we been doing for the last 30 years? Yeah If reform and opening up It is the greatest political achievement of the Communist Party. It's also what all the Chinese people call Caught up with the good day of prosperity and peace. So what did you do for the first 30 years? Maybe a lot of pink is going to refute me again. The first 30 years was a linear mistake of our Party. Our Party has already carried out self-correction. And denied that period of history. In that period of history We have learned a deep lesson. And got a good reflection. Well, now that we have got a good reflection, Why did the time develop after came to power? He put forward another theory. Called The last thirty years Can't deny the last 30 years. What is the purpose of reflection? It's for the ideological awakening. So now that ideology has awakened, China has also gone through a period of wasted time Why do two 30 years We can't deny each other now. I can't ask why again. If you dare to ask why Your life and survival will be threatened. You'll be like me. Like many of these anti-thieves in exile. Because I've asked too many times why on the Internet. Be taken away by the police Be kicked out of China In Shang Yang's foolish policy There is also a very important chapter. It coincides with today's Chinese society. That's when Shang Yang promulgated the New deal. Will spread to the society first. Allow all kinds of discussions between people from both factions Well, at first, some people liked his new policy. And some people are opposed to his new policy. In the end, the approach adopted by Shang Yang is Put all the voices against him and those who support him All exiled frontiers Maybe a lot of people don't understand that, right? But you only need to compare with today's Chinese society. You can understand it in an instant. But what many people don't understand is that Those who support his new deal Why was it finally exiled and disposed of? Then I recommend everyone. Take a look at the trajectory of two people's lives. One is called Hu Xijin One is called Sima Nan These two masters of Chinese national teachers At the moment, they are all banned from speaking on the whole network. And they've always been Are loyal supporters of this system and President Xi. All the 50 cents in the mainland of China Fans who are making waves. I prophesied them a long time ago. Their fate is worse than that of us anti-thieves. Do I have any special powers? Can I do divination? I'll tell you for sure. Uncle won't. But why do I know? These people are doomed to such tragedies and results. Because Shang Yang, more than 2,000 years ago, There is no doubt about the invention. Therefore, what said today should not be discussed falsely. Is completely plagiarizing him There is no delusion, including opposition. Also includes support. The ways and methods of Shang Yang's implementation of the New deal in this way In the hope of completely fooling the people. As long as it is a decree issued by the court You are not allowed to discuss Don't take it privately. You only have one mission. It's instinct. Accept it immediately. As long as all the voices outside the reign of the emperor Inhumane control must be adopted. Including excessive praise. Flatter Send a saint Does it also have a certain color of personal play? Of course with Because in the team of 50 hair pink big v It is also full of bloody and unfair competition. Then everyone wants to rise to the top. create new styles So a lot of people are licking on the road. I licked it too much. Lick it crooked. Just like a dog in your family. You get off work every day. It must meet the door. Very close to you. Show loyalty and flatter you Lick your feet. This can prove that he is a good dog. But this lick Is it a great knowledge to lick it a few times? Don't lick it at once This is the heart of disobedience. If you lick too much Rubbed the owner's saliva all over. Is it disgusting to make the master alive? So don't lick the owner and lick the owner's dog too much. They all have to be killed with a stick. This is weak. Refers to the weakness of the people. And this is weak in Shang Yang's world. You can interpret it as Absolute physical weakness What he advocates is that Absolute violence can bring absolute obedience. So during the Qin period, All the people, in addition to basic farming tools, All metal items must be turned in. Let's take a look at today's Xinjiang. Be manifest at a glance I once did a program in Xinjiang. Attracted a lot of complaints. That is to say, you exaggerate Xinjiang. It's not like I've never been to Xinjiang. Xinjiang is not what you say it is at all. If anyone thinks what I've seen and heard isn't true, It is to discredit the Communist Party of China. Then can we go to Xinjiang to do an experiment? Is the earth under your feet. That is, the current Xinjiang Autonomous region You don't need an ID card in this autonomous region. Buy me a knife. A fruit knife is fine. A kitchen knife is fine. Come on, you go buy one. Did you buy it? During the more than half a month in Xinjiang From southern Xinjiang to northern Xinjiang All the knives on the restaurant They all have an iron chain next to them. And the knife is engraved with a string of numbers and numbers. And Shang Yang put forward this theory. Absolute violence in exchange for absolute obedience Does it work repeatedly in the history of the land of China? It's hard to try. All the Chinese in the world Can think of the most bloody and violent incident of the Communist Party of China. It is the event of Nian. We all know 1989 The Communist Party of China uses army tanks. The students who marched at that time were washed in blood. Stray rolling So this highly controversial historical event To China for more than 30 years. What is the far-reaching impact? Just to say one thing. The most profound and lasting influence That's what the tank ran over that day. Not only the lives of a group of young students It can basically be said that Crushed The physical desire of the Chinese people to stand up After that All the collective behavior All anti-communist behavior All complaints against the government There will naturally be a boundary in everyone's heart. Before everyone starts, If it's a group, Try to find a way to have the best of both worlds. Why? because everyone knows. If you really dare to go to the street to die China The great Communist Party of China There will be no place for you to die. Three impoverished spells Poverty of poverty Shang Yang believes that A dynasty To preserve the common people. On the basis of minimum survival rights Deprive the people of all wealth He thinks If people live in a particularly rich environment, You will lose the ability to fight. This is called full warmth, thinking of lust. So Shang Yang for the Qin Dynasty Designed a very cruel tax system. Only tenant rent and oral tax Together, it accounts for 3% of all farmers' harvest in a year. If the weather goes well this year, It is a year of bumper harvest The government will also improvise to collect new taxes. On this issue I have to move Lao Mao out again. Pay a profound tribute to him This is the devil. It has brought countless disasters to the Chinese people. But there is one thing I admire him. Is that he has a thorough understanding of the Chinese people. Some people say Is Mao Zedong of this era. No. There are essential differences between the two of them. If you compare in this way You really picked up coffee for him. 's weakness Because he is an uneducated pupil. I don't know a few big characters. Xuanke according to the manuscript is basically a series of typos. And Lao Mao? Although Lao Mao is an overlord from a reckless background But He put all the classical Chinese courts The secret books of those evil books It can be said that it is a thorough sublimation. carry forward He surrounded the city with the countryside This is the way to gain power. And Made a perfect promise to the farmers at that time. Is to divide the fields. In fact, in the end, he put all the means of production of society Including the complete nationalization of land resources. Turn the whole people into the same poverty Some people say that this is just Chairman Mao. Too utopian idealism But I don't think so. I think he's a reference. The foolish skills of all the feudal emperors in ancient China So throughout the era in which China is living today, There are a lot of optimists who are lucky. In the past ten years, Follow me over and over again, battle. Their battle reason is so old and superficial. That means it's impossible. After all, China has already reformed and opened up. Everyone is still based on economic construction. If one day the common people have no money to make. No matter how dictatorial he is, he can't hold on to the throne. Because the masses won't allow it. After all, the masses are already in the process of reform and opening up. I've seen the money. This is not North Korea. People have never seen money at all. You've seen people with money. If one day you make him unable to make money, He's the other way around. Twelve years have passed. This year marks the 12th anniversary of Qingfeng Emperor's accession to the throne. How China's economy is losing ground Various industries in China Now it has fallen into what kind of disappointment. Everyone should be a little bit forced to count. Did you see anyone turn it upside down? From the military to politics Down to the people of Li Who did you see backwards? There are only a few Zhang Xianzhong who can't survive. Run to the street with no difference. Those who kill are all of their own kind. Poverty is something that no one wants to face. But in this so-called everyone, Must not include dictators and kings. Recently, a lot of people often make such a joke. That is to say, Donald Trump. What he really worships in his heart There are only two people he really envies. One is Putin. One is. Because he yearns for this absolute right. that According to this argument, As the world's largest economy, the United States The most powerful country in the world at present Its national leaders Envy the leader of a dictatorship. Just because you can get absolute rights. Well, the argument put forward by Uncle before The person admires most Who does he most want to be? Not Putin. Not Trump. But Jin San Fat. And He is also building that direction towards the Kim family. Run away To turn China into a truly bigger The vastness of West Korea North Korea in some ways It must be a great source of inspiration for President Xi. If his philosophy of governance Part of the inspiration comes from this country. So I think For him, economic development It's not at all. Constraints and constraints North Korea realized the idea of Shang Yang. The poor people and the strong country Although some people may ask Is North Korea strong? But in the eyes of the Korean people, Their country is incomparably powerful Their leader is like a red sun in the sky In this world, The so-called strong and weak The poor and the rich What is its basis? Doesn't it all come from the feelings of the common people? As long as you can pua your people. Make your people feel deeply That's how happy I am. that Whether he has ten thousand taels of gold in his pocket Still destitute The effect is all the same. The fourth skill exhaustion Tired and tired. Shang Yang believes that A country should maintain a kind of stability. All the middle-aged labor force must be allowed Use up all your physical strength They are not allowed to have any free time. To engage in thinking activities other than physical fitness. So in the Qin Dynasty, In just a few decades, All kinds of large-scale infrastructure have been built The A Fang Palace used 700000 labourers. 400000 hard labor on the Great Wall Is it like our infrastructure maniac today? The great motherland Chinese Dream High-rise buildings rise from the ground. But the leisure rate is as high as 50%. The land of China is covered with high-speed railways. But in addition to a few fixed lines in the south-central region, All the high-speed trains in the country are losing money year after year. Lose tens of billions of yuan every year And this loss of tens of billions of dollars In the end, all the taxpayers will pay the bill themselves. It's called the miracle of oriental architecture. Beautiful Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge How beautiful. It is a huge amount of money to build and build. But the highway fee collected every day It is not enough to serve as the basic maintenance of this bridge. Well, this Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge What function has it played in China? Played an image role. That's what Sister Ying said. It mainly plays a role in modeling. It can give our great President Xi a look. Take a picture and wave. He became a vampire ever since. Whose blood do you suck? Suck the blood of the local people and taxpayers Although in such a The Internet era with highly developed science and technology There is no need for so many coolies. It is impossible to create the Great Wall of Meng Jiangnu crying. Such a bitter story But the tired word put forward by Shang Yang Drain all the physical energy of all the labor force I think I did it even harder. Through a variety of more advanced and more moderate In an even less perceptible way. Like 996. For example, the examination system for young people. For example, young people who are afraid of losing their jobs have to take the postgraduate entrance examination. Like a mortgage. Car loan. Like encouraging you to have a baby. On the surface, it makes you work hard. Fight for one's own life Have more and more But if you have more and more words Negative assets owed And those horrible invisible debts. Even more. There is no frontier fortress. I need you to move the bricks again. But But there are one text message after another calling for the repayment of the loan. Bombarding your phone. every hour and moment Never stop. Magic five Humiliate An insulting insult. Speaking of this abusive word It reflects that Uncle Gang is at the end of the third point. Talking about PUA. Humiliate This word from more than two thousand years ago In today's society, there are 10,000 explanations. It basically means the same thing. Brainwashing Mental control patriotiism education APP, a powerful country in Xi's mind Put all the positive energy thoughts It should be written in the textbooks of universities, primary and secondary schools. Those in Taiwan who are unwilling to be ruled by me Those who have already lived a free life Those who live more like people. Is our enemy. Yeah, those look exactly like us. It is also written in square characters. A person who speaks the same mandarin What on earth is their original sin? Their original sin is Everyone looks exactly the same. And you live such a free life. I can't believe you live a life with votes. Then your existence What do these 1.4 billion people think? If we don't kill you in time, Don't you want a spark? Can start a prairie fire I don't know what kind of moth you're going to make one day. Play with me and blow northward. Can I stand it in Beijing? So I have to vilify you. Stigmatize you To annex you. Finally finish destroying you. You don't have to be loyal to me. Taiwanese Do you show loyalty? I have to kill you. Because the 1.4 billion slaves I kept in captivity They never had a day of freedom. They haven't even seen the votes. And more than 20 million of you If you blend in, Isn't it cholera? The servile blood of the royal family You know, pure slaves. Is it possible to achieve any effect? Purebred slaves The Buddha nature has been ignited to the master. It's called mercy. A few days ago, There is a news event. Is Bo Guagua, the son of Bo Xilai, a former senior CPC official. Graduated with honor overseas And married a wife of the rich second generation in Taiwan. Register a marriage in Taiwan And then I was in a group. I saw a group of mainland women sympathizing with Bo Guagua. Maybe many overseas people have no way to imagine Why are there so many people on Chinese mainland? Always sympathize with Bo Guagua A lot. Not one or two. So I'll ask questions in there for you. Interviewed them. I said this thin melon He is studying in a famous school abroad. Driving a famous car Lead a rich but unfathomable life of unknown income Now I graduate completely. Got a good degree. Married a beautiful wife from Taiwan. The family background is also quite rich. I don't understand What is Bo Guagua to sympathize with? After I finished asking, These people are stunned. Because they never thought about it. That's right What is there to sympathize with Bo Guagua? Well, since you haven't thought about it, What is there to sympathize with Bo Guagua? Why do you always sympathize with him? I'll tell you why. Because in the frame of the Chinese person, The instinctive reaction of slaves Has developed a compassionate Buddha nature to the master. This is the pinnacle of insulting words. Is a pure slave. I can't see the master suffer the slightest grievance. In the minds of many mainlanders Bo Guagua is not mortal. That's the son of Monk Gelinqin, the king of the iron hat. He married the daughter of a wealthy Taiwanese businessman. Have been wronged, Guagua. Isn't it all said on the Internet? If it hadn't been for Bo Guagua's father, Pingyang, Now being bullied by dogs Bo Guagua should marry the descendants of Chen Yun. Political marriage Win-win co-operation What are we doing together? Once again monopolize the Chinese side Once again squeeze the Chinese people This is what the master should do. Now The master can't enjoy the royal honor. Reduced to the United States. No matter how rich the life is. The face is dishonorable after all. Those of us as slaves How can you be happy? Is this just sympathy for Bo Guagua? The basic psychological logic of all people in China Because they think Does the nobility of the master lie in the material luxury? It's just a basic standard. The master's nobility is to return to the land of China. There is a throne in the Forbidden City. Through such a small detail You know How deep can China's servility be? It can seep so that everyone thinks I'm not servile. You want to change that. You don't even know how to start. Many awakened friends Be sure to ask me a question here. Uncle Is there no solution to this problem? Are we Chinese doomed to be ignorant? Let's take a look at Taiwan. You just have to look at it. You know there's a solution. As long as a more advanced civilization A fairer system More restrained rights To re-govern Although the problem is very slow, But I think there's a solution. Speaking of which, You enter a very sensitive area. I used to talk about this problem As a result, a certain video is still in the yellow mark. And the Youtube platform Closed all comments on my video. That video is called Jingri molecule. There is no reference to any material in that video. There's no blood at all. But it was marked yellow. And shut down all comments. Because I'm involved in this issue. Colonial integration Hong Kong under British rule And Hong Kong under Chinese rule. The very different fate of Hong Kong I also carefully investigated Taiwan during the Japanese occupation era. What happened in the last 50 years? The people of that land, in those 50 years, Is it a life of oppression and bloodshed? Or do they live happily ever after? I am also interested in the land under my feet, Japan. Made a close observation. The reason why Japan Can become the oriental country of human civilization today. What should I be grateful for? Maybe for the Japanese There's so much to be thankful for. But I dare to guess It needs to be grateful to this list list. Should there be MacArthur? Let's take a look at South Korea and North Korea today. These two mistress compatriots One is by the local Jin family. The Korean people who have ruled for three generations And the other one? In history, he became a younger brother for the United States. All those who are still rational Our two Koreas Today's society Completely different ideologies and development achievements I believe I've got the answer. So this answer. Why put it on other countries that have nothing to do with us? It's easy for us to see. If you put it on yourself, you can't turn this corner. All the issues I'm talking about today I knew there would be a lot of scolding. Because it's basically Challenged the bottom line of everyone's bearing capacity. But after you guys complained about me, I want you to think about it calmly. The reason why my question makes people think so angrily Whether it just involves the question of origin. And these original problems As long as someone dares to discuss Dare to ask why. He's going to be wearing all kinds of dirty hats. Stigmatization, adultery, demonization. Then why is that? No, there's just a sound. You have been educated for generations. If anyone dares to think about such a question, Everyone can be punished. Shang Yang established it 2000 years ago. This abusive word Around the abusive word of him He also built a very wonderful system. After hearing this, Are you a chrysanthemum? Cold hair stands upside down That's right Household registration system This is only in the world. Something that only a few countries have. It's from there. You know the purpose of the household registration system in the first place Is it for something? To make the people of the Qin Dynasty For exposing each other. It is for the convenience of killing the nine ethnic groups of the common people. So the household registration system has been used to this day. Why today? Uncle is nothing special. To attack and criticize. A vicious event in a society And sitting here using the past as a metaphor for the present. I gave you an analysis. The Origin of Chinese servility Because All the vicious social events that occur frequently in China today. All have one thing in common. It's called mutual harm at the bottom. And mutual harm at the bottom. It comes from a slave's memory of muscle movements. And if you want to break this muscle memory, If you want to solve the fundamental problems of this nation, You have to break through ideologically. This set of jungle laws established for you by the Communist Party of China What's so advanced and subtle about it is that It has been integrated into the lives of many people. The beauty of positive energy Like that one. Everything is inferior. Only reading is high. People nowadays listen to this old saying. Feeling theory Isn't this about educating others? That's a good thing Let me translate this sentence for you. Everything is inferior. Only to be an official. Because reading is an ancient promotion to an official. The only way to break through one's own social class And only the logic of being an official is high. Isn't it true in today's Chinese society? Of course it is. It's even more established. Whether you are an elite academic member of society Or a top businessman. In front of power Who can't go up in smoke in an instant? Anyone who works all his life Can be destroyed instantly in front of power. What kind of signal does this send? That's what everyone gets. Should be grateful for this era. Be grateful to this party Be grateful to this country Individual efforts are quite small. The reason why you have achieved such an excellent life as you are today Because you were born in a good time. And who created this good era? Is the great Communist Party of China. The Communist Party dug a huge fire pit. There was a blaze inside. Like a furnace. Kick everyone down first. And then the slaves were inside crying for help. At this time, the party threw a few more ropes into the fire pit. A man who climbs up the pole Must be grateful to the Party henceforth Three worship and nine kowtow bend one's body and exhaust one's energy Until you die. Because it was the party that gave you all this. You're from lucky. Are you lucky You must be grateful and cherish Why Because of the appearance setting of your birth Is to burn in the fire pit. All the survivors. All the grateful parties gave themselves a rope. But never thought about it. Why is our appearance setting in the fire pit? Then who dug it? Everyone. Including myself All have this kind of muscle memory that belongs to slaves. Really As I began to reflect deeply over the years From the beginning of someone Come and go like this I'm angry, too. So far, I understand this sentence. I laughed it off. When many YouTube bloggers say The end of anti-communism is the black gang. I think it makes sense. Because we never know. Are Chinese people full of servility. Chose such a Communist Party. Or did the Communist Party create the servility of 1.4 billion people? I've said it more than once. This is a mutual causal relationship. But how to stop such a vicious circle Let's get ourselves out of here. Come out of a cycle That's self-reflection. Only by self-reflection can we achieve self-awakening. And self-reflection To the process of self-awakening. We must face the deep inferiority of this nation. It's a pretty cruel process. As cruel as a baby goes to the hospital for an injection When the needle is still ten feet away from you Many people have cried bitterly. Gave up treatment.