As of right now, only two established no-code app Flutterflow and Softr. In this video, we'll look Spoiler: it's Softr. I've made videos on each but never thought They make such a big deal out of it, it's I know that Flutterflow and In fact they're so distant they But they are still no code app There will be times when an app can be And that could be when their generative After all, for non-techies using no code, AI is your best friend - it lets you You're probably thinking, Adrian, Maybe...if you subscribed. I'll be looking at two things: First: Assuming the prompt is sufficiently detailed, how is the main way no code app builders sell their Second: After generating my first draft, how else can But first. You may be wondering... Is It REALLY JUST Flutterflow and Softr? I spent about a week looking Frontend AI app generation is With APP builders, not common AT ALL. Builders like Glide only offer AI powered powered requirements gathering don't qualify. Meanwhile design tools like Galileo AI don't But shoutout to Galileo for I went down the rabbit hole and I took a look at their Call me fussy, but this builder is from 2024 and But it has AI front end generation, But really, the only no code app builders that truly deserve to be on this Now let's get to the idea and prompt. 2. The App Idea + Prompt My app idea is a dating app for single parents. Don't ask me why - it's a super dark I'll never tell. So don't even ask. Unless you subscribe and leave And then I'll tell you - I don't really care Sooo, first I need to clarify my requirements. Call me a baboon's backside Let's use Bubble's AI-powered app feature guide - See what I mean? If you're willing to imprison yourself in Bubble's So, I took the details and asked ChatGPT to turn it into a short prompt for the Create a dating app for single parents with user matching, messaging, notifications, Damn, Bubble is even teaching Let's cut that out. Looks alright - now let's see what the 3. Pico AI This interface doesn't give me much confidence...and Right.. This is not going to do for most proper apps. I should have known the moment Where's the penguin???? I guess it's between Softr and Flutterflow! We'll start with Softr. It's killing me softr with... 3. Softr AI There wasn't a specific choice for dating apps, so I picked what I thought was the A dating app is just a directory Prompt time and we wait. It gives you a preview where you can chose red because I want lonely mums Just like last time it's done very fast. This UI doesn't scream dating And importantly, we can see it's This is the sign up screen And then we have a user profile screen where I'll be able to see other peoples' Pretty good. 4. Flutterflow AI Gen Ok, I'm a bit surprised by what happened here. Same prompt as what we used in Softr....and error. Then I remembered with Flutterflow AI gen, it creates individual app So the prompt can't be too complicated. I simplified it and waited, and got it. It's ok I guess. But obviously I'll need to prompt three Also, the pages aren't automatically The screens are definitely more mobile-friendly So for me, just based on first Softr is the best. Flutterflow is just below it cause I still And Pico is somewhere down Actually- what sound does a penguin make? You probably don't understand what he's saying He's sayingggggggggg Pitch That was the most forced transition ever. I know you loved it - so subscribe! Anyways, up to this point, based on the first I would rate softr above flutterflow. Now lets look at the second metric - how else Softr One of my favourite things about Softr a custom google sheet with your app's data inputs. Making this connection manually isn't especially if your app will be pulling Softr also has a handy AI Excel customize how I want to pull and retrieve data. It even tells me how to organize my data if And that's pretty much the extent of how So I get a decent frontend Further customizations and Fair enough. Now let's look at Flutterflow Flutterflow won't auto-generate a google sheet for which I think is a lot more useful And here because it's creating a whole schema A few seconds later and I think And here is where it really Flutterflow has this really cool feature where you Here's me geeking out over In practice, it's...not that good. Here's me trying to add a custom card with a dropdown menu of all the states Too complicated for Flutterflow I guess. So I simplify it and...it's It almost feels like more work. Cause now I have to prompt the AI. And I still need to edit the work the AI did. If I already knew how to create this card, it Meanwhile, I don't really have an Anyways, this is just me thinking out loud. Let me organize my thoughts My Verdict When I ranked app builders for my tier lists, I didn't think it made a big I still don't. Would you use a less capable app builder It doesn't make a big difference, But I accept it makes A difference and I There will be times where flutterflow and simpler apps. I mean the platforms In that case, between the two, I'd the early stage - it literally cranks out Flutterflow's AI isn't as good right away, game carry - you can keep generating individual And on top of that, Flutterflow is without question the more capable I went into this to find out which And my final verdict is: - Softr AI is better for simple web apps. Which is what Softr and Flutterflow So it kind of proves my point - I don't For me, what really matters when choosing a no options and custom code integration - in my case, So if you're trying to decide on an Check out my app builder tier lists - and 15 mobile app builders based on seven Before that, do ME a por favor and subscribe, like Cheers guys, see you next time