Sam Bankman-Fried's parents are accused within FTX to "enrich themselves, directly at the expense of FTX customers. The lawsuit alleges that even as FTX was rapidly parents discussed with their son "the transfer million dollar luxury property in the Bahamas" FTX who are tasked with winding up the bankrupt One of the more puzzling things about the Sam Bankman Fried's parents Joseph Bankman To some extent they were portrayed as being high fiving people at the water cooler with Or at least that's how they were portrayed The actor Kevin O'Leary famously claimed - which was (of course) untrue, both parents School. Joseph Bankman being an expert on tax law being an expert on legal ethics. This new lawsuit which was filed on Monday transferred and misappropriated funds." Is shedding new light on their level of involvement Now look, I'm a parent and understand getting Luckily for me, my kid's hobbies are music scale financial fraud, money laundering, bribing to possibly encourage new things. Maybe buy them a ball or a book to read... The lawsuit alleges that the couple deployed of legitimacy not to help the FTX Group, but and their pet causes. Sam Bankman-Fried told The New York Times million dollar Bahamas home got listed under instead meant to house FTX employees. The new lawsuit alleges that this is untrue. Part of the evidence in this lawsuit is an a series of non-taxable methods to structure Group to him and his partner Barbara Fried. The suit claims that Sam's father had a had broad authority to make decisions for and/or manager and "rather than help the conglomerate, [Sam's father] focused on for FTX insiders. In November 2021, Joseph Bankman is alleged protection for the FTX Group. An email is referenced where he scheduled primary residences can be structured to be Joseph is alleged to have initiated a discussion be great, all else equal, if we could, have the Bahamas." In the email he included a link to an offshore The lawsuit says that he "sprang into action Sam's father is alleged to have collected professor, local counsel in The Bahamas, and He is then claimed to have determined that we might use when we buy property in the Bahamas," work in the US, and to what extent...." Barbara Fried (Sam's mother) - who was of contributing to the excessive spending The lawsuit additionally Highlights titles like "The Limits of Personal Responsibility" The suit alleges that she described herself noncriminal sort" and that she encouraged avoid (if not violate) federal campaign finance There are a lot of big accusations in this you about today's video sponsor. Brilliant.org is the best way to learn math their user-friendly app. Brilliant has thousands of lessons from foundational networks and more with new lessons added monthly. They have a great range of Statistics and Brilliant is built for busy people you tell app every day, the app then works out your lessons. I'm told it's six times more effective watching a lecture. whether you're learning math, computer science interactive lessons help you master key concepts To try everything brilliant has to offer free or click on the link in the video description. The first two hundred of you to sign up will subscription. Although Bankman-Fried has out forth that the relevant parts" of the business, the much involved-- from the founding of the As early as 2018, Bankman described Alameda used to refer to the FTX Group. As early as 2018, Bankman provided legal and no official title or employment arrangement He is alleged in the complaint to have arranged per month as a consultant on charitable contributions. Former Alameda staffers say that Joseph Bankman from Fenwick &amp; West, Alameda's law firm, he was involved not only on tax issues but for FTX and FTT, the made-up currency Bankman-Fried Towards the end of 2021 Bankman entered into as a Senior Advisor to the FTX Foundation Bankman continued in this role until his resignation, bankruptcy filing. Philanthropy is always a struggle for the Bankman's signed employment agreement showed as soon as the first paycheck came in that dollars a year. FTX records show that he emailed his son about here. This is the first [I] have heard of the 200 He Cc'd Sams mother on the email, for extra And that is probably a good tip for anyone the bosses mom... I've heard it always works... Complaining (it turns out) was the right thing gifted his parents $10 million dollars in to the suit. Within three months, Bankman-Fried is alleged dollar property in The Bahamas paid for with Bankman and Fried (the parents) enjoyed the paid for by FTX Trading, for their Bahamas The lawsuit says that Sams mother served as her son and The FTX Group's political contributions, son to contribute millions of dollars directly that she co-founded, or the organizations Mind The Gap is in no way associated with as a left-wing super PAC dedicated to helping More than five and a half million dollars employer - Stanford University. I'm not really sure why you would want that imagine it provides some job security. The complaint alleges that Sams Father - the means by which to remit payments to Stanford You have to wonder what the conversations one parent working out ways to finance a left-wing avoid paying taxes. Matt Levine on Bloomberg describes Barbara of not blaming people and Joseph Bankman as taxes. The lawsuit claims that Sam's parents were guiding the company executives, many of whom or wood nymphs who had never previously run managed billions of dollars. FTX US General Counsel described Sam's father overseer of the FTX businesses." In a September 2022 internal document intended Joseph Bankman was listed as part of the "Management Joseph is alleged to have made significant (some of which were retroactively approved He is alleged to have authorized expenses hiring recommendations, pushed for board and candidates. So, not really a bystander or observer. Amusingly, Bankman received a cameo appearance Bowl commercial. Bankman pushed for his role in the commercial, and don't really care about meeting, say, But Larry David.... Not long afterward, Bankman showed up on set of Independence. When told "the people shall have the right ones?" Bankman, wearing a powdered wig, shouted, FTX paid roughly $20 million dollars to create In a joint statement about this lawsuit, Bankman a dangerous attempt to intimidate Joe and days before their child's trial begins." They added that the FTX debtors' claims The Lawsuit claims that Joseph Bankman was affairs. It says that from mid to late 2021, he learned to incur) significant liabilities on behalf FTX Insiders. Sams father is alleged to have introduced Group. He also selected the law firm to serve as makes sense given his background in law). Interestingly he is alleged to have advocated general counsel of the FTX Group. Many have pointed out how strange a choice given his background as the general counsel been embroiled in a cheating scandal a few Software at Ultimate Bet had included a secret players out of more than $22 million dollars. Most firms would have avoided hiring someone to the complaint, Sams father - a man who at top law firms (given that he taught at advocated hiring him. I guess Saul Goodman wasn't available. Bloomberg describes Friedberg as being among FTX and as a lawyer, fixer and more for Sam The lawsuit claims that given Sam's father's to see the true nature of the FTX Group's It is alleged that he observed and participated practices with the training and knowledge of a clinically-trained psychologist. But when red flags about the operations and to ignore them. With regard to the house that Sam Bankman listed under his parents' names. The complaint alleges that according to internal when Bankman and Fried (the parents) signed two of them) for a total cash payment of just costs, taxes, and fees - so that is up from in the past. Neither Bankman nor Fried allegedly contributed FTX Digital Markets is claimed to have paid its easier to use a bank wire than to pay The complaint claims that these funds were commingled customer funds included. Internal documents are said to have described a property "reconveyed to/purchased for The complaint says that this description omits the property was purchased was Bankman-Fried's work for the FTX Group. The complaint states that there are email house as "our house" multiple times. Joseph Bankman allegedly emailed the co-CEO come to celebrate the house you helped us Who knows, maybe the employees just helped The parents are alleged to have instructed house maintenance expenses, cleaning services, with credit cards backed by funds that belonged Bankman and Fried are alleged in the complaint $90,000 in expenses associated with the property from FTX Trading. The new management of FTX say that they have reimbursing the FTX Group for the purchase furnishings, or fees associated with the property It is additionally alleged that neither Bankman equivalent to the fair market rental value fees. Who knows though, maybe it was put in their for FTX employees. So, what about that ten-million-dollar payment? Well, the complaint claims that there are too. It is alleged that in January 2022 Sam's non-taxable methods to structure a transfer to himself and his partner Barbara Fried. Bankman is alleged to have proposed that, to the 250-million-dollar loan Sam has from Then, Sam gifts the money to us and there Eventually, Sam can recognize income when dividend or capital gain rate, but that can some or all of the tax." The attorney Daniel Friedberg agreed that as a loan to Bankman-Fried, and then be gifted Sam could then transfer the "loaned" funds and/or Fried. There is no indication that Sam ever intended complaint. Both parents are alleged to have acknowledged gift, as indicated by an email from Bankman by this gift. Mom is announcing retirement, which she would In keeping with the plan to frame the transfer assets, in January 2022, Bankman-Fried proposed FTX US exchange account, which Bankman could bank account. His father replied, "perfect!" Sam is then alleged to have then transferred associated with Alameda Research directly 20 seconds later, $10 million was transferred So, the money can be seen as going from Alameda The complaint claims that six withdrawals under seven million dollars, into his parents going to leave it sitting on a dodgy crypto Unfortunately, his father also engaged in on the exchange. It doesn't say what he bought with it, possibly likes to decorate his new home. Who knows... The complaint goes on to claim that neither reasonably equivalent to the portion of the FTX's new management says that Fried, SBF's businesses as a piggy bank for her political The PAC which was set up to get Democrats of dollars from Bankman-Fried and another complaint. Singh's contributions, it notes, came directly It details a money-in, money-out cadence in within a day, Singh sent similar (or even mom's PAC. Singh has since admitted to campaign finance Maybe Fried, SBF's mother, was entirely an August 2022 email cited in the lawsuit son that he could use another FTX executive that has its own costs and risks." This is not a great thing to have in writing! The lawsuit claims that when Sams father learned in November 2019 alleging, among other things, pump and dump schemes, money laundering, operation unfair business practices, and violations did he insist, or even suggest, that the FTX review to determine whether the claims had control failures that might exist. These are things you might expect a competent Rather, Bankman suggested investigating the or not there are any disciplinary actions The complaint puts forth that whether or not inevitably would have laid bare the problems The complaint states that Sam's fathers towards bankruptcy. It says that Bankman's involvement with--and FTX Group increased toward the end of 2021, took a leave of absence from Stanford Law Unlike some of the FTX Group's other executives, after learning how haphazard its operations He instead positioned himself to extract monetary Group according to the complaint. The new management of FTX say that despite the FTX Group, including failing to properly in business entries, Bankman's access to to the FTX Group's business dealings gave businesses' insolvency. They claim that he knew, or should have known, even as he moonlighted as an actor in a Super dollars from the FTX Group. Bankman is alleged to have remained intimately end. On November 7, 2022, Bankman allegedly flew find sources of capital to save the FTX Group On November 10, 2022, the day before the Chapter to meet with The Bahamas Prime Minister. Since the announcement of this lawsuit alleging of dollars in donations from the now-collapsed funds and all gifts collected from FTX and After the collapse we didn't hear very much they were surprised to have found out that name. SBF's parents were also quite useful to accused of a long list of crimes. They were essential to SBF getting released Not only was Sam allowed to stay with them had the sheen of a place where responsible and Fried also secured the $250 million bond as collateral. Sam's parents are alleged to have made no which were the proceeds of their sons' criminal They haven't explained why, but the lawsuit, that they need the money to fund their son's The fact that Sam's father was heavily involved anyone to dispute at this point, given a clearly (under its old management) to raise awareness A great deal of the complaint revolves around legal experience, either knew FTX was a fraudulent so many obvious red flags that he bears legal The complaint doesn't show a smoking gun that the entire business was a huge fraud. (If it had one, maybe prosecutors instead But it does go a long way to paint Sam's maybe the new management of FTX hopes that parents to return some of the missing funds If you want to read the full complaint, I'll If you enjoyed this video, you should watch Don't forget to check out our sponsor Brilliant Have a great day, and talk to you again soon,