This video is a follow-up to our article Bidding a Project&quot;. This article will cover The following websites will help you locate market. Finding construction projects to as there are so many options. Determining which so we have assembled a partial list of some of the some Government, Public Work Projects. Most projects. If you're looking for residential work, The below websites are some of the best or public, commercial construction projects. The listing on these websites can provide notice from Design, all the way through post bid award. Most of these websites allow for but others also allow for searching of an or others involved in the construction process. Market Data, they state that they have over in the planning stages, in addition to ninety percent of all the projects bidding have which gives you plenty of time to put together they have U.S. and Canada, building type, phase construction award. They also allow you to search specifications for targeted keywords. The second and Analytics has been around in some form for industry better understand the construction and holds several assets in their portfolio, for commercial construction, and the Sweet's and owners. They have a whole solution of products construction leads. Dodge ConstructionLeads, drawings for a particular project, allowing You can search North American projects for office or your mobile device, receive stage of development, project value, or building and provide sales pipeline reports that can be exported to Excel or PDF. this is a source for bidding Government projects. and the trade served for the State and RFP's, RFQ's from over 80,000 agencies, including and Counties, as well as special district and Correctional Departments, Hospital, and Health Water and Waste Management, Parks and Recreation, and Toll Roads. For adding the Federal agency RFP's, and RFI's from the Federal government Homeland Security and GSA, General Services subscription gets you access to see upcoming Awards to your subscription allows you to see the are all upgrades to the standard service prices, on the date of this recording. State and Local to add Federal to that, so you have Federal, that's adding to seeing the upcoming opportunities and Advance, that means you get to see who got, website is iSqFt, so the site claims that you can which spans the U.S. and Canada, and includes access to projects in development, and that are General Contractors bidding on the project, They claim that they have a 91% attachment rate window of three weeks, giving you three weeks They state that you will increase by 5x, five receive by creating new GC relationships. They along with their contact information. Search by search for keywords in the documents. rReceive and Addenda's, and then they provide training. has the added feature of allowing you to do The 5th website is PlanHub. PlanHub allows you to project type, timeline, and more. You can submit PlanHub has a centralized dashboard where you calendar, instant messaging, and more. Cloud-based project blueprints, and project documents. or a quarterly basis, and the distance or So, for instance, their premier and then it goes up in 50 mile increments and 500 miles is $1,999. So, now or how many office's you have, that may dictate 6th website is Construction Wire or Build Central, on most private new construction projects, and You can search by location, stage of development, company type, owner, developer, tenant, Architect, Price starts regional portal up National portal gives you all 50 states and the website is Bidclerk. Bidclerk provides public and Information is available on projects You can download project data from Bidclerk in of contacts for Architects, Engineers, and Automatic email notifications when any The 8th website is Bidnet. Bidnet gathers Federal, the United States, and delivers new contract notification feature alerts you months before a an opportunity to influence the creation of the State industry, and your trade. Pricing is based Federal, State and Local being another, and you have to request pricing, they don't publish one of the few websites that list their fees up or full membership for $39.95 a month. Less fields to search for projects. Search seems and bid date range. Not as robust as other Going to show you get a free membership, but of see or what you can do. The regular bid membership in Canada. Number 10, Bid Central. Bid Central of you who want to chase work in Western Canada, to private and public projects, with auto Their pricing is as follows; browse free, of The 11th website is Biddingo.com. connects suppliers providing various goods municipal, education, crown corporation, and private companies from across Canada. Buyers advertise RFP's, RFQ's, RFI's, etcetera, They have access to detail reports such mandatory site meetings, amendment notices, bid assists buyers with fulfilling their purchasing search features, basically by category. 30 day free trial. You'll have to research this The 12th website is MERX's out of Canada. Another projects, plus an option to join the U.S. bidding secure bidding process made easier, more Searching criteria appears to be based on can search Public, Federal, State and Local type, open bids, close bids, and awards. in Canadian dollars. The basic plan is $60 per or Local One Province is $25 a month, National all of Canada $75 a month. We have put a below. If you like that video please give it a