Last year, for the first time in the history on the editing in Suicide Squad I indulged up needing drugs or alcohol to get through In the script it was supposed to be cooking at the last minute I decided to use an old recreating the trope. Anyway, let's talk about the art of storytelling I'm going to warn you, The Book of Henry There's a decent risk that knowing about and family as you insist on recounting every The Book of Henry is a case study in what and re-writing the same script. Crime novelist Steven Horwitz originally mid 90s. It got some buzz and made the rounds, but Horwitz held on to it and kept making changes It's no wonder, then, that the film is something children's films and films-about-children, Pay It Forward, to Extremely Loud and Incredibly The end product is, from a critical perspective, The failings and poor decisions are interlinked the relative construction of the others. There is not a singular problem, but a complex rooted in the insurmountable flaw that is This is a movie about a mother, Susan, who kidnap his step daughter, Christina, following Henry, who just died of brain cancer. Or it's about Henry, a kid genius who decides terminal brain cancer and spends his final his mother, Susan, can carry out the murder But it's also a heartwarming, life-affirming we should be doers, not dreamers, and we should are sad, because as we all know, a sad teenager So to start this off properly I'm going recount the plot of the film without commentary, Alright let's go. Henry and his younger brother Peter get on philosophic about the nature of man, suggesting the rest of the time people are exactly who In class Henry improvises his essay project and tells his teacher that he shouldn't [better for psycho-social development] While waiting after school Henry buys and Susan, pulls up in a beat up car. Henry tells her she should buy a new car because nothing wrong with the old car. At home Peter bugs Henry over the radio until Rube Goldberg machine. That night Susan puts Peter into the bath the family finances, telling mom that she At bedtime Susan reads the two boys a story that Henry won, and Henry gives the medal At breakfast the next morning Henry continues her how to use the computer, and the kids flips Henry off. They're called outside by their neighbour complains about the leaves on their lawn, At work Susan banters with her co-worker Shiela. Her boss, Jon, gives her her paycheck, suggests she'll need to check with Henry. At school Henry asks Christina how she's The medal that Henry gave Peter gets broken. Back home Peter sulks, Henry cheers him up Then Susan comes home with Sheila, the two Henry wakes up with a headache, spies on Christina is up with Glen. The next morning Susan drives the kids and her, on the ride to school and in class, then office, and says "goddammit Janice, how They argue about Christina being abused by Goddammit Janice tells him she needs conclusive alone. The kids get picked up by Susan after school, get groceries and see a dude beating on his but Susan tells him to mind his own business. Henry calls Child Protective Services on Glen, Christina puts a lot of weighty emphasis on Susan agrees to drive Christina to and from planning on going. Susan tells Henry to be less serious. Henry says he should have gotten involved the worst thing. CPS checks on Glen and Christina, but the starts driving around town on his bike, making scene investigation, and scouts out a gun to buy an illegal gun by dropping the name Back home Susan is playing Gears of War and At bedtime there's an argument about who's number two, then Susan sings them a song. In the middle of the night Susan is woken a seizure. He's rushed to hospital, it's incurable to the neurosurgeon. Sheila visits Henry in the hospital and kisses [I am not okay with this] Henry and Susan argue about the finances, notebook, Henry and Susan argue about finances night. After a few days, Peter comes home, Susan hottie comes by for a house call where he At work Susan is losing her mind, Jon sends via letter that she has six hundred and eighty even more in stocks and bonds. At home Peter finds Henry's red notebook, [I think Henry wants us to kill Glen] Susan argues with the book, calls CPS herself, to check the safe where she finds tapes and The tapes walk her step by step through withdrawing at the gun store, and buying [stuff] Susan then gets a copy of Glen's signature to forge custody papers for Christina. At the talent show, doctor hottie shows up Once the show starts Susan synchronizes her drives back to the tree fort, and sets up While she's aiming, back at talent show Janice, seeing the sad dance, goes and makes Back at the treehouse Susan has a brief moment taking instructions from a tape recorded by shoot the police commissioner in the head Standing ovation. There's your big Kuleshov Effect moment Glen confronts her [what the hell is going on?] She threatens him, jumps in her car to get a phone call, and shoots himself. Susan gets back just in time for Peter's Henry from his trunk in the form of a fake Christina learns her step father is dead. The court gives custody to Susan. Susan burns all evidence of her crimes, and number one and Butterfly number one into bed. Credits roll. [title card: Money Problems, or Lack Thereof] This might seem like an odd point to start about the money issues in the film. In the middle of the movie, after Henry dies, a letter from Henry, that says she has six bank, and even more in stocks and bonds. They're rich! Henry has, from beyond the grave, saved the No more will mom be forced to miss bedtime She can now realize her true passion to be This is a genre touchstone. These sorts of movies about exceptional kids or just dealing with financial difficulty, It's easy drama. Little Man Tate, Radio Flyer, and Pay it Forward Single mom raising one or two kids at the driving a beat up car, joking with her coworkers Here's the problem. The family in The Book of Henry is doing fine. They're fine. Earlier in the film Jon explicitly points I mean, heck, they live right next door to Henry buys and sells stocks over the phone. Susan only seems to work part time, and it's bills. Henry has brain surgery and no one is concerned Hell, our first introduction to Susan is contextualized [I wish you'd get a new car, it's not These beats comes up several times, where afford stuff, and she never disagrees. In fact the opposite. She chides him and says that being able to He also tells Susan that she can afford to He's constantly telling her to pay attention reports and bank statements, but the reveal mean anything from a story standpoint. This scene works just as well if that line is this. [no, you're not fine] Hell, if anything the scene accidentally implies situation and that Henry has outed her wealth her. Now, the fact that the family isn't living Just because it's a staple of the genre that for it to be effective or complete. But, as you can see from all these examples, It is not an unstated dimension or a background The weird thing is that it actively works This is a rare film that opens with a thesis Henry's improvised essay in front of the aimed at the audience, and in Henry's little the exact sort of obsession over money that [montage] Ha ha ha, it's a bad movie. [title card: Henry's Plan is Bad and Stupid] Henry's plan is bad and stupid. It's exactly the kind of bad and stupid that you'd expect to be cooked up by a dumb That in and of itself could be something fun paired with the incredibly heavy subject of fact that an adult follows the plan almost that maybe murder isn't actually the answer. This is all paralleled by constant assertions who thinks of everything. So for fun let's point out all the flaws From the start I need to emphasize that this It's also, theoretically, a plan to rescue it's a plan to kill Glen. We'll talk about this in more detail later, or involves Christina that, really, rescuing plot to kill Glen. You could swap the motive for anything else The first thing to highlight is that most he's going to die, meaning that he was, follow through with these steps. This is a big screenwriting problem because the character knows, so the plan is accidentally need to execute the plan. A lot of the smaller details of the plan are and illustrations from Henry's notebook, the opening credits. Despite all the attention given to minute all the branches, the basic concept of the Get a gun, lure Glen out into the woods, and the playhouse. After that, as per the illustration, the body thrown off the bridge into the lake. The biggest hole here is that every version Henry explicitly scopes out the gun store, he assumes the headaches are just stress. Except if we take the cancer out of the equation with the whole Dominic thing, even the gun rules for cash isn't going to sell a sniper The next biggest hole is the body. Again, the scriptwriter knows that neither they don't bother to sweat the details, body to fall into the river, and by river This creek. Now, to me, someone who watches way too many hide a body creek as much as it's a hey So Henry's master plan to kill Glen is really no one suspects his neighbours. Once we move away from the concept, into the falls apart into needless complexity. The hilarious thing is that Henry repeatedly but then fails to plan for even basic contingencies. The most glaring hole is in step one: lure Apparently the best idea the authors could strapped to an amplifier. Seriously, that's the plan. Susan whistles into a walkie-talkie and this his gun before going to investigate. It also needs to be stressed here that everything tight schedule, as Susan needs to be seen of the evidence, and get back before anyone So plan for every contingency, but the whole gets a phone call, takes a shower, or does hearing the noise that's supposed to lure A great problem with the plan is that Henry, of different ATMs to withdraw a few hundred He says that this is to avoid suspicion and up a bunch of different ATMs in a short span going to draw suspicion. Also, sweetie, you're rich. You have well over a million dollars in investments Just go to the bank and take out the money It's not even that much. She only takes out $1500, which is, one, not gun store, and two, not a suspicious amount That's buying crap off Kijiji money. Oh, also, last note here, just because it's [plywood is slightly thicker than the human This isn't a flaw in the plan, it's just proud of they made sure to include it in the You're shooting 30 caliber frangible bullets, here. [Henry is a Dick] [emotional intelligence] That's a mind-boggling statement that just sees the world. Henry is the least emotionally aware person He's actually a huge prick. I mean, his first actual scene is him dunking enough for Henry's tastes. Rather than being a kid who has been unfairly or addicted parent, Henry has self-appointed This is tied to the movie's characterization there's no indication that things wouldn't Henry is the kind of person who self-martyrs The film also tries to play Henry two ways, Susan tells him to spend less time focused half a scene about all the awards that Henry So on one hand we're supposed to think about bonus work, and then some. But then in that first scene, the Tyler Durden an essay that he's written, except he's He didn't do the work at all. So there's the other implication, that he's is beneath him. To cap it off, he mocks his teacher. [psycho social development] This whole moment is demonstrably false. Every shot of him in class, he looks absurdly Henry spends his lunch playing checkers in where he does the whole movie smart person just to show that he was in control all along, It's also incredibly hack on the part of Like, this is just the worst kind of lazy Oh, and we can't forget the scene where Janice's office and threatens to turn in Henry also gets really judgy about Susan playing He mocks the way that she plays, and polices He's actually really, really condescending [montage of times Henry is the worst thing"] [you're doing it wrong] What? No, no she's not. The middle finger is a gesture with a high You have your classic style Detroit style The web shooters And, of course, The Logan. There's nothing wrong with her form. You're not being accurate, you're just off. Oh, and how can we forget the part where Henry [high degree of emotional intelligence] [Title card: Susan is Negligent, But Not Really] How the film characterizes Susan is, for me movie is constructed. All of the previous stuff about the way that in that the movie still seems to think that He's an asshole genius as directed by someone The byproduct of this is that every time Henry consequences always skew towards Henry. Even in the big death bed argument, where and Susan says it doesn't matter, this isn't fear in the face of mortality, but instead Within the framework of the story this isn't up loose ends because he's the adult in Henry's plans and behaviour never actually The closest it gets is when Susan decides from that because Glen kills himself a few This moment, right here, where Susan goes picks up, where the stakes are raised, but according to Henry's plan with no fallout So this creates a dynamic where the film is aren't actually true if you think about From a structural standpoint, the main problem because none of her real problems are addressed, truly a problem. Susan's deal is that she's complacent. She's comfortable, she's safe, she's of coasting through life, raising her two requires her constant, unbroken attention. She has plenty of time to bond with her kids, events, make them breakfast, and pack their Now, she does have a bad case of Cool Mom, has no real ambitions, but the family is, She's not super keyed into the family finances That's the luxury of being well off, regardless This goes back to everything we talked about Susan ostensibly doesn't know about all market, but it doesn't seem to bother Susan As far as she's concerned the family is has, and nothing suggests that if it weren't I mean, presumably they survived just fine Being a Cool Mom is a character flaw, in the it. It's not causing problems. Cool Mom is a surface level problem, a behavioural Being a cool mom didn't lead to Henry's It's only kind of a problem for one scene justifiable, but temporary, breakdown. Nothing that goes wrong in the second half she was failing to do when Henry was alive, parent, should have been doing instead. The thing that the movie chooses to use as she plays video games and has one girls night cost of anything. She's not playing games instead of getting She's not playing games instead of going the movie has explicitly told us that she place.) She's not drinking instead of helping with the day, or inviting Sheila over six nights She's just playing games, sometimes. [turn it off] Yeah, the movie is super judgemental about focused on her kids. So as a character arc she kind of learns at the kid he was and not the small adult he But he's already dead, so it's not like Aside from that she's just kind of complacent. Her sub-plot about wanting to be a picture to even call it a sub-plot. It's not Susan's ambition so much as it's approves of. [Title card: Christina is a Lamp] Alright, this one is the heavy one. Christina's involvement in the film is a You could replace her with just about anything She could be a sack of jewels that Glen has The plot to kill Glen is supposedly motivated but Christina isn't involved in it at all. Her agency in all of this is utterly absent. This is why it's really just a plot to kill The whole story started from the idea of a the dudes who made it were so busy high-fiving bother to ask if a story about an eleven year vehicle for that. [bts tonal tightrope clip] Jesus, they Anyway, Christina only has a half dozen lines even try and empower her, only taking the giving up. Yet we're expected to believe that she's has fancy personal handshakes with Susan and behind. [disgusted face] From a storytelling standpoint there's a plot unfolds. We, the audience, first get an inkling that Christina is sad on the playground. That night, by happenstance, Henry is looking Christina being abused by Glen. Now, from our perspective this is the inciting Henry has discovered a crime, and is now going The next morning he tries, lightly, to prod when she isn't interested in a donut, he and [goddammit Janice] This is complete whiplash. We're twenty minutes into the movie and this is an ongoing thing that he has tried He's dumping all this new information that Everything about the framing, music, and acting is new, not some long running thing that Henry In the first scene with all the key players the fact that the kids don't particularly Also in one of the weirdest creative decisions, to school with bruises, the hacks that went a game in one move to show he's smart] decided bruise. It's weird. Why wouldn't you show us that? It's the easiest thing to show. Then goddammit Janice says she needs concrete All of this repeats again at the end, when apparently has all this information stashed is just asinine in a story that's literally We have the process Henry used to partially actual evidence against Glen. The movie has this really weird aversion to or negligent in some way. If the filmmakers gave Christina visible bruises who can see those bruises, including Susan, Their failure to react or willingness to overlook complicit in Glen's abuse. The movie goes to weird lengths to give everyone No one makes actual, awful mistakes, they I mean, that's why they're even doing It's all just shoddy convenience so that plan to kill Glen, make it look like there maybe Henry was actually just a little too [Title card: Henry is Jesus] Easily one of the strangest elements of the First of all, the movie is called The Book of biblical books. The Book of Matthew, The Book of John, The Luke, Esther, Ruth, Malachi. Second, Henry's death is an aesthetic call The thinking man's Jesus imagery, for when Third, Henry's number one disciple, the others of their importance, is named Peter. Fourth, the family name is Carpenter, which had a metaphysical guide named Christian Shepherd. Fifth, at the very end Susan reads her new a garden with its body, which is just a muddy died to exalt mankind, but is also clearly but made things better in the process? Okay, so, the movie thinks that its message [Henry clip] So the takeaway here is that the death of and to reach out and help others, that she the grocery store to willing to kill Glen But she didn't kill Glen, and, in fact, especially once she sees it for herself, she's Sure, the things that she tries are largely the murder plot, but she doesn't need any Even in the grocery store, the problem isn't She's worried that if she intervenes it This is not the moral failing she actually It's never even implied that killing Glen Oh, and if you want an actual example of a principle Goddammit Janice decides, completely to finally take do her job in a way that neatly central characters for any of their actions. Susan gets away with attempted murder because what she did. [Title card: A Lesson in Imagery] There's so, so much more we could talk about, scene in particular. My favourite scene in the whole movie for conception. For Peter's act in the talent show he pushes his brother Henry reappear. [When I'm done he's going to be here right Now, there's a critical detail from earlier After Henry's death there's no funeral This is important because this moment is supposed Did Henry, genus child and Jesus metaphor, out to the delight of all? Who knows! So Peter opens the chest, kicks the chest the audience. Just, everywhere. Then everyone gets up, standing ovation. Peter and Susan hug. So, this scene. This scene. Alright. What's going on here, what they're trying This is, obviously, a callback to the mountain Which no one in the crowd would be familiar spits out fake snow. Metaphorically, this is the Book of Henry's mangled Jesus metaphor. Peter, chief apostle, has preached to the has descended upon them. But you know what else it means, visually? It means that Peter has promised the crowd right here among them. And then he sprays them with a dry, white The visual implication, however unintended, the crowd. Standing ovation.