Transcriber: Ehsan Vatandoost I would like to talk to you right now and misunderstood word Freedom has two parts: freedom from - freedom from search and seizure; But freedom to choose has some The one we ascribe and that's an ideology. And there are some basic principles that we ascribe that is, we have to have knowledge. The five-year old who accidentally because he didn't have the knowledge. Access. We have 57,000 people being thrown off because of redistricting; They can't have personal And finally, affordability. You have to be able to afford your choice, and society has to be able An example: In California we've just who are drug addicts. We said, &quot;Drug addicts You know what? We can't afford it. So, these are all caveats And then the last one, is that your actions because if they do, Well, the fact is, and it's a big one. In fact, Medicare will be broke We do not have the money And this healthcare crisis it is not due to hospital charges, it is not due to infrastructure, This healthcare crisis is due That's where the money's going. $245 billion dollars last year $200 billion for dementia, And Obamacare promises us to put 32 million sick and we're going to to do it Well, guess what? There are no preventative services They don't exist. The only thing that works is prevention, So, what does this mean? This means that we're screwed. (Laughter) The fact is, that we cannot afford this. Where is this coming from? It's coming from this thing Everyone says, &quot;If only these people we would solve this problem; That's where this comes from. You know, we have these things We have absolved all five We've absolved jealousy, In fact, we have TV shows The only two that we have not the only two that still stand It's your fault. Well, you know what? I'm a pediatrician, I have a hard time ascribing In fact, we have an epidemic Obese newborns. Now, you want to assign them I take care of kids with brain tumors. You can see right here this arrow sitting right in the middle A brain tumor that is causing Let me tell you about Here's a patient that I took care She had a brain tumor, You can see her here And we put her on an experimental Remember, insulin is the diabetes hormone, It's the hormone that tells your fat cells There is no weight gain without insulin. And we knew that these patients So we gave her a drug to drop her insulin A week later, the mother called me up, and she says, &quot;Doctor Lustig, I go, &quot;How do you mean?&quot; &quot;Well, we would go to Taco Bell, and she would eat five tacos and she'd still be hungry. We just went to Taco Bell and she only ate two tacos, And she just vacuumed the house!&quot; (Laughter) I go, &quot;Really? Isn't that interesting.&quot; In fact, we did this many times, And here she is, one year later and feeling much better The next patient I'm going to show you This is a beautiful 13 year old girl Notice the lily in her hair. And one month after this picture and she stroked her hypothalamus, that area of the brain where And this is her, one year later. Now, does anyone really want to tell me That this was this young girl's fault? Well, I was giving grand rounds and they said maybe we should And there I am with her. And her mother said, And here she is one and a half years later Now, does anybody really that this is this kid's fault? I have a hard time with that. In fact, what we learned is that the behavior When you fix the biochemistry, and we've seen it now in adults as well. So, everyone says No, it isn't. The biochemistry Well, so now you say to me, &quot;What about the rest of us? We don't have brain tumors.&quot; Well, in fact, Nothing's different. All of us now have insulin levels and the question, of course, Who in the audience has diabetes? Anybody? Must be a few of you, because Here's the problem: seven out of eight people with diabetes don't even know they have it. You are blind to diabetes, So you don't even know So here's the way to look at this. Here is the American population; The standard mantra is, &quot;It's the obese person's fault because They have type 2 diabetes; they have cardiovascular disease; they have cancer; they have dementia; and they are breaking the bank. Those 80%, those 57 million people, if we could just get them we could solve this problem.&quot; That's the standard mantra; this is incorrect. Because 20% of those obese people They will live a completely normal life, not cost the tax payer a dime. They're just fat. Conversely, up to 40% have the exact same diseases. They get type 2 diabetes, hypertension, And you know what? They don't know they have a problem. When you add them up, In other words, Here is an example of how that works. Here are two people of equal weight; Want to take a guess Can you tell? I can tell. The one in the bottom is sick; why? The guy on the top, The guy in the bottom has got fat and that is what's making him sick. And this is called TOFI; T,O, F, I. Thin on the outside, fat on the inside. I venture to guess there's a few and you think you are just fine, So lets talk about the last public HIV; remember HIV? 1979; Patient Zero. 1981; the term &quot;AIDS&quot; got coined. 1986, Everett Koop said, When did HIV become 1991. Why? Because Magic Johnson got HIV. And everybody said, &quot;Holy ____, This really is something Because it's not a behavior, So the question is, Well, here's the problem; This is Coca Cola's &quot;beating obesity&quot; &quot;Beating obesity will take based on one simple common sense fact: All calories count, no matter including Coca-Cola, A calorie is a calorie, and you can get or you can get your calories or from Coca Cola, or anything else It doesn't matter where it's, &quot;a calorie is a calorie&quot;, Well, you know what? I don't believe in common sense. I believe in data. And the data say something else entirely. What the data say is some calories because different calories because a calorie is not a calorie. And when you believe that a calorie and actually, how to fix this problem This is because of our new diet. It is 40 years old now. it is called &quot;the industrial global diet&quot;, and it is basically And everyone of you whether you like it or not. There are eight things wrong, not one, but eight things wrong Three thing too little, Not enough fiber, not enough which you get from wild fish not enough micro-nutrients, In addition, too much trans-fats, branched-chain amino acids; they're amino acids you get omega-6 fatty acids in seed oils, the one that blows all the other Sugar, okay? We're going to talk about that Does sugar cause diabetes? Everyone says, &quot;Well, yeah, &quot;Sugars are empty calories,&quot; It is not; this is absolutely not true. Sugars are &quot;toxic calories&quot;. In fact, studies from Europe show your risk for diabetes goes up 29%, irrespective of your weight, We've shown that for every diabetes prevalence goes up But if those 150 calories happen to be 1.1%, and we're not consuming we're consuming two and a half. So 29% of all the diabetes in the world is due to sugar, and sugar alone. This study actually satisfies for proximate cause. You have to be able to show before you can do something about it. Well, we've proven it; we've shown it. It's shown here as well; same thing. Now, the question is, Number one: sugar causes All that fat around the organs For sure, that's what that did. And that's not love-handle fat, Number two: sugar's addictive. Weakly so, but it's everywhere, And about 20% of people probably about the same for sugar. So you can't stop. So this slide over here shows worldwide as we speak right now. Who's worst? Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, The worst. Why them? No alcohol. But they've got soft drinks Because it's hot, and the water and no alcohol. (Laughter) This is their reward. But you know what, Because you can only drink yourself (Laughter) But for soft drinks; all day, all night. Sugar in the morning, sugar That's what we're seeing. So, we've been overdosed. The American Heart Association says we should be consuming we are up to 22. And 80% of foods that are available are spiked with added sugar. And that's for the food industry's So, no access. You don't have access Real food is hard to find. Number two: How about that there are 56 so you don't even know And here there are. No knowledge. And how about this? Everybody knows what There's a number It's called the &quot;Daily Value&quot;. Notice, there's none for sugar, because they don't want you to know So, no knowledge. How about the National Six cents extra. Six cents, Michelle Obama That's not even enough for two grapes. And, if you are eating school breakfast, you're getting Fruit Loops That's 11 teaspoons of sugar; You want to know why we have a problem? This is why we have a problem. So everyone says, &quot;Education!&quot; &quot;Educate the public, educate Except for one thing: education hasn't Did Nancy Reagan's &quot;Just Say No&quot; work? (Laughter) Really? (Laughter) And you know what? I can prove that it doesn't work against the S&amp;P 500 and look at what happened They did very well, thank you. In fact, if you want make money, So, where does that leave us? It leaves us with this question What does personal Well, if the information is kept secret if your access is limited and if society can't afford it, and we can't even give our kids is it really personal responsibility? And lastly, if your decision lands you in the emergency room, and if your decision to be fat and sick costs your employer $2750 per employee, whether you're obese or not, That's not called freedom, That's what we've got. So the libertarians say, &quot;Wait a second; Well, you know what? Where were you for the last 40 years as your food supply was being Were you protesting then? The libertarians say, You know, I don't want unless there's somebody So the real question is, who the hell The government, who will take Or the food industry, whose already taken your freedom, That's your only choice. Now, having said all this, the food industry and you know what? They really want Individually, they would actually And I have met with these people, but, they work for a food company. and contrary to what corporations are not people. Because corporations have a fiduciary and people don't. Corporations get three month profit And they have to make those reports. So I've met with the food industry, which will remain nameless, They told me very straight out, they said, &quot;You know, we can change. We've changed before. we had to change back in the 80s with two provisos; we wont go it alone, Those are two non-starters today. So what does that mean? That means that they and they have to do it so that there's no What does that mean? That means government. But governments are complicit They're getting paid off. Over half of Congress takes money And 6% of our exports are food. What do you think what happen &quot;You know, all that shit we put in food? It really isn't so good for you.&quot; What happened when that one downer cow That was at the end of meat sales So, they're on the other side. But we've got a crisis, Here is a report that just came out an international investment called Sugar Consumption at a Crossroads, &quot;We believe higher taxation on sugary food to reduce intake and fund associated with diabetes and obesity.&quot; An investment bank That's how big and bad I believe food should and it used to. But you know what? This is a public health crisis, and you cannot solve public health Here is a list of diseases that were all except for the sheer gravity became a public health crisis. Why don't we add sugar to the list? Personal responsibility isn't ideology. It's the elephant in the kitchen, What we need is a policy And it's got a name. It's called real food. And the only way we can solve this is by kicking that elephant Thank you. (Applause)