Hello everyone, welcome to my channel. Today, we will prepare a very nice pastry with you that you will try and never regret. It is a wonderful recipe with layers of crispy layers. As I said, I recommend you to try it. Before starting our recipe, I would be very happy if you share with me in the comments section which country or city you watched my video from. I have already started my work. First of all, let's take 5 cups of flour into a suitable kneading bowl, then add a level tablespoon of salt and a very small amount of yeast, approximately 1 gram, a pinch, then add water little by little, mixing well, and gather the dough with the help of a spoon. Once the dough is completely collected, continue kneading with our hands. Let's say the consistency of the dough is very important. That's why the longer you knead it, the better it will be. As always, I first brought the dough to this consistency, then I put it on the counter and continued kneading until it got an elastic consistency again. The kneading process on the counter in this way is really like this. It is very important for recipes . I recommend you to apply it. Once it has a nice smooth consistency, it means it is ready. Our dough should be a dough that does not stick to the hand and is not too hard. After the dough is ready , I divide it into equal parts and turn it into balls with my hand. Flour the parts a little, then immediately put them on the tray, cover them well with a bag or cloth, so that they don't get air, and let them rest like this for 10-15 minutes, so that the dough can loosen itself a little and make it easier for us to roll it out. Then, I immediately put one of them on the counter, covered the bottom and top with a little flour. I'm starting to roll it out with the help of a rolling pin. At this stage, you don't have to use a rolling pin, you can also enlarge it as much as possible. [Music] After rolling out our dough as much as we can, let's drizzle butter on it. Approximately 150-200 grams of butter, which I melted and prepared beforehand, will be enough. Just wetting it and covering it all over with a brush will be enough. After wetting all sides with the help of the help of the dough, I immediately roll out the second dough and place it on it. At this stage, the dough may not be exactly equal to each other. Therefore, I need to pull the edges to even out the dough completely . Now, roll out the other dough in the same way and let's not forget to grease our dough with butter at each stage. I roll out the dough one by one. All the details. So, I wanted to show it quickly like this without going into too much detail and I placed the last dough on it, equalized the edges with my hand, oiled it well with oil and then expanded the dough a little with my hand. If your dough does not roll out very quickly at this stage, you can let it rest for 5 minutes and then try to roll it out. In other words, as it rests, the oiled dough will feel better. It will release and roll out will be much more practical. Now let's turn our ready dough into a roll immediately. At this stage, gently pull the dough to make it even on all sides so that our dough, that is, the roll, is ready . I first cut the ready roll in two. Then, I cut the dough 3 fingers apart. Long, you know, I first cut it in half so that I wouldn't get very different measurements in each cut, and then I did it like this. If you do it this way, it will be even easier. As you can see, we got a very nice dough in layers. First of all, to prevent it from sticking to the tray, that is, while resting it while waiting. I stretched it on the tray to prevent it from sticking to the tray. You can place it in a bag. I quickly put the dough in it and placed it on the tray. Then, I stretched it well and let it rest in the refrigerator for half an hour. On the other hand, I have now moved on to preparing our stuffing, so I put about 500 grams of medium-fat minced meat into the pot. I added the remaining butter because my meat was not very fatty, I added oil because I did not want it to be completely fat-free . If the meat you will use is fatty, you can add oil. After frying the minced meat well, I added 2 onions. At this stage, I also add salt so that the onions lose their crispness quickly. After turning it , close the lid of the pot and cook it completely for 2-3 minutes on low heat. I waited for the onions to soften and release themselves, that is, for them to cook completely, then it was ready. I quickly added sweet powdered pepper, chili peppers, a pinch of parsley, and then I mixed it. Our stuffing is now ready. Let's leave it aside to cool down. Now let's start rolling out the rested dough. Let's roll it out on our dough. Let's take a piece of dough in our hand and press it as you see in the video, first expand the dough a little, then put a very small amount of flour on it so that it does not stick to my rolling pin, the other side may stick, but there is no problem in sticking to the counter. So, you can lift the dough again because it is cold, but if it sticks to the rolling pin, your job will be a little difficult. It will be much more difficult to separate the dough and roll it out. Therefore, if you flour your hands a little and lightly flour the top , your work will be more practical. I immediately rolled out all the dough, set it aside, and then quickly start adding the filling. 2 tablespoons will be enough. So, I recommend adjusting the filling according to the size of your dough. I slowly close the edges inward, holding them as you see in the video. At this stage, let's be careful not to leave the dough too thick, that is, let's only combine the very ends so that the bottom does not remain thick. This is also very important. If you close the dough too thick, then the bottom part will be too thick and it will not be able to cook or any. It may cause trouble. Therefore, just joining the end parts together will be enough. By the way, those who do not want to make minced meat can try it with various different fillings. It will suit very well and will be delicious. After shaping the whole thing, let's quickly arrange it on a baking tray lined with oiled baking paper, very close to each other. It will rise a little bit larger. I don't want them to stick to each other. Lastly, let's spread the buttermilk butter and oil mixture on them and I placed a little roasted Sesame seeds in the middle. You can also add black cumin, poppy seeds or something else. If you don't want to add any, it would be fine even if you didn't add any. Just a little bit fancier and more beautiful. I think it turned out great. This way, it is ready to go to the oven. Let's send it to bake in a preheated oven at 1902 degrees. If you want, you can bake it at a lower setting, but since our dough is thin enough, it will cook quickly anyway. There is no need to bake it for a long time. It is a very nice and crispy dough. You can feel it both in the video and in the dough. I showed you the crunch and consistency of the dough. I'm showing you the inside right away. It's really one of the few pastries I've made so far. I've made a lot of pastries. Yes, but I can say that this one is on the first list of the ones I like the most. If you try my recipe, I recommend it to everyone who will try it. Do not forget to share your experiences with us to get an idea. See you again in my new video recipes.