- This video is about the ridiculous way we used to calculate Pi. For 2000 years the most successful method was painstakingly slow and tedious, but then Isaac Newton came You could say he speed-ran Pi and I'm gonna show you how he did it. But first Pi with pizzas. Cut the crust off of pizza and lay it across identical pizzas. And you'll find that it goes this is Pi. The circumference of a its diameter but Pi is also area's just Pi R squared. But why is it Pi R squared? Well cut a pizza into really thin slices and then form these Now the area of this rectangle The length of the rectangle because there's half the crust on one side and half on the other, so the length is Pi R. And then the width is just which is the radius of So area is Pi R times R, area is Pi R squared. So the area of a unit keep that in mind because So what was the ridiculous Well, it's the most obvious way. It's easy to show that Pi must take a circle and draw with sides of length one. A regular hexagon can be divided into six equal lateral triangles. So the diameter of the circle is two. Now the perimeter of the hexagon is six and the circumference of the circle must be larger than this, so Pi must be greater than six over two. So Pi is greater than three. Now draw a square around the circle, the perimeter of the square is eight which is bigger than the so Pi must be less than eight over two. So Pi is less than four. This was actually known And then in 250 BC, Archimedes improved on the method. - So first he starts with the and then he bisects the So that's a 12 sided, And he calculates its perimeter, the ratio of that will be less than Pi. He does the same thing and finds an upper bound for Pi. The calculations now because he has to extract square roots and square roots of square roots and turn all these into fractions, but he works out the 12-gon, and by the time he gets to the 96-gon he sort of had enough, but he gets, in the end he gets Pi to So for over 2000 years - Yeah, that seems like all - Right, so this goes way beyond precision for any practical purpose. This is now a matter of This is showing off just you have, that you can to very high precision. So for the next 2000 carried on bisecting as Pi passed through and Arab mathematicians, each along our committee's line. And in the late 16th century, doubled a dozen more computing the perimeter of only to be out done at the by the Dutch Ludolph van Ceulen. He spent 25 years on the effort the perimeter of a polygon That is four quintillion, 611 18 billion, 427 million, 387,904 sides. What was the reward for Just 35, correct decimal, places of Pi. He had these digits 20 years later, his record was surpassed by Christoph Grienberger who - But he was the last to do it like this - Pretty much. Yeah, because shortly thereafter on the scene. And once Newton introduces his method nobody is bisecting n-gons ever again. The year was 1666 and Newton He was quarantining at home due to an outbreak of bubonic plague. Newton was playing around like one plus X, all squared. You can multiply it out plus X squared. Or what about one plus X all cubed? Well, again, you can and get one plus three X plus And you could do the same or one plus X to the five and so on. But Newton knew there was to skip all the tedious arithmetic and go straight to the answer. If you look at the the coefficients on X well, they're actually just the numbers in Pascal's triangle. The power that one plus X raised to corresponds to the row of the triangle And Pascal's triangle it's something that's been known from ancient Greeks in a lot of different All you do is whenever you have a row you just add the two neighbors and that gives you the So that's a really quick the coefficients for one instead of sitting there - The thing that fascinated at those old documents was how even like, I don't speak those languages, I don't know those numbers systems and yet it is obvious, it is clear as day that they're all writing down the same thing which today in the Western - That's the beauty of Mathematics. It transcends culture, it transcends time, it transcends humanity. It's gonna be around well after we're gone and ancient civilizations, alien civilizations we'll Over time, people worked for the numbers in Pascal's triangle. So you can calculate without having to calculate for any expression one plus X to the N it is equal to one plus N times X plus N times N minus one plus N times N minus one times on three factorial and so on. And that's the binomial theorem. So binomial, because one in X by is two, there's is that this is a theorem that this formula is as the coefficients in Pascal's triangle. - [Alex] So all of this was - Yeah, exactly, everybody knew this. Everybody saw this formula and yet nobody thought to do with it the thing that Newton did with it which is to break the formula. The standard binomial theorem only when N is a positive integer, which makes sense. This whole thing is about times itself a certain number of times, but Newton says, screw that Math is about finding patterns and trying to find out where they break. So he tries one plus So that's one over one plus X. What happens if I just blindly for the right-hand side of the formula? And what you get is the terms Plus one minus one, plus one So that's one minus X, the next term will be a plus X squared, the next one will be a minus X cubed plus X to the fourth minus X to the fifth. So that just alternating series as the coefficient. - [Derek] So it becomes - Yeah, that's right. If you, don't a positive Newton's binomial theorem - But how do you understand that? Like for all positive integers it was just a finite set of terms and now we've got an - Yeah, so what happens is if you remember that formula, the coefficient looks times N minus two and so on, when you get to N minus N, you will eventually get there and N minus 10 is zero. So that coefficient and all are all zero and that's it's a finite triangle. But once you get outside of the triangle with positive integers, because N is not a positive integer, so you get this infinite series. - [Derek] So I think the big question is, does this actually work? Does Newton's infinite series of one over one plus X? - Right, and it might be nonsense. There's lots of math formulas when you do this. There's, we have rules for a reason but we should always know have a chance of working farther. If you take that whole by one plus X and you you'll see all the terms And so that big series In other words, that big that's how Newton justified to himself that it makes sense to apply the formula where it shouldn't be applicable. So Newton is convinced even for negative values of N, which means there's more above the zeroeth you that add to make that first one. And then that row would minus one, plus one, all And outside the standard triangle the implied value everywhere is zero. And this fits with that. The alternating plus and everywhere in the row beneath them. And you can extend the pattern either using the binomial theorem or just looking at what to make the numbers underneath. And here's something amazing. If you ignore the negative these are the exact same numbers arranged in the same pattern as The whole thing has just But Newton doesn't stop with the integers, next he tries fractional powers So now what does it mean, you take one plus X to the one half. Well, that's the same thing And he wants to understand does that have the same expansion. Putting N equals a half he gets an infinite series. - That makes me think that we could actually blow it up and add fractions in between the rows that - Exactly, there's even a between zero and one there's that you could put in for powers. - And you can think of each a third as existing in its own plane where in each plane pairs of numbers add to make the number beneath them. And doesn't have to be a - It doesn't have to it doesn't have to be a negative integer it doesn't have to be an integer. So now we're gonna take N to be a half and he works this thing out and then he could do all kinds of things. For example, he could work very quickly and efficiently we can write three is four minus one. And if we pull out a four, which is just two times the square root of one minus a quarter. If you put in minus a you'll get a very rapidly that will quickly give to high accuracy. Now, Newton is particularly because the equation for a unit circle is X squared plus Y squared equals one. And if you solve for Y, well is equal to one minus This is basically the same he just has to replace which adds in some minus signs on each term. But now he's got an equation for a circle where each term times X raised to some power. Now we have two different the same thing. And whenever you have something like that magic is about to happen, fireworks is about to go off. - But how does he use - Well, luckily for us, he or what he called the theory of Fluxions. He realizes that if you as X goes from zero to one, under the curve, which And he knows that the is exactly Pi R squared except R is one, so the area is Pi. And we want just a quarter, so the area is Pi over four. On the other side, he has this nice series and he knows how to You just increase each power of X by one and divide by the new power. And now you have an which just involve simple You put an X equals one and you can calculate Pi to But Newton goes even further A not good math paper has zero ideas, it's just pushing through things that everybody already knows Then there are good math that's really shockingly. New Newton's on new idea and he's about to have And new number five is from zero to one he's gonna integrate just from zero to a half. When you have an infinite series you want the terms to decrease That way you don't have to to get a pretty good answer. And Newton sees if he but from zero to a half, then when he subs in a half for X, each term will shrink in of X squared, which in But if you only integrate to a half, what is the area under the Well, it is this part of a circle, which you can break into a 30 which has an area of Pi on with a base of a half and a So that integral should And rearranging for Pi, Now, if you evaluate you get Pi equals 3.14161, in a 100,000. And to match the computational four quintillion sided polygon, you would only need to compute What, before it took years So no one was bisecting Why would you, yeah you do all that work and somebody comes along It's sort of like a, once and then somebody else is to put a brick on a house, like that's just not how we have new technology, we're gonna build a 100 story house, we're gonna build a five story thing that's gonna fall over. You see it in New York city. You see, literally we're There's rows and rows and all of a sudden here's a 20 story and here's the 30 story, So it's all about who has the technology. For me, this is a story of doing things is not always the best way and that it's often a good idea to play around with patterns and push them beyond the bounds where Because a little bit of can go a very long way. (upbeat music) - Hey, this video was sponsored by Brilliant a website and quizzes that let you like the ones I've shown in this video, calculus, neural networks, they've got you covered. Now, I sometimes get asked why I don't get into or solve numerical problems in my videos and the answer is because is the best way to learn those skills. The best way is to engage like you can on Brilliant. I love the way they scaffold building your understanding And as someone with a I can say this is the you have to be a little When I do these quizzes, is really working. So I can guarantee that you're at, Brilliant we'll It's the perfect compliment to watching fun educational videos. And for viewers of this channel, Brilliant are offering 20% off an annual subscription to the first 314 or Pi 100 people to sign up, just go to brilliant.org/.veritasium I will put that link So I wanna thank Brilliant for supporting Veritasium and I wanna thank you for watching.