- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [upbeat music] I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we are going to and the biology of desire, Today happens to be Valentine's day, 2022. However, the themes we pertain to desire, love and And indeed the mechanisms almost certainly were at hundreds of years ago, and no in our minds, and in our for the decades, centuries and Indeed today, I want to that lead individuals to with whom to mate with, with whom to have children with or not, with whom to enter short or long-term relationships with, and for perhaps to end those relationships or to seek relationships on I'm certainly not going any of these behaviors. I'm simply going to cover the on all these aspects of I'm going to discuss how our as they're called, influence Yes, you heard that right. How we attached or did not in our childhood has much or fail to attach to because the same neural circuits, the neurons and their that underlie attachment between toddler and and during adolescence are repurposed for adult I know that might be a but indeed that is true. Now the fortunate thing is that attachment styles and for desire, love and They are amenable to what we think and what we However, all three aspects desire, love and attachment are also strongly biologically driven. We're going to talk about such as hormones, biological mechanisms things like dopamine, and neural circuits, brain of the body that interact whether or not we desire somebody or not, whether or not we lose for somebody over time, what love means, and whether we form continue to include the elements of desire and love over time or not. In order to illustrate just can shape our perception of other people, I want to of a couple of studies. Both studies explore how people rate other And in both studies, the are at different stages Now in the first study, men of women according to Now they're not smelling them directly. They're smelling clothing of days at different phases And what they find is that men as most attractive if those women wore those shirts, that clothing, in the pre-ovulatory phase So this is not to say that men at other stages of their cycle. It is to say that men find women's odors particularly attractive, if that are in the pre-ovulatory phase of their menstrual cycle, okay? Now, there was also a study at different stages of are rating the odors of men. And a similar but mirror such that women who are of their menstrual cycle as more attractive than at So the simple way to put to be something special of a woman's menstrual cycle as more attractive during as more attractive during So this is a bidirectional effect. The way that the second study was done, where women are rating men was of those men on t-shirts, they did that, but they correlated the shirts were worn by men that were particularly They actually had these It was more of a continuum rather, rated according to body And women preferred more symmetrical men when they were doing the preference test during the pre-ovulatory So again, the point is phase of the cycle seems to create a bidirectional mutual attractiveness. Now, also extremely does really seem to have Because in both studies, they had women that were taking And what they found was oral contraception, it prevented attractiveness by the men, a woman to be more attractive at a particular phase of their cycle. And also women taking oral the odors of more symmetrical men during the pre-ovulatory Now, I want to make sure that it is not the case that the perception of a woman as attractive, that did not happen in these studies. It reduced the further of her as attractive. And if women took oral contraception, it prevented them from based on the odors of those men. Now I realize there are We've got odors, we've got symmetry, we've got menstrual cycle, And we have whether or not people are taking contraception or not. But the basic finding is that in their menstrual cycle, of them as attractive and as attractive and oral contraception So I share with you those we often think that somebody I don't know, how they look, their skin, their hair, et cetera, but it also illustrates that for some people more than others. Some of us tend to be more Although if you watched the that I did with Professor David Buss from the University of Texas, Austin, who's a luminary in the field and has studied mate choice and mate selection bias over decades, he's really one of the he emphasized findings is a maker or a deal breaker. Meaning, there are some people all the characteristics that of kindness, and and other features that of very high priority in selecting a mate, that if someone does not like their innate body odor and perfumes, and soaps, et cetera, that that's often a complete I'm sure there are some of And there's some of you not the case, and you can't such a powerful variable. And yet the data suggested for many people out there. Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science-related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Thesis. Thesis makes custom nootropics. Now nootropics is not a word because nootropic means smart drug. And there are a lot of different aspects to being smart or to intelligence. There's the ability to focus. There's the ability to task switch. There's the ability to be creative. And each of those different or expressions of intelligence involves different brain circuits, and indeed different hormones in the body. So I think it's rather naive to think that there could be one Thesis understands this. And so they've developed custom to the specific goals that you might have in terms of cognitive or skill learning of any kind. And they tailor them to the individual. They only use the highest many of which I've talked Things like alpha GPC, things like phosphatidylserine, which I also use on occasion. However, they've taken of those ingredients and formulations designed for For instance, I have Thesis nootropics that are for motivation, for mental clarity, others others that I take post-workout, Now, in addition to that not every ingredient is In fact, one particular on the podcast, Ginkgo for a lot of people. However, I don't tolerate it well. I get vicious headaches So none of the formulations for me include Ginkgo biloba. So again, these are custom for your particular goals, and where the ingredients really match your particular needs, and don't include things that or that create things like headaches. So the personalization of the nootropics is really I've been using Thesis nootropics for close to six months now. And I can confidently have been a total game changer for me. My go-to formula is If I'm going to be or I need extra energy, and I use the clarity formula nowadays for any kind of writing or creative work. Those are the two that I've If you want to try your own personalized nootropic starter kit, you can go online to takethesis.com/huberman. You'll take a three minute four different formulas to You'll have the ability to across that month, work best for you, your unique You can have a consult with them, and then they will give you Again, that's takethesis.com/huberman and use the code Huberman at checkout to gain 10% off your first box. Today's episode is also brought Now called AG1. I've been taking AG1 since 2012. So I'm delighted that they're The reason I started taking AG1 and the reason I still take is that it covers all of my Probiotics are essential because a healthy gut microbiome. The gut microbiome is metabolism, hormone function, and also we now know our brain function, things like focus and memory With AG1, I get the probiotics I need, I get the vitamins and to cover any nutritional gaps, And even if I am eating metabolism, hormone function, et cetera. In fact, whenever people ask me, what's the one supplement if I can only take one supplement? I always say AG1. I take mine early in the day. I mix it with water and I love the way it tastes. And I'll take it again later in the day, typically in the late afternoon. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman and claim a special offer. They're giving you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up AG1 while you're on the road, in the car, on the plane, et cetera, and a There's a ton of data now vitamin D3 is critical and that vitamin D3 even if we're Vitamin D three is hormone function, brain function, and many other aspects of our biology. So again, if you go to you can get a special offer five free travel packs and the Today's episode is also brought Inside Tracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done. For the simple reason that influence your immediate can only be discovered And nowadays with the you can also get information how your biological age compares which of course is a vital measurement. Now, one of the major issues out there is that people that lipid marker of one or that a hormone of another but they don't give about what to do with that information. Inside Tracker makes that Once you get your results back, you can click on any of those results. And Inside Tracker will that you can do, for or supplementation, or lifestyle factors to help you bring those that are appropriate for you. So it's immensely of the measurements, but also that can help bring those that are best for your If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can visit insidetracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of Just use the code Huberman at checkout. Let's talk about desire, And of course, these are topics that grab tremendous interest. So it's worth us defining before going any further. Of course, we can have many There's romantic love, so-called familial love, We can even love objects, where we can feel as if we love objects. We can love certain activities. We can have friends that we The word love is used to encompass a lot of different types of relationships. Today, we are mainly going to and the neural mechanisms I want to acknowledge here at the outset that most of the studies of romantic love have focused on monogamous And also when we talk about and attractiveness, and And that simply reflects the over the last 50 to 100 years. It does, of course, not or different mechanisms could be at play in non-monogamous relationships, in homosexual relationships, or in relationships of It's also worth us defining It can mean lust, it can mean the desire for long-term partnership. So we need to define our my best to very carefully what I mean by love, and The formal study of love, goes back to the early 1900s. One of the classic studies &quot;Love and Desire.&quot; It was published in on two opposing themes within romance. One is love which in that paper attachment and dependence between individuals, right? And the other end of the or the sexual desire for another. And romance was meant to love and desire. And for much of the 1900s, and desire were on opposing And it was the dynamic push and that one could define romance. And that actually led to in the psychological literature. Today, we are going to explore some studies of the endocrine system, meaning the hormone system that actually support that general model. And I'll point you toward what in thinking about how relationships over long periods of time can include both desire I'll also talk about some on why relationships and how that relates to whether amounts of attachment and desire. So today we're going to and indeed you'll also get some tools. Those tools should be useful you happen to be in a relationship or not, whether or not you're seeking I'd like to begin with an anecdote. And this is not an anecdote about my relationship history, it's an anecdote about When I started graduate school, the chairman of the department said to me, &quot;Most PhDs last And indeed he was right. And also most marriages in I think it's about 50% with a in divorce than persist But nonetheless, it's about half, and most marriages end before Most PhDs take anywhere So there was a bit of a but the point he was trying to make really landed home for me. It did not scare me out of relationships nor did it scare me out What it did illustrate about our attachment machinery that can be very, very compelling, such that people take on I have to imagine that assuming that they're going I don't think most people they're going to get divorced. But that if 50% of those there must also be mechanisms by which our attachments can break. And today we're going to of attachments and the what can prevent those and indeed what can There are biological and attachment, that's abundantly clear. Now there's a robust and in animal models. What I mean by that are field in primates of different kinds, such as macaque monkeys or bonobos. People have looked at believe it or not, in in different types of birds, et cetera. And if you look at that literature, biological examples in the any behavior that you can So for instance, there's the prairie vole. In one portion of the United States, this prairie vole species is monogamous. They only mate with only raise the young with for their entire life. And in another region the same species of animal, prairie vole, will mate with many individuals, And the major difference, between the prairie voles in one location and another location is called vasopressin in the brain and body. Vasopressin is present in humans. It has numerous biological roles. It's responsible, for the amount of urine that you excrete, the amount of water that you retain, and for sexual desire, Levels of vasopressin in prairie voles are strongly determinant of is going to be a monogamous Why do I raise this? Well, I raise this because the is quite beautiful and has in the popular press. You can look it up with an You'll find lots of lots of news articles about this, and lots of interpretations be involved in similar or Now, I don't have a problem with mapping animal studies to humans. I think there's certainly But if we just lean back of studies in animals and and their mate selection behavior, you can essentially find You can find examples of polygamy, you can find examples of you can find examples of all that in your own mind, you But it's really hard to make to humans in any kind of direct way. And so thankfully there's in the last mainly 20 years or so, looking at human mate selection, human desire, human love So we're mainly going to and where appropriate, we to the findings in animals to truths or some universal principles about how the neural circuits and biological mechanisms work. But by and large, we're going So unless I say otherwise, to today are entirely from human beings. So let's talk about attachment And this will offer you the opportunity to answer some important such as what is my, meaning, your attachment style in relationship? One of the most robust findings is this notion of attachment styles. And this was something that was discovered through a beautiful set by Mary Ainsworth in the 1980s, in which she developed called the strange situation task. Now, the strange situation over and over again in different cultures, in different locations And in preparing for this episode, I actually spoke to three I spoke to a psychoanalyst, I spoke to a cognitive and I actually spoke to a not a psychologist, but a and asked, is the strange situation task and the various attachment from that task, are those And indeed all three of a literature in psychology and has a firm basis in both and real world examples, it's this notion of attachment styles. So what is the strange situation task? The strange situation typically a mother in the but a parent or other their actual child into a laboratory. And there's a room with a the room with the child and And typically the mother Obviously the stranger is is not just some random And the child is allowed They can observe the mother interacting with the other person or not, they can play with toys or not, but then at some point the mother leaves. And then at some point later the mother comes back. And what is measured in these the toddler reacts to the mother leaving, and how the child reacts at the end of the experiment. And oftentimes this will have where the mother will bring then come back in and leave. There are also studies in with the stranger is also examined. So there are a lot of variations of this, but the basic findings are fall into four different And that these attachment of adolescent, teen, young attachment styles, not of the sort that I just ascribed, but in romantic attachments. I should mention also that meaning it can change across the lifespan. So as I describe the results, attachment styles that are out there, and if any of those resonate certain people in your life, those attachment styles for the entire lifespan. There are also terrific through specific processes, and some biological adjustments that people can change and that indeed people who have can change the attachment But just to make very of the study were, I want to attachment styles are, into one group or another but not several. So the four patterns of by these studies, again, the behavior of the child in and the mother returning, to the stranger that is The first style is the so-called In the nomenclature of this kind of study, these are the so-called B babies, as in the letter B, bulldog, B. Not for bulldogs, but just The secure attachment style will engage with the stranger, while the parent is present in the room. But that when the parent, but when the parent or the child does get visibly upset. They might whine, they might cry, they might even tantrum a bit. However, when the caregiver, or other caregiver returns, happiness that the caregiver So that's the hallmark of And again, this is all pre-verbal. This is happening long how they feel with words. And the interpretation of feels confident that the and will be responsive to their needs and their communications. So that when the child the parent doesn't come But at some point they do of trust that if the that the parent will come back, and that they're happy that they do. These children are also novel environments after and while the parent is there. And almost always, when they will explore more broadly, literally in space, than they will when the parent is gone. They also tend to engage that's not immediately but that over time in which they're kind of to one in which they're at So these were the general contours of the secure attachment style. And fortunately, nowadays measuring things like and other measures that assessment of what these Okay, so first category The second category is a or insecurely attached, which The children with attachment patterns or ignore the caregiver, all right? Meaning the parent, and when the parent leaves or returns. So this is the reason or anxious-avoidant and kind of insecure. There isn't this happiness or They don't seem to express that. They do not exhibit And they generally tend to the caregiver when they return, but there doesn't seem to be And again, physiological Things like changes in heart in the anxious-avoidant than in the secure attachment style. Okay, so that's the second one. The third category is the so-called anxious-ambivalent/resistant-insecure Okay, I didn't name these categories. So you have to blame others For everything else blame you have to blame the psychologists that named this category. The anxious-ambivalent/resistant-insecure also called the C babies, for the letter C just as a categorization. The anxious-ambivalent, show distress even before or other caregiver. And they tend to be very when the caregiver returns, okay? So they're distressed even and they tend to be very clingy when the mother returns. They tend to show either in response to the parent's absence. We don't really know what they're feeling. Or some helpless passivity. And there's actually subcategorizations that the psychologists have and C two subtypes. We don't have to get bogged down in that. But just know that there that says, oh, well, this person is anxious-ambivalent, resistant-insecure. They could be somewhat seem somewhat angry at the caregiver. But the basic idea is that they are clingy and difficult to comfort. They just can't seem to and physiological measures measurements such as cortisol And the third category of disorganized or disoriented This is a categorization to this strange situation task. That is a real hallmark of It was developed by Mary Mary Maine, who I actually had a course from and learning student at Berkeley many years ago. And this fourth categorization for a while, but now The key feature of the is that the toddlers tend to be tense and they tend to encompass a They tend to hunch their shoulders. They'll put their hands behind their neck. They'll cock their head to the side. For those of you listening, I'm doing this on the video version. It's not where you don't But for those of you that they tend to constrain and going to odd postures do anywhere else. So this is why it's or disoriented category. It seems like these children how to react to a separation. And they just start to manifest tones that aren't observed Okay, so we've got our four categories. I'll try and use the for each category. We've got category one, We've got category two, also sometimes called anxious-avoidant. Then we've got category three, which is the resistant-insecure category, which is anxious-ambivalent. And then there's this fourth category, the disorganized, disoriented category where they're so-called D babies. Now, what's interesting about of desire, love and attachment of children into one of these as toddlers is strongly predictive in romantic partnerships later in life. Which is to me both amazing and surprising and not surprising all at the same time. Amazing because it means we are relatively I think that that's that we have designated and hormonal systems that we have some response or not being there, or but also that the same neural responses are at least for entirely different types So when we hear the psychologist a template early in life that were even pre-verbal and those templates are or we should say, our later on those templates, there We now have neuroimaging studies the work of Allan Schore when a mother and child soothing interactions, or breastfeeding, or or putting them to sleep, and the brain of the mother are entering a coordinated And it's not one the child is also calming the mother. Typically these studies were sometimes with fathers, And in addition to that, when acts very excited and raises their voice, or puts a lilt in their that the child will do the same. And again, there's a in that case of excitement. And there's the release of into the bloodstream, whereas and the soothing scenario, of things like serotonin and oxytocin. So the neural systems for for what we call autonomic don't act in a vacuum. They are tethered to other And of course we know this, right? We sometimes hear the statement, no one can make you feel anything. I've always had a little bit of a problem with that statement. I don't think I'm contradicting but you hear that a lot, no Indeed they can, right? A physical injury can If somebody says something it can make you feel something. And if somebody says something it will make you feel something. So the idea that no one isn't actually true. Our nervous system is tethered to the nervous systems of others. And that is true from the very And in this case, we're for attachment in romantic how we maintain them, and and reform them is based on a through an entirely which was how we feel safe and depending on whether or is there or not. Neuroimaging supports that. When I say neuroimaging, I measures of hormones in the measures of neurochemicals support that. There's simply no way around this truth, that we have a set of roadmaps for entirely different That is vitally important to understand. Because if one is successful in forming romantic attachments, maintaining does in fact reflect the earlier templates that you've created. But as I've mentioned that these templates can shift over time. And one of the more powerful over time is purely by the and the understanding that They can change through the Again, neuroplasticity is just a rewiring of nerve connection. That is very much present in childhood, but also very much present in adulthood. So if you're somebody who one, two, three, or four, or involved with somebody one, two, three, and four, the mere knowledge of But you might ask, well, what Well, fortunately, both have started to leverage that better, more secure bonds in And there's a book that has I think it's the first book this head on. And that book comes from And title of the book is Attachment and How It Can The authors of this book are Again, both of them are skilled who have really taken the on the strange situation task and mapped it to adult attachment styles. And also they've mapped out in their clinical practice. And that is laboratory people that have an anxious-ambivalent or what we were calling or for people that fall into the disorganized or how they can modify that of relationships in order everybody wants, which Why does everybody want that? Well, secure attachment in relationship, or if they or to be in relationship from somebody else, or from somebody else and maintain what we call a stable the ability to remain calm, clearheaded. You might not like what's happening, but you're able to navigate and not excessive discomfort. So, is there a goal in all of this stuff about love, desire, and attachment? Indeed, there is. The secure attachment to the most stable and predictable Put differently, babies, and young adults that have are more likely to find and than are people in the other categories. But people in other categories migrate into the secure attachment style. And I think that book &quot;Attached...&quot; I have no affiliation to the I should just mention that. &quot;Attached: The New Science and How It Can Help You really it sounds very pop psychology, yes, but it is really grounded in the research psychology literature. And there's also some Another point to make is that it is possible. And some of you may be whereby people who are securely attached, either because they grew where secure attachment was cultivated, or because they developed can also migrate out of the into insecurely attached, of attachment styles as or as adults at any age by virtue of being with perhaps less adaptive What this means is that a secure attachment style, to protect that attachment to become anxiously attached, even if you grew up in a And again, this can happen at any stage. So if you're interested and how they influence and certainly if you are a to check out the book, &quot;Attached.&quot; Again, it's quite good and I of actionable tools to both form and hold onto secure attachment styles. So I mentioned that the neural or child-caregiver for romantic attachment later in life. But what are these neural circuits? What do they do? I mean, it's so attractive, if you will, to think about a brain or a brain area that controls desire, or a brain area that controls attachment, but it simply doesn't work that way. As I've talked about and I will say again and to be true long after I'm gone, is that no one brain area as complex as desire, Instead, there are through their coordinated action create a song that we call desire, or a song that we call attachment. Not a literal song, about desire, love, and some good, some not so good. But rather different brain sequences and with different as if we are in the mode or in the mode of love, or But beneath all of that is this element of autonomic arousal. And I want to focus on autonomic arousal just for a bit longer, because it really is one by which we form and and by which we break loving attachments. The autonomic nervous system as the name suggests is automatic. In fact, that's what autonomic means. Now it's actually the our autonomic nervous system But the autonomic nervous digestion, our breathing, of that breathing or not. It controls things like how And the autonomic nervous system, as I just briefly described earlier, is really something that we It's hardwired, all But through interactions with our parent, either soothing interactions, or dare I say, scary interactions, our autonomic nervous Meaning, we each develop a and anxious, or more calm, or Now, of course, this and depending how tired If we've been awake for a while, we tend to get sleepy early in the day. If we're very rested, we tend to wake up and feel very alert. So the way to think about is it's kind of a seesaw. We go back and forth we can be alert and calm, or we can be in a state of panic, we can be fast asleep so or we can just be sleepy, semi So think about it like a seesaw. And that seesaw has a hinge, and that hinge defines how how readily it can tilt back and forth. Our autonomic tone is And there are biological but here I just want to of the seesaw for now. The interactions between child take the child and the caregiver from one end of the seesaw to the other. From being very alert in a to being nursed and being very And of course, we each have a seesaw, the parent and the child has a seesaw, and they're interacting. What do I mean by that? Well, there are beautiful not in the sense that they but beautiful because they that looked at, for instance, and their physiologies and and their physiologies during World War II. So an unpleasant situation. But what was revealed during was that if the mothers were very stressed during an onslaught of the children's physiologies and persisted in being stressed episode was done. They actually followed that these children well out from many decades afterwards. Conversely, if the parent, it was mothers that were had turned this whole business of going into the bomb shelters into Taking it seriously, but &quot;Okay, it's time to go,&quot; but not expressing much the children also didn't or distress, or trauma. Now there were exceptions but in general, that was the rule that the autonomic nervous the autonomic nervous systems And the mechanisms by which And again I just refer to the at University of California, Los Angeles. And again, his name is I'm looking down briefly at the floor here because I'll just reach for the book. He has a wonderful book called It's a little bit technical, but if you're interested this book &quot;Right Brain from nursing of children to strange situation type about before which of get dropped off at or with babysitters, et cetera. And indeed all types of tune up that autonomic nervous system, so that the child ends up with that either tends to lean more or can be very alert but calm, or can be very calm and hard to budge. Again, it's the tightness of that hinge that really underlies that we were talking about earlier, and not on this episode of but on many other previous such as the master stress episode, or some of the optimized health episodes. You can find these if you A lot of the tools and techniques have to do with readjusting in deliberate ways as an adult. Again, I won't go into the specific tools, but for instance, the physiological sigh. This tool that I've talked through the nose, as deeply sneaking in a little bit and then a long exhale through the mouth is a way of adjusting It tends to make us more calm. It activates what we call of the autonomic nervous speak for it's a quick way Things like ice baths, or cold or deliberate or ways in which we can of our so-called sympathetic system to make ourselves more alert. Why would you want to do that? Well, you can do that to be more alert, to be more awake, if you like, or as a form of self-induced to be able to tolerate by making it a practice The reason those tools are out for whatever reason, we but because of our childhood templates, because of things that in terms of our interactions have autonomic nervous systems or the other more than we would like. Or in which the hinge that I'm is too loose or that is too tight. And we're stuck in a mode of anxiousness, or stuck in a mode of lack of energy. That's what those tools are really about. But at a deeper level, the is really the system that in response to a romantic And I don't necessarily mean entirely, although it We know people, I'm sure you of a relationship that are absolutely crushed. And actually in researching I discovered there's an that the feelings that one has like a clinical depression in many cases. But there are individuals as a transient event as going to mean so much for or reshaping their view Well, we have different And depending on where our some of us become extremely ourselves, can't adjust ourselves or can't take ourselves if we need to do that on our own. And so that's why tools But attachment itself is about where our autonomic So if I were to offer a set of desire, love and attachment, you might want to think into the secure, insecure, Second, I think it is vitally but certainly for people or seeking relationships to recognition of where our to reside both in terms of and when they leave. When we are apart for can we calm ourselves? Can we self-soothe? Or are we very much dependent in order to feel soothed? Now, I absolutely want to emphasize that there is nothing wrong. In fact, there's everything in the presence of somebody else. That is actually a hallmark of strong and quality attachments. These days, we hear the This was a, I believe, by Pia Mellody. And it actually does occupy of trauma, trauma healing, topics of another episode. Actually, did an episode And we will do one all with an expert at some But codependence and codependency, be misinterpreted as any Interdependence, a of course is good. It is the hallmark of healthy sibling relations and romantic relations. But a key element of healthy yes, our autonomic by the presence of another, but our own autonomic nervous system, even in the absence of that person. That if the person goes away that we can still regulate our both from states of both from states of exhaustion And of course, we all need sleep to go from exhaustion to alertness. But what I'm referring to here when distraught, or or feeling depressed. And that is and is all about So as we talk about attachment styles, and we talk about infant and toddler and adult attachment styles, what we are really talking of neural circuitries. And one of those neural crucial is this autonomic nervous system. So if the autonomic nervous of desire, love and attachment, And what I'm going to tell you work of Helen Fisher, who who's become a bit of a with neuroscientists to and neural circuits that are associated with different aspects of I think the first really of neural circuits was a paper published in 2005 journal, perhaps the best which is the Journal of The Journal of Comparative for more than 100 years and location for placing really They have tremendously high standards. And the study that I'm &quot;Romantic Love: An fMRI,&quot; meaning functional &quot;Study of a Neural And Dr. Fisher is a author on this paper as is Arthur Aron, and Lucy Brown. So all very fine researchers. And this study as well using magnetic resonance imaging, things like EEG, neuro have identified a large that are associated with different aspects of desire, love, and attachment. And I'll just throw out a few and what they control. And then I'll tell you how those anchor to the other two categories essential for desire, So not surprisingly the is associated with desire, and mainly with desire, Dopamine is a neurochemical sometimes associated with reward. But as some of you have it is mainly a molecule of And that motivation, craving to dopamine is not unique to or mating, et cetera. It is a universal generic for pursuing something. Food when you're hungry, to mate when you want to, et cetera, et cetera, okay? So it's not for one specific purpose. But the brain areas associated for instance, the ventral tegmental area, the substantia nigra, areas of You don't need to know these names, just understand that these that tend to have put the of forward action and pursuit They are not about being The neural circuits for are most associated with not surprisingly, and serotonin, and to some extent, oxytocin are the predominant And those are released from brain areas, such as the raphe nucleus You may have heard that in your body is made in your but I hate to break it to is not responsible for your at least not to a high degree. That's mainly going to be in your brain that make serotonin. And there are other areas of as well and oxytocin as well, but they tend to be associated and the soothing that we feel And again, these are not We can have dopamine and and body at the same time to And we return in a little bit of dopamine are very high and and vice versa and so on, including in states of as it were in, when we talk so-called ecstasy. But in the meantime, the two neural circuits that use dopamine, that use serotonin and oxytocin, and that collaborate with to drive what we call And the three circuits are we talked about that one. Then there's the nervous system components or the neural circuits for and respond to indeed or the autonomic tone of another. And then there's the third category, and this might surprise some of you, it certainly surprised me, but the data point to the fact that's very important is one associated with positive delusions. So given that the neural are absolutely crucial for falling in love and maintaining stable attachments, I'd like to talk about and what they are. Now, often when we hear empathy, we think, oh, empathy is really about understanding what Maybe even feeling what they're feeling. And indeed that's the case, Right? What is it to Well, what it means is that their seesaw is driving your seesaw, or your seesaw is somehow That there's a match in terms Now it doesn't have to If someone that you really he care about is very, very stressed, you That's a form of empathic matching, and there are indeed I'll describe what those neural But sometimes the best role in which we are calm when or that we are romantically involved with is very, very anxious. And in a few minutes, I'll of emotional tone can be good or bad for the stability of a relationship, and complementarity of autonomic matching can be good or bad. In other words, sometimes it's to go into the same state as the other. And sometimes it's more into the same state as the other. But the important feature here emotional matching or empathy or not going into the same about is whether or not of one individual is of the other individual. And this is a vital principle and form attachments. And it's actually part of the desire and mating process itself. I would go so far as to say to the propagation and is this notion of autonomic regulation. And to some extent, matching Let me explain what I mean. Last I checked, the only way is by way of sperm meeting but sperm meets egg and then we have a human baby. The process of bringing Mating behavior, sex behavior in humans is one of autonomic regulation. And what I mean by that is and in this case, I mean, typically, well, is one of elevated autonomic arousal, meaning increased activation of the so-called This is related to dopamine release and it's related to epinephrine release. There has to be a pursuit a mobilization to arrive whereby one can mate, right? That almost always is the case. However, the sexual arousal itself in both males and females is actually driven primarily of the autonomic nervous system. So while pursuit is one of as we say, again, sympathy is not really what's at play here, the word simple means together, and the activation of the toward more alert state is because of a meaning the co-activation in the brain and spinal cord. But then the actual that we call sexual parasympathetically driven, okay? To be quite direct about this, if the sympathetic nervous the sexual arousal response or in females, it's inhibited. However, the orgasm and which if you think about to meet egg is sympathetic driven. And then after orgasm and ejaculation, the parasympathetic nervousness and there's a calming and relaxation. So the arc of mating involves Not sympathy, but alertness then a tilt of the seesaw for arousal of the sort of sexual arousal. Then at the point of orgasm to a sympathetic response. And how can I say that? The sympathetic nervous within the sympathetic arm of are what drive ejaculation and orgasm. And then afterward there's a return to increased parasympathetic activation. And we don't know for but it's thought that in humans generally pair bond, not always, there the return to more after orgasm and ejaculation the exchange of pheromonal and to increase pillow of different kinds, okay? So that's the seesaw going back into the process by which our So in some ways, every human that process if they want And of course, nowadays in vitro fertilization, there are a variety of ways people to circumvent the in the way that I described. But by and large, that's And certainly that's the for if not tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of years. That process is also what happens in all mammalian species that mate. Okay, so I'm overlooking of animal studies that classic by two individuals, I'll in case you want to There's a guy at the Donald Pfaff, P-F-A-F-F, who identifying the neural circuitry, what's called the lordosis response. Unlike in humans, the is rather stereotyped in that they occupy. And the lordosis response is a U-shaping or a bending up of the hindquarters but of other animals as well. The the male mounting is except in some species of primates. And that lordosis response during particular phases The estrous cycle is the but it's not 28 days, it's four in other animals, depending on the animal. The lordosis response is by contact and is estrogen And then the male portion of the mounting and thrusting and or mounting, thrusting, Those are the four scientific categories that have been described, that's presence in where it was primarily who was at University for a long time. And the entire literature for sexual mating behavior from the work of Donald and their scientific offspring, You can look at that There have been human neuroimaging that I described a few minutes of people in brain scanners, with other people, but going sympathetic activation and then the post-ejaculatory in both men and women. And the brain areas associated with those have all been mapped out now. The spinal cord areas that vaginal lubrication, those have also been mapped out. And this has all been of both basic science, just of how our species has sexual but also from the trying to repair sexual function which is a prominent depending on where they have their injury, but in the number of people So this is both vital The neural circuits for reside in the autonomic nervous with the neural circuits that The neural circuits for but mainly two structures the prefrontal cortex, which is how we perceive and make decisions on the how we organize those decisions, and an area of the brain The insula is a really interesting to interocept, to pay attention our body and to split some of And the mating dance, whether and date portion of the mating dance, or the actual physical dance or actual mating and sexual that is a coordinated typically it's two. I realize sometimes it's but typically it's two bodies we're using here. That coordinated dance is one in which the autonomic nervous in general is coordinating with of the other individual. And the insula is essentially between how we feel what we're thinking with the thinking and the bodily sensations of the other. And that can be communicated, it can be communicated through sounds, it can be communicated through touch, and it can be communicated of more subtle cues like certainly in cases where and we know their responses, under different conditions. We can assess, is the person comfortable? Are they uncomfortable? Are they more focused This is the coordinated silent dance that if we look out in neurobiological terms, we can really see is all about whether or not it's time to or the other, depending on seesaw is tilted higher Okay, so we have the and then we have this thing which is really about autonomic matching. And again, the insula are neural circuits that are because they allow us to and do I want to match to it or not? Okay? And then the third that Helen Fisher and others for desire, love and attachment associated with self-delusion. What do we mean by that? Well, first of all, self-delusion about love and attachment. And I think it was George &quot;Love is really about overestimating the differences between individuals.&quot; Actually, when I hear I really don't like that quote. I have no bone to pick but what it suggests and I in love and attachment, we in the other that we forget that are going on in our brain and body actually could be evoked But I think it somewhat of attachment and the ways somebody's voice, somebody's everything, or somebody's particular become so vital for our to feel soothed and to So I think that while in the one sense, I think it does overlook the neural circuits for attachment and just how deeply wired So I will balance that quote of other quotes that I won't out there that really point to that one tends to be attached only one or several people that could evoke those feelings from us. And of course you can and you can find these in music, and poetry, and writing. So for every cynical quote being generic and could I think you'll find an ample that these neural circuits by that special someone, or maybe in just a small So what of delusion? Well, the work of Helen Fisher to the fact that desire, are three separate phases of what we call romantic relationships. That typically, not always, to come first or falls in the early phase. That the process of it doesn't necessarily but certainly something of some kind, right? And generally touch of some kind, eventually transitions which eventually transitions And I should just mention is a fundamental aspect There's an article, a research the title of it is, &quot;Relationship-specific in Somatosensory and Insular Cortices.&quot; Cortices being cortex. Cortex's plural, cortices. And again, there's our friend the insula. So this is a study that and what body areas are of attachment and social touch. And what they found not of the brain that are the somatosensory areas, the insular cortex are So touch in the amount of and skin contact, not associated with somatosensory, touch, but also the insular cortex, which again, is this brain area that links the internal or feelings about what's and at the surface of our And they found activation the amygdala, orbitofrontal That's not as essential that the insular is the place our experience of our internal landscape, attach that to our perceptions and then assign that some sort of interpretation. And positive delusion is What do we mean by positive delusion? Positive delusion is the contradiction of that George Bernard Shaw quote. It's the belief that only this person can make me feel this way. This other person holds the this way physically or And so, as we move from our brain circuitry is literally that individual that we again, here thinking about but I guess for non-monogamous is and are the way in which can be regulated. They actually get access So it's our autonomic and this positive delusion. Now positive delusion is critical. If you look at the stability something that's been extensively studied mainly by psychologists, but what you find is that of interactions between that a relationship will last. And those are many, but mainly fall under this I'll return to those in what But there are also just a that a relationship will fail over time. This is largely the work of the Gottman's, is actually a husband and wife team up at the University of The Gottman's have, run a laboratory in the department of They've also done a lot of public facing work around relationships. And they've talked about of relationships and that predict either staying So much so that they've by which they can look at video and with very high degree whether or not those or break up over time. And they've identified what they call the four horsemen of relationships. These are things that essentially, almost always predict that And I think the current can predict divorce with 94% accuracy, which if you think about So even though these are I'm not aware of any analysis there are some things that they that can lead them to predict will stay together or So what are those things? Those four behaviors, what of the Apocalypse are one, criticism, two, and four, contempt, with predictor of breaking up. Criticism, of course, does for criticism in stable relationships. Of course, there is. Has to do with how that criticism is voiced. Defensiveness, of We know as the lack of or to adopt their stance. So lack of empathy, I think is one way to Stonewalling, which is of lack of empathy. It's a turning off of this neural circuit that's so critical for The stonewalling essentially or the request of another So it's, I don't think there's but I think, we can reasonably untethering your insular and what they're dealing with, and focusing your insular response, [giggles] no pun intended, or perhaps the state of I'll talk about infidelity in a moment. And then contempt. And contempt has actually been referred to as the sulfuric acid of relationship. I didn't say that, but That it is such a powerful predictor of divorce and breakups in the future. And contempt, of course, by that a person or thing worthlessness or deserving scorn. And apparently they can of couples having by very elaborate eye rolls, in one individual when their enthusiasm or excitement about something. It's the, oh yeah, you would say that, or deep seated resentment so much so that it's apparent the other partner. So contempt, disregard for into account is the other That runs counter to all all three of the neural circuits that we talked about before. It certainly, it is the It is anything but a positive delusion. It's really looking at either accurately or inaccurately as somebody that you despise. And then it is an absolute seesaw matching that I It's a dissociating of your They're very excited about something, you're unexcited by it. In fact, it's an inversion of their seesaw where they're excited, you're down. They're down, you are up, okay? So it's basically an inversion that Helen Fisher and others for desire, love, and attachment. And therefore it's not predictive of breakups, and in the case of married For those of you that are of the Gottman's and similar work, they've written several popular books. They're fairly easy to find. We can link to one of But they've also developed some quite interesting online resources in their so-called Love Lab. I guess it's fortunate that or the Breakup Lab, 'cause they focused a lot But they've also written extensively in peer-reviewed studies what makes people find and to maintain those So you can go, you can University of Washington, Gottman, or any number of their various books. I think you'll find some I want to shift back to She's made some very and some very interesting observations that at least to my mind map very well onto the knowledge of neural and in non-human primates I realize that she's the But she's made some observations as we say, parsimonious, meaning a lot of this stuff into Now, she's also done some that involve data from millions of individuals on dating sites. So I'm going to share But before I do that, I just who said that sex drive of someone to mate with, not necessarily to find a mate, may be, she didn't say definitively, for potential love partners whole business is really the that it's desire, then And that oftentimes You may know some of these people, you may be one of these individuals for attachment or might but that there's a sequence of recruitment of these neural circuits from the pursuit of someone to mate with. And she's placed us in the themes where depending on several, maybe many, quote, unquote, settling at least for some period of time. I think that's an interesting framework because it circumvents a lot questions about whether to be monogamous or whether Those are conversations that hold all sorts of context, that really can't be addressed But this idea that sex for potential love partners for whether or not longer can and will form, is one that Later in the episode, we'll of sex drive and desire. I'll actually talk about some data really to support them can do or take to increase because there's actually But in the meantime, I want that Dr. Fisher has done in terms of categorizing people into... Again, we have four groups. These are distinct from the A, B, C, and D attachment styles described earlier. Although as I describe them, you might be able to map And these four groups are through her studies of I don't know if they were or but a very extensive dataset. So again, millions if not tens The number I heard her quote, and forgive me if this is not accurate, is that in upwards of in terms of whether or and hormone systems are tuned toward particular types of behaviors. What do I mean by that? Well, both men and have both testosterone and estrogen. Typically, again, these men have more testosterone and they have more and less estrogen then do women. Typically women have more estrogen than they do testosterone, And they have less testosterone than men, more estrogen than men, But both hormone systems are active in both sets of individuals. And of course, all manufacture both dopamine and serotonin. Dopamine, as I mentioned in the brain and body. But one of the primary into states of motivation and There is somewhat close system and the testosterone this brain area above And the pituitary gland, for making hormones that make secrete testosterone or estrogen. So there's a lot of signaling and testosterone tend to in a system of pursuit. And conversely, the serotonin collaborate with the estrogen physiological functions and behaviors. So these aren't hard and fast, these aren't strict black but I think those general themes hold when you look at the So Dr. Fisher has taken some what I would call logically, and neurobiologically grounded liberties in classifying individuals according to the types about themselves and the to match with on these dating sites, and created these four categories. The four categories are, she calls one, the dopamine category. So these are people who And again, that's just a name. It doesn't mean they but they are high on the dopamine scale. People who rate high on the what the scientists and psychologists call high sensation seeking, novel seeking. They like new things, they tend to be very adventurous. And I think that's largely true. If you look at the conditions where dopamine is super physiological, it's elevated beyond abnormal levels. Things like mania or when of abuse, like cocaine or amphetamine that really raise dopamine For some period of time, energy motivation and novelty seeking. And of course, drugs like have all sorts of deleterious effects that I don't need to go into here, but it's worth pointing out. But they don't tend to make and seek soothing interactions. Conversely, the group the serotonin group in soothing activities, They actually tend to be, on average, they tend to like rules and follow rules, they tend to be homebodies, They're really, you can but they really like stability. They're not really into again, averages. And then she created two other categories, the testosterone category This again, could be males or females. And then the estrogen category, again, could be males or females. And she gave these different names that I won't go into here. You can look up her work online, but she names like the and things like that. But I don't really want to use to the biological terms. So we have dopamine, serotonin, Now that might seem like an but what's interesting is or the neurochemical system, right? Those could have just been and four for all that matters here. What is interesting is seeing of individuals that she based on their self-reported preferences about behaviors and certain How those groups tend in the same or opposite categories. So what her studies reveal into the high sensation spontaneity category, the high dopamine category in the short term, tend who are also in that So these would be people take a trip or explore They tend to be creative So that group on average and potentially form long-term relationships within category. Again, averages. Individuals that she placed or what she hypothesized would again, they didn't measure serotonin, but people that tend to place on certain forms of at home and in relationships, those people also tended to we presume mate with and with people in the same category. Now, individuals in the the high testosterone group, and again, testosterone wasn't measured, but she called it the but these are people that they tend to know what they other people what they want. And from them, these are and in other studies tend to meaning they not necessarily but they tend to challenge other people, push them in order to either for sake of the And the people they tend they pair up with, which are the people in the estrogen category, Again, they didn't measure estrogen, but the people in the estrogen that described themselves and their preferences as being nurturing. They actually seem to is making the major They certainly like to in terms of their preferences. But that those two types, what and the estrogen type tend to pair up. So why are these categorizations and these averages interesting to me, at least interesting The reason they're interesting to me is, again, not because of their names, these molecules were not but that they once again that we addressed before, which are the autonomic nervous it tends to be shifted more or more towards a stable and whether or not individuals who have autonomic nervous like theirs before they even meet, right? So again, going back it's almost like people alert but calm, but not extremely alert, not extremely overly calm in seem to be seeking out at that autonomic equilibrium. People in the, what she which are really can just be described as high sensation they seem to want to So there's a selection for similar, in two of the groups, autonomic tone. I find that very interesting or that preference for it essentially eliminates for figuring out how to match one's autonomic nervous system to another. They simply find someone with Whereas in the other two testosterone and estrogen, and the nurturing somewhat follower type, there's an establishment of balance, but not in between two who but rather on the whole One person is driving the novelty seeking in the course of decisions and actions, and the other person is Now, assuming that those decisions And I emphasize good for both people, because one of the themes and I'd like to underscore here as well, is that it need not be the exactly according to these categorizations that I've described, serotonin with serotonin, and so on. What is important is that and a respect for the other types, or a recognition and a both are of the same type. You could actually imagine, of this high sensation could have a terrifically but that it actually in which the financial or in which the basic You could imagine, for in which a relationship between two people of what she called the would have a relationship in which both of them found or in which there wasn't that sometimes is required of desire, love, and attachment going. Something that we will So the point here is not that according to these The point is that on average, And that through a recognition exist similar to the A, B, C, and D infant and that we can gain better and how we tend to show up and thereby navigate healthier breakups, if and in some cases healthy by understanding that the other or complimentary to us. One is neither better than the other. It's simply the case that from the initial inception desire, love, and attachment, there is an autonomic coordination. And of course there's of other things like food, and where people are going to but that at the core of of either autonomic likeness And I think that recognition in thinking about tools to enter If one thinks about their not simply as something that and events, but that we can through techniques of the sort and on previous podcasts, but also generally, if our autonomic nervous system or get some empathy into what then we gain actual cognitive empathy. And this episode isn't but the theme keeps And I think it's worth to psychologists, whether or from another source of training, what you find is that they as a general term, they will they'll talk about cognitive empathy. And what I'm talking yet a third category that of relationship dynamics, I'm a biologist, I'm not a psychologist. So I love mechanism. And fortunately there are recently using modern techniques to look at neural mechanisms I mentioned earlier some of that have been done on child the activity of neurons in or as a mother is soothing baby, and as you learned earlier, Those are remarkable studies. You may have seen some You can see the silhouette and their brains and even patterns, really, really Similar studies have been with those couples, either touching and kissing, control experiments of the [laughs] or something, or kissing a pillow in order to try and create for what are actually pretty complicated interpersonal dynamics to do in a brain imaging scanner. But some of the other studies involved so called EEG. So these are electrical recordings that are done noninvasively, putting a bunch of electrodes EEG is useful in that you you can do it while people kissing, touching, et cetera. It doesn't allow one to image very deeply in the brain. So you can miss out on a lot of things. It's like looking at the without actually looking So you can miss certain things, but if you see things generally but you can't see what you don't see. Nonetheless, there's some studies that I'll just point you for what I'm going to discuss in a moment, which is a study published in entitled &quot;Investigating Real Life Emotions in Romantic Couples: a Mobile EEG Study.&quot; So this is, as the title these EEG caps of electrodes, emotional kisses, emotional standing at different distances. So a lot of cool stuff that couldn't do in a brain scanner, people have to be there they're actually jaw flicked like this. I've been in one of these things. There's not a lot of at least not using the current technology. In any case, what they found was there is a shift in brain things like alpha waves or of brain waves in the of the brain just beneath the skull. And in people that are kissing in romantic speech, or I didn't to one another, but what romantic and arousing to activity compared to And there was some what where the left hemisphere was and so forth. And these studies are the autonomic nervous to start to collaborate at the level of heartbeats, during romantic interactions But these studies are some of the first of their kind to start looking at neural synchronization Now, the simple version of looking at this and the way I would've okay, two people start about what they find particularly romantic and arousing for them. And their brain waves will And that's really the basis and romantic engagement But it turns out that So a really nice study published Cerebral Cortex is a about for many years, they physiology and neuroimaging. There's a study that was and this paper really points... Again, this is 2021. And the title of this paper is, &quot;Brain Knows Who Is on Resting-State Connectivity of a Female-Male Relationship.&quot; Now what this study did They looked at the resting or default mode activity of the brain. So rather than evoked where people are kissing or this was a neuroimaging functional magnetic resonance imaging, which is similar to EEG in principle, but allows you to look And it has a very good So fast events can be monitored of those events can be monitored And there are exceptions to this. So for you EEGers out there. EEG don't come after me with electrodes. Just understand that fMRI of what's going on. And what Kajimura et al to what your reflexive people tend to select people that different than theirs, or sometimes they found to their own resting brain state. And you might say, &quot;Well, I thought this is all about But actually if we go back to of the dopamine types, the that is serotonin, the testosterone and estrogen types, remember that the two testosterone and estrogen type, the director and the I guess it would be the more accurate way, the director and the nurturer, those tend to pair up across categories, not within category. And so I think what's which to my knowledge hasn't happened yet, is to really start to and neurophysiological that resting brain state is and they tend to seek out is different than theirs, not similar. That needs to be mapped psychological categorizations and indeed the Gottman's that sort of the state of the field now. And I mentioned this not to confuse you, but to the contrary, to about finding someone just like you, and it's not just about finding someone who's opposite to you. This is actually the reason a biologist at some point we can find verbal sayings, to support just about anything. This is not a knock on as you can probably tell I have great respect for in reverence for the field of psychology, with neuroscience and vice versa. But in the popular culture, we can find examples and anything as it relates to a relationship. For instance, I've heard absence makes the heart grow fonder. And indeed I've experienced But I also have experienced that out of sight out of mind also exists and that there will be a The point here is that or same to different can the desire, love, attachment process. It's a matter of, who is looking for same, and who is looking for different? And there, I think Dr. Fisher and the work of these neurophysiologist really does point in a direction whereby there is not one form of attachment that is going to be will predict good outcomes. There is not going to be a case and that's always the best rule to follow. Sometimes it will, sometimes it won't. There is also not the to pair up with similar. Sometimes it will be the Now there are certain statistics that support that statement. For instance, people, on average, people pair up with individuals background, income, and attractiveness. That is true on average, but And again, a knowledge of and categorizations of attachment, of mate seeking described and the recognition that systems but also mismatching are all at play in driving desire, love and attachment. So in keeping with the there's a saying, or a book, of pretty much any relationship dynamic, I want to now talk about an over 10 years ago that talked and the ability to fall in love. So this would be very much in line with the George Bernard Shaw that &quot;Love is really overestimating the differences between individuals.&quot; And again, I should say that I personally believe, although maybe I'm just diluting myself. I like to think that the with are really special for us, that they could not easily be That's simply my stance. I'm not basing that on any hardcore neurobiological mechanism. But nonetheless, an article was published in The New York Times in 2015 that related to some psychological as well as some clinical what I would call pop outside the domains of academic science. And the whole basis of this article was 36 questions that lead to love. And it involved a listing divided into set one, set two, from somewhat ordinary and self-report to more, let's call them deep questions and things that are And I'll just give an You can find this easily into your search engine, 36 Some of the questions in set what would constitute For what in your life do Kind of standard questionnaire stuff. In set two, what is your What is your most terrible memory? So these, as you can tell, are into one's personal experience And then set three, questions what is a very embarrassing When did you last cry in and by yourself? What is something that's too So it's going deeper into And even questions like, of whose death would you find So pretty, pretty heavy Now, the reason this article and the reason I'm bringing there was a statement that this article that if two or simply sat down and asked and each answered these questions attention carefully and at some or not out responding, but to the answers of the other person, that by the end of that 36 questions and the other and then the other person asks answers all 36, that they Which seems like a ridiculous thing. And yet it is the case that people who go through this exercise report the other person quite well of attachment or even love and that they were, would not would not have predicted had they not gone through that process. So what's going on in and answers of a and deep level? Well, what I predict is of that exchange, people are about the nature of the of some deeper attachment. And so even though people they're not physically touching, at the point where they're of questionnaire studies. They may touch afterwards for all I know, and probably did in some cases, but they're not exchanging life experience in an immediate way. They're not actually and doing things together yet. They are simply exchanging narrative. But we know based on recent this before on this podcast, there was a study a Cell Press journal, excellent journal showing that when individuals their heart rates tend to synchronize or at least follow a very similar pattern, even if they're not in the same room listening to a given narrative. Whereas in this case, people listening to the narratives of each other. Certainly they are having And it stands to reason that are synchronizing much the Cell Report study found their autonomic nervous heard story from another. In other words, whether watch a movie, listen to a song, or exchange our own individual stories, our autonomic nervous to map onto one another. So I'm not all that that they fall in love, in quotes, after answering these because essentially are laid out is they They establish a very personal narrative and the other person is And we don't have physiological to support what I'm about to say, but the reasonable interpretation is that that's causing some So if you want to try this on been hypothesized that for existing couples, even if to some of these questions. And that doesn't surprise me either. I think the autonomic during mating behavior, it's present during shared movies, concerts, watching one's children with somebody else, et cetera. And it's established by of their own personal experience. So I don't want to seem I'll never propose that all action and experience in life bags of chemicals and the or any aspect of our nervous system. And yet in looking across of development of attachment, literature of adult and and what makes and it's very clear to me. And I think courses through that autonomic coordination for the establishment of In fact, I talked earlier is born out of autonomic coordination of one sort or another. So again, it doesn't necessarily systems always be synchronized categorizations that Fisher proposed of the director/testosterone type and the nurturing follower/estrogen type. It was actually the coordination of individuals that fall that led to more stable attachments or the seeking out of those But nonetheless, it's, at that autonomic coordination of desire, a hallmark and a hallmark feature of And that the breaking of of desire, the failures of love, and the failures of attachment over time in line with the work And in even just simply what's is also reflected in the But in that case, a failure to coordinate the autonomic nervous systems Any discussion about would be incomplete if we didn't talk about the Much has been made of and whether or not people and sensation seeking tend Frankly, I don't think there's I think there are a lot of from in our own lives and that would generally support but I'm not aware of any or psychological studies For instance, I would never phenotype as described by or that the people who are more likely to cheat, I don't think those in any kind of meaningful way yet. So I would be cautious without that evidence. However, there are some again, neuroimaging and some meaning asking them questions that they're good ways to in these sorts of studies and to find their partner or depending on how people And I think this is a to desire, love, and attachment You hear a lot out out there that in order to form a really strong relationship, you have to have a good or you have to love yourself. Or you often hear for instance not looking for a relationship You hear this stuff, right? But none of that is really Again, that's like out or absence makes the heart grow fonder. There are many life examples And there are many life examples to support statements to the opposite. There's a particular study that I found. This was published in but it's a experimental study The title of this study is Alters Responses to Attractive And I love the design of this study. What they did in this and they evaluated members for what's called self-expansion. Now self-expansion is one's perception of self as seen through the And this is something the authors are Aron and Aron. So they have the same last name. So I'm assuming this was or a somehow related team A-R-O-N and A-R-O-N, proposed this self-expansion And they proposed &quot;That to enter relationships...&quot; I'm reading here. &quot;In order to enhance the self In other words, that one of enter relationships is about ourselves and more capable. And I would see that as a not necessarily codependence. This is especially strong at the beginning of a relationship, it turns out, when people are forming pair bonds, and it's the case that pleasure, again, all hallmark features of autonomic nervous system function, pleasure, arousal and excitement, give rise to self-expansion, So what this self-expansion how great other people that we attached to can potentially make us feel, in terms of what they say, in terms of the way in which So it doesn't necessarily statements of them telling or them doing great gestures for us, but how we actually Turns out to be a very of how we feel about ourselves Now, some of you out there &quot;Oh yeah, isn't there this thing of the love languages?&quot; Right? I don't have any neuroscience the love languages, I'm not and I didn't list it out, Their autonomic nervous tends to be very responsive or to physical touch, or acts of kindness. I think I've got a few of these right. I probably have a few wrong. Anyway, they're easy to find online. And people do tend to have of these things that are especially meaningful for them. And when I hear meaningful, the autonomic nervous system of the brain and body in a as opposed to lousy or neutral. In any event, this study people have high levels of self-expansion through the actions or statements of their significant other, their perception of people Meaning how attractive outside the relationship to be, turns out to be strongly influenced by, A, whether or not their driven by the other person that they're in the and whether or not that's So here's how the study went. First of all, they rated on the basis of the self-expansion metric. Some people have more of self-expansion through others, right? Some of us feel great about the others don't feel so but they can feel much in particular praise or or statements from people And still other people They moderate levels of both. So they rated them on this scale. And then they had people experience self-expansion narratives. They heard their significant things about them and about the that the relationship that novel and challenging. So that was one form of self-expansion. And they went into some detail in their particular relationship. Or they heard a narrative about strong feelings that had been experienced So in the one case, it And in the other case, it's more about the relationship itself. And then they did brain in the relationship while the attractiveness of people And what they found was for this self-expansion had associated with assessing than did the people who experienced Now the takeaway from that, the study is if you're with from or experiences a unless you really want to the attractiveness of other people, it stands to reason from more self-expansion type Not so much centered on the relationship. We have such a great relationship. There's so much love, but in the context of this that the person is really that they've created novel, and challenging, that the relationship that with the dynamics between the that the person who really is vital to that dynamic, okay? So it's not looking as a set of equals. There is this bias this person is really I'm not saying this is I'm not not saying this is right or wrong. This is just what the data say. But what's remarkable of those statements, people who have, or that rate high on this rate attractive alternative Now, that's interesting to their actual perception It's not that their opportunity to see others is changing, right? This is not a matter of or no access to attractive Again, attractive alternative partners, literally the language in they're still seeing all It's just that if they're psychologically filled autonomically filled, that we're using today by well then the same set of less attractive to a given individual. Now, whether or not this [laughs] I certainly can't say. That would be very hard And there, of course, report accurately their cheating behavior. There's some studies in which to the point where people and willing to reveal cheating behavior. But if you look at the it's very hard to track about their cheating in of psychological and neuroimaging studies. But I find this study, again, the title, &quot;Manipulation of to Attractive Alternative Partners&quot; to be absolutely fascinating, to the fact that the others shapes our autonomic of self and thereby shapes our partners in the outside world, or shuts us down to the in the outside world. So when I hear statements such as, it's important that you love yourself in order to really fall in or it is when one is not that they're most likely to fall in love and form a stable relationship, I can filter that through it's really the person who stimulating statements or that is most prone to seeing out in the world as attractive. And in this sense, we can return to the as a glass that it can be filled up through various contexts. It can be filled up through It can be filled up through to enhance our sense of wellbeing. And in some sense, this points that the better that we in the absence of any from somebody else really does place us on more stable grounds, that praise, or we do receive or service, or physical that we are able to further but that we don't necessarily of self-worth or self-expansion So you might think that if the self-expansion from the of the they're involved with, person B, that that will form a very stable bond, but what this study that's a very unstable bond. That person A is actually very susceptible to the attractiveness of others, because they're so desperately of self-expansion, even And so this really does well, it is important to link to establish desire, love, and attachment that we want to have a stable of ourselves, a stable to some degree in other so romantic partnership if that what we're really trying to do. So until now, I've been from the field of experimental psychology and the fields of neuroscience But if you recall back to the when I was discussing how and how even birth control of attractiveness of others, you'll realize that there's which is that our biology that awareness, things like our hormones, things like pheromones that we choose, interpret romantic partners or the romantic partners that we already have. Now, this cannot be No matter how much we would like to create a top-down description, and our understanding of things onto what we find attractive, what we enjoy, what we in romantic interactions with others, there always seems to be, a deeper layer in which drives us to find a particular person to be particularly attractive, or in which we have or in which we lack And I would say that one of and indeed mysterious aspects are those subconscious processes, those things that we I mean, people will report, smell is just absolutely or that somebody's smell is and they don't know why. That the taste of someone's in any kind of poetic sense, of somebody's breath in some cases can be very exciting to somebody. And believe it or not, we can I talked about this in the some months back, but we and smell that engage such that we can't really at some level. And this is especially true of romantic relationships Now is chemistry absolutely required for forming stable attachments No, of course, they're not. But in general, these that exist in all animals, they exist in special forms in humans, but that they drive us as the theory goes, lead Not always, as Dr. Fisher pointed is one way to explore and to explore potential attachments, which, of course, are major investments that extend well beyond one or even a year. When we talk about stable attachments, in general, that means Now, there is a biology to And the studies of oral more attractive at certain and women finding men more of the women's menstrual cycle of those deeper biological mechanisms. In the &quot;Huberman Lab Podcast,&quot; I discuss both science And so I'd be remiss if some of the tools that relate to those deeper biological mechanisms. Now, the hormones, are almost always the and hormones that are mentioned, when thinking about desire, for that matter since love and I did an entire episode about and estrogen and ways to optimize You can easily find that It's timestamped, there of information about how of behaviors drive up or down I also dispel some myths and things like masturbation and how they relate to as well as some myths about across the lifespan. I also talk about the role of exercise, I talk about supplementation, about hormone replacement therapy, although that will be the So if you're interested in and estrogen, two hormones things like libido and desire, as well as what I'm going to The simple stereotyped testosterone and estrogen libido or increases it aka sex drive, and that estrogen somehow in libido and sex drive. And that is simply not the case. As I describe in that optimization episode and yes, testosterone and like dihydrotestosterone are and sex drive and the However, the hormone estrogen with libido and mating behavior. So much so that for people or for some other reason libido can severely suffer. So it's a coordinated dance in both males and females that So I absolutely want to make relationship between or estrogen and sex drive. Both are required at appropriate ratios. Now, with that said, there are in both men and women in or more desire to mate, or to mate with existing partners. And there's a quite solid literature around a few of those substances. Now, a common misconception is involved in motivation and dopamine through any number of will increase libido and sex drive. And that's simply not the case either. It is true that some level in dopamine is required However, because of to the autonomic nervous system, and because the autonomic nervous system is so intimately in sexual activity in seeking as I described earlier, if people drive their they will be in states of such that they seek and but they can't actually of the autonomic nervous system sufficient to become physically aroused. There's a whole description in a future episode. But I'll summarize now that are taking substances just in order to increase libido, that can be a potentially Because depending on whether is high enough that it puts mates or mating, but they nervous system during what essentially is I'm into a chronic pursuit but in And this is true for men and women. Okay, so I would just caution &quot;Oh, a lack of libido is That is not the case. It could be from lower levels of dopamine, but it could also be for other reasons. And so these systems, and these neurochemicals And just simply ramping up for instance, in amphetamine there's a phenomenon in which but can't perform sexually. This is also true for people of other recreational drugs that increase the dopamine Dosage has to be worked with your psychiatrist, and the various aspects mind and body are enhanced, that what we call the arousal in the sympathetic drive position such that sexual arousal So this is an important point to make, because I think that a lot of people are under the impression that if they just drive up and generally get of autonomic arousal that that's But that's simply not It's that seesaw and that that is the arc of arousal Now, there are substances, legal that fall under the that do indeed increase And so I'm going to talk about of peer-reviewed literature now. I want to be clear, however, that these are by no means required. Many people have healthy that are healthy for their life And as always in any discussion you absolutely have to I don't just say that to protect us. I say that to protect you. Your health and wellbeing is things and not doing others, Nonetheless, there are studies that point to specific substances that that at least in the and that have been shown to in increasing measures of libido. There are many such substances, have good peer-reviewed are Maca, M-A-C-A, which Tongkat Ali, also I didn't name them, forgive it's sometimes called. I'm going to talk about But on the whole, the studies that consumption of two to which generally is sold typically consumed early in the day, because it can be somewhat of a stimulant, meaning it can increase alertness to interfere with sleep by But in studies that include anywhere from eight to 12 weeks of athletes and non-athletes, and different variations of Maca, turns out there's black There are a bunch of But that they can increase of sexual desire, independent Meaning, it does not seem at literature that Maca or changes estrogen, at that these studies were done, or with the measures that were But that Maca, again, from two to three grams per day, has been shown to And in fact, those dosages of so-called SSRI induced sexual dysfunction. So there are various routes The SSRIs are selective They go by name brands and there are many others now Those don't always, I should point out, lead to sexual dysfunction. There's a dose dependence. Some people do quite well on with sexual function. Other people suffer quite a while taking SSRIs, highly variable. You need to work with a physician, But nonetheless, everything thus far has also been induced sexual dysfunction. The paper that I'm referring to here is &quot;A Double-Blind, Randomized, of Maca Root...&quot; It goes by the name L. meyenii. These always have fancy names. And the Latin names in biology but it's Maca root. &quot;for the Management of First author is Dording, D-O-R-D-I-N-G. This was a study done at Mass General, which is one of the satellite It's associated with Harvard Med, that found significant when people were taking a pretty low dose. It was actually in this up to a high dose, three And they were doing this in 20 remitted depressed outpatients. So these are people that had depression, their depression was but they were suffering from sexual effects and Maca seemed to offset some of those effects The other studies exploring testosterone in adult healthy again, consuming anywhere meaning one, excuse me, 1500 milligrams to 3000 milligrams or placebo. So again, this is 1.5 up to and they rated sexual desire, such as testosterone in the blood. Again, no change in estradiol levels in men treated with Maca and those treated with placebo. But nonetheless, there was a on libido with this dosage of 1.5 to three grams per day of Maca. And there are several other Again, in people that taking taking SSRIs, in chronically this was also found to be the case. So seems like across the board, Maca is a fairly useful supplement for those that are seeking And there are fewer but there are a few such studies general positive effect on at equivalent doses to I think it's noteworthy does not seem to adjust to any significant degree, I think that points to the systems in the brain and not just testosterone and estrogen. And indeed we know that to be the case. Things like PEA, which is a and is a substance that is known, for instance, but also the perception as more stimulating for instance. So there are a lot of pathways in the hypothalamus, this that harbors neurons and including neurons that of even just our tactile experience of others and their attractiveness. And indeed can shift levels of changing levels of Another substance that has across a range of human populations is so-called Tongkat Ali. I've talked a little bit about this before on the &quot;Huberman Lab Podcast&quot; And I've talked about it on other podcasts. Tongkat Ali goes by a One of them is exceedingly It's Eurycoma longifolia, But Tongkat Ali is the typical name. This is an herb, there's and an Indonesian version. My understanding is that of Tongkat Ali is the for its effects on libido. Previously, I've talked about Tongkat Ali taken in 400 milligram per day capsules as a means to increase the amount of free, meaning unbound testosterone. So testosterone has a both Very briefly, the bound in the blood or to so-called When it's bound, it can't at many cells. It is important that some to get a time release of testosterone through the body, but is the unbound free have its most potent effects. And there's some evidence the amount of unbound by lowering sex hormone binding globulin, although it is almost certain of mechanism as well. Nonetheless, there are increasing libido. One particular article, last name of first author, This was published in and Alternative Medicine, it's from 2012. Reports a significant increase in libido and sexual function. There are other studies, not as many robust, controlled, studies as there are from Maca. Nonetheless, a number of people, do take Tongkat Ali and it The question always comes up around discussion of supplements. Do you need to cycle these things? The only way to determine that is really to do your blood work, monitor hormone levels and so forth. So I simply can't say or you don't need to cycle them. Typically Tongkat Ali in any regular kind of But again, you really need if you're going to initiate And you certainly should your blood work as well as whether or not they're working for you, safe for you and so forth. The third and final substance/supplement that I want to touch on is called Tribulus Terrestris. So that's T-R-I-B-U-L-U-S, This is a commonly sold for increasing testosterone, for fitness purposes and so on. Whether or not it actually does that to a meaningful degree, isn't clear. But I'm aware of four that were focused on ranging anywhere from 18 years old all the way up to 65 plus. They say 65 plus. I guess it could be 70, it could be 80. I don't know. But a fairly broad age range from 750 milligrams per day So 750 total per day divided of Tribulus or placebo for 120 days. This particular study And according to the female questionnaire, no significant difference between any of the groups, testosterone increased in the group taking Tribulus Terrestris, total testosterone did not reach statistical significance. So this is the inverse where there do seem to be which would predict that there In this case, this was there was no increase in libido. There was an increase in testosterone. I mentioned it only because in which people want to It does seem that Tribulus, is capable of doing that. Now there's a separate a double-blind study lasting that had a clear and Now this was taking six grams. So that's 6,000 milligrams And it did seem to of sexual function. And there was what appeared increase in testosterone, because of the variability that did not actually arrive Now, there were a number of the role of Tribulus, in And one of those studies was a study that was actually quite short, It involved 67 subjects. These were subjects that had and took Tribulus divided compared that to placebo. And they did see a significant of sexual desire and function on this female sexual function index. So there is some evidence in increasing testosterone in increasing sexual desire and function in certain populations I think more studies are certainly needed. But these three substances/supplements, Maca, Tongkat Ali, in particular, and Tribulus can indeed create significant increases in sexual desire. And in some cases by and estrogen system, in the testosterone and estrogen system. Again, pointing to the and features that adjust So we covered a lot of to desire, love, and attachment. And yet I acknowledge of the vast landscape that of desire, love and attachment. Nonetheless, I hope that interesting and hopefully toward the relationships and potentially for the If you're enjoying and or please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a very straightforward, And it really does help us. In addition, please on Apple and Spotify. And on Apple, you have the up to a five star review. In addition, please leave and suggestions for future guests in the comment section on YouTube. We do read all of those comments. Please also check out at the beginning of today's episode. That is the best way to support In addition, we have a Patreon, it's patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like. Please also follow us on I teach neuroscience and on both Instagram and Twitter. Some of that material overlaps with material covered on the podcast. Some of it is unique material only covered on Instagram and Twitter. During today's episode and of the &quot;Huberman Lab Podcast,&quot; While supplements aren't for everybody, many people from them, for things like or as discussed today for If you want to see the you can go to Thorne, that's And there you can get 20% off And if you navigate deeper through that portal, you can also get 20% off that Thorne makes. We partnered with Thorne highest standards with of the ingredients in their supplements and the precision of the Thank you for joining me about desire, love, and attachment. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat music]