We've arrived in Russia, and now we're heading to Dagestan. When someone tells you, Then he's a fighter. In a place isolated from the world... We will start training. ...In this camp, the fighters here will isolate themselves from the outside world for a whole month and undergo harsh daily training. This is their camp. They isolate themselves from the city. You can drive half an hour to the city, but they isolate themselves from people. Everyone here has their own room. Look at these mountains behind me. Today we will spend their last days before returning to the capital I came here on their last day in the camp, at the end of a month in the Olympic stadium on the mountain. They started warming up. It's 11 a.m. now. This is Islam, and he's the current UFC lightweight He's the biggest name in the game and the most famous after Khabib. You can't break a man Land of fighters. Dagestan, the land of mountains was unknown until Khabib People wonder, who is this superhero who came to make history and pride in his faith. "What you have will run out, He presented a dazzling image and did acts full of human spirit, which made Dagestan stand out They isolate themselves They do daily training, They sleep, eat, and drink here. This is a big edifice that has everything! They start training from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. They have lunch and some rest, then return to training This is their daily routine. I will try to understand their mentality and their way of thinking. Why do all these fighters Islam was a little angry with me. He told me, "Relax, relax." He said that the little details Sometimes it gets to the point where all the players so in this case, the little details This is one of the best camps Dagestan is on a different level. You play with undefeated people. Now I am learning the Dagestan language. I will be the world champion one day, Here you learn how they fight, how they live, how they train, their routine, when they wake up, when they sleep, and when they eat. They are all from Dagestan he came here because he has a fight. What is mixed martial arts? Every martial art For example, boxing says, You go to taekwondo and you find it says, And so are judo and wrestling. Martial arts have become competitive So they combined martial arts? Every martial art has become a combination and then all these schools Muhammad Ali was a boxer. In Muhammad Ali's time, Martial arts started around the 90s. Martial arts are the strongest of course, I'm not a boxer. A boxer only uses his hands, while a martial arts player This is your life, just training, eating, and sleeping, you don't need anything else. Discipline and a specific routine only, Good luck in the fight. Fighter. MMA. This is the last day After the month is over, it's time to celebrate God willing. Indeed, the result came. A month after this video, Guys, give me just 20 seconds to show you the HONOR ad Let's go back to Dagestan. We're going to have dinner. In the name of God. This is the last dinner This is their traditional food, It's delicious. A teacher, my teacher. On the second day, we went to Dagestan. This is the gym They're all from the same neighborhood. He started training This is Makhachkala, the capital. This is Khabib's cafe. He owns a halal bar here. In the name of God. Halal shots. Very good! This is the capital, Makhachkala. -Dagestan! It's one of the republics Located on the coast of the Caspian Sea. Its population They have a president, a prime minister, a parliament, The capital and largest city followed by the city of Derbent. The people of Dagestan and speak many languages, so much so that it was called 95% of its population are Muslims. Dagestan means Three-quarters of its area is mountainous and is crossed and thousands of rivers flow Its income depends on agriculture, and fishing for salmon and sturgeon, from which caviar is extracted. It also has oil and natural gas. This gym is owned by khabib. Look at the culture in this city! After that, we decided to drive This is the papakha. Papakha. It feels like you are in Trabzon with these mountains, nature, and rivers. There aren't many tourists. The country is very cheap. They brought us here It's two hours away from the capital. This ancient archaeological site and is one of the oldest villages This was a small part of Dagestan. In the next episode, we will spend a whole day and the world. Did you know him? If you know him, write in the comments and subscribe to the channel. Thank you, Dagestan!