If I were to tell you 'Rain World has the might go... 'What?' Because Rain World doesn't seem particularly you play as a weird slug, how complicated While there are other games with fancier graphics of procedurally generated animation and complex a living ecosystem better than (almost) any So, for this entry into the archive, we'll World's pixeled biosphere. Now, let's become part of this virtual food Rain World begins with a cutscene showing struggling to survive. A storm breaks out and a young Slugcat, the and awakens in a new and unknown environment. The game then quite literally drops you into It's disorienting at first, but pretty quickly In this world, you are small but crafty, able the fluttering Batflies. But from your first steps, the animation feels... different. And that's because it is. Like most of the creatures you'll meet in meaning its animation is determined in real environment. Since the dawn of animation, pretty much the to hand animate it moving frame by frame. But in Rain World, a creature's motion happens parameters, creating movement that feels uncannily One mind-blowing example of Rain World's These enemies move with procedural animation flat ground, crawl through tunnels, and climb But they take this to another level with their When one lizard catches you, it will try to But if another lizard passes by, its AI will which can give you a dynamic opportunity to But that's just scratching the surface of Each lizard also has their own simulated personality how they interact with each other. And on top of that, there are nine different own distinctive abilities and behaviors. For example, Yellow Lizards have long antennae meaning their AI's work together to surround White Lizards can camouflage with whatever so they hunt by staying completely still until try to pull the Slugcat in with their long Cyan Lizards can use bursts of energy to pull their AI leads to some of the most hilariously seen in a video game. And there's another hidden system that can players -- if you consistently feed a lizard become your ally and start following you around, that try to eat you. It's a surprisingly detailed system that it comes to its ecosystem. In the next region of the game, far larger in from above on nightmarish wings. Vultures will also climb after the player animation particularly uncanny. While vultures are intimidating, as scavengers, and throw spears at them, which will sometimes implying these predators aren't entirely If you hold a vulture's mask in front of Slugcat, instinctually scared off by your Giant orange Centipedes also lurk in the recesses If one catches you, they'll admit a lethal Like clockwork, the centipedes move with a Indeed, much of Rain World's ecosystem follows comes every so often marking the end of each When the rain falls, all lifeforms must hibernate Soon, the player settles into these cycles, biosphere. Following the dripping pipes deeper underground, tunnels known as the Drainage System. Swarms of Leeches writhe in these half-flooded When the Slugcat is close, the Leeches' the Slugcat's movements and waiting for If the Slugcat slips, their best chance of shaking them off. For unlike the Leeches of today, these blood-suckers Leech swarms coordinate to drag prey down creature they can latch onto. Yet one species uses this to their advantage. Squidcadas are cuttlefish-like creatures that To feed, Squidcadas have learned to 'fish' one latch on. The Squidcada then flies off with the careless away. It's a remarkably dynamic behavior, and if you move too quickly. The Drainage System eventually washes into decaying junk. Yet there is life here in the form of the These long, stretchy creatures are something them to steal spears from the Slugcat when them directly from the Slugcat's hand. When no spears are in reach, Garbage Worms sucking up matter, suggesting that they feed While normally passive, make a Garbage Worm the Slugcat around with their heads or even an attempt to drown them. Groups of Garbage Worms will even coordinate their hostility. In the murkiest depths of the Garbage Wastes, Hauling themselves up from the depths, the next meal. Though made of a large, bulbous mass with their core, the Brother Long Legs are flexible Unable to hear or see, they rely entirely And when a Brother Long Legs latches on, they creature out and drawing them in to an unseen Where these monsters came from is a mystery into this hostile environment... The Garbage Wastes empty into the floodwaters Here, a drowned empire of crumbling monoliths It's impressive the sense of melancholy Blue Leeches swim in these waters, a coastal than their red counterparts, able to pull If you manage to avoid the leeches, there's Even the plants of the Shoreline are carnivorous to swallow you whole if you get too close. Sensitive to movement, Monster Kelp is difficult In pursuing the Slugcat, these plants will feel particularly 'alive' due to their Behind the scenes of the Monster Kelp's with the Slugcat's position instead of following When paired with the game's physics system, And killer plants aren't the only threat Packs of giant Salamanders pursue the Slugcat Able to hunt on the land as well, these amphibious -- and seem to be a related species. The only defense the Slugcat has is to swim For a quick boost of speed, the Slugcat can These fast-moving aquatic lifeforms expel momentum, which can be used to rocket out On land, Jetfish aren't always the most much easier. Yet dive too deep and you'll find monsters. Leviathans are among Rain World's largest swallow a Slugcat in just a few seconds with Seemingly a mixture of metal and organic parts, not all the life in Rain World is naturally The beings who made the now-ruined structures the Ancients -- seem to have disappeared Yet there is another intelligent species that -- the Scavengers. These early tool crafters might have the most Scavenger behavior is insanely complex, not other, but in terms of how they interact with Though it's easy to miss, scavengers attempt through a litany of distinct gestures. If they think the Slugcat is a threat, they'll If you move closer, they'll try to send If you persist, they won't hesitate to stick But if you play it cool, they'll do the All Scavenger behaviors work on a 'repuation' actions and respond accordingly. For example: sometimes you'll come across won't let you pass unless you trade them And they even have a custom animation to let But if you do trade you something valuable letting you know 'you're good.' Trading gets more complicated with Merchants: technology. When a Scavenger wants a specific item, they'll the item to let the Slugcat know they'd And if you give them the item, they'll drop use to light your way through the dark. Or these blue orbs called flashbangs that But if you take something from a merchant go on the offensive. And Scavengers won't just mindlessly chase If your reputation gets low enough, they will hit-squads to the Slugcats general location. It all comes together to create encounters with something truly intelligent. With a Scavenger lantern in hand, the Slugcat the Shaded Citadel -- another ruin the Ancients Within the forgotten lower pathways, there's The monstrous Wolf Spiders scurry through Like most species in the Shaded Citadel, these and will generally avoid your lantern. But given time, hunger overcomes their fear. And where there is one Wolf Spider, there Best to keep your lantern close. But not all creatures in the Citadel are quite Lantern Mice are passive, bio-luminescent long tails. In these shadowy caverns, they are a welcome Lantern Mice are notably skittish, and will too close. And Lantern Mice have good reason to be nervous. Skittering on countless legs are the aggressive When they go on the attack, these disturbing Yet in actuality, they are made up of numerous when on the attack. Because each spider is an independent AI enemy, The best way to defeat the Coalescipedes is stops the scuttling terrors in their tracks. Eventually, the Shaded Citidatel gives way Patrolling this region like nightmarish sentries Though difficult to spot in the darkness, metallic legs and scissor-like beaks. Flashbangs are the only effective deterrent, flash different colors, allowing the Slugcat Eventually, you arrive at the underside of storm. Entering the structure, the Slugcat finds These zero gravity rooms can be challenging more the entire superstructure comes to resemble And at the heart of the supercomputer, a god-like This synthetic lifeform is another creation name of Five Pebbles. Using their incredible power, Five Pebbles to understand the Ancient's language. Five Pebbles dispassionately tells the Slugcat for them if they keep heading west, before away. Five Pebbles isn't the only of these AIs, In a forgotten corner of the Shoreline, the away. If you speak to her, she'll explain that the Slugcat can -- a limitation that has despair... As the Slugcat leaves the Five Pebbles supercomputer, Long Legs. These oversized relatives of the Brother Long blue rings of particles when a noise is detected. There are hidden lore details that suggest the Long Legs -- one of many horribly failed Behind the scenes of the Long Leg's AI, to latch onto -- creating an unsettling yet Continuing along the underside, the Slugcat These small, tubular creatures suspend themselves trait the Slugcat can take advantage of. By grabbing onto a Worm, the Slugcat can use to new areas. To make their way to the place of ascension, surface known simply as The Wall. And this region has perils of its own. Pole Plants are cleverly hidden predators to be climbed on. Get too close, and the plantlike carnivore and dragging the Slugcat into its den to be Continuing to climb, the Slugcat is ambushed which drags them back to their lair. These insects resemble large earwigs, and After finding a good hiding spot on the ceiling, their perch to lure prey into an ambush. This behavior is an intriguing display of adversary. At last, you reach the top of the wall. Above the rain clouds for the first time in Elsewhere atop the wall, the player's Slugcat known as an echo, which tells you the transcendence The echo says your struggles 'can all fade sun.' By this point in the game, the player has like the echo is speaking directly to you. To reach your destination, you must first Flying centipedes called Centiwings twist formidable altitude. Peculiar insects called Noodleflies also buzz Though typically neutral, when threatened from their proboscis and attempt to spear With Nooodleflies around, it is wise to move The Sky Islands lead to the expansive Farm the end. This biosphere is dominated by Worm Grass to latch on and consume the Slugcat when it The best way to cross large fields of Worm These towering lifeforms are the tallest land through the carnivorous fields thanks to their Since Rain Deer are one of the few truly peaceful soothing about their presence... At last, the player's Slugcat reaches the ecosystem. The final stop on this great journey, the the air begins to glow with a mysterious golden glimmer in the dark. Some of these environments are truly spectacular power out of every last pixel. Eventually, the Slugcat dives into a vast the game hints is the substance that allowed And deep within this iridescent environment, Coiling in the infinite expanse, the unfathomably This creature is by far the single largest the inky black abyss below the golden sea A surprisingly inquisitive lifeform, we can when it comes to investigate the Slugcat. Whether or not the Void Worm is the creator for almost everything about this cosmic creature left a mystery. There's a lot of ways to interpret Rain On the surface level, you swim into the light Are these members of the family you lost at Are the endless cycles of trials you've Or is none of this even real, and the Void really just shows you want it thinks you want? You spend the whole game trying to rise above you find yourself in -- but is such a thing I won't give away all my opinions on Rain the game's power comes from its ability In any case, I certainly believe that Rain unique and detailed approach to simulating and AI interactions. If you'd like to check it out for yourself, game that really makes you feel like you're It's so dense that I couldn't cover everything, like to take the plunge yourself... As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.