This is Brightline, the passenger rail line built in over 100 years. It was completed in 2018 is open later this miles from Orlando to entirely done the good way, with private equity. The most successful train is basically a government So the Amtrak system from the Acela network is a It's one that I've used But frequently used train like Acela, are few and million trips in 2022 879 million. Moreover, the U.S. has high-speed passenger most developed nations, expensive to build every If you look at France, you country that has been the first lines were that expensive to build. But nowadays you see the are. They are becoming difficult, take longer to The lack of rail part due to the to support cars and By 1960, over 70 million registered with motor the country. But now that those roads trains are finally And while the United bigger than France, the 21,000 miles and 18,500 lines, respectively. As part of Biden's infrastructure plan, $66 rail maintenance and will be granted to We used to be number one infrastructure. We've but now we're coming back and passed the Bipartisan largest investment in President Eisenhower's Congress put in about next several years to regional higher speed This is the largest rail since Amtrak was won't be enough to bring the U.S. So can a train company like The company is planning rail project connecting called Brightline West, 2028. But in the in Florida. CNBC visited in Orlando, where it's connecting Central and explore whether private In 2006, Fortress investment in the Florida was built by Henry This train was originally both freight and for It was a passenger rail 1960s, and I spent quite around the world, and where the trains are a transit. And so I a train here? A team at Brightline see what works best for trains in countries where travel. And after they considered which most from being connected And what we discovered was markets that have an travel between those two are separated between 200 minus. There is an passenger rail to become travel. When you look at all the places around the country to you, Miami to Orlando page. It's kind of a It's this 230-mile trip with lots and lots of And when he says trouble, 80 some miles of that the deadliest highways in in south Florida causing deaths over the past 20 But with a reliable crashes could be avoided be off the road. I think Brightline is significant impact on It's going to have a more the state as we start the we run the full 235 However, because most of currently operating on crossings instead of road, there have already run-ins with cars since We looked at the corridor cocoa and we thought this to do it because you end You don't have to share You don't have any rail from a safety and a speed And so there was, again, And partly why it was able running on time was with Florida East Coast This model came from of its lines from proven to come with for Amtrak, like long ticket pricing. We started because we the time. So the original existing rail corridor that, enhance that, which So from Miami to Cocoa along the same corridor Railway. And we share freight train. And the rest of the way Orlando is fresh track, the Florida line to about The vast majority of around the world are meaning the government responsibility for the But even Amtrak, the passenger rail in the private corporation and public funding. While having privately not the typical method countries around the examples of it working There are a number of been very, very public-private government-sponsored in France or Trenitalia Italo has been a big been a rip-roaring examples of both public sponsorship working well. However, these companies either government grants infrastructure projects along the way. These systems are not operations, but they're built because you don't going to be delayed. You changing politics. You'd be delayed by And so it takes a really put in billions of years before they get any Even the Eurostar, which mainland Europe via the receive a couple of state bailouts to stay pandemic. Fortress does portfolio, ranging from energy, which help it pay like this. It is possible for private high-speed rail and also It seems less possible on we have, which generally companies also are not rail financially viable. So there needs to be a And that's exactly what its upcoming project. Brightline West, a $12 high-speed rail Los Angeles. In the case of high-speed but in case of very infrastructure projects often the public sector stepping in and saving it was delivered, whether private company or a And Brightline West still first completed true the U.S., with trains But it might not be able help from Uncle Sam. In order to be a part of initiative, Brightline unionized labor, American renewable energy, which $3.75 billion federal the Nevada Department of project rolling, so to No highway exists based on No airport exists based And moreover, those roads every single year by made by the public It also plans to build the with land leased from the Transportation. Brightline West choosing transportation corridors the secret sauce. It's helpful and we've been cities and counties. They like it too. And so if you can create partnership, it really win-win results. This differs from the rail project in the U.S., Rail, which is building along a major interstate. Acquiring land has the biggest hurdles for development in the U.S. Because Brightline is it's been able to move The whole approval stage out in time and hard to many hoops that you have And it can be frustrating planning the project and project, but it gets even delivery because that's people in the real world, the land that you're neighbors and so on. But Brightline thinks that company a logistical One of the advantages of entity is we are able to quickly and then act on And when you do that, ball forward in a very That's one of the virtues entrepreneurial spirit of And this is a company viewpoint of the future. At this point, it's say that car culture is States. It's literally the country, with 92% of to at least one car. But if private companies to expand, would This idea that Americans never getting out of of a nostalgic idea. Number one, the out. The age at which licenses has materially older. The number of license that feel the car life is diminishing over So this is not the 1950s. Gas is not 25 cents a And the interstate new. This is a different They're different kinds of things, personal against the ecological that they make. All of future of traveling by get around. Brightline is optimistic people off the roads and Reininger said they 8 million people a year Ticket prices from Miami cost $39 for kids and up And it's something that city, our state and our It actually impacts the people that come here to coming either to Miami, Brightline estimates 35 between Orlando and Miami currently driving on I-95 The U.S. is blessed with highway system in the of the things that has passenger side. But in these big cities as to traffic you can support. And so with that, I think solution. I think train it. And Brightline West will pair of cities that has the trip every year. 85% of those people are Those people that are qone road. And that surprisingly, extreme roadway. And it makes for Driving along that one That screams for another Because Brightline West is median of where people taking them out of our billboard for our future People have to pass us we're being constructed sitting in traffic one time there's a backup, want to take that train And leadership in the projects can garner profitable. Brightline West has the 11 million people a year market and the propensity back and forth between That will make it a very It will be profitable at ridership than that. The than what our aspirations They have already shown super high-quality that the people will show they have. Brightline doesn't yet companies directly to create rail lines Texas Central is another connect Dallas and plans have seemingly land acquisition Certainly we're the built the first train in 125 years and hopefully shortly, but I expect competition over time compelling business As Brightline West could rail line in the U.S., the project as a proof of future competitors. I'd call it the blueprint rail industry. And so building in America, we Union labor, and we'll construction-related jobs jobs after all that are region that we're We believe this is a project and a proof of build and work with systems in the future. It's been able to achieve Brightline Florida and the end of the year for complete the project Olympics. There's nothing that says better or worse. They can be very other. I do think that in building things, private little more nimble than a be. But it does hope to work connect its lines to trains like Amtrak or the Project in the future. Thinking of all this as a Amtrak system versus a system, but making sure If we're going to have a future, that's the only to think about this. Brightline West and the Rail, we're complements We actually have the same We want to see a unified America. And so we're to do that. But we're they've been rooting for believe we're going to do