- Welcome to &quot;Without - That is a texture of bread - This is part two of Oh, this is wet. - Ah! Ah! Okay. - This is how far into is that we're going back to the beginning. We're making bread and that's just half of the battle. - What are you doing? - Zach. Everything that goes into Uh-oh, the mustard. - Something's wrong about this. Do we think this looks appetizing? - Keith, it kind of reminds me of college. (everyone laughing) (dramatic music) (light music) - [Narrator] Welcome to part two of this season of &quot;Without a Recipe&quot;. Eugene is back in the kitchen and Marissa is excited to make This week, they're making sandwiches. - Marissa, that sandwich looks (Marissa and Keith laughing) - [Narrator] Will the guys be on a roll? - And of course, Eugene's - Bread with fish. - [Narrator] Or will they - You wanted to keep all of that sort of vomit-inducing flavor in there? That's good. Okay. - [Narrator] The guys will have two days to make their bread and and present them to our panel of judges. - Welcome to &quot;Without Hey, everyone. I'm Rosanna Pansino. I host one of the most and now I'm a judge on a - My name is Josh Scherer. I am the host of &quot;Mythical Kitchen&quot;, as well as the &quot;A Hotdog I've written weekly recipe columns. I've done professional recipe I am a cookbook author. - My name is Trevor Evarts. Professionally, I am I also bake things occasionally and I played GeoGuessr - We are here in the Mythical kitchen. - So bread making, it's well, no, it's actually but it's very easy to mess up. Basically, flour, water, yeast If you don't salt your bread, Making bread without a recipe's tough because you can make bread with a recipe and still screw it up royally, which I have done many times before. - A sandwich can go wrong I've had a lot of bad sandwiches. To me, the bread really is If you have a sandwich that is very wet and has a ton of fillings in it, you might want a crusty or harder bread that can actually stand up to it. So to me, sandwiches really and it's about being thoughtful at every single level (light music) - We're making sandwiches today, but we're not just, like, That's too easy. No, We're supposed to try It's a savory episode. It's a sandwich. This one, I really should win. - I've never done bread well. - That is the worst food - Every year, we seem to Now we're making basic I'm still gonna fuck it up. - I know how to make a I don't know how to make within a sandwich. I've never baked bread. - In this season of &quot;WAR&quot;, to the women in my family. Keith always had Daddy's favorite, even though his dad actually Yeah, it's a bit, y'all. - He likes it, but it's not his I'm sure his dad's, like, watching it and being like, why does Keith keep making cinnamon raisin for me? We're not putting that in the video. (light music) We're toast. Rachel told us to do that. - Oh. - It's time for sandwiches. - [Narrator] All right, heroes. 30 minutes on the clock in three, two, one. - Oh, all right. - Time has begun. It's time to make bread. This episode, right in this moment, I've just changed what I'm going to do. I was gonna make a Reuben on marble rye. A delicious sandwich. Becky's favorite. But I thought, ah, isn't And then Rachel said that she made a beer mustard bread once, but I just heard beer. What if I made a beer bread and a beer cheese with a beer mustard? A beer sandwich. I might - [Offscreen] What time is it, Keith? - Well, right now it's about 9:40. Big fried chicken I mean, come on now. - [Marissa] Come on now. - I feel like I'm taking way Like, when are we ever - When are WE ever precise on this show? So for today, I am going to make a sourdough soursop sandwich, which is a play on PB&amp;J. Soursop is a fruit found in the Caribbean. It's also called Guanabana. It's one of my favorite fruits. So I wanted to do sort with the sourdough and the soursop and make, like, an adult PB&amp;J. - My sandwich is dedicated and she loves banh mi. She also loves seafood and lobster rolls. Today, I am making the Christie. My older sister is obsessed with seafood. She loves Southeast Asian cuisine. So typically, bun meat but lobster rolls usually neither of which are sliced bread. So my thought is I wanna make So I'm doing, like, a Today, I am honoring the - Hmm. In a way, I am as well. - [Eugene] Honoring - Today, I'm making the queef. It's a queso and beef sandwich. The queef. I'm going to be infusing So we're gonna have some queso cheese, some hatch chilies. Bring a little spice to the queef. We at one point did consider making every episode queef themed. It was gonna be Zach's Queefin Seafen. But we sided against that. (light music) - We're making a white sandwich bread. So that's why we have milk and butter. Those extra fats are gonna and also give it more flavor. A little bit of sugar But that's kind of the simple, for our sandwich bread. So we're actually gonna start And I'm just gonna get this water and this milk have been warmed That is the temperature at Anything hotter, it can kill the yeast. Anything lower, you're not It's always a good idea to give it a little extra rise, get it going, feed it some sugar. It's just gonna allow your bread to proof more evenly and faster. - First thing you gotta If there's one thing I learned, you activate yeast because it's alive and you want it to wake - So I think I'm gonna do You know, I don't love buckwheat, but, like, maybe I'll do like 50 grams. Just a little kiss. - Now, I'm gonna put beer in this, but I'm also gonna put yeast in it because I don't wanna Beer, sugar, yeast. Drink up, little baby. Like salt. sea salt or kosher salt? - Also, you don't wanna before you add flour because So I like to wait until of flour mixed in and the come together a little - Some kosher salt. But not as much. Just wanna incorporate - All right, so our yeast is bloomed and I'm going to add a cup And then we have softened That's gonna add a little a little bit of that flavor. So I've got about three and a half cups of flour in this bowl. So many factors can go It could be a little more humid outside and then you would need to because your dough's gonna be wetter. You really just wanna add it gradually. Let it mix together. I'm gonna get that salt in there now that it's mixed together. And just mix it up until it's and becomes a cohesive dough. - I have bread flour, some garlic powder, and a But honestly, they've disappeared. How long is it? It's not burping yet. It's supposed to burp, right? - [Offscreen] I don't know. It says fast acting. There's some bubbles. - So you don't have to cream anything. Why am I creaming this? - [Zach] There's not butter in the bread. - [Eugene] Brioche. - What's that? a buttery pastry like bread. - So I'm making it kind of, like, sweeter. All my dry ingredients, And I put sugar in. Milk. And I don't know if this How much time do we have? - [Offscreen] 18. Ooh, it's gonna be tight. - So I have sourdough starter from my friend Christina, - Is Christina coming to the judging? - Nope. Just me. judging later? - Oh, weird. Whenever I cheat, I make sure my cheaters and accomplishes are present. - This isn't cheating. - Getting sourdough starter? Rachel didn't say anything - So is Rachel gonna join you - [Rachel] I'm always there. - It's true. She is - Can you get my backpack, Rachel? I had this idea last night. I realized I had something in my freezer. Backpack salmon. - [Zach] You're doing what? - I'm making some fish loaf. I'm honoring my sister with fish bread. Oh, that's what I'm missing. - Generally when adding to bread, you wanna sort of stay away from things that are gonna hydrate it different. Unless you've taken that into account with how much water or other - Come on, Eugene. to make simple bread and anytime I'm with Eugene is that it takes me as long to do almost nothing as it does for him to do anything. - I'm a very type A go-getter, Zach. - [Zach] He's making at the same time. - So I'm basically just cooking the salmon so it's not going in raw 'cause it needs to, like, mince into the dough so it'll have, like, salmon essence. - Okay, if Eugene's gonna - [Offscreen] What? I thought - Yeah. No, I'm doing this for women. I'm chopping up some onions instead of just the dried onion flakes to get some, like, real I think that's gonna give - What is this, Rachel? Only cheaters do math. - Yeah. - Oh no, no. Not in that way. - [Narrator] 10 minutes. 'cause I need to feel it. - Yeah, we gotta work it by hand. It's time for the hands. - So you can see the dough It's not super dry, it's soft. And you get that nice smooth top when you ball it up like this. And there it is. And it's got a little bit, when you press it down, it bounces back. - And I'm just adding more stickiness with the peanut butter. Ooh. Okay, this and then I'm just gonna, we're just gonna fold this in. (Marissa laughing) - [Keith] Interesting. Interesting. That's a lot of oil. - You know, if it doesn't if it's too wet, you could and add more flour and just Don't wanna use too wet - Oh my. I think I need to pop this - It's, like, becoming alive. It looks like a &quot;PeeWee's - Oh, you're putting onion in the dough? - Yeah. - [Eugene] What is your actual bread? What's the onion for? - Flavor. - So let's add fish. Everyone's favorite game show. - Welcome back to &quot;Let's Add Fish&quot;, America's favorite game show. - The show where we ask, does this regular everyday - Cake with fish. And, of course, Eugene's favorite, butter bread with fish. - Josh, we have our dough. - Next, we proof it, Trevor. - Nice. I don't have a bowl, but We're gonna put it in there. We're gonna cover it and let until it's doubled in size. (light music) - Spank that dough. That's a bad dough. (beep) - Get a little more tough. You gotta toughen up. You're growing up. - [Marissa] You're an adult now. - [Keith] You just had your first beer. - I didn't put any more grease in. I think the peanut butter. - [Keith] Yeah, I think you - [Marissa] Rise, my babies. Rise. - [Offscreen] Two minutes. - Two minutes. Okay. - Done. - [Eugene] Oh, this is wet. Oh, that's a wet dough. - It's very important to So if your dough is too sticky, you gotta keep working on it. Don't say F it and throw - [Eugene] Oh, this is a soft dough. I'm assuming it may be okay for a brioche. - [Zach] We're not gonna make it. Eugene, five seconds. (dramatic music) Perfect. - [Offscreen] Three, two, one. Okay, hands up. Dough. - Dough. (bright music) - [Narrator] The dough is proofed and now it's time to put it - We have our dough, big And I'm gonna do the plop method. And we're gonna get in this loaf pan. So you wanna punch out all the air. - [Offscreen] Okay, it's - Okay, guys, we gotta take a second to work on the other episode. - So we're in the middle and we're interrupting this to do, wow, which one's mine - Yours are these. - This one's mine. - Yeah. - Okay - It's stretchy and soggy - It feels kind of - It smells like fish. Fish and butter. - [Zach] I don't know because of the onion. - We're just gonna roll this You do wanna get that first Otherwise, your dough is just - Lovely. This is a good way Because, like, you're literally creating a symmetrical rectangle, If you just plopped it in there and tried to sort of mash it out, your bread might be thicker at one end, thinner at the other. - I'm making a little bit of a shape. It kind of looks like a burrito. And hopefully, it'll - Wow, this is really gonna rise, huh? This is gonna be cool. Okay, great. I'm done. - I like to kind of press it down as I go just to make sure it stays tight. Tuck the ends a little bit Gonna plop this upside down. Pinch it closed so it doesn't So now we've got our - [Josh] Pulliage. - This is gonna go through a second proof so it doesn't fill out the pan. That's okay if it's not a perfect shape, it's gonna shape while - Oh, it feels so soft. I But it is supposed to be brioche. So because brioche is braided, isn't it? Am I crazy? Also, I used to braid my Okay, well. - [Offscreen] Are you done? These are my two beautiful, and that's five. (light music) - Bring out the dough! - Bring out the dough! - Those are mine. One of them - [Eugene] Oh, they look cute. - [Keith] One's a lot - [Zach] It honestly looks baked already. - [Keith] I know. It is in the loaf pan. It's got that nice rise above the pan. This is, like, a perfect It's gonna go in the It's gonna rise up a little bit more. - Oh, baby. - [Keith] How do you know that it's - [Marissa] Why do we all have one that's bigger than the other? - [Keith] What are doing? Zach. Zach, what are you doing? - Don't press it. Let him do it. Let him do it. - The last thing you'd wanna do right now is to punch this down or - Let him do it. - No, no, no. Let him do it. Yeah, there's too much. - [Keith] Yeah, squeeze it out. - Yeah, squeeze it. - [Keith] Put your hands - Okay, so we're all gonna stick our buns in at the same time, - All of our buns go in - So shall we move over to the oven? - Do you wanna, like, should we wash them with eggs or something? - Not do an egg wash. I just You don't really need to If you buy a loaf of bread at the store, you'll see it's not really shiny on top. - Let's put the puppies in the oven. - Let's put the puppies. - [Offscreen] How long do - [Keith] 40 minutes. - I'm gonna guess like - And we cooked this bread at 375 for about 30 to 34 minutes. And now we wait. - This has been just over 20 minutes. - It smells like fish. It smells like beer. It smells like bread. - Yeah, it's amazing. Wild smells. - Now let's take a look My bread is getting rather brown on top. - Your bread looks good. - If your bread's already and you know it's not just take a little tinfoil, That's gonna stop any browning and it's gonna let your - Oh shit. Mine's fucking hard. Fuck me. Okay, yeah. Take both out. - Wow, look at it's got so - Thank God. - [Zach] You want Keith to grab them? - What if it keeps getting taller? Just keeps growing taller and can't get out? And your head gets stuck in the ceiling and then can't get him out? And you're like, oh no, What if he just keeps - I think it needs like and we pull him out. - Hey, Siri, how long does it take for? No, I'm just kidding. (everyone laughing) - But what if he said his own bread? He's not there yet. - Yeah, let's do another 15. - We've covered them now. So there's really no way of knowing unless we start smelling burn. But let's say you undercook it, toast it. - That definitely is- - A backup plan of mine. - I think that the bread is done. Oh, lovely. - Look at the golden brown on the top. Look at the nice little dome. And then you can also see there's that little golden so you know that it's If you're worried about it, bread should be between if you temp check the middle. - It's been about 35 Eugene's taking his out, which means I'm also gonna take mine out 'cause Eugene is usually right. - Oh yeah. Ooh, look at that structure. - Hot stuff coming through. - I don't know. Do we have that toothpick? I'm gonna do the cake test. - No, you can't really because you could stick pull it out, and it could but your dough is still - It's dry. - I'm good. I'd rather - [Eugene] That looks like a perfect butt. - [Keith] It is a really nice butt. - So we have to present one And then the other one, we get - And I'm glad, you know, our first ever &quot;Without a Recipe&quot;- - We made bread. - Did we learn anything - We'll find out. (light music) - [Narrator] It's the next day. And now our little to make their fillings and - Bread. Bread. - Bread. Bread. Bread. - Bread. Bread. Bread. - Bread. Bread. Bread. - Opening our bread. Look at Now, one of these is gonna be the sandwich and one has to be just for them to inspect. Heavy bread. Oh. - Is it really that much heavier? - Yeah. - Our loaves have rested overnight. - Hmm. - This looks like bread to me. - Oh, that's actually really pretty. - Yeah, so pretty. - So the bread is done. When we're talking about crumb, that's sort of what it feels like and how much comes off of Inside, it's got nice little air pockets. That shows a good proof, Take a bite. - All right. Yum. I mean, actually it's really great. And a thing I love about this, it passes the bounce back test. That means the gluten has and it wasn't too moist. There wasn't too much fat in the bread. 'Cause you want that nice chew. If it's just gonna It'll be crappy when you eat it. It'll stick to the roof of your mouth. - This is a big moment. Cut in and make sure it Fuck yeah. That's bread. It's a dense bread. I regret the way that I pushed it down. - So everyone just, like, look at how pretty this five piece braiding. Yeah, yeah. Everyone's nodding. Oh, look at the little salmon chunks. - Whoa, yeah. That's, - That's bread. - That's bread. This is bread. - This is the most bread bread - Oh, 100%. That doesn't look terrible. It looks a little dense, but not terrible. Oh, it's dense. - It is. - It's so dense. - [Keith] How's it taste? - It's not good. - You can't taste the - So we are making what This is like an Italian version, a little bit chefy, a little bit fancier of a classic turkey club sandwich. So we got prosciutto. We're gonna simply put this in the oven until it's nice and And then we're making a lovely basil and lemon Pecorino aioli from scratch, which we can start on now. But you wanna crack two eggs in there and then separate two Some lemon juice, peanut Again, now is the point adding your flavoring agents to it. Hefty pinch of salt and a Layering flavors, that's Blend a little bit of Pecorino in there. And just say when. (laughs) What is this? The Olive Garden? - When you're here, you're family. - So what are you doing - I wanna bring out a lot of sweetness because my bread is gonna be more savory. So I'm trying to caramelize onions. I love, onions are so but caramelizing onions takes a while. So I'm just trying to get as much time cooked in as possible. - Uni, one my favorite seafoods. And this is my sister's Going to make basically I don't really wanna mess because it's just so delicious. So I'm just gonna mix this together. - I gotta make some peanut butter. - [Offscreen] You're - I'm making peanut butter. Peanuts, salt, a little bit of sugar. Come on down to mustard town Mustard town, mustard town - Not a lot of beer 'cause A beer mustard. They exist, but I believe they're made in the fermenting process. They're, like, not just like this. I'm wondering if I should heat the mustard to boil out the beer. We're gonna simmer it with more beer to get more beer flavor. - Look, this looks good. Look, I think I made peanut butter. - [Keith] I'm gonna make some onions. - That tastes good. That's the best thing - So I am doing a lobster My only issue is it's one of where you just kind of want I'm gonna just make sure 'cause these are probably expensive and I wanna make sure they're delicious. And I think this is - I think my sandwich needs to because this is gonna It's gonna be wet. I need something firm to So this is hatch chilies. But I wanna get a little into the meat as well. I added some white vinegar. I wanted something nice and thin that I could give a nice crisp to. And I will be putting some - And so sandwiches, to me, they're all about combinations of So we have turkey right here. This is just gonna bring But since we know that turkey isn't the most flavorful element, we are are adding crispy prosciutto because then you have the meat or condiment meat. - See where we're going? - Okay, we got chicken tenders. Well, I'm gonna put all these Dry seasoning has cayenne, salt, pepper, mustard, onion, garlic powder, Italian seasoning, probably oregano, and basil, and something else. We're making a little Right now, it's just flour and Guinness, but we're gonna put a little salt and some seasoning in there too. We got beer bread and beer - These are guanabanas. They're a tropical fruit These feel ripe. I'm excited. I think it's gonna be too annoying and time-consuming to take the seeds out. So I'm gonna cook the and then I'll take them out later. - [Narrator] 40 minutes. We're gonna put in a couple Let's give it three minutes. Yeah, they're cooking. They're nice. They look like beer And that's what they are. - I'm getting just the thicker juice out 'cause there's a lot of pulp and seeds. I am pressing out the juice and then hopefully it'll be to thicken it up. Okay, that's a good amount. - I know lobster is delicious. And I know that back in the day, people used to think they were sea bugs and they gave them to prisoners because they were such So sometimes everything's just Lobster rolls, you want them to be just, like, a little chunky, almost like a really thick, But you still want nice So that's enough. I'm Give it the Vietnamese flavor. I'm gonna put some mayo with the lobster. So this is shallots, garlic, brown butter, mayonnaise, and lobster. - [Narrator] 30 minutes. So once you get into the threes, we freak. I'm making a cheese sauce. Cheese sauce begins like So I'm going to saute some some chilies, smoked Then you add the butter and And you get, you thicken Then you add the cheese. I don't know if that's too much but this is, well, we'll see. I think this is too ooey gooey. - I'm gonna slow cook these I wanna get these kind of charred. I'll pour in some beer. And that'll be my little - [Offscreen] Oh. Oh, the mustard. - Uh-oh, the mustard. Just stir. Just stir it all. I gotta get this mustard to chill out. - And then here we have arugula. Typically a club sandwich but arugula's got some more flavor to it. What the heck? And then we're actually going to dress it with a little bit of olive Again, if you're using vegetables, there's always a chance to - So next, I need to prep my vegetables. I love daikon radish. So normally, I think in their Vietnamese restaurant, So just give this a little vinegary kick. If you don't know what that that's like, looks like - I love pickled daikon. It is so delicious. Yeah, I'm trying to do a I'm doing a quickle. - [Zach] A quickle. - I put a cup of butter in here now 'cause it, oh, but now it looks too oily. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Okay, we're gonna drain some oil out. I don't know if I need or more melty melty time or what. But something's wrong about this. Do we think this looks appetizing? - What are you making right there? - [Zach] Queso. You got me. You can - [Zach] Okay, how do I make queso? - That's not queso. (Eugene laughing) Oh, that's, I forgot the fucking milk. It's not a roux if you don't have milk. So we're gonna try this again. I'm gonna see if I can't combine these. - [Offscreen] Zach, you have 24 minutes. - Yeah, it's stressful. Are you saying that in a that I have time to do this over? - [Offscreen] I think - I am melting in my failed cheese into the successful queso. What are you, look at this, - Yeah, that does look more queso-y. - [Zach] Yay! - [Keith] This is getting Cheese and onions and beer. - I'm gonna make plantain chips. - [Keith] Oh, do you got a deep fryer too? - Well, I was gonna maybe, Confidence. With confidence. Okay. I'm frying! - I'm frying! I'm frying! Ah! Ah! Okay. (Marissa screaming) Oh no. coming, right? - The finest Josh wine. I'm gonna just try and soak this beef. - [Offscreen] In wine? Yeah, yeah. We're - It is sandwich time. Architecture is a big part of a sandwich when you're making an aioli So that's gonna prevent a lot of moisture from seeping into the bread. It's also a great way like arugula, which is This arugula is nicely We got some oil in there. Then I'm gonna go right with the turkey. Since this is a three layer sandwich, we're kind of alternating layers of meats and vegetables and cheeses on here. Gonna layer on our provolone piccante. It's a nice sharp cheese. And then we're going to add A nice thick layer of, simply garlic, olive oil, salt, pepper. I'm gonna do a little bit more turkey. - [Trevor] Hey, you're doing great, man. - [Josh] I'm pretty stoked on this. - [Trevor] This is looking beautiful. - [Josh] Think this is gonna be too tall. You can always smash it down. - [Trevor] Yeah, you can smash it down. - [Josh] There you go. There you go. A nice little smash. There's our Capri Club. So if you look at the layers here, this shows how a perfect The bread has enough structure to where you see the and aioli starting to seep in, but it's not getting to the edge. It's created a perfect that is structurally intact. Then the crispy prosciutto up And then a cartoonish green olive. - [Narrator] 10 minutes. - Okay, I'm gonna start assembly. This is a pate liver. A must for banh mi, in Ooh, I like how you can Okay, so let's add lobster. If I know anything about lobster rolls, you want as much lobster as possible. And scallops. Okay, this might be a little unwieldy, but they're getting seafood. - Okay, let's assemble This cuts pretty well. It's a dense bread. I don't have enough time so we're toasting half, half the bread. All right, this was Zach's 10 minute soak. I'm hoping it just gives it, a little funky fresh. Eat this and you go, &quot;God damn. I ain't never had no - [Keith] Some cheese - [Offscreen] That's your assembly? - Yeah. Two feels like plenty. Look at this. This tomato's gorgeous. Holy shit. This kind of looks like Maybe I'll cut it in little triangles 'cause that's what you do. Ooh, it's all oozing out. - Marissa, that sandwich looks like it has cum on it. (Marissa laughing) (Keith laughing) That is the first time I and my God, it looks like a cum sandwich. (Marissa laughing) (Keith laughing) It does look cum-y. and cum sandwich. - [Offscreen] Zach's so you'll be fine. - You know, I think my is just beating Zach. - [Narrator] Only two minutes left. - Beef, arugula. Look at these caramelized onions. You ready? This is the moment. Yeah. Queef. - Caviar. Oh, that is beautiful. And then finally, the Imperial caviar. So we have caviar from Russia and Japan. - [Offscreen] Five, four, three, two, one. - [Offscreen] Hands up. - [Eugene] Wow, I don't know - Wow. Equally beautiful. - It almost looks like, like a That was disgusting. - That was really gross. - I completely lost my train of thought. (bright music) - Today, we're gonna be judging on taste, presentation, creativity, - For me, good sandwich There's a few things. You don't wanna overproof your bread because that's what causes tearing. You want a tight roll on it And then a nice crumb on the bread. You don't want it to be - What makes a good One third, one third, one third. That's my personal preference. I like breads to be two thirds, and then the filling to be a third. - I want a wow factor. There's so many boring Anyone can make a turkey and cheese. You know, we've all grown I want somebody to come in and wow me. To me, the best sandwich is a sandwich that makes me go, (gasps). - Oh, I'll make you gasp. (light music) - Hello, judges. Well, when I think And when I think lunchtime, So I wanted to bring you something like brown bag lunch situation. So I am presenting to you a peanut butter and soursop jam sandwich. It's a jam. - I said I wanted to be wowed and I know this doesn't of like a big old Dagwood But this is a certain wow factor to me. It is very evocative of a You know, it looks like a PB&amp;J with chips, but it's obviously very different. I will say the soursop, it is giving, I believe the Latinate root which isn't bad, it's just a look. Almost looks like a marshmallow fluff. - This presentation is - Yes. like a sandwich that my and brown paper bag it, open it up. - All right, let's get So I'm noticing here, this this tearing here. So this is happening So there's too much air Okay. - This is a good sign. All right, let's see. This is a dense loaf. It is soft though. If you wanna give it a but it's got a very dense crumb. - I think that tends to be a signature of overproofing, right, 'cause it sort of collapses in on itself. - [Trevor] Yeah. is going to be super dense the gluten structures aren't - Predicting that it's but we need to taste it. I think that we need to taste it. (light music) Hmm. - That is a texture of bread that I've never had before. (everyone laughing) Which new experiences And I think positive and (everyone laughing) - You bite into it, it's like one, just like, it's like gum. - [Josh] It is like a gum. - It's like a paste in your mouth. - [Josh] Yeah. - Is it under? - It's not under or over, it's I think the - [Trevor] It's incorrect. - I wonder if it's 'cause in the dough as well. - [Trevor] That'll do it. - [Marissa] That'll do it. - Peanut butter is so incredibly finicky to work with in terms of baking So if you add like a couple drops of water and try and stir it to peanut butter, the fat seizes immediately. And so a lot of people in baking will use what's called - So powder peanut butter - [Josh] Yeah. - Also though, I've noticed of salt in the dough. - See, the peanut butter was the salted. - [Josh] Okay. added some salt. - Here's the thing, because this is- - Peanut butter and jelly. So even though, you know, all I'm getting peanut butter - It's actually good by itself. I could really see soursop jelly working in, like, a dessert capacity. - I still enjoyed the flavors. Like, this is a sandwich I could eat. The bread was just technical issues. For making bread without a - I think it's, like, so I don't think I've ever I think I was recently at a place that had soursop ice cream and I was like. - Which is so good. I went with strawberries I didn't get the soursop, - You're such an adventurous I saw it. I did not get it. - You're such a hater. - This is almost exactly in terms of creativity. Like, you are playing off especially one that we have nostalgia for. - Well, I really love that you tried to make, like, a peanut butter bread, like, putting peanut butter, the idea of putting peanut 'cause that's something - My esteemed judges, is it a sandwich? - Yeah. based on my knowledge of sandwiches. - Yay! I made a sandwich. (soft music) - Hi, Josh. - [Eugene] Last time you were here, I gave you blood in cinnamon rolls. - I was very impressed. This season, I'm fancy. We might say hashtag- - Bougene. Because I've had the women in my family inspire each dish. This one is my older sister, I present to you my Briocean Banh Mi. - [Josh] Wow. - [Eugene] Dive into the - [Josh] This looks - [Trevor] Wow. heck outta here. - This looks incredible. - [Rosanna] A little caviar. - [Josh] The fresh jalapeno, the ikura, the salmon roe. You got the daikon and the carrot pickle. This is really, really impressive. - Ever since I opened my eyes, I've been trying to picture in my head how I'm gonna eat this. - That's a good question. As the chef intended, is - Yeah, it's a challenge. - Okay. Okay. Nice little braid here. Good braid on top. It doesn't have any, like, That's very good. This is a little bit more dense, I think, than a brioche would normally be. Brioche, it's very important that you add the butter gradually and let it all get mixed into the dough. It smells nice. - Well, Trevor, can you tell - Good bread smell. - Do you smell any other ingredients? Maybe do you see any ingredients? - There's a secret? Wait. What is that? Josh, eat it. - That, judges, is salmon. So I baked salmon into the bread just to continue the Briocean theme. - This smells very fishy. I can smell a lot of seafood, but I didn't smell it in the bread. - Yeah, this just smells like bread. - But this might be overwhelming - Yeah, I just wanted fish throughout. - I will say you were faced with a really tough challenge on the, holy crap, this is big. - I think you have the smallest bread of the three of them. - [Josh] The presentation was beautiful, but it wasn't very ergonomic. - [Trevor] I don't know how. - I don't think I can. Okay. - But I'd be curious to all of the ingredients in there. There's quite a bit. - [Zach] Wow. - [Keith] Yeah, he had - [Zach] That's how we got that nickname. - Whoa. Whoa. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, fellas. - [Marissa] Get in there, Ro. - I got it. No, I don't have it. Thank you. Thank you, Rachel. Okay, I got this. I'm gonna do. - [Keith] It's so bougie. See, there we go. Get my bread on there. - [Zach] Sandwich. - Mm. Bougene. - The brioche is getting That said, any sort of is just blown away from my face by the fact that this is one I've put in my mouth in a long time. Like, this is genuinely, The scallops are well cooked, - I struggled with technically but once it was in there, I enjoyed the flavors and the textures. - Bread tastes really good on its own. Like, it is a little cakey, but maybe just thinner slices so that it wasn't so hard No, this tastes phenomenal. - I love the creativity. I've never had this much seafood and variety of seafood - If it was, like, cooked no offense, but like, slightly better at cooking. - Yeah, that one. But no, this is absolutely a dish that I could see on a menu right now that would genuinely take off. This is an awesome idea and - I'm not trying to be a dick, but I am, as a viewer, surprised that you don't think there's any gray area in this as a sandwich. 'Cause like, look at - When I think of sandwiches, I think of them as finger foods. You can pick it up and so she's thick. Just these slices is just thick. - I like it thick. Now the most important question of all. Is it a sandwich? - I feel like we made it a - Functionally, based on the fact that one of the people at the table couldn't get their mouth around it and needed a fork and knife, and two of the people before giving up and it's sandwich adjacent. - It is a less sandwichy sandwich than many sandwiches in is a less doggy dog But a chihuahua is still a dog. Thus, the sandwich, I (Keith clapping) - I can follow that logic. - That was a great metaphor, yeah. (light music) - Judges. Queef. - Fucks sake. - [Zach] Queef. Queef. - And that is? - [Offscreen] Okay, - No one's gonna address that? No? - I'm excited. - [Rosanna] What are we eating? - [Josh] Oh, I can smell it. - You get some queso, you get some beef. Put it together, what's that spell? Please enjoy my delicious queef. (dramatic music) - Do we stand for that? - [Zach] What you have before you is a steak and queso sandwich. The bread is an onion loaf. - It's got a nice crumb. It's, again, a little bit chewy, but it's got some nice air pockets. - Air pockets. - Oh, that's funny. Gift that keeps on giving. - Queef is - [Eugene] Sorry, sorry. This one also was really big. And so right before baking it, I decided to just push it down. - Oh yeah, you're not supposed to do that generally. I was thinking about how and I'm like, get back - And you can tell now that, because he punched it down, that's where all these It's not a nice smooth top. - I'm going in. Go for it, Ro. Get to the queef. Tell me. - These are very good flavors that are going around my mouth. Like, this is, it's evocative You have the processed - Can you both sniff it? 'Cause it tastes really - Okay. - All right. All right. - The flavors are good, but it does smell a little funny. I don't know if it's like So speaking of queefs, there's, like, brassicas in there. So like, I just got some cauliflowers. Is this a giardiniera? I cooked the beef with giardiniera and used that juice as well. - [Rosanna] That's what it is. Slightly pickled but duller. - Yeah, yeah, it's like blast to the face that you wouldn't expect on a queef sandwich. I was biting into this and I and I pulled it out and - [Zach] Chunk of cauliflower. - Of cauliflower. - Perfect sandwich. - There's so many things that I like, but this is really throwing me off. - Right, so at my restaurant, whoever finds the cauliflower, - Yeah. for an extra queef on the house. - Oh. Oh, okay. It's a little soggy. But other than that, going on here flavor-wise. - The fact that you punched made it so dense- - That it is absorbing all of the steak. - [Zach] Yes. against you all odds- You get it. well-constructed sandwich. I mean, I've been tearing but this is holding up really well. - Mine just didn't hold together. - Mine didn't either. and tearing apart. - [Josh] Sucks to suck, nerds. - This wasn't like, I'm This isn't intentional. I love the creativity. I think it's really cool to, you know, try to put onion, like, in your bread. Execution maybe not perfect- - But your heart was in the right place and that's what matters, you know? - Judges, is it a sandwich? - Yeah. a sandwich, yeah. - Yeah. - Really the whole episode for me was trying to get you guys to all say this is one delicious queef, so. - Well, I think one thing- - That comes to my mind - [Together] This is one delicious queef. Dun dun dun dun - I think we're just gonna (everyone laughing) (light music) - Judges, we've been to the school yard, we've been to the sea, we've Boy, after all that travel, I sure You know what I'm saying? I'd like to introduce That's right, a sandwich (upbeat music) What you have before you is a beer bread with a beer cheese and a beer mustard with beer battered chicken tenders. Please enjoy a sandwich - How is every ingredient so thick? - It's really thick. - Have any of you seen, (everyone laughing) - Okay, a little dense. A little dense there. It's kind of the theme today though, a lot of the breads are fairly dense. Yeah, it's soft enough. I - Keith, this is really creative. - Thank you. that's the first time that where they used Guinness that I wouldn't even think of. And one of them was bread. They incorporated it but you've incorporated other than the tomato, - Yeah, so there's Guinness in the beer battered chicken tenders. There's Pilsner in the bread And then there's a sour in the mustard. - I'm licking the cheese. Can you tell me the ingredients - Yes, it was, I sauteed some onions and then added in a Pilsner and then added in only - You didn't want the alcohol to cook out, you wanted to keep all of that sort of- - Beer. - Vomit-inducing flavor in there. That's good. Okay. It's beer. It's beer. - [Josh] It's a beer. Yeah, yeah. - Try the whole God damn sandwich. - I'm trying, I'm sorry. Okay. - You're not, you're licking around and choosing what you want. Eat the experience the chef designed. (dramatic music) - [Zach] Yeah, Ro. (dramatic music) - I feel like I have a just, like, running around, I'm being assaulted by this. - Yeah. - [Keith] Yeah. so many flavors in here. - Whoa. the different beers, like, using the wild yeasted sour in there. And so this is almost like I'm just shoving cheese and mozzarella sticks in my mouth. And then trying to wash it that's been sitting out for - Yeah. into it and you're like, - [Keith] Yeah. but in a good way. - Keith, it kind of reminds me of college. (everyone laughing) - It should. It's a cheap sandwich. Like, I could've gone to the store and dropped $200 on expensive fish, but I got you some and mustard and Velveeta, baby. - What'd I ever do to you, Keith? - Nothing! I'm just letting them know 'cause they seem to be - I love beer. I love drinking. And then when I bite It reminds me of, in college and one night we ran out of the good stuff and we were just mixing - I like to consider myself (everyone laughing) And this is a simple, and I really enjoy it. I do have a question. Are either of you feeling are, like, kind of on, like, the back of your teeth? - That's the Velveeta and the beer. But it's kind of cool and it's like a salt lick, It kind of drips in - It's definitely meant and it isn't. Obviously- - Cold breaded chicken is gross. (Rosanna burping) - I feel like my body is having, you know when you relive thing, it's like having muscle memory. It's like, whoa, don't mix these again. - Sounds like you should've (everyone laughing) 'Cause then it wouldn't evoke that memory. - The bread is very good. It is actually the best And a lot of great flavor, a lot of great sugars I think that was your most - Yeah, you didn't like the - [Josh] Not necessarily. - [Keith] Is it a sandwich? - It's a boozy sandwich. - Absolutely. - Good job. We all made sandwiches. - We all make sandwiches today. (Marissa and Eugene clapping) (dramatic music) - I just wanted to say that nobody makes bread without a recipe. - We do. with a recipe is already and a lot can go wrong. All four of you managed that wasn't exceptional or But you made a loaf of which is really impressive. So congratulations. That - [Together] Thank you. - [Offscreen] Everyone hug Eugene. - No. Oh yeah, you promised - No, no. No, I didn't. - I will hug you if you win. - You know what to do, judges. (everyone laughing) - I'm gonna be announcing This sandwich and the bread made was a really fun twist on something that we're all familiar with, but unfortunately, the bread itself, the texture and the flavor I'm so sorry, Marissa. - [Rosanna] You're fourth place. - Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I get it. I get it. - Also, we've made bread on - Many times. - So your bread was way - I'm, like, on track with - Yeah. - I have the immense pleasure of announcing the third place sandwich. This sandwich had a lot of It just didn't really end up tasting that good, unfortunately. Keith, third place, the beer sandwich. - [Marissa] Holy shit. - [Eugene] Drink your beer, buddy. - Oh. I'm disappointed. I thought I did a really good job. This is the lowest I've I was really a ones and twos boy. And you've brought me down to the threes. Even my ham cookies. - It's okay, buddy. It's - It's okay. Drink your Drink your beer, little baby. It's okay. You've only been It's just one. You're - I still haven't gotten fourth. - You still haven't gotten fourth. - I have the pleasure of of &quot;Without a Recipe: Eugene, you gave a heartwarming You gave us all the Zach, you gave us, I would that sort of averaged out to And today, I'm very happy to announce that our winner is Zach, you did it. You did it. - Eugene, I am so sorry, but the fact that none of us ate your we had to grade it as such. It was easily the best thing we tasted. Zach's was somewhere in, like, but combining every single what's the creativity, Zach ended up with the winning on what I can - We'll take it. I lost to a fucking queef? - I'm coming for my hug. (Marissa laughing) - Get in there. - A hug has to be, it takes two to hug. - A queef beat my sister? Tune in next week for the grand finale of this season of &quot;WAR&quot;. And guess what, we're Not me and him 'cause he It's wedding cakes. - The hardest, tallest,