THE PAINTED DESERT On February 25th, it has been 4 months and that we travelled through the At daybreak, Come and help me, will you, Cash? You know I will. It looks like we're going to have Yes, I think so. What are we going to do? What are we going to feed him? Oh, you don't know anything about it. A bowl of milk, You want to help me with the kid, Cash? You know I do. Oh, the pretty little guy. He looks like me. Bill loves me, that's for sure, Jeff. Here. Have a drink, Bill. This will make a man out of you. Don't give him any of that poison Once and for all, Cash Holbrook, his name will be Dan Bull Cameron. And once and for all, Jeff Cameron, Get that in your head. Mule head? Me? Who are you laughing at, you old fool? You're as stubborn as this old... Like you. And who wanted to settle Water is a real gold mine We'll stay here. No. Not us. We won't make a fortune here. I'm going to take the western route again. I told you as soon as we left, Jeff. Now I've had enough of you. If you're going to take the western route, I'll take care of Dan. Bill comes with me. Oh, no. He's too smart for you, He's a Cameron. He knows where he comes from. He's a little young to realize that I'll teach him. You wouldn't hurt Dan. And if you shoot me in the back, Bill will fall After all these years, Cash and I Luck had been on his side, Mary Ellen! Yes, Dad. They are coming. A herd. You see, I was right, Mary Ellen. When I saw Bill I knew that he and the old man Dad, they're both the same. Cash Holbrook changed that boy, He was so young when I found him... Oh, Dad. If they think they can These 2 Winchesters will deter them. We're going to have to make a detour, So, we'll get to the land All right, let's go around. Let's go around. I trust you, Kirby. I haven't set foot on Jeff Cameron's land I wouldn't if I had a choice. Anyway, there are only two of them in the house. I don't care how many there are. Cameron won't keep me away Listen. What was that? There's someone there. Hey! Who are you? Water. May I? My name is Rance Brett. A man killed my horse. This is the first body of water I don't know this man. You don't know either Go ahead, son. Well... Who is this Holbrook you speak of? You never heard of him, Miss, I'm from Mountown What do they call you Brett. Like here. And I'm going to New Mexico. I mean, I used to go there. Since then my plans have changed. May I know who you are? Cameron is my name. Jeff Cameron. It is an honor to meet you, This is all my wealth. This is the only body of water in the area. All the men All but one. That Holbrook? Yes. I'm forcing him to take a big detour. 45 kms through the desert. He loses Revenge. The beasts start to get angry All because of Jeff Cameron. I got married and moved here. He kept on One month after my wife died, It all started here, everything will end here, What do you mean? Miss, Yes, if the Holbrooks You're not a very convenient person. Maybe I could give you a hand No. It wouldn't make any difference. Actually, I wanted to suggest until I can afford a horse. I start tonight. They are coming. We have to block their way. They won't make it here tonight. The herd is getting restless. It's going to get worse We're going to split up. Mary Ellen, go behind those rocks. Brett, go to the other side. Take care of yourself. They're getting away! They want to steal our animals! They are helping Cameron. What happened? I'll tell you: it wasn't Holbrook's herd His men made a diversion. He wants to kill me. It really could have been worse. We only lost Jeff Cameron declared war on me He should be expelled from the country. I wonder I'll find that too. And when it's done... Take it easy. I was in charge of these men. Did you hijack our flock? What's wrong with you, son? I'll tell you, Dad. I did it to keep you two And who asked you You and Jeff saved me. When I knew you were going to mess with him, Yes. And humiliate me right in front of him Dad, you and Jeff were friends Since then, you've wasted all those It's not too late. I have something to show you. Can you see this? What's that? What is it? It's tungsten ore. There may be little gold and silver but tungsten, there is a lot of it. And I know where you can find it. But there's just one problem. What are you getting at? Well, the man who lives on this land If he knew, he would have built a mine. You have the money You can help him. He's been your friend. Do you know who I mean? Are you talking about Jeff Cameron? Jeff Cameron. He's old. He's tired. He'll give in if you talk to him. Did I hear right? Do you want me to give him I think it's time, Dad. I raised you by myself. when you could have stayed That's right. I always let you think But I will never let you and tell me to be friends I didn't tell you, Dad. You are always punished for your mistakes. When I picked you up in the desert I don't know what blood flows but it is not my blood. On that note, I say good night. When I get up in the morning, I advise you to have left the premises. You and Jeff have spent your lives when you should be friends. One day I'll break down this wall. Goodbye... Daddy. Stay where you are, Bill Holbrook. Is your father here? I'd like to talk to him. You have a lot of nerve showing up here Don't play innocent. the herd away. If you'll excuse me, You will not take another step I'll take care of it, Mary Ellen. Go find Brett and make sure What are you doing here? Mr. Cameron, I'd like to talk to you. I have nothing to say to you. You can talk to me after I tell you what I have to say. I hope you're not laughing Come on, say what you have to say, Hello, Tonopah. Move on. We are expected. Well Mary Ellen, How is your donkey? Oh, she's a big slacker. Poor thing... And you, what are you doing? Oh, Daddy's got that Bill Holbrook. Oh... I knew I had something Listen, listen to this. I went by Holbrook's I'd better start On my land. I own it then. That's it. Well... I've been on my own And I'm going to partner with a Holbrook. If you can borrow money Yes, you can, Jeff. Tell me. How is it that Did you have a fight with Cash Holbrook? With Cash? Ah, he's mad at you, is that it? I know that Cash doesn't have any And I don't trust him. But he must be in cahoots with you. Jeff. He thinks he's right to hate you just as you think you have But you're both wrong. And now I'm telling you. One day I'll be able to convince you. Never. Don't even try. I'll never stop. I won't either. We'll have to wait for the day before I do business with a Holbrook. Well, that's what I am. Wait... You didn't understand me. You're a Cameron, You nominated me to be your father Is that true, Jeff? Of course I did. You belong to this land. It's all yours, Bill. The water and everything. Give me that. So you see, Mary Ellen, and Cash Holbrook I have to go into town but I'll see you in a week. When Cash Holbrook He's going to have a rough time. See you in a week. Jeff, good to see you. Bill Holbrook was there Yeah, pretty friendly. Do you know what happened Cash threw his own son out, What do you mean his...? What do you mean his son? That's my son. Your... What? How did you... ? He's my son now. I have something to tell you. I grew up hating But I want to tell you that I am I didn't know why It's good to hear you say that, You intimidated me What did you talk about A lot of things. You and your father will soon have more All those things you dreamed of. It's unbelievable that something like this But it's there. And I'm happy to be You know, It seemed impossible I'm happy for him, Mary Ellen, look out into the distance, the desert. As far as you can see, distances fade away. You see those big mountains... When I was little, I used to lie down I used to imagine all kinds of things I saw dragons fighting, terrifying monsters that were going to I know. I was doing the same thing. Did you always believe that? Still? Well... Until I knew what they But before you knew it, That's how it was supposed to be. separated by distance because of Is he one of those monsters I lived with him, With me he has been generous I had never heard of him You would think I was crazy everything I've thought about you I can't, Mary Ellen. I hope there's never anything. Let's eat, guys! Well, we did it. We've done it. There you go. The first car is ready to roll, It's about time. Banks have an unfortunate tendency It will be done tomorrow. And these carts full of gold And the mine will make us money. I hope I'm ready. You're happy to go, Of course I am. Mary Ellen has always wanted Yes, but it's going to be hard The vacations will come soon. Hey Rance, what's going on? Why aren't you What for? Well... I'm just an employee. I take care of my team, Yes, but she's leaving. Yes, I know. Great idea. Sending a young girl into town, She's going to live with old Gillroy. And Bill Holbrook will often Oh, yeah? It'll be all right then. Remember everything I told you... Help her upstairs. I'm going to check on her. I'm going to put this bottle Hey, everybody! Listen up. Just like christening a boat, Just like christening a mine, I want to baptize... I want to baptize this convoy. Goodbye, Rance. What's up? Ready, boss. Right. Let's let her go. You'll come and see me soon, Of course, what do you think? Bill, take care of Dad. I promise you that. This is Cash Holbrook. Yes. Get in here and the canyon. Looks like Cameron's business You think so? There, there's someone there. Yes, he must be coming from the mountains. Why doesn't he take the road? Ah, those civilized girls! Hey, look! There he goes again. Don't worry about it. What's going on? Are you hurt? No, ma'am. But we were taken Where did they go? We were pretty busy. This is not the time. We have to hurry, I'll be right back, It's Tex! What's up? Attention. Wait a minute. What's going on? Are you hurt? They got us. Are you sure she's okay? Yes, I'm sure. Guys, take him inside. Doyle, get the horses ready. Brett, I need two carts Get the mules ready. 1000 dollars to those who will fill Are you sure it was Cash Holbrook? Yes, I saw several of his men I knew that. Cash Holbrook did this. Anybody could have done it. It could only be him. That's enough, Jeff. We need to have delivered 7 barrels or the bank And I'll drive. How bad is it, Johnny? Not that bad. Have a good rest. I'll come with you. If Cash Holbrook thinks You're going to stay here. And I'm going to tell you too, do you understand? Hurry up! Are we going through the canyon? Hang on. And you, gentlemen, Here they are! Put a bottle on us. Gentlemen. Welcome. Come and have a drink, guys. How is the young lady? There you are. Old Gillroy tries to calm her down. She is losing her mind. Is she worried about Bill? She's crazy about him. Bill Holbrook? Wow! Here's a fold for you. All right. Have a drink. Of course. You can't refuse it. We've already taken out several tons We were going to make money. The bank, a rival... Only a few minutes left. He's going to lose the mine. It's going to be time. Who do you think it was? The one who stole the carts? Cash Holbrook. Don't you think that's That's a straight answer. You're always talking out of turn He's right. Holbrook would do anything Cash Holbrook comes to town. What's that? It's Bill! Give us a hand, buddy. What's left of the mine? I don't know, - Is Mary-Ellen okay? I'll let her know, Bill. Did you see who did it? No, they must have been hiding Look what they did to me. Can you unload the cart? Santa Fe, go show him where to park. Gentlemen, I think we're Bill! Bill, you're okay! I knew you were going to haul The carts had to come, honey. And I wanted to know I'm fine, I won't let you go, All right, Judge Matthews, A wedding this afternoon around 4:00? If I guessed correctly who it is, I'd be honored. Hey, buddy, Buck, can you make us a feast? A feast. I must have everything I need Well, stop it! Is everything going well, gentlemen? Yes, pretty much... Cameron, if I'm right, but if I'm right... I'm going to see As I was saying, but if I'm right, there's someone Who's helping themselves? You mean who's stealing? I've been paying attention until today Someone's hanging around. I saw something last night. Someone is stealing from us. I didn't sleep well last night and I heard something, If I could get my hands on it... What's that? - Someone else could have... Who's there? No one, Come on everybody, it's falling apart! Is anyone hurt? A moment ago, Now it's nothing. Brett, go to town. I wouldn't have the courage. Tell Bill, tell him that Cameron's mine Well Bill, it's time to break Oh, he's the first one to jump the gun. You're not the wisest For all these years I've seen couples go by but none of them were as Let's raise a glass to William Holbrook Hey, guys, Buck and I are having a barbecue. Everyone in town is invited. Cash Holbrook is also invited? Hello, Dad. I'll have some wine, bartender. Holbrook. Jeff Cameron sent me What's wrong with you? Well... It's sabotage. Is anyone hurt? No, we had evacuated the place. What do you mean? There were four explosions. The second one was also planned I think we are all... They know who did it. Do you know Cash Holbrook? He and Jeff Cameron He raised a child and sent him away You can tell he was proud of the boy. But he didn't understand The boy and Jeff Cameron Since then, he hates Jeff Cameron He has more reasons Do you think he did it? Listen, when the bank opens tomorrow morning, to be available... of my son, Bill. Wine, bartender. Thanks, Cash. One more thing. Is that what you want? Can I talk to you, Judge? I want you to do I'll be glad to. It's coming. You know what? I'm a part owner That makes me also so I'm going to send - Would you like something to drink? To Cash Holbrook. Sharing the mine. Is Jeff Cameron there? I work for him, ma'am. Sign here, boy. Judge, What about the wedding? I would love to I'll see you in court at 4:00. Judge, I'm going to take my flock Don't tell Bill! Trouble is coming. Where's Bill? He's out. - I'm going to look for him. Hi, Jeff. How's it going? I'm finally going to get a chance to What would you say if your collaborator You are not my collaborator. What do you mean by that, Jeff? I'm forced to admit one thing: you are indeed a Holbrook. What you just did proved it to me. - What I just did? But Jeff, we were in trouble. Cash offered to help us, Of course you did! You took his side. And you believed him when he lied to you He even tried to take Now he's succeeded, and you helped him! - You're wrong, Jeff He's driving his flock there tonight. Who told you that, Jeff? It doesn't matter. I said, who told you that? Rance Brett was there. Mary Ellen, you can't believe It's going to be time to go to court. It's not done. What do you mean it's not done? Let's have a drink. No, thanks. What are you going to do, Jeff? Don't let Mary Ellen Cash Holbrook's herd Don't let Mary Ellen I was looking for you, Bill. This guy Brett... What's up? He said something weird. It's not so much what he said, I was waiting for you, Kirby. We're going to take the herd to Jeff Cameron's I'm going to tell you Jeff is looking for you. Really? Yes. With a .44 caliber. I think you're right - Is Cash Holbrook in the bar? Is Brett there? Wait a minute before you follow me. Wait for me here. He was at the Silver Dollar No, Mary Ellen, don't put your Open that gate! You will stay here! Looking for Jeff Cameron? And if I were looking for him... He was going towards the Silver Dollar. Brett, we've got business to do. I didn't think I'd have But it's possible that I might. Brett, you're the source of these stories, and what you've done could cost the lives Speak now. Speak up, And innocent Cash Holbrook. If you're lying to me, I'll know it. And Brett, I will kill you. All right, Holbrook, here goes: I did it all: And I would do it again if someone else came Is that enough? Did you all hear? Yes, I think so. I don't know which of you did this, Give me a hand You know I will, Cash. Bill, what happened? Just one thing. We're going to be late for the altar, (c) BF-WATCH TV 2022