Did you know that more heart and 72 for women than any other age? Yep. And yet most people don't know We're going to tell you how today it all starts by asking Do you have arterial plaque? Yes, plaque in your arteries My name is Ford Brewer. I'm a physician. I taught preventive and continue to do prevention. I've got over 40 years of Today I'll show you how to find using only a blood pressure monitor.... . Okay, so are you ready? Let's get started. Picture this. You're starting to feel anytime you exercise. And you're also starting to feel You go to the doctor She tells you, you know, you have high cholesterol and that's in the arteries of your heart. So here, take this pill. Take a pill. You leave the room confused why do I have cholesterol in my heart? And what did I do wrong?.. I'm taking better care of myself So why am I sick? When your doc is talking you should be thinking about plaque. Arterial plaque, it's the real driver for maybe a little bit more and in fact, than just cholesterol in your blood. But what is arterial plaque? Most people think plaque is a waxy, where the blood flows. Thats wrong in a couple of key ways. Arterial plaque is a disgusting goop. Its like mucus or snot. And like mucus or snot, not cholesterol. This goop builds up in your arteries. And just like a pimple, letting all that inflammation it causes a clot. If It is a big clot, that causes a heart attack, that causes a stroke. Before starting any medication, There are multiple ways to detect plaque, can you do easily at home. The technique you will learn today Just a word of caution. If you already have been diagnosed with deep venous thrombosis or DVT, in that case, Now that you know why it's important, let's dive into how to Now we're going to actually take the video clip of me doing an ABi. I've got my blood pressure cuff, I've got a pen and paper and I've labeled it left arm and ankle, right arm and ankle. I've got a couch to lay down on and I've got an iPhone to diddle around with while I'm resting. So Jesus wants to make My blood pressure is usually the same but I'm going to go ahead and rest because Jesus, the video director, wants me to do it. We want to get this up next to my artery which so that needed to be undone. We want to pull it around smooth, firm but not too tight, not really tight. Then we press the button. Okay. 107 over 69. right on. 107 over 69. Okay, take this off, put it on my right leg. I was clearing. clearing thorns in a nearby woods last, That's why I've got all I don't know why that didn't do that the first time we did this. The artery is going up through here. So that's where we want to put the air bladder. Oh, wait a minute. I have to wait for a minute for Doctor Vega. Jesus is requiring a lot of footage here. He's always requiring a lot. I can't really tell how it's doing yet. I know how it seizes nerves and that is going to be. That's it. I can tell you from looking at a lot of evidence of plaque, which is not a surprise given the. I certainly wouldn't expect to have in my legs with the hill sprints and things like that. That I do, I can do. That's it. Alright. That wasn't too difficult, was it? If you haven't done it, don't worry. Pause the video. I'll wait until you get your numbers. All right, your results... These are my numbers. For my right arm, I got 107 over 69. For my left arm, 114 72. For my right ankle, 120 59. And for my left ankle, 126 74. By the way, the units are called millimeters of mercury and the pressure can push a column of mercury. The first number is called The systolic blood pressure blood after the heartbeat. And the second number is the diastolic. It's when the heart is resting. So this is how to calculate the index. The ankle brachial index. First choose the highest systolic In my case that would be 126... Choose the highest systolic In my case that would be 114. Now you need to divide the that would be 1.1. You might have noticed and you can do this for the other leg. For my right leg that resulting in 1.05. There are other methods to calculate this, but this is by far the Lets see what those results now mean. The ideal index would meaning healthy arteries. At least based on blood pressure. 0.9 to 1.0 is also acceptable. However, if your numbers are 0.8 or less, you probably have plaque and its and maybe even higher blood pressure. Also, an index higher than 1.4 indicates hardening of your arteries. Again, another problem. So you don't want it too high or too low. Now wait a minute, what does all this have to Well, you have arteries almost everywhere in your body compared to arteries in other places. Arteries from your legs They're more narrow. They depend on your leg This, by the way, is one more reason not to be sitting all day. By measuring the blood pressure in blood pressure in your ankles, we can find out if you that's obstructing or That would be called peripheral PAD can be terrible. It causes cramps, swelling and even hair loss in your legs. Why? Because any part of your body that is going to die slowly. In pad, nerves and even hair Slowly dying due to loss of blood supply. And we know that people with PAD have a much higher risk of heart attacks and strokes. Now remember, loss of blood flow to the muscles the risk of clots. The risk of clots is demonstrated by a signal of too much plaque. Too much overall plaque can mean Soft plaque can rupture, What should you do after If your numbers are good, you might have some good healthy arteries. However, I don't recommend just sitting on it, Abi is good for finding severe problems, And people that have heart attacks often So we have other options to detect subtle plaque problems. If your results are not good, I'm glad you realized it There's no better time to take action than now. Let's go back to the Imagine you're leaving the cardiologists and that's going to fix your problem. You're confused, and worried about how a Now that you've seen this video, you'll understand the importance You'll know what to do first to understand your plaque. But if you want to know more about to reverse or at least reduce but most of all reliably take the risk off the table. Check out how I did it here in this video.