JOHANN HARI: When I feel depressed, like loads And as I was learning about the causes of Connections,&quot; I started to realize, I don't There is this amazing Professor at Stanford went to live with a troop baboons in Kenya. And it was his job to figure out when are So his job was to hit them with little tranquilizer something called cortisol, which is a hormone And baboons live in this hierarchy, so the in a very strict hierarchy. So if there's 30 men, number one knows he's number three, number 12 knows he's above number And that really determines a lot. It determines who you get to have sex with, whether you get to sit in the shade or you're Yeah, it's a really, really significant where And what Professor Sapolsky found is baboons One is when their status is insecure. So if you're the top guy and someone's circling stressed. And the other situation is when you feel you're kind of humiliated. And what Professor Sapolsky found is when what you do is you show something called submission Baboon will put its body down physically or in the air and it will cover its head. So it clearly seems to be communicating, &quot;Just Okay, you've beaten me.&quot; And what lots of scientists, people like Professor Pickett and Professor Richard Wilkinson also that actually what human depression is in of a submission gesture. It's a way of saying, I can't cope with this Particularly people who feel they've been feel remember the other stressful situations a way of just going, &quot;Okay, can I retreat?&quot; &quot;I don't want this fight anymore.&quot; &quot;You've beaten me.&quot; It's a kind of very strong evolutionary impulse submit in the hope that the stress and anxiety The sources of the stress and anxiety will And one thing that is so important, Kate Pickett is they've shown so as inequality grows, depression They've shown, this is very robust effect, This helps us to explain it. One in five Americans will take a psychiatric United States is taking a chemical antidepressant And I began to think, could it really be that lacking a specific chemical in their brain? Why does it seem to be rising so much if that's If you live in Norway, your status is relatively No one's that high, no one's that low, movement If you live in the United States, especially of inequality since the 1920s, there's a few precarious middle, and there's a huge and So you can see why in the United States, you've gesture. Who'd be like, &quot;Oh, Jesus, I've been beaten,&quot; World Health Organization has been trying to things going wrong deep in our lives and As the World Health Organization put it, mental It's a social indicator, it requires social It requires social change, right? Now that is a very different way of thinking to fit with the best scientific evidence. And it really required me to reassess how to deal with it, unsuccessfully, and open my depression and anxiety that worked for And I think as the World Health Organization chemical imbalances and more about power imbalances and anxiety and we'll find better solutions. JULIE HOLLAND: So there's quite a few things The first thing is to really look at how you're How much sleep are you getting? What is your diet like? Are you moving your body? Are you getting sunshine? Sort of the basic things that we as social Which also includes being social, being interactive My patients who have sort of gotten off their who have adopted regular cardio practice, I think that's really important. EMERAN MAYER: There're some very intriguing more recently scientifically that make it between serotonin in the gut, serotonin in So on a clinical level, there's a connection complained of constipation, so a distinct And often the medications that people with inhibitors, such as Prozac and all the other They often cause transient gastrointestinal However, what makes it particularly interesting 95% of all our serotonin we have in our organism specialized cells, so-called Enterochromaffin So our major by far the largest store of that our mood and our wellbeing--also appetite, And a lot of very interesting discoveries even more intriguing, so this serotonin is come from our food that we ingest and the able through chemicals that they produce to DREW RAMSEY: When you eat poorly, your risk just go up 70, 80%. And when you eat a more traditional diet, your risk of an illness like depression can So that's now led to the first clinical trial a Mediterranean diet augmented with some red major depressive disorder. And it's a very exciting moment for nutritional science that tells us food should really be our mental health. The most science is about the Mediterranean Mediterranean diet is a plant-based diet, seeds whole grains, gonna see seafood. You're gonna see meat and dairy treated differently. I mean, it's interesting that all Mediterranean right? They have some dairy and fermented dairy products You don't see what we see in a Western diet You see a lot more spices in the Mediterranean These are very, very powerful medicines that And so one of my favorite interventions is pot on their fire escape or in their front Cause you can just walk out in the morning up, have it with your scrambled eggs. You've just increased the nutrient density And you've made it a little bit more like So what you're gonna see is in the Mediterranean fats. You're going to see, again, a lot of crunchy and lots and lots of seafood that again we for brain health. And that's really one of the main differences, All those Tapas with little anchovies and octopus. We are facing an incredible mental health I've been in New York as a psychiatrist now the amount of mortality that we're seeing And we need as many tools in our toolbox and sense, right? We all know that to feel right we need to But then also backed up by now an incredible nutrients actually have very clear data that of illnesses, again, like depression and dementia. So we wanna encourage people to eat those and then help them do that, is really part We think about a lot of illnesses when we always struck me that really the illness you be worried about when you're eating is your Because that is by far your biggest asset. It consumes more of your energy in your food And so focusing on the nutrients your brain of foods than if you focus on just things something like cancer. And so it's an exciting moment as the data PETE HOLMES: I wanna be careful here when a friend who was very depressed. And I remember talking to him, out of love of these ways that we can think and interpret And sometimes when someone is suffering, the there's another way to look at this.&quot; Maybe that's later. None of this is to be imposed on anybody and know, your brain is, that's really it's your that's causing you...&quot; No, none of that. That is not what I'm saying at all. We can give space to someone's depression, just eat some noodles, we can watch some movies, That's that's real stuff. It's a real, I don't know if you'd call it and we don't need to coach people through That being said, if you're in a place to talk I found it helpful to step inside what I call And other traditions call that your soul. I believe science might just call it, the If you think about when you were born, I have yet. She doesn't know she's American, she doesn't Just like a ladybug doesn't know it's Italian, It's just awareness. So she's just there. And, but slowly over time, we build up what So we have the story of who we are, and I'm man, and I have big teeth and all these things. And I like the first two Batman movies and So you build up this identity. And oftentimes in that identity is where things I can't speak for everybody, but I will say I get depressed, I have irrational bouts of of despondency just like, &quot;I didn't order Oh, well, keep the PJ's on, cancel everything shower, like that happens to me, right? So I'm speaking for me with full respect to When I'm depressed, if I can get into that the thoughts. So if you think &quot;I'm hungry,&quot; we always just animal and then we eat and then it goes, &quot;Thank Who's talking to who, really? I would say that the thought is talking to witness. So that's what's watching your thoughts. And if you can get into that, you see how this witness really is. It's just there, it's neutral. It's just is-ness, it's just this, and it's It's compassionate, it's involved, it's invested, to the events of your life story as you are, So, when those depressions happen, I found taught me--is instead of identifying with although that is how I might say it to somebody. What I'm thinking is there is depression. I am noticing--it's gonna make me cry--I'm And you can almost, it's not denial, it's less in the quicksand and you go, &quot;Wow.&quot; This is Ram Dass, he's like &quot;I don't know one. Look at this one. This is too much.&quot; But who is noticing it? And Ram Dass asks, &quot;Is the part of you that's Now I asked my friend that who was depressed So not everybody is there, not everybody can Later he did by the way, we talked about it In my experience I've had success in getting part of me, that's witnessing whatever the Ram Dass talks about it being like a candle by the wind. It's in a quiet place, and when you go in give it space. You observe it, you don't identify with it, Sometimes you medicate it, sometimes you go I'm not saying we need to sit in a cave and But I am saying that there is some relief I'm sad.&quot; I do it all the time, there is sadness. I'm anxious. There is anxiety. Look at Pete, he's anxious. And this is every great spiritual mystic through St. Francis called his body his corpse. He was like, &quot;I drag my corpse around. My corpse wants to eat.&quot; You know what I mean, I don't like it because But I just go like, I say to Valerie all the You know what I mean? Not &quot;I'm frustrated, this is real. My parents should, they should listen more. My dad still wants me to be a baseball player.&quot; Oh, look at Pete go. Oh, and then you're there and you're just because that's always gonna be there. And with practice, with meditation, with mindfulness like reading about it, talking about it like later. At the beginning it goes like this, you're go, &quot;Oh, I think I was still this watching And then with practice when it's happening I can go, that's happening, it's a phenomenon, but it's not who I really am. DANIEL GOLEMAN: It turns out that meditation it helps diminish anxiety. But it becomes particularly powerful when The way this is usually done is with mindfulness therapy on the other. Mindfulness allows us to shift our relationship Instead of getting sucked into our emotions, depressed or anxious. We see them as those thoughts again or those There's actually research at UCLA that shows depressed again.&quot; You have shifted the activity levels neurologically to the part of the brain which notices, which the depression and enhances your ability to a feeling. So if you combine that ability with cognitive back to your thoughts. The basic realization in cognitive therapy This is extremely important in people with it's our thoughts that trigger the anxiety, You know, the depressive thoughts are classic. I'm no good, my life is worthless, whatever Those thoughts actually make us depressed. So if you use mindfulness based cognitive there's that thought again!&quot; On the other hand, cognitive therapy lets so worthless, &quot;I've done some pretty good &quot;There are people who love me.&quot; Whatever it may be, you can develop a habit but countering them with actual evidence from I don't have to believe them.&quot; The impact is palpable and it turns out that combined with cognitive therapy worked just do, but they don't have those side effects. RUBY WAX: I had a depression, it doesn't define Seven years ago, I had a really bad one. I ended up on a kind of a chair for a few Let me just say, people think, I'm just going a bad hair day or your cat left out. It isn't sad, nothing to do with sadness. It's like your old personality slowly leaves which is you. I mean, it's like being in hibernation, but And so I ended up on a chair, to take a shower I didn't tell anybody, I didn't tell my friends. Because you know what comes with this disease thinks, &quot;We'll look at you, you have everything. You're not in a township, you're not being So I always say you get these abusive voices. But not one voice--but a hundred thousand Like if the devil had Tourette's, that's what So I was sick, I never told anybody. I got a few phone calls from a few friends Yeah, perk up because I never thought of that. So then I was really interested in how the other organ in your body can get sick and let's learn about the brain. So I gave up my career, kissed that one bye-bye this baby works because we know so much about You know, it's running us, we're not running So I decided okay let's do research and find You know how I could cool the engine. So I researched it in mindfulness based cognitive Otherwise I would have gone in a workshop You know, I'm not into the fluffy stuff. So because of the empirical evidence, I studied. So I found the founder, one of the founders, So I have the drive of a Rottweiler, so I It was at the time I was sick. I think I smashed into some trees on the way. When I got to him, I was crazy. And I said to him, &quot;Just tell me in a nutshell mindfulness? 'Because I don't want to waive crystals.&quot; He said, &quot;You'd have to get into Oxford and the brain.&quot; So I did. And I graduated in September and I got the And so it made my life so much easier because I don't understand why it's not shouted from That you can change the wiring in your brain Basically, we used to think we were at the you come into the world is how you go out. Look, the length of your leg and the color question. Because I'll never forgive my parents for Because I wanted to go down that catwalk, happen. But the genes that develop your brain they experience. So it's like they hand you a blueprint and up to you. So you can look in a brain with a brain scanner that corresponds to how you think. And every time they wire together you're laying But the good news is you can unwire them and flexible or happier life, whatever that means. I mean, you're the architect of your own brain. It's known as neuroplasticity, which was so So I always say Gloria Gaynor was wrong when not, you have many possibilities.