In 2021, the US stock market saw This year was one for the IPO raising $318 billion, the of those 1035 IPOs. A small but also not directly here for The direct to consumer retail market moves Warby Parker just starts trading on Wednesday. The World domination here we come model that had exploded in 2018 sun, notching a record year for of became like a badge of honor oh, we've we've only saw direct 2021 was a key year for what Era thanks to a pandemic let venture capital funding and a It was free money for a while made everybody a venture consumer space. This was the can't say a pandemic has a was one, it was shifting the 2.0 direct to consumer, an era of digital first consumer many direct to consumer new might describe this tech historically would not be An era that was about to come to Last week smile direct club recently got bought out for They've got a buzzkill on peloton the thinking almost 4% today and on its pandemic gains, the company is still losing money what happened? Why did so many up in just a few short years and models survive in the current consumer dead? Direct to consumer or DTC or d The idea is simple enough. I'm get my product out there. Maybe any old toothpaste. So cool new logo and cool modern packaging. toothpaste. But if I go the brand in stores, it's just one My brand is competing with a loyal customer base. So I where they are on their phones, with influencers sponsored website where I only sell my Maybe I grow from there, start subscription boxes, opening my complete control over my brand to consumers direct to consumer, a long time, wholesale terms young brands. So if you're a venture backed brand that's feels really hard to kind of go route. Now the term direct to consumer brands fall under that category. considered direct to consumer. Abercrombie and American Eagle built into their business Disney plus or direct to drugmaker, Eli Lilly recently distribution model for weight the DTC Golden Era, most retail native companies think Warby Casper, even peloton What do all They all started with a strong starting as purely online When someone says DTC that synonymous with E commerce. The early class of DTC companies become a decade of DTC dominant, had sold more than 8 million years. Luggage retailer away saw Parker's annual revenue topped time direct to consumer was the reaffirmed when the pandemic focus on tech for retail also outside investors, especially Wall Street traditionally has to companies that combine some whether it be retail or consumer like those type of companies, purpose in a way between 2012 and 2021. Venture from $60 billion annually to a under a decade. And of that retail brands in 2021. That encouraged investors to take only cost you have on your acquisition costs, and the cost product, your margins are 90% as doing great direct to consumer, company doesn't necessarily have moment. But it has to be able to increased scale and over time, only that profitability didn't come headwinds like a continuing growing cost of customer companies who depended heavily marketing to bolster their It's that profitability angle indeed to see from the losers, big names in the space like and others grappled with that forced many to go back to altogether. And the pandemic put forcing cash strapped DTC that just weren't there. I think one of the problems with a companies is they're not don't really have a convincing that's when investors get very current market where capital is and as the path to profitability capital spending pulled back by year over year, a continuation skyrocketing interest rates and and a deserted IPO market. For was just too crowded at this companies have been able to profitability. If it's not going to have a timeframe that they want it even it's something that may actually If it doesn't fit with that DC bashed. Additionally, the focus on backed companies were funneling namely marketing and sales, dire need of padding in case of was going to hit the core of the model. selling direct to consumer is photograph a better 59 second Shopify digital marketing, the bread and darlings. In the 20 teens in its infancy, meaning the cost was cheap. Let's go back to advertising my toothpaste back afford to buy billboards, bus couple of Facebook ads could half the cost. Even better, I'm consumer toothpaste online. Now, advertising their products compete with mine. So we all media advertising space. As the companies see how easy it is to product. Meaning I'm competing someone else is selling well. And just when you think of advertising on social media customer acquisition a lot more It's a lot more difficult for noise and create visibility for of that is down to advertising. The allure of a totally online a new wave of DTC companies to ad spend in the US past $100 a growth rate of 22% year over the new decade, prompting social price of advertising with DTC you've got to radar. And that often means that small fortune on advertising of mind and of course, that can effect on the bottom line. By mid 2021. Social media an annualized basis. Facebook impressions by 89%. The cost of YouTube climbed by 108% Unfortunately for the DTC Yeah, I mean, you look at buyer tell me and it used to be was tripled to around 80. That means a lot of the models reasonable customer acquisition And that's just the cost for business off the ground, you your product through relentless customer acquisition cost or the spend on marketing and sales to two or three sales to actually money from acquiring the 2017 and 2022. customer current customer acquisition stands around $70 per customer. product that's less than that, the sale. One of the problems with direct you've got to reach consumers consistently. And that's the bit you're doing advertising online you're opening more stores to very, very expensive. So knowing all of this and seeing business model right now, is it today's economy? Is there a has come out on the other side We started Warby Parker in 2010, problems, as frustrated Warby Parker, one of the OGS of viewed by many as the When we start talking about the The world looked very different examples of companies that were online in new interesting ways effectively selling classes was an interesting model where our products direct to consumer the unnecessary markups, and consumers. Warby Parker launched right on at the beginning of the 20 pairs of classes in its first valuation had hit $1.2 billion. and online shopping propelled the category and as Warby Parker around it. By the time the wave Other DTC companies are being of their products. The Warby Parker of mattresses, if you would search online for they were the only ones and then after a couple of years after successful. But unlike Warby Parker, a lot What we've seen over the last brands didn't have didn't have a differentiated those brands disappeared. So what's the difference? How forward while so many others in course or shut down altogether? how Warby Parker approached the a pure digital play, but instead expansion early on. Pretty quickly, we recognize in addition to our online and really important for our brand. that we were going to have over Canada? No, but we were kind of Currently, Warby Parker is 230 expansion that also allowed it customers despite the climbing To this day, we find that our marketing channel, we continue far the number one driver of new stores are not only great to offer eye exams to adjust through shopping experience but Beyond expanding its in person there's something else that company from struggling one, the the optical industry, which is a of dollars in the US that has allows us to sell products for a goods in our category. And those of other consumer categories. Basically, some products just Because what works for some a lot of founders of DTC they have start they want to be in control successful, profitable. And they to consumer. But a lot of them and they have to then rethink So where does direct consumer go separated the winners from the What a lot of them have had to if you take peloton as an that peloton under its previous profitable. So one of the things direct to consumer sort of well, actually, we're going to channels like Dick's Sporting a way of distributing our more hands in a very cost that leads us to the big these DTC darlings today, like wholesale route of selling in Olaplex have all pivoted from companies. That has been the line for DTC eliminate the middleman and you we're finding out is the Other two in public have decided brands like Casper mattress. cashed out, sold their brands to think ModCloth Blue Apron, even Birchbox. And of course, consumer market, weathering the They want to not lose money. shareholders happy, they want to to control their brand identity, this hesitancy to sell into his And it's not all doom and gloom. the secret to success on running managed to not just survive the thrive in it. The secret sauce of Birkenstocks years has been its data center schooI has sort of shown itself reliable partner, very reliable repeat customers. For the current state of direct isn't so obvious because in the digital landscape. Us. So if I'm sitting on my couch, tick tock I want to be able to walking down the street, and I to walk in and purchase. So where do direct consumer we talk to new founders and them a bunch of probing need to be sold online? Does a direct to consumer way? So one size doesn't fit all when it That doesn't mean all these means most of these direct to make changes along the way. So just evolving.