Microsoft Excel now supports Python code and and you can only access it by joining the beta I'm going to go over some details to examples I came up with myself. So feel free to put the video on a faster speed for different chapters if you want to skip around. rolling this feature out even for people in the Fortunately, one day I checked and it was there. let's take a look. And if you do end up enjoying start off, I guess I can show you the first which is this window popped up in Excel You can see it says that you'll be and I'll show you exactly which ones in a bit. there's no setup required, which is great. And can read it if you want. However, there is some It says &quot;While Python in you will be able to use this feature as part you will need to purchase an additional license I guess they do have to host the code in virtual but all the code is actually ran remotely It does not run on your local machine, but that means they have to host all that they do say that after the preview, &quot;some paid license. And they'll give more details to use the standard Python libraries and then I think that would be a more reasonable are very extensive and useful. Anyway, let's you can see on the right-hand side, there are But I chose to run the tour and you can see you enter =PY, and then you could Then within a cell, you use Ctrl + Enter hitting Enter will add a new line. Then it output the data with this little dropdown. or convert it to Excel values. And again, Although unfortunately, when I clicked this away and I couldn't continue it or figure out you all the stuff. So why don't I show you these analyzing datasets. It's a bit complicated, But why don't we just take a look at this? more basic examples. The first example is of And pandas is a Python library for a Python object called sample_df And it uses this new XL function to add a range type. Then below, this cell has a formula which generates this table. And it maximum, standard deviation, stuff like that. The next example creates a scatter plot. and then you can see it uses selects a range for what data to use. And I with this function. There's another example So you can see how various sets of data this example of something called a pair but it looks complicated. And then the which is just a fancy term for Now that's all great if you want to do a show you some more basic examples that might be for those of you who are more familiar with and tips, like how to put all your imports track of them, as well as some info about Now, if you do have access to the Python tab in the ribbon, and you can actually add code Insert Python button. You don't have to type And also you can see there's other buttons which is basically the console output, And there's Initialization, which I'll go over Alright, onto some actual demonstration, even if you're not familiar with write. For the most basic example, You can literally just enter 1 + 1, and it will whatever_number five, and then you can do actions return 500. And a real way you might use that reference that with this new XL function and then And then we can multiply that by five, and cell. Of course with that, you can already more complicated. Those who are familiar with a print statement for the output. It seems to So if you do use a print statement, though, And that's also where error messages maybe you want to manipulate some text. So let's have this other cell that you want to use to So in a new Python cell, what we can do is create location with the name. Then we can create a and use the other &quot;name&quot; variable in this string. and the F in front of the quotation mark just just lets you put variables within the string, That just says, insert the name variable right you can see that it says, &quot;Hello Joe, put it into there. I will note that variable for the string at all. You But if you do create a variable as the what it will output. But let's do an which is using regex with the Python code, Excel normally. And regex is basically kind And it's used to, I guess you could say, text that you want to get. I'll show instead of the previous example we did, instead of putting text into a string, But say the information is in all these like &quot;Username(0) = Joe123&quot;, and there's a whole number and the username from each string. How up a regex expression to get that information with So we can actually use the regex library for text variable to the cell that we want to it now outputted a pair of cells. And if you can see how it updates automatically. And you although doing it that way would have it run You'd probably want to adjust it so it runs it on but I'm not going to get into I decided to kind of poke around the feature and how you can actually do quite a bit more than Though, if you're not familiar with Python, but don't worry about that. First of all, an which you can see by clicking the initialization imports this stuff by default and also sets up which remember is how you use These cannot be changed, but like it says, functions and put them in their own sheet at Python formulas in order of rows and then it can be used for the rest of it. So the libraries within each You could do something like this and create one the first sheet of the workbook and import But notice if you do that, the cell will just easily see which things you've imported is And it creates a string output of the object and add some extra blank lines, it makes a very you've already imported at a glance. You can to make it easier. You can put Though you can see that it also So what I did was to the left, I just added a next to them. Again, so I could keep track of them wondering about the Python environment itself, And I also listed the site packages directory And there are a ton of them, not just the every package included with Anaconda, which science libraries with Python. However, keep it might not actually be useful because of how For example, you could import Colorama as to the console output. But since there Another example is the requests library for virtual machines are running the code, so which I definitely think makes sense That being said, you still can fetch web data with that information, and then putting I had it output some info about the system though I'm not sure if any of these are Though I did block out some values that like tokens and keys. Now next up, I have different variable types work with this Python with if statements that's a little bit more I recorded these parts at the computer, so here I have a document that I created just different variable types and see how they work types on the left, and then what it looks On the right, I'll get to this it just says the string if you create it'll just say the integer. Whereas with the name of it by default, if you just So with the dictionary, you can see this is go through these. This is a 2D list, so a tuple, a set, a boolean, a NoneType, bytes, and you'll notice when you do have this Python object, thing that lets you create additional cells next So the string one just converts that to a string, and that's what I did for all of these. So and that's exactly what I did here. And type name. So I literally just made a cell for And you can see it actually shows up in the .Python_str. So this is a Excel function. this is just what each looks like, nothing types Excel values sheet, because over over here I wanted to see what each one looks So I switched it from Python to Excel for For dictionary, it says Unknown, but I guess to display it. Maybe they'll change that in the as a list. So you put this in the F4 cell and row or a column of anything in that list. Now, if it's a 2D list, it'll do array. So everything for this formula, this highlights these for this complex variable it looks basically the same as a list. A set, And for NoneType, none. And bytes, NA. So you you can do a little bit more with some of these and even boolean. Whereas before it has this also have this thing pop out like a preview, and Now in this document, I can show you if are really useful. It's a lot easier to do than examples set up here. And the first thing I can a result. So say you just have this, not even a It'll output Hello World just like this. And Hello World, because it, I guess interprets this you can see I have these &quot;X to Run&quot; boxes and going to run whatever command is in this So you can see how I have this xl(&quot;C8&quot;), which is this, and it's a string, okay. then it says, if test1_value equals and else it'll say condition failed, but And you'll see why. So I'll put X in here and even though this actually should have is because even if you're using an if statement, it only seems to be able to output something So I changed that here where I basically did output equals nothing, and I did the same and I can change that here, you can see I put the final output value here. And then I did this a bit differently is instead of having the test in you could create a test value kind of like I and then you compare the variable to that Again, just like in normal Python, that's just an it now says passed. And then just as maybe a which just uses this other function declared, website. And you can see, unfortunately, to the internet, which actually is Alright now I want to show you something really which can be really useful. And it allows you can come in handy. So say I have this formula it's not being used as a calculation, Excel is It's literally just text. And down here, I have right, I just put what is in here so you can see text. Anyway, so you can see if I use this just like this, it literally So this is a string here, you can see use Python's Eval method, and then put it evaluate it as code. So it basically takes this see now the result is two. Now to show you how the and how you might approach it with Excel So this is a super basic example. So you have depending on the choice, you want to run an action So this one is just multiply by 10. And this one if statement, where basically, you run both these And then depending on this A catches the value from this result or this result. have to run all the calculations, and then refer have the formulas in here. So it doesn't run But of course, an issue is if these that's going to be hard to read. notice how because of the way an if statement it's true or false, but you can't have So if you wanted to have three, then you that would look like this. And in this one, it's at the first result. If it's not, run this whole then look at C11. And if it's not B, which And you can see, okay that works if there's like harder and harder to read. Another a VLOOKUP. So you basically have and then next to it, you would say So this way, you basically say and then give me back whatever result I have you can also have basically unlimited number with nested if statements. I also have this but I'm actually probably going to not go Anyway, let's get to the Python option, which one. So here, we can expand this and look at the is the 100. And then we literally in the Python if C7 is A, and then I have this lower(), so it's Then we use the eval thing again. And what So if it's A, then it says run this formula. of like a VLOOKUP in the sense that you can each one. And it's easier to read because But the benefit over a VLOOKUP is you don't correct choice. Whereas with the VLOOKUP, you the correct result. Whereas this, you're actually based on it. Now over in this one, it's a bit more So instead of hard coding the tests I basically kind of did like the VLOOKUP and then the formula it would run over here. And just as a dictionary in Python, which would make But you could see that when you import an array into a Panda data frame. Which I just figured out, have to convert it to a dictionary like this. Not then anyway, once it's a dictionary, it's really And you do that by referring which again is the same as this column. And you and it'll give you the thing on the right, and in this case, if the choice is A, then If it's B, then it's number times 20. like we did before. And obviously the don't have to create a new if statement look at this range and use that as a And then over here, I just have an try/except clauses from Python to catch or C, it's going to look it up in this thing it's just going to give an error. You can see but in this one, you can see it So I'll change that back. But you can see here, I did a try/accept. And this basically then do this exception clause. So the end then it just displays this result, &quot;Error, Oh And what's cool about Python exception clauses different types of exceptions. but you can be really specific in what error And one more important thing to mention, code in them will actually update So notice here that choice equals C7, because you can see it automatically updated to hard coding of these values, it will still to know at least. Alright so hopefully Let me know down in the comments if you have this for that I might not have thought the comments because someone might've given again, be sure to give it a big giant And if you want to subscribe, I try usually Wednesday and Saturday, so it should next video I'd recommend is where I was editions you may have not seen before, I explained that right here. You can just click on. So thanks so much for watching