The Press: Sir, can we ask Kim Jong Un is threatening surprise for the world. The President: We'll find out what the deal with it very And let's see Everybody has got let's see what happens. I handle them as So you saw that? These are great people. Our military is We were totally depleted And it's great stuff. It's great stuff And you see these We have the best So it's totally New equipment is coming It's being made -- And our economy is the The Press: What options Mr. President, if it does missile test? The President: We'll (Inaudible.) We'll Maybe it's a nice present. Maybe it's a present where vase, as opposed to a I may get a vase. I may get a nice You don't know. You never know. The Press: Are you going Mr. President? The President: Say it. The Press: Are you going Mr. President? The President: I don't The Press: Roger Stone. Are you going to He's been convicted The President: Am I The Press: Yes. The President: Well, I I think it's very tough Stone, compared to what people on their side. I think it's very tough. I think it's a very tough something like that. You know, Roger Stone campaign in any way -- beginning, before I -- I announced -- a little bit. I've known Roger He's a nice guy. A lot of people like him. And he got very -- he got General Flynn and as did They got hit And now they're finding They're finding out it It was -- we were spied on And again, Roger Stone was not a part He was somebody I've known part of the campaign. Very, very, very early think long before I even in a minor way. But he's a good person, is very unfair, And what they did to unfair, in my opinion. And what they did to And now we found out And paid for by the DNC, in many cases -- and in much. They did a phony dossier. They used the And now, as you know, the judge is very much they're going to do But these were These were bad people. These were evil people. And I hope that someday my greatest -- or one of -- getting rid of them. Because we have no place like that. The Press: Sir, what did that convinced you that the 2016 Election? The President: What The Press: Yes. The President: About what? The Press: What did when you met? The President: You're somebody's mouth. Who are you referring to? Me? I never said I never said a All right, any The Press: Mr. President, will hold up the indefinitely? The President: Well, all are the highest Our fundraising in the highest it's ever been. She hates the She hates all of the and the Republican Party. And she's desperate to do out of Speaker She lost like 63 seats -- a record-setting I think it's going She's doing a tremendous She's not doing And some people think that what she's doing. A lot of people A lot of people They had no They had no crime. We had 196 or so percent. We didn't lose one We had three Democrats two in another instance -- And we're in a Ultimately, that decision Mitch McConnell. And he will make it. He has the right to He's the head People remember: They They didn't give They didn't give They didn't give Now they come to the everything. If you look back just two what they did. But over a long period of We weren't entitled We weren't entitled We sat in a basement. They would leak They would leak it. We weren't entitled They would leak corrupt politician He's a corrupt politician. No, they treated us worse treated, from a legal of the United States. That's never happened have a lawyer, you can't have time. You didn't have -- even the constitutional lawyers; we got one. Fortunately, our one their three. And we also had a We had -- we have I say it again: We They had no case. But they had three They had three. Think of that. They had three lawyers -- and each one spoke for an We had one lawyer. What do you think of that? So now they get And now we have the Mitch McConnell. And we have the majority, McConnell to do wonderful I mean, he's going to Very smart guy, very good But they treated us very fair -- fairness They ought to look back at they've hurt this country. Fortunately, we have a plow through all of the goes on. And also, tremendous being written about, concerning FISA, the people that started What they've done to this And hopefully, it's going The Attorney General is working But if you just go -- of it, and I do stay out what you see in the what's going on. We had dirty cops. We had people spying They did terrible things, never been done in the It's very sad. All right, have good time