Hey guys it's Chloe and welcome back to my channel. Also, welcome to my new apartment. My sister Mia and I just moved into this apartment and what better way to break it in than with a prank? Let's put my sister's room underwater! (music) Sound Effects Alright guys so Mia is currently running a few errands so I think she's gonna be gone for like an hour or two. But this is her room right now. She doesn't have much she basically just has, um, a twin mattress, a blanket some pillows, a little night stand this little thing that I gave her for her room..., and a rug! So! We're gonna put this underwater. I'm not evil okay! i'm just uh, we're just startin' some prank wars! (music) You get a two-for-one deal with this video, you also get I put my sister's room in the elevator! (music) I seriously feel like I could do a 24 hour challenge in the elevator, this is comfy! Oh my god! Like what if we did this! That's actually really fun! Wooh! It's okay guys. So how are you doing today? I love this! This is fun! I hope someone's like, I hope someone's there watching when we come out! Oh my god! Sorry! Oh it's okay! Guys, I just moved into this building, My neighbors are gonna think we're freaks! Kalia, we didn't press the down button! Oh my! Where are we going? Were just riding back up somewhere else! Were just riding around, we just ride the elevator for fun on our leisure. On a bed. On a bed! Oh god! Now we're gonna have another neighbor. Oh hi sorry. I'm the new neighbor in the house. Sorry! We haven't even done, like the crazy part yet! I know! We haven't even put it in the pool, well I don't know. I'd say, this is, pretty crazy if you ask me! we've arrived at our destination oh! Now we're here, all right let's go this is what we do career choice like Like if I want to stay in this condo I got to do this. (laughter) Aww, thats so nice Ya, I'll get this ( laughter)Their helping! (Laughter) we're are we taking this, to the pool? You can out it to the side for now. Alright, Thank you The guys that's like my new apartment manager whenever i literally thought he was gonna get mad at us and not let us do this video and i was freaking out and he's just like joined in and helped We're gonna get all of this and we're gonna put it there and we're gonna make it the same exact setup as it was upstairs Yeah, but before We move this into the pool i want you to give this video like turn on my notification you have subscribe if you're not already because we do crazy stuff on this channel and comment down below what else i should do underwater And the time it takes me to get in the pool (Splashes in pool) She just jumps in with her shorts on Why did you jump.... with your shorts and your shoe Did you see me like slap my butt before I went in I wasn't just like giving myself a slap I was like making sure I didn't have my phone on me (Laughter) Here we go Don't turn your back after this (laughter) This is real projecting it ( Mattress thuds in pool) (water splashing) Alright Sink Oh, I do have googles (Music) Guys, we're trying to like keep the mattress down. So we're like lets just jump on it This is so fun! (Camera underwater,and music) Okay, Cleo and I just jumped on the mattress for like minutes. It was super fun actually. imagine if we just like compare it just like. (Laughter) It's finally standing on it's own (Camera underwater,and music) I think we got a mattress staying on Now, its time to make the bed! Yey! Time to make the bed!! AWW, poor Mia (Laughter) (Music) Okay (camera underwater, and music) Here comes the comforter (Music) (water splashes) (Camera underwater) other things we do (Camera underwater,and music) it's all in the details (Camera underwater,and music) let's get the pillows in here Ahhh (Laughter) Whoo (Pillow hits camera) (Camera underwater,and music) We're now putting a chair in the water because i don't know why because I don't know why? Because we are. because things aren't saying that but It's fine it's fine it's good enough her room is under water. Her room is under. Welcome to Mia's new room! (Camera underwater,and music) Alright guys so i just got a text from mia saying she's on her way back We're gonna go put the gopro in her room, so we can get her reaction and then tell her to come down here (Laughter) alright guys were in Mia's room we're gonna set up the go-pro somewhere Maby, back here (whisperer) Alright, let's go (Door slammed shut) 20 minutes later (Door opens) (Opens closet) hey You know where stuff is in my room. It's like empty Did the movers move it? oh Yeah, actually i decided to move it cuz i knew you were gonna paint so i thought i just move it out of the way Oh, Thank you I was like thought that I was crazy for a second Wait, where are you? i'm at the pool you should come Ummmmm... Are you sure? um, just, just come down we're just hanging out okay bye (Mia) Bye (laughter) Oh my God, Okay. She's coming Do we do anything like no, we should stay right I'm like i just moved it for you just, to be nice i like about to paint her room so she was gonna move this stuff out anyway what colors...?Well we did it for her yeah All right she's coming. Hey! What is that? (Laughter) Is this my stuff?! (Laughter) serious Is that the ma-? (Laughter) why I just thought it would be funny if i like put your room under water. what else.. what is in there oh my gosh it's just Oh my god Cloe it's just a match oh i just thought it would be a funny prank It's funny how the funny it's not funny i got me i'm gonna take it all out and wash it and stuff So i guess i'm sleeping in your room again i haven't had my own room in nine months I'm just confused what i think everyone was when i suggested this as a video idea actually I got you a three thousand dollar mattress she actually did Where's Ashley (giberish) Got you a three thousand dollar mattress it's gonna be here tomorrow and i'm gonna wash all this and put it back You need different content chloe. Like, oh let's prank Mia because you is under so many other things today knows what it's like living with a youtuber whose idea was this kalia why Why would you think that's my.. Do you think i wanted to put this stuff in there and you realize you have To get this stuff out I didn't research on how to get a mattress out and they said you needed a crane Yeah, so now you have to try to get the wrong Oh, wow AHHH To far, too far. we're going to go... ( Mia) Let's put your bed under water. I mean if you want to prank me back we can start some prank wars but... I don't know I tried to get Adelaine just start a prank war with me and she didn't want to so So mabye... she's so confused. This is a reminder the she has to do stuff this isn't coming hey i got ya i got you a really nice mattress that mattress was like sixty dollars So i know what that went underwater then it will actually be pissed Alright guys i hope you enjoyed this video make sure to give it a like make sure to comment down below what else i should do to Mia prank wise and i will see you guys... ( Mia) maybe i'll prank back guys help me out because i Don't know why i'm the target comment what i should do back to Clo and i will see you guys next time BYE (Outro music)