Welcome once again to the lands of the Boon Wurundjeri people of the Kulin Nation. Their sovereignty was never ceded. We are on Aboriginal land in this particularly It is an absolute honour to be on Aboriginal Now so much to talk about tonight. Welcome everyone to the glamorous evening and Technology Symposium. Hashtag ACMI Symposium. That's a lot of characters but I'm sure we Chokepoint capitalism, Rebecca Giblin and I'm Esther Anatolitis. I am delighted to see so many of you here on Valentine's Day who've brought a bit of It's our first date too. So let's get right into it. First of all, a great big welcome for Rebecca The Financial Times called it nerdy, sharp, The Saturday Paper called it an important Douglas Rushkoff called it infuriating yet gruesome because smashing capitalism is not A book that never lets the reader off the So let's take a journey through our 21st century it whose systems have been designed to separate at every possible point. We're going to have a conversation about power, collective power, creative power and how it your book so far. I'm just going to slightly wriggle forward will slightly wriggle backwards and then yeah. Do you want me to shift forward as well? Are you good? I can do that. No, no, no. Bit of shimmying. Are we sufficiently shimmied? I think we're good. Wriggled into place. Because I'm seeing a consistent thread of of the action chapters. So we're going to spend a fair bit of time And you're all going to have some questions As you know, the time in conversations like So have your questions ready when it's question And as we all know, a question is when you It's a very succinct thing and it ends with Sort of like that. Questions also have one part, not two parts. And we will heckle you if you ask a bad question. We will totally heckle you. All right, let's get into it. Let's start with capitalism. So politicians and captains of industry of capitalism as this lovely, perfect thing of of access for everyone. But as we know, it is, you know, a little a total failure. Choke points that throttle artists as these really exposes the big lie that we don't have So my first question to Rebecca and then to and tell us how it impacts on artists. Rebecca. I'm just waiting for the next special edition Capitalism a little bit faulty. Look, the big lie, I think, or one of the is all about competition. And indeed, that's what we're told. Like it is central to it. That's the whole premise on which to make But at least for the last 40 years, what we've that at every possible place. And that, you know, they're not even shy about Peter Thiel comes out and says competition The orthodoxy taught in business schools is Don't provide a service that people need. Doing that is going to only get you regular And the way people work is that they see somebody And people have got really freaking rich. And so people want to get dumb rich. And the way you get dumb rich is you take and you distort it into an hourglass shape sellers at the other, and you squatting predatorily between the two and by doing that, squeeze Ouch. Cory, what's one of the big lies of capitalism So we underwent a real phase change in how a kind of West, started in the US but spread And Cory, I'm just gonna jump in. For the Australian audience, what is antitrust? So antitrust is the American 19th century There used to be these things called trusts. So you would have these rail barons or coal familiar with clearly, who would decide that And so what they would do is they would put they would sell shares in the trust to each They would allocate shares to the trust in And what you'd end up with is one kind of It would look like there were lots of different it turned out that they all had a common ownership. It's a bit like when you go down the grocery one side, all these products down the other And if you pick up any of them and you stare they're all either made by Unilever or Procter And if by some incredible chance some dude that people really like, one of those two company. And when they do, they're gonna say, well, value choice. It's that Duff Beer, Simpson's Duff Beer Brewery of Duff Framboise and Duff Bok and Duff Light, just squirting out into all of them. So this is antitrust. Antitrust is the idea that competition for also to make our politics better, is really And about 40 years ago, that changed. 40 years ago, a kind of conspiratorialist of economic circles for having been Ronald Or not Ronald Reagan, Richard Nixon's Solicitor that when Reagan tried to put him on the Supreme tanked for him. If you've ever heard the term Borked as a that's what it comes from. It comes from Robert Bork's terrible ghastly I thought it was a Muppet Show term. No, no, yeah. No, the Swedish chef has no nexus. It's a parallel evolution. I've had some really terrible job interviews, bit better. It's pretty remarkable. So Bork had lots of very bad ideas, and also But one of the strangest ones, that when you wait, he believed that a kind of parallel For those of you who've always been a little whether you believed in its basis, the one founder of chiropractic said that he received Right? Robert Bork had all of these economic theories, Gnostic reading of the antitrust statutes the opposite of what everyone had believed He was just wrong as a factual matter. We can debate whether his theory was good with the law, which it didn't, just for avoidance He just made up some stuff. You'd have to be sort of QAnon-grade conspiratorialist in the statute. And one of the weird things that he believes about economic orthodoxy and antitrust is that if the industry got bigger, that was got the money. So for 40 years, you may have noticed, we've It lasts longer. It covers more kinds of works. The statutory exemplary damages are higher It's $150,000 in civil liability and $250,000 And the ease with which you can prove an infringement And indeed, if you don't care about distributions, five publishers, four studios, three record that runs all the e-books and audiobooks in ever been. The sector is thriving, but in real terms, Artists are poorer. Their works are making more money. This is what you get when you say it doesn't All that matters is that the pie gets bigger. And this would make sense if you thought that is they really wanted to be sure that the as much money as possible and not that they getting. However, if you think that people care about No, it's not. And in fact, the entire book and the first curiously set out examples of exactly this It's kind of going to brace us off for the then you get into the what are we going to Oh yeah, we weren't expecting that, but we Can everyone hear me okay by the way? Oh good. I'm a little bit haunted by... We did an event in DC a few months ago, and I've never been told to speak louder in my But the first chapters, I think we've been Cory and I have been, between us, have been weren't expecting so many people to get back laughing. Because to us, this is just like, yeah, this But yeah, if you do get to that rage laughing coming. I like that, rage laughing. Also a great Valentine's Day sensation. So let's talk about artists because something set out, is characterizes what it means to ways that are about power relations as well But some of these problematic characteristics, that artists are always all too eager to work and yet, as the authors note, when artists that is appreciated. So Rebecca, you do note in the book that choke but it refers to everyone from chicken farmers So what makes artists different in this sense? Yeah, I think you answered a bit in the question. I work very closely with artists in a bunch me, oh, but of course I would do it for free. And I was like, stop saying that. Definitely stop saying that for one thing. But look, we know there's been extensive literature at the material conditions around creative We know that creative workers will do that of labor. And so an artist might paint a mural for less We know as well that due to the desirability allows you to get some kind of intrinsic satisfaction. You don't need to go home full of hollow emptiness And so under the system that we inhabit right get paid for that. We get paid to fill the hollow emptiness. So the more hollow emptiness you've got, the so much money to finance bros. It's the only way that they will do it. And even then, they still keep quitting and Hobby farms. Hobby farms. Well, hollow emptiness doesn't come cheap. They're all making scented candles instead And so there is a real desirability of creative workers. And then people just keep undercutting in And this is why we have things like creator everybody has to commit to a collective pledge and be punished if you agree to work for below Because unless you have promised that, right, This is where we're at. This is where we're at. There's a term out of the sociological literature And generally we talk about it in the context nursery workers, nurses, library folk. You know, there's the kind of person who your to go on strike and leave those people to You know, I'm cutting your pay again. And let's see who blinks first. And this is why in those trades this occurs I would say that artists have a particular about how art is made and how artists should So we've always been told, or we have been is an individual thing, that we are creators own every time. And so, you know, music comes from your soul Books come from your imagination and not from And artists are expected to kind of act as tenth or that they didn't notice George Lucas or that Edgar Allan Poe didn't invent the that we're all writing Poe fanfic whenever That we're supposed to be individual creators. And so, you know, in the last decade or two you know, remix culture, to take back that only in the creation and not in the economics. In the economics we're given this bargaining to be out there being entrepreneurs of the That you are a small business person who should this is my demand for my copyright and if there's no one else, but I will do something And so, what we've seen is that artists as and moreover because the default response does all the time, is to increase the copyrights those copyrights and the power they confer firms. It's like giving your bullied kid extra lunch There's no amount of lunch money that's going What it might do is make the bullies rich think of Australia's hungry school children But it's not going to get your kid fed. And so, what you see and we detail in the portfolios of now like effectively infinitely control 70% of all the music copyrights which forever, because no one listens to 91-year-old They can use that to structure the future into the eye-watering detail yet, or possibly the book. There's a term out of the finance industry, It refers to a prospectus that's performatively thick go like, oh, a pile of shit this big they go ahead and invest. There's a lot of MIGO in our book, a lot of Well, we unveil the MIGO. We unpack the MIGO. We dig under the shit and it turns out there's There's no pony. Spoiler alert, no ponies. But Spotify, in short, Spotify is owned by they had 70% of all the copyrights. And then they structured it so that Spotify because as co-owners of Spotify, money paid that they can give to their shareholders. And there's some great detail in the chapters Cory, let's zoom out to the markets and tell and monopsony and why this is important to Sure. Yeah. I mean, monopsony is the kind of little brother No one knows the word because there isn't But monopoly is buyer power. And I'll say like as a technical matter, if I know it's the second largest Greek city If you're going back to the Greek roots of Well, monopoly isn't one seller in the economics Monopoly is like a seller with market power, to take them without having to negotiate. Monopsony is when that power is with a buyer. You see it a lot in labor markets, right? If it's a coal town and there's one business They get to buy the labor of their workers have got to suck it up or starve. It shows up a lot in supply chains and supply A monopolist has a hard time getting market a really appreciable fraction of the whole A monopsonist gets market power at like less Yeah, we looked at that one example of Melville So this was back before Amazon really achieved today. And they set out, they created something called it sounds like. They set out systematically to go after the margin, i.e. cut them away from the herd and this in order to then go after others, right? Like a cheetah hunting a sick gazelle in the Yeah. They put that in writing. The only part that the lawyers didn't like They were fine with doing the thing. They were just like, don't call it that. We might get in trouble. They never got in trouble, but Melville House... Like premeditated murder. Yeah. But Melville House resisted, right? They were just like, we cannot go on giving We need a better deal. And Amazon just instantly retaliated, cut So severed the Amazon stream of customers And at that point, I think they only had about But the margins and the economics of publishing for those 7%, you couldn't get another 7% That just made it completely unfeasible for And so they had to capitulate, right? In order to keep going. So a tiny, tiny fraction of a market share. Even if there's even five buyers, that's already that allows this sort of squeezing to happen. And I mentioned Robert Brooke before, part regulators should bestir themselves to take is going down because of market power. And he says that they should be silent on down, wages going down. If wages are going down, that just means that they can pass on to their customers. This is called the consumer welfare theory. And under this idea, if the less workers get Yeah. But then if you think about it, right? So okay, so you've got your price at the checkout we show in the book actually it really does. They just try and make sure that it's not pulling. But even if that price does stay the same, you're getting that downward pressure on your buy the goods and services that you need, just put the prices up. Which is extraordinary. And of course, what we've experienced in Australia previous government had an explicit policy And that with all the research that happens budged since research was first undertaken It is just extraordinary. Now, gosh, reading the book, there is quite culture is locked away from us. But interestingly, a lot of the choke points oh, about capitalism, they're also lies. Tell us, Cory, about how the algorithms aren't way but are simply disguising what the seller Sure, yeah. I mean, let me start by saying that I'm skeptical that Mark Zuckerberg invented a big data mind but then Robert Mercer stole it and made your I just think that everyone who's ever claimed to themselves or everyone else or both, and measures. And it's likely that maybe your uncle was I just think that we have to be very careful is when you have someone who declares themselves guys, there's an evil wizard. They like being evil wizards. I think we can call them mediocre monopolists Maybe the reason that you're on Facebook isn't that hacks your dopamine cycle. Maybe it's because they took all your friends If you leave Facebook, they won't let you It's not for any technical reason. You can send messages to Facebook from not All it takes is them opening up a gateway, a walled garden that's really a prison. So all of that said, there is a thing that search algorithms, all of these algorithms in which you get information, is they enable to enact something I call the enchatification So in the enchatification cycle, you first And so you allocate all the surpluses to them. So when you show up on Facebook, what you What could be better than hearing from people So you're getting all of that. When you first start on Amazon, when Amazon it would show you the product. Google used to put at the top of the search So this is allocating surplus to users. So the users show up and they get locked in Maybe they do all their shopping on Amazon, existing. So now you have to do your shopping on Amazon. Maybe you become acclimated to searching on Maybe all your friends are on Facebook. And so you have to be on Facebook. And you can't all organize to go somewhere You can't all figure out where to go for dinner of you and not seven of you. So you're locked into Facebook. So now they can take some of that surplus. They can allocate it to business customers So if you're on YouTube, now they're suggesting They're charging low commissions. They're giving you a share of the ad revenue. If you're on Facebook and you're a media brand, sentences from your news story and then a you get all the ad revenue. Maybe if you're on Amazon, they're subsidizing They're buying things from you at full cost pays less than you're receiving. What a great business to be in. Amazon is just like subsidizing other people So all of this happens. You get lots of business customers and they And then once the users are holding each other held hostage by those users, then we enter when the surpluses are taken from users and And so the first five screens of an Amazon Amazon claims to have a $31 billion ad business. It's not ads, it's payola. They charge businesses to show up at the top the thing you searched for. And if they don't win the auction to be at for the thing you search for, then you don't You see one of your competitor's products. It was quite extraordinary capture. And Cory has set this out in a recent essay talks a great deal about the fact that things Some things should die and there should be important criteria and things that we really And I think also, I mean, reading through right out now, and the way that it's becoming concern. It's a major protagonist in the book, I think. And there's a passage that I want to ask Rebecca and say that there's yet another reason that concerned about how the internet looks. A centralized internet, instrumentalized for justice struggles, but a pluralized, decentralized, everywhere can organize and fight back. So how does this book help us come into our Do you know what I'm remembering is there play, right? And its terms of service banned any podcast And that just hints at the danger, right? If we allow the public square to be controlled our speech. They're deciding what we say, and they're But we don't have to let this happen. And this is why it's so important to fight A free and open internet, among other things, people that matter to you can get through, It's absolutely critical because without that And I think as well our power in thinking What is the crux of that? And that's something that people keep asking And they ask us, what can I do as an individual And our answer is that there are no individual The thing that you can do as an individual Because the same way that the fragmentation that manifests in being told you've got this for, you can't assert that against a big company conditions. It's the same for all of us. There's so many people who come to us and I use Audible or I buy things on Amazon. I feel terrible. Guilt and shame are paralyzing, right? We don't need to be paralyzed and we don't We need to be accepting that the reason why smart people have invested often billions else for you to go. What we have to do with that energy instead We have to understand as well that we're part That it's not just artists' rights that are can artists get paid? We are all increasingly struggling under these of wealth and accumulation of wealth means us. Jamie Boyle, who's a law professor at Duke it used to be that there were thousands of not recognizably part of the same thing. There were some people who were really concerned very concerned about the ozone layer, but It was only really when the term ecology was it was part of the same thing. It used to be that productivity and wages years in the US, for example, productivity We are all being squeezed, increasing numbers taking far more than a fair share, and we What we can do is we can demand change. Yes, we are so tired. There is just a tiredness, I think, that is we have to do, all of the time we've got to All of, as Corrie knows, I'm just constantly think others are there as well. We are glued and anesthetized by these black to fight. I think the starting point is for all of us just to continue building community, continue to something because by being connected to a feature of neoliberal capitalism. It's not a bug. We are supposed to fill empty because we will more consumption. Filling that with community is absolutely free up more energy so that we continue this Then we've just got to be demanding that things to be accountable to us to be accountable Absolutely. Because as tired as we all are, as tired as past got together and organized. We formed unions. We formed peak bodies. We've employed people who are also tired in and strengthening those organizations, the Just on the point about being tired and feeling conversations as have we all I'm sure about dwindle. It used to be before social media that it your peak body, your union that made you feel you but in a different place. People who have something in common with you So that joining a union and getting that regular your junk mail, doesn't have the same feeling Scroll till you feel something. We really need to win that feeling back, I Cory and then a question for Cory and then Go Cory. Yeah. Well, I want to quibble a little with that I think that actually the causal relationship in decline well before social media came in. I think it's much fairer to say that social dismantling of unions through labor policy. We have an example in our book, David Goodman Four Hollywood Agencies, who talked about Hollywood which is a super unionized industry. It used to be prior to Ronald Reagan that guild, the creative guilds, they would get They picked the weakest studio and they would they'd go to the second weakest and they'd like. Under Reagan they flipped it. Under Reagan the studio's bargain is a unit They go to the weakest union, they get the The thing is that the dynamic here, I believe I think ideas are important but I'm also a There are material identifiable causal links happened to them. It wasn't that the feeling changed. It wasn't a vibe shift. We used to put down rat poison, we didn't We stopped putting down rat poison and the The causal link is very easy to understand. We changed the rules about who could form unions got weaker. I want to give you an example of where collective like on a technical level and how it works So Taylor Swift, we all like Taylor Swift. Taylor Swift was trapped in a bad relationship and some private equity ghouls that locked She quit and she went to Universal. She did some great stuff when she went there. She bargained for every Universal artist to But the interesting thing about how she went here because you've all heard about how artists Musicians don't own their masters. Why Prince put the word slave on his face, Because he didn't own his masters. What that means is that the copyright and the copyright and the composition, the song is owned by your label. But here's the cool and weird thing. Musicians performing each other's music is We have always, musicians have always performed So when we first created licensing for live basis. You could perform your songs or anyone else's And when recordings came along after some the same basis. When Sid Vicious recorded My Way, Paul Anka He just went and paid the compulsory license So normally we think of this mechanical royalty, that lets you perform covers. But it also lets you perform covers of your So Taylor Swift, her deal with Universal was same blanket license that you would pay if Swift songs. What that meant is that she couldn't be locked Now here's a contrasting story. It used to be that sampling was a free for You could sample the same way that you could in the middle of your jazz solo. It was considered to be something that wasn't We made it copyrightable. We created an exclusive right in it. We declared that with this individual exclusive for a better deal. It's not what happened. What happened is the labels just took all a record deal and they ended up squatting So you may have heard that one of the founders De La Soul, their music's not available for The reason it's not available for streaming They recorded the music before you needed in obscurity music that fans love, that the musicians who made more music than people to see it. The first De La Soul album to go up on streaming of the founders of the band died. That's what happens when you bargain with Okay, so just the other week, Revive, the policy has been released. Basically, the policy is art is work, artists which is art is wallpaper, artists are wankers. So Rebecca, tell us how the new national cultural the themes and some of the issues outlined This smile on my face is the smile I had when You made that feeling where you're a little good happened. We were really hopeful that they wouldn't so much good. It's the enshitification. We're in that mindset. Yeah, we've got a de-shitification happening, cultural landscape with almost $300 million And so that's the main thing that we need. We need money, right? But the next thing that we need to do is make Because of course, there's tons of money already right? It's not that there's not enough money. It's the allocation of the money that's the And so there's actually some lessons in one lending rights, which are the rights to get held by libraries. At the moment, it only applies to physical The government's promised after a long campaign And what's terrific about public lending rights source of income for Australian writers after regardless of who owns the copyright. So if you've transferred, you've given an contract, even if you're on a very small royalty, percentage of the public lending right revenue. And so that's the kind of intervention that So we need to be thinking about how we do giving the bullied kids more lunch money. And so there's some really exciting models So in Europe, for example, the 2019 digital for transparency rights, for example, so that got to have rights to find out how their works and how their share is calculated. This sounds like a really basic thing, right? We should absolutely have this, but we don't But transparency is the key to so much, right? Who here has heard about the Audible gate Hardly any. And like you should all know about it and should be out fighting because of it. And this really quickly, the way that this the only way in many English language markets had this system where they would only report And what that meant was their sales after And they also had a policy, and those of you that you'd finished listening to an audio said, oh, hey, do you want to maybe return No questions asked. Or you'd get an email sent to you. Do you want to return that? You know, we don't ask any questions. You had a year, even if you'd listened to done it multiple times, even if you'd been to return the book. But what you didn't know is that Audible was the authors. That's why. And that's why they were reporting net sales be that your net sales, you sold 20 audio And 20 of them were returned, and you've paid and consumers so that your conditions are And the only way... Authors were suspecting something was up, stonewalling them every time they asked for And then one day, there was a data glitch, in a single day. And so suddenly people are like, what do you And so that little bit of information is what and to demand change. And just to be clear, Audible is a division Yes, yeah. Because you can't fight an enemy if you don't And so we see that record labels complain In their dealings with YouTube, they're just than they're saying, and we don't think they're around how the royalties are calculated. And I'm just like, yeah. It takes one to know one. You're so close to getting it. And okay, so transparency rights, really critical, In the EU, they've introduced rights to fair Really excitingly, not only is the government is such a rhetorical shift, but they're also of awards, thinking about, are we gonna have This is hugely important to put a floor there And what else is really exciting about those What else are they doing in the EU? And reversion rights. Use it or lose it rights, for example. So if a publisher's got your copyright and they're no longer even using it, you should be able to use it. Equally, term limits on copyright contracts, in most cases you can get your copyright back If we had an efficient system, not one that almost nobody has actually exercised their in a meadow at midnight and hop three times of virgin maidens in order to actually exercise If we had a reasonable way of getting your is what the economic modeling tells us is their investments, then we would stop things to control the future of the recorded music copyrights that were based all in the past. So it's like things that we can really do, care about this issue, send an email to the have a look at this issue? We care about this issue. We want you to make an inquiry. Mark Dreyfus would love to hear from you. And the attorney general is also a former We're in this great situation at the moment relations minister and the leader of the house, arts minister. We need to make the most of this. Cory, in terms of some of the other aspects graphic review of Chokepoint Capitalism by There he is. Hi, Dave. I haven't seen it. Oh, it's really good. I should have provided the images. They would have been so big. Oh, I saw it. On medium. Yes, very good. Cory saw it. That leaves you behind the mask, doesn't it? Yeah. It's me, David. You are giving the thumbs up. Excellent. We've got the lights plus the mask, but yes, And Dave makes a point that artists sometimes activism and things that need to be done. But one of the suggestions or one of the points which is different to... We've been having a conversation kind of on basic income, but you're talking about a job What would that look like? So the job guarantee comes out of Modern Monetary in Australia. The Gibbs Institute is a key centre worldwide And it would take a long time, probably longer but the foundational idea is that government's governments are the source of money. And so the creator of money has a different Starbucks can't run it of Starbucks gift vouchers. The Australian government can't run it of What Starbucks could do is issue more gift And what the Australian government could do in Australian dollars and therefore driving But there's one thing that's for sale in Australian of people who live in Australia who don't The true Australian minimum wage is $0 an That's how much you make if you don't have We could set a real minimum wage for work job banks that guarantee a socially inclusive So not as a replacement for a disability, not as a replacement for any of the social or can't work. But for people who want to work, there will to do one of the jobs that are available. That would be one of the jobs you could get. It would come with competitive benefits. It would come with paid vacation, leave, and socially inclusive employment situation. This was done in the United States during They created the Civilian Conservation Corps, in the US. And they funded the Works Progress Administration, ethnographers went around America painting monumental sculpture, writing books, writing A lot of American folk music was collected And there is effectively an unlimited pot there are Australians who want to do this The money that the Australian government spends The taxes can't be collected until the Australian The way that the government taxes it annihilates And the way that it funds programs is by creating The government can decide to tax as much as It can decide to tax some and then sell bonds Or it can just deficit spend. It's entirely in the government's discretion. Sometimes it can do that in a way that is in a way that's responsible. But don't ever let them tell you that somewhere Australian notes that are piled up and then It would be as though Starbucks was somehow vouchers. And the only way they could sell a Starbucks them The way that Australian dollars come from Right, they do not come from your taxes. I reckon they've got my money hiding in a Now in the &quot;Ideas Lying Around&quot; chapter they Please read this critically. Build on our ideas, or come up with your own and help change your world. So please thank Rebecca Giblin and Cory Doctorow!