We want to take you straight to Biden is about to sign the law. More than $1 trillion. Let's listen in. Okay, here we go. On November 15th, 2021, President infrastructure law, which included public transit ever. Between that and other federal 2026, the US government is $108 billion on local public I believe that that with the money going to actually help us rebuild With that much money at stake, After all, the impact is expected people to jobs and economic greenhouse gas emissions, city Data also support the idea that New York or Boston is closely tied system. According to some equal about 10% of GDP. But building infrastructure in the expensive. In fact, it is the rail transit in the world, and understatement. So what is it that infrastructure so expensive in the it? When you think about the complexity above the street, what's going on nothing to compare it to in the This is Carmen Bianco. He was the vice president of Transit from 2010 to 2013 before agency that year. He retired two years later. And then the interesting part about tunnels underground that were you have to realize as you're tunnels down there that you have So you're going above and below. And it's it's it's really that engineering. It's it's just very But I look at our engineering team goodness, how did you how do you During Bianco's time, the Second high profile New York City transit works. While first proposed in the the early 2000. The full project line running from Harlem all the southern tip of Manhattan. To make it more manageable cost phases. Phase one was completed through the Upper East Side. Phase two is slated to run through The third and fourth phases will Phase one was by itself the system in 50 years. The full project, Yeah, that's 2.6 billion per mile. That's almost three times more central subway and three times the Angeles. The transit Costs project database of 900 rapid rail and found the Second Avenue subway project in the world. There are some who argue that New subway a better value per person. The impact it has on a massive You're looking at a population like million people in the city. Imagine, imagine what a day in New mass transit system. How would people be able to move transit, even one a day when the subway? It doesn't look any I mean, the number of cars on any Manhattan are still very complex, And so just imagine what would 560,000 riders are expected to be buildout. Phase one cost per rider Almost a quarter of the Los extension. It is also comparable planned $39 Billion Grand Paris Unfortunately, the cost to rider $7.7 billion second phase of the also one of the most crowded that has long, desperately needed options. New York's public transit Metropolitan Transit Authority, or It's the largest such agency in It serves a population of 15.3 mile area. That includes New York York and parts of Connecticut. Ridership accounts for 40% of all United States. We ran 8000 trains a day, 5500 And on our best days during my million, hitting that that bogey the subway. And in many, many More trips are taken on the MTA other 14 top heavy rail systems in It is also likely the world's Most of MTA's $54.8 billion subways, smaller shares go to The rest goes to bridges and As late as May 2023, ridership pre-pandemic levels and all time From 1975 to 2019, just before the Ridership had increased by 76%. Though other American projects may Second Avenue subway, when served per dollar spent. They look quite expensive. The sound transit's Lynnwood Link area costs about $50,000 per Los Angeles Metro's Purple Line $83,000 per rider. Researchers are worried high skittish about supporting public areas in America. As we see the cost per rider individual projects look less Even American projects cheaper than eye watering compared with transit Madrid. The Transit Costs project expensive country to build a rail deceiving. The five countries are far more heavily dependent on raises costs. A 2021 report from the Eno Center States spends $1.3 billion per tunneled like subways. New York does skew that average Without it, the average drops to Still, that is higher than Japan, other countries, many of which are challenges such as high labor According to that data, America is to build. However, many at grade cost about as much as tunneled Even without New York City, are 48% more expensive than the There are several reasons why us For one, the planning and funding If you look across America, there's different towns, different cities. New York, of course, being the You know, you wind up in these If you live upstate in New York, know, New York City projects. So you got all these competing You know, lawyers get involved with all the. The court cases that project like Second Avenue. There are a lot of issues just in many other parts of the world. A federal entity will simply pay money. In the case of a lot of come in phases sporadically. Just take the example of the Transportation Pete Buttigieg. Phase two of the Second Avenue The total grant $500 Million. The total cost of this phase is I think the local share is supposed clear where that money's coming And I think the federal is skeptical that the MTA is going And so it doesn't want to write that's there. Now, you're reaching out to the right? You're you're reaching out You're always in that mode. And that's why I say, you know, you're going to have the capital sure that you have the projects The United States also doesn't countries. When a major capital about every 15 to 20 years, there institutional knowledge. In other parts of the world, in Europe, where they're routinely They have people on staff, they There's a familiarity that comes we seem to have to reinvent here again. Other other places in and designs from other into their saving a whole lot of But here in the United States, we stations, we customize trains, we But a lot of the problems stem from There are always unforeseen issues When you open up a street in New infrastructure is below ground. It's, you know, so you know, all system for different tunnels. It's all below ground. So all of a project to even begin. Controlled explosions underground, to dig out tunnels. Phase One's three stations used contractors, and each had a elevators and other features. The ratio of station costs to far higher than on other projects projects are so overbuilt. Politics. When big projects do with seats on transit agency streetscape improvements, parks or These agencies often have to know governments who have jurisdiction build. And the transit agencies negotiations. So what that means is that cities permit to, you know, do to like give us all these things. We need to repave our streets. You need to use these types of You need to, you know, build us a And, you know, in New York, we had subway, phase one. And the MTA can't forcefully push know, pound dirt like we need the legally do this. So then we're pay the bribe, essentially. Politics also slows down planning Seattle's public transit projects West Seattle and Ballard Link meddling by local officials over stations are located. The transit board, feeling heat planning process to allow for But the longer the project is because of inflation. Labor costs are also higher, but pay. Sweden is a high wage costs are lower projects in the Us employ many more workers, many essential. There are more blue collar ones 40 to 60% more. In the case of a project in Most sectors in the economy has over time. Construction is flat or And we go back all the way to 1960 actually 60 plus years we have efficiency is not increasing in That's a real problem. And anything where you cannot or it's going to be expensive. Another big piece of it is that in big overtime culture, right? So collecting overtime on your Whereas in other parts of the overtime you can work. And there's that stuff. So it's sort of like, know, 80 hours of overtime in a It's like you can only do you can let's say, I think is the cap in The relationships between agencies adversarial and secretive, and managing contractors. A lack of competition among inflate bid prices. A lot of the rest of the cost include things like design, planning and all other expenses. In a lot of places, these costs total. For the Second Avenue Transit can be extremely valuable 85% of the people who travel into Street take some form of public Highways and roads can't match of space. You can fit many more highway in separate vehicles. It's also much worse for the Transit projects are inherently There are trains, tracks, systems, stations and so on. Opting for standard designs reduces costs. You don't have to make something work off a basic model. But if you go to other countries, Stations are much more austere in They're really utilitarian. And these are just places to get another and serve the system Here we tend to make them a little grand. Even the more mundane ones. Standardizing designs and practices political meddling simply because Researchers like Goldwin say more in-house, and those agencies need We would say we still need the We just need a little bit less of agencies that sort of is on top of guided by the consultants. Regulations, often well intentioned onerous or further drive up costs. For example, a lot of areas certain hours. In some cases this but sometimes noise can be The beeping sound a truck makes favor of a flagger on hand to warn Labor costs can be cut by tackling over time, culture. We're not advocating for cutting Maybe be mindful about overtime. Try to spread it out more And then the other side of it, bodies on jobs that it's not productive. Finding a way out of the chaotic funding is crucial. Every moment wasted is more money