if I were to ask you what what would you say? Let me know in the comments what number to 10 zero ten being energized In the surveys I've seen it appears that most of us our energy, making us tired the feels like being tired and that the only thing you can do about being tired. this lack of energy, maybe something you would expect to but it is happening in those The only energy you can invest, So if you're always feeling tired, to invest in the things that matter most Welcome. My name is Simon Alexander an international keynote speaker And in today's video, I want to show you of always being tired so you can begin The way I see energy is through emotional energy, Let's start with physical energy, of our most energetic and productive days. Without your health, Which is why it is so important If you are healthy, you will have lots But when you're sick, you have only one. To be well again. This is why you must prioritize When I look at physical energy, The first is sleep. The second is movement. And the third is nutrition. The most productive days I've had have always started When I look at the days I wake up frazzled and I feel like I'm means that I can't focus as much as I would be If I look at children and if you are When they don't get enough rest, the world is breaking down, But they've had good rest, the world feels And that is the same for us as adults. When we don't get sufficient that we will burn out and the simplest of tasks So when you make sleep a priority, you begin to feel the effects One of the ways we can do between finishing work and going to bed. Most of us will work right up to the point that we have to go to bed, that You go to your beds, you lie down, and because your mind hasn't about the next day, you're And it can take you a long What you want to do to maximize the time that you can rest. And to do that requires you to transition. Have a gap between switching off from work This can involve activities listening to music, reading a book, escorting digital devices You want to ensure that the environment is conducive The second pillar is movement. One of the fastest ways and to feel a little less tired You may not always want to, after the way you feel when you walk out However intense, puts you in a frame of mind to tackle even if I don't have access to a gym. How can I move my body a little bit just to increase my energy It could be something as simple as going walking around the local park by following an instructor each day can have a profound impact if you haven't moved your body today yet and notice how you feel What you feed your body has a significant They can either make you feel more tired or you can give you the energy When I look at the foods that I eat, When I've eaten something It's made me feel heavy, But when I've eaten food I felt more energized. I'm not saying you're going to be perfect There are days where I resort But if you have nutritious food, the energy required to get and to show up in the way you know you can And there are three parts to this. The first is focus, the second is control Focus is something that is becoming increasingly important Our attention spans are getting shorter And so if we want to make the progress it is important that you can focus on that are actually going Multitasking we can because it dilutes our energy. It dilutes our focus. It drains us when we are pulled when our energy is diluted it on the things we know that are We're You can be busy, but not going anywhere when you start and making time to focus is going to energize you, that is going That feeling of I am going places. And when you start building momentum, to have the courage to try more, and to take on challenges to show yourself and what you're capable of. second with the things So many of us feel mentally drained we're wasting our energy on worrying about What people think about the work and whether something will work out Truth is, we don't really know. We can't predict the future. All we can focus on how we show up each day, When I publish a YouTube video, I have peace knowing that the only thing How I prepare for the recording, and the value that I can offer. And then the rest is up to the platform. It is how you find it. I have no control over that. All I can focus on is the value The third factor in mental energy When you're stuck in the past it is difficult to be here There is this Zen saying and open to everything." And the only way that you can be open to everything is When you are, you able to connect dots You are able to see that awareness is powerful. That awareness Focus on living for today, not tomorrow. And you will create a platform The third dimension is emotional energy. If you can predict the feeling of your day ahead of time, But when you introduce something fun, something novel, that can give you a new release of energy. The 3 Star Michelin chef listening to the song When he arrived at his restaurant, and he said to them, inspired by Lou Reed's song Now, once the chefs had realized that Massimo Bottura was not coming off and he wasn't going crazy, Some created plates of food Others created plates of food inspired by the instruments and some created plates of food What Massimo Bottura did is into the day that it energized his chefs So how can you include a bit of fun How can you be open to new experiences so that your days and weeks So that you have something Another activity is the act of journaling, It is like free therapy, if you will. When you write pen to paper your thoughts. Not only do you become more aware of but you begin to understand You begin to understand who you are. And that is the beginning of wisdom. Wisdom begins when you know who you are, because once you have what contributes What gives you energy? What must change? That is how you can begin Every level of success self-awareness, taking the time to do what matters to me, what must change It is what helped me to leave to begin the path towards It is what helped me to write It is what helped me to focus on my YouTube channel that we humans make the inches you begin to understand the life You begin to understand what is required To become the hero of your story. The social support that you have around I'm often asked what my favorite chapter And it is not a chapter, because in that acknowledgments section it shows the reader I am not where I am today without My wife, my friends, my family, the coaches and mentors that I've had, they all helped me to become the person I face my fair share of challenges. I have my ups and downs, as we all do that I can share that with has given me the courage that can make me stronger as a result. Also, when I've had loss in my life, and my grandfather being able to speak not only told me that there were others what I was going through, that there was a way forward, to not only accept what has happened, a better human, to doing something And that is what I encourage you to do. Do something today Create an environment around you and get the support you need to help The fourth dimension is spiritual energy. When you are low on spiritual energy, and exhausted all the time, and low through physical tension. If you are in a job you hate. For example, notice the feeling or Monday morning. You might feel a little tension and that's your body telling you is not meant for you. You're meant for something bigger, When you're high on spiritual energy, each day and you can't wait to move forward As the Indian philosopher you are inspired by some great purpose, all your thoughts break their bonds, and your consciousness Dormant forces, faculties to be a far greater person often isn't exhausted They're exhausted because they're doing too When you're not living a life and that matches your values, But when you begin asking yourself, What is my meaning out of the work I do, that is the beginning of how you can because when you are doing things that make you feel alive, Other people will feel it. And so will you. So if you're always feeling tired, chances of the following dimensions of energy, mental, emotional and spiritual. And once you begin addressing one you can begin to move forward you need to get the most important things if you enjoyed this video, I feel you will find it useful. And don't forget to like subscribe It helps the algorithm so I can share my message Thank you for watching. And in the meantime,