- Hi, I'm Gareth. And in the next few minutes a kind of beginner's guide And I know there are many people out there who would love to be able to do this, so let's see how we get on. So we'll work on the basis that we've got some kind of Lots of people out there and you may have come up and you thinking, &quot;Wow this &quot;but I don't know how &quot;how to write harmony, &quot;how to do it in four-parts Maybe people who are preparing for exams and they've got to do some So we're just going to sort of take a look at some fundamentals. We've got other videos out to do some more sophisticated but this is just going to be kind of how do I make the essential choices here? So, we've got four bars of a So the first thing is to work So the way to do that is to Now you notice, I I've gone, C, D, E, F, G, A, B. Because if I go to C at the top, well it's going to give me the same chord as I've got down here. You can put it in if you want to, but if you do don't call it VIII. Call it I again because it's When we label our chords, by the way, we label them in Roman numerals. And it's just to show that And if we put numbers it might or number three might look like There are two forms of doing the chords. One is called basic Roman but there's also something where you put your minor so if you wanted to show and which were major, you would do this, but don't worry too much about that. This is what it would And then this is a diminished chord, so it's in a different category. But that's how that works. What you find is in any major key, chords I, IV and V are major chords. Chords II, III and VI are minor chords and chord VII is a diminished chord. You don't need to worry too but just so you know and that's what it looks like. If you see extended Roman, you The large uppercase and the lowercase things are minor chords. Okay now the thing is, will appear in three different chords because what we do with that I was talking about we put the third note on the fifth note. So, here we've got C. A third above C is E. A fifth above C is G. So that gives me chord I. I take the second note to the scale D. I put a third above D which is F and a fifth above D which is A. And I do the same with Just take the fundamental and add the third and the fifth above it. Now some of you will say well, &quot;Why aren't there any sharps or flats &quot;or anything like that?&quot; You don't need that because So every single chord so no sharps, no flats. If you were in the key of D major where you've got F-sharp and C-sharp, then every time you saw F in Every time you saw C in a But I'm doing in C major for the sake of simplicity at the moment. So when we look at the first note C, can you notice that C is It's at the top of chord IV and it's in the middle of chord VI. Now that tells me that C Well, what does that sound like? If I've got this C the first note and I put chord I sounds quite good. If I put IV. Sounds good. If I put VI. Well that sounds good as well. But if I put VII. It's a bit kind of clashy, isn't it? So, that's why you've got to find a chord that fits with the note. So, one job you can do and work out which chords actually fit. So I does. IV does and VI does. I'm going to do this in basic Roman to keep it nice and simple for now. Okay, now to kind of reduce we've done C so there's C again. There's C again. There's C again. There's C again. So the same options are going to apply to every C aren't they? So again. And all we're doing at the There we go. And there we go. Now, how are we going to decide Well that's a job that we'll have to do and fundamentally we're going We're going to say that I really want here? What to me sounds best But you might think If we're in the key of C major, we need to sort of from the first chord. So chord I would do that job It's kind of like oh okay Chord I. If I start with chord am I really in C major It could sound a bit So there's a lot to be said for having chord I at the beginning. So we can make that decision, couldn't we, that we're going to go for I. You might take the same view So, we might want to finish on chord I. Now, we also have these So when we come to the end of a phrase, the last two chords of So, how does the cadence thing work? Well, if I go V followed by I. Well, that is what we So that's one of our possibilities for the last two chords of a phrase. If I go IV to I, I get something called a plagal cadence. If I go anything to V, but it's normally, I, II, or IV to V, that's called imperfect. And if I go V to VI, that's called interrupted. We use a cadence when we come to the last two chords of a phrase, so the last two chords here, the last two chords there, want Now why am I talking about that now? Well, we've already So we either need a because they're the two So, if I'm going to have the previous chord must be IV or V. Well V is not here, but IV is, so that helps me to make another decision. That is going to be IV followed by I to give me a plagal cadence. So we're kind of doing all some of the basic pointers before we even worry about What do these cadences Perfect cadence, V-I. Oh, sounds like a sort Plagal cadence. It's a different kind But it's the end of something. An imperfect cadence sound seems more like a sort of musical comma. I-V. Or II-V. Or IV-V. So it's a bit of musical punctuation, but it's more like a Interrupted, possibly more V-VI. Ooh, slight surprise that chord, isn't it? So, if you wanting musical full stops, go for the perfect and the plagal. If you want a kind of musical comma, so we come to the end of something, but it's not the end of If you want to have a slight surprise at the end of the phrase, As long as they fit with the given notes. So you see, we've looked and we've already made some decisions about why we're going and where we're going to followed by chord I. Now, you might then look and say well, if I've got IV there, do I want to have IV there? Well not really, do I? So, do I want to have Probably not. Do I want to go I-IV-I? Well you could do. I-IV-I. Sounds right, but do I want to go VI-IV-I? Possibly. But you know we could keep but I'm just getting rid of the IV, so we don't just do two IV's. So IV, IV again because that Also going from a weak onto a strong beat at the in the same chord usually So you see we're already beginning to make some decisions, aren't we? Brilliant, now let's move on. The next note is G. G is at the top of chord I. It also comes in chord III. And it also comes in chord V. Just to be able to get Chord V. So, if we've got any more G's, well the same thing is going So this G is going to So I, III, or V. You notice these chords are kind of miss one out choose the next one. Number one, miss out Miss out four, choose number five. It's kind of how they work in the choice of the three chords. Okay, any more G's? No, we've dealt with the G's. Okay, there's an A here. Well A is at the top of chord number II. A is in chord number IV. A is in chord number VI. So that gives me some options there. Have I got any more A's? No, I haven't, so we'll move on. This note is D. Well D is in chord II. It's also in chord V. And it's also in chord VII. Now, I'm not saying don't use chord VII, but we said earlier so it's a little bit of So a lot of textbooks say it's too much trouble. I don't agree with that particularly, but you know treat it with caution. So at the moment if you're just sort of starting out with this, you might think well I'll simply because it's the in a major key. All right, now does this Yes, it does, here's one over here. So that's going to give me II and V and this VII option as well. Now, I've got E sitting It's also in chord III And it's in chord VI. So there's another option. Now I've got the same options sitting around the corner here. I, III, VI. Okay I've only got one That's this F. Well where's F? It's at the bottom of chord IV. What else have we got F? It's sitting in chord II. And it's sitting in chord VII. Oh yeah that's that VII again. So, maybe we could do that. So technically speaking, of these chords with these notes, it's going to work perfectly. In a real tune, you might that don't quite belong to the chords. They're what we call inessential notes. They're kind of extra little notes. They're often quavers, that just gets sprinkled in to kind of make the tune and you don't have to But what I've done here is to just write a very that's just getting a note And what we've done now is to work out which chords absolutely fit. Okay, now we started to make Because we've got this cadence at the end that we said we're going So, let's firm up on that one. So we know we're going Brilliant. There's another cadence sitting here because these are the last two So when we look at all these options, what can we end up with? Well, we've got cadences that finish on I. So in which case, it could be V-I. IV is not here so plagal won't work. There are no cadences that finish on III, so we can call it a draw And if it finishes with VI, because there's an interrupted possibility that we're going to put in there. Well, doesn't really If I go V-VI, I'm going to get. If I go V-I, I'm going to get that. I think actually for various reasons V-I might be better than V-VI, and I'll tell you the If I go for V-VI, the the bottom of V, to A, the bottom of VI. And then I'm going to and G to A, at the bottom. And they're going like in the same direction in perfect fifths. That's what we call consecutive fifths. And we try to avoid consecutive fifths going from one chord to the next with a perfect fifth in one pair of parts followed by a different perfect fifth in the same pair of parts. So V to VI is going to throw which means that we So there's another decision that we're just sort of So, we've got some chords that we already know about, haven't we? Which is sort of useful. And maybe we can start Now if you're going to you might be saying to me well, &quot;Each of these chords &quot;so where's the fourth one come from?&quot; Well, you can double up so if you want to have You can do that. Two E's is not quite so good because we try not to So, chords I, IV, and V are major. So the thirds in those chords so we try not to have them Minor thirds that you you can double them. Just sounds a bit better if you don't double the major chords. So okay, let's get something in here that uses the notes of chord I. So do you see what I've done there? I've got C, G, E, C. C, E, G. It's all those notes. And I've got a C at the top And I've tried to kind of So C, G, E, C. That sounds quite nice, doesn't it? I could have organised that differently. I could have had G in the Like that. I could have had C in That would have given me three C's, so that's possibly not quite so good, but that's quite a nice balance So that gives me a chord to go on. When I get over this cadence, well we said we were going So let's put some notes So do you see what I've done? C, E, G. I'm using it again. Two C's. E at the top. G in the middle. So that's using the same chord, but it doesn't look like this. Same notes. Slightly different layout. I'm trying to spread the notes but you can see what I've done there. I've doubled the C again. But this time in the two bottom parts as opposed to the outer parts there, but that works quite nicely. Before it I said we Well, V is G, B, D. So how could I put a V? I might decide for example Okay, so chord V is G, B, D. G, B, G, D. So I've doubled the G, What I'm trying to do is to Sometimes it's quite and the bottom part to kind of do a bit of contrary motion, you know You can't always do it, but that often helps In the middle parts going for a little bit more stability is quite good. So the idea you've got a G in chord V and a G in chord I. So you could put them That's quite helpful. This is just moving by step, isn't it? So you see what's going on there? I could work on my last chord, couldn't I? The last cadence. Well, maybe my final chord So, I've come back to the So it's a C, E, G again. Before it I want chord IV, so F, A, C. Well, can I think about this So the bass is going down from F to a C, but the tenor and the alto parts are just moving by step. Well do you know what? We're starting to write some So, so far we've got the first chord. We've got this cadence. And we've got this cadence. So you get the idea putting Not a bad idea. Maybe dealing with your first You're starting to get a skeleton of how this piece could go now. Okay now then, we've then got to think Well, you might think well so do I want to use chord I again? Well possibly not but you Now, let me just show you something else that's sort of quite useful if you've not come across this before. I've gone for chord I, even though we had chord just to sort of show you something. But I'm going to call this Ib. Why am I calling that Ib? Well I'm using chord I, C, E, G. When I have C at the bottom which is just abbreviated I. So if just see I, assume it's Ia. And that means the bottom note and we say it's in root position. So Ia, the lowest note is Root position. If I put E at the bottom, but so it's not chord III because chord III's got I'm using the notes C, E, G, Then the third of the The middle of the chord. And I say it's chord I in first inversion. And I call it Ib. So Ib, chord I, first inversion. The middle note's at the bottom. If I had G at the bottom, but The C, E, G says it's chord I, but with G at the bottom, it's Ic. It's chord I in second inversion. So that's what's going on there. Okay well, having done that I've got to go and make some other decisions. Now there comes a point you know, experiment a little bit and think well do I prefer chord II or chord IV or chord VI. So if I start with I. Then I go to Ib. Do I want chord II? Or I, Ib, IV. Or I, Ib, VI. Well they're all perfectly But for argument's sake, let's go for IV. So, I'll use IVa this time And maybe I'll do something So I've got F, A, C from chord IV there. Okay, that all works right, doesn't it? So we've just chosen chord IV. All right so other options existed there so we'll leave them on the board because you might look at it and think, &quot;Well do you know I prefered the VI.&quot; That's fine. Go for VI. Go for it. Then where am I going to go next? So if I've gone I-Ib-IV, do I want to go back to I? I'm sort of thinking not because we've had I, I, I, I. We're going to have too So maybe I's not such a good idea. What about III? I, Ib, IV, III. You might like that. I think the danger of going to III is the bass comes down one by step, which is the same as that and then we might get some And you might even get consecutive octaves where you've got two parts on moving to another octave So, instinct kind of tells me that V is going to be a bit safer here. So, I've gone for V, G, B, D, and I'm keeping it in root Okay well, I could go on to IV or to VI so you know you decide what you think. Or we can have I again. I, Ib, IV, V, I, V, I. This feels like a lot of ones, doesn't it? I, Ib, IV, V, IV, V, I. I think going IV to V, we'll go F, G, we'll have fifths again with the top. Not so good. Maybe VI is a good choice. And VI we haven't used it before, have we? So, do you think we might I think we might. Now, just to show you something. It's perfectly possible to where you just share it. VI is A, C, E. I've got tenor and the so I've got my chord VI. But it's just helped, hasn't it, to have a different chord, chord VI. Also VI is a minor chord. So we've got all these major chords and now we've got a minor chord in. So it now sounds like this. I, Ib, IV, V, VI, V, I. Sounds pretty good, doesn't it? We have got a little technical problem in that there's a You see G to A, D to E makes which is a bit of a pain. We might be able to fix it in some way. There's different ways of doing that. Well one thing we could do, another one of these doubling things. Do a doubling there and I could have one of these things I was a little passing note, you know, that just runs in between just to make it a bit more interesting. That would work quite nicely, wouldn't it? And anywhere I'm just I could put a passing note in. So I could have another one just to make it a bit more interesting. Ah, suddenly starting to sound like a piece of music, isn't it? Which is great. Okay, I've got one bar of notes to go. So we've said well maybe VII is worth not fussing with too much at the moment, but just for the sake of Maybe where we go IV, I. And then maybe we could try and get the two outer parts Go for a II there maybe. And then maybe I'll go but make it a Ib chord. So we've got one of those like we had there. You don't want too many You may decide we've got but that would just give us but you see how that's coming down, but that jumps down and then comes up. So it's giving you a nice polarity between the top and the bottom part. So if I go for chord IV, So I could do something like this. Now then that we could with our chord II. And then onto our chord Ib. You see how trying to get some reasonable stability in the parts? And you know why not have in there just to make it. It's got to pass by step. So you see, because I'm going from A to So that would pass quite nicely. So I've got a kind of harmony for this whole tune now I, passing note, Ib, IV, V, passing note, VI, V, I, with a perfect cadence there, IV, I, II, with a passing note, Ib, IV, I, with a plagal cadence at the end. Quite a lot to take on board there if you really are a beginner but I hope those basic If you want to rewind this video and have another go at and pause along the way and live with it, but if you get the idea of how that works, then you have accessed the ability to write some basic four-part harmony, which I'm sure you'll as I have over many decades. So good luck with your venture into writing four-part harmony.