I'm on location outside San Antonio, Texas where equipment to begin work on a new sewage This area may look rural now, but it's one of the fastest developing parts new utilities, including sewers, to keep up those new sewers need a new pumping station to get Most people probably couldn't guess the path their dishwater but I've teamed up with the San Antonio River of the most important steps of the process. Come along the project from the very first scoop of I'm your host, Grady Hillhouse, The excavator is already breaking ground for Sewers normally work by gravity. They wastewater away from homes and businesses But, wastewater treatment plants are major capital there's not always a treatment plant located it's necessary to pump sewage up to a higher of a wastewater lift station. This particular When it's done, the new lift station will operate capacity of the sewage system as the surrounding by allowing either station to be temporarily shut Because sewers work by gravity, they're a sewer pipe is usually deep underground. And a big hole. The bottom of this facility will so this crew has a lot of work ahead of them. This soil is mostly clay, meaning it won't work it shrinks and swells with changes in moisture the engineers on this project specified a have to be brought in when the time comes. For have to be hauled away in trucks. These end dump and it's going to take a lot of them to One thing to notice about the hole: the sides that the sides of deep excavations be sloped to working inside. But that presents a problem, this one. The deeper you dig, the less room you slopes take up valuable space. On this site, vehicles and materials around the excavation if it this hole has two parts. The first stage goes down avoid a collapse. The rest of the excavation will These blue parts being unloaded from trucks are walls of the hole open as the crew continues plates called panels and vertical rails that make stay put, while the inner panels will eventually The first step of installing the shoring is to of this first panel is critical, because the point. First the crew puts a narrow bucket plate to slide into. Then the first panel is carried It takes some trial and error to get Once it's close, they use the excavator bucket the trench is backfilled to hold the panel in place with a few final adjustments from The loader continues removing soil as needed, the slide rail system. The next step is to install the first corner rail. Once secure, the second outer panel is next. These steel 45 degree angle and rotating into place. That's up and over the corner rails. In between installing each component of the system, the excavator and loader work together The crew hooks up the next corner rail to the to ignore your lazy host eating lunch in Once it drops in, the excavator again works to remove more soil can be snapped into place. It's critical that this take the time to measure everything carefully. Then the third corner rail can go into place, quickly followed by the final outer panel and the final corner rail. Now the system is locked together, but Once all four rails and outer panels are in place, outer panels will stay put to hold everything the rails as the hole is excavated downward, keeping it from collapsing. The crew has to work It's a lot of work to install this shoring, going to be taken right back out. But, when there just aren't many options and there's no room for error when it comes to Once the shoring system is in place, the crew The process is for the excavator to remove soil from inside up and out of the way. As the bottom of the to push the panels and the corner rails of the keep the walls of the hole from collapsing. Sometimes all it takes is a little push, and sometimes advancing the slide rails As the hole gets deeper, the excavator so another member of the crew uses hand signals to hammers on the inner panels to slide them farther When the hole has reached its final depth, check of the elevation. A mistake here would makes sure their measurements are correct. Once confirmed, it's time to compact the subgrade. To make sure the underlying soil will serve as a it needs to be compacted in place. There's not excavation, so the crew lowers a miniature roller uses vibrating drums with padfeet to densify and It's also remote-controlled so the operator can stay out of the hole diesel fumes that could build up in the small but it doesn't take long at all to The next step in the project is to place a working doesn't need forms at its edges, but it does the crew sets boards inside the excavation of the concrete. They use a measurement This concrete pump truck arrives first to get set And then it extends the boom. Before long, the before the concrete goes into the hopper of lubricant is run through the pump truck to coat is discharged into the bucket of the loader for Rather than trying to drop the concrete this pump truck makes it easy to put the The operator communicates with the finishing crew Each new truck unloads concrete into the pump's hopper Also known as a mud slab, the purpose of this of the excavation during construction. Without the rain, making it unsuitable for supporting the Since it's only job is to serve as a working steel reinforcement or a perfect surface finish. required in the plans, and most importantly, to The three-person finishing crew works corner. One worker leaves, then two, until Once the working slab is cured, step of the project. And that next a big crane. This 300-ton-capacity behemoth crane barely small enough to travel on roads To reduce its traveling weight, the crane comes with an entourage of flatbed semi Rather than sit on its squishy this crane uses outriggers to create a These steel plates distribute the underlying concrete doesn't crack or break, This crane also uses counterweights to balance plate and stacks them behind the cab. Once they are pulled into place using a hydraulic The primary component of this lift essentially a large concrete cylinder. this project calls for precast segments that can of those segments has just arrived at the site. Crane day is a big day, not just because of the that can go wrong when lifting and moving heavy make sure things run smoothly. It might seem like just standing around, but some days you have to spoiler alert, the only problem that happened this getting high centered in the driveway. That's why the contractor decided to bring in another crane. This way, delivery trucks can stay way without any difficult maneuvering that The first piece of the lift station's wet well well will sit on this concrete base. The crew before it's picked up by the big crane and set segments are designed to easily stack on top of held together by gravity is not very watertight. sewage, it's best that they don't leak. So the anywhere concrete surfaces will mate together. just right, they're also applying lubricant to segment is attached to the crane with chain slings Workers keep the heavy concrete slab called tag lines as it's lowered toward on everything and everyone on site to the eyes and ears of the operator. They use signals to guide the motions and directions because sudden movements can cause the load to And even a little crash can be a big deal when Once the bottom of the wet well is just above communicate with the signal person to make tiny place. When it's perfect, they make the call Crews disconnect the slings, so that the crane can move on to its next but actually some heavy-duty tools to help workers just barely fit into the corners of the excavation the crew reach the higher joints and keep an The next segment of the wet well is the first actual ring that will sit on the base. Just like the base, it arrives on a flatbed truck that needs to be offloaded by the small crane. lubricant to seal perfectly with the precast Attaching the ring segments directly to the much horizontal force on the concrete, potentially a spreader bar between the segment and the chain slings vertical so they don't squeeze the Once the segment is off the ground, the crew onto the bottom slab. You can see smaller precast Just like before, the segment is swung around to The crew in the hole tells the signal person what to do. Before long, the second segment Each following segment goes through essentially Next, gaskets and lube it up. Then, hand off to Disconnect and send the crane back for the next one. Oh, Each one of these segments weigh about 15 bus. That's nothing to sneeze at, especially if the work starts to click into a predictable anticipate the needs of others. The worksite And, slowly but surely these massive When the penultimate segment goes into place, the mobile boom lifts come out to help the This one is a little smaller than the others Eventually this segment will be attached to the but we're still quite a ways And just like that, we have a wet well installed. It's a relatively accomplishment for the day to have everything Even though the wet well is in place, that doesn't wastewater. A crew lowers a scissor lift into inside walls. They install grout by hand into to protect any exposed gaskets and help seal any it is painted with a waterproof coating. This go on the inside walls of the wet well, but it to reduce the chance of leaks. To prove it, the before it's backfilled to make sure it is water with water and leaving it for several days. At the rim (minus an allowance for evaporation) and is good to go. The crew did a little bit of epoxy during the leak test. That's the source of the After the required test period, the wet well Backfilling this wet well isn't as simple be carefully coordinated with the removal getting ready to start this process. And mud in the bottom of the excavation, because as you'll see. Since this shoring system was and shift, increasing the pressure on the these panels out is going to be a little The contractor first uses the excavator to bump and push the shoring system around to A hydraulic puller is connected to the inner enough in some instances. The reaction forces with the friction of the soil they're rather than lift the inner panel up, the hydraulic deeper into the ground... or bent the reaction beam. With a lot of persistence (and a big excavator), they got the panels lifted enough and Rather than trying to compact soil in this tight also known as flowable fill. This is that sets up like concrete although with a lot to intentionally use a material with low strength, is going to have to trench through this backfill It also saves a lot on cost. Conventional do well in this narrow excavation, but and it won't settle over time. It's used voids like this where compacting earthen material they can pour the flowable fill directly and even the irregular areas behind material that will harden within a The backfill comes up in batches that so that the shoring can maintain support The next batch of backfill follows a few days are loosened up, they can be lifted up with some This batch of flowable fill is being placed with around the wet well, and the pump truck operator lifted up just in time, as mixer trucks are the hopper of the pump and takes off right away moves the hose to each corner of the excavation of water in the hole, but it's not enough to The controlled low strength material and all the while, the crew continues working Over the next couple of days, the crew continues excavation so that they can continue backfilling. Before the flowable fill trucks show up, the crew works to get the final panels pulled before the previous layers of backfill set, some flowable fill cured. That balanced the earth to pull out. Getting them out last also makes They work on cleaning up the shoring system so it can be sent back. loose soil so they can continue to backfill for the trucks to start showing up. Mixer truck this hole up to the top of the second stage of Almost looks good enough to drink! Once that layer of fill has cured, it's time uncompacted soil is removed from the excavation The backfill soil is brought into the hole, and then compacted into place. Every once with a density gauge to make sure it meets the project will eventually sit on top of this fill, A surveyor comes out the next day to mark out settle much, the compacted soil might settle the project will sit on flowable fill all the area with soil and only carve out the spots excavator carefully cuts away the areas that will The next day, it's more flowable backfill this excavated area just like a bathtub. It's almost hypnotic. All in all it took 11 truckloads And the San Antonio not far from where the There's still no sewer pipes yet. Right now, it's still need to connect it to the sewage system. possible were just delivered to the site. But, This wet well was backfilled using a material cement, and water that acts kind of like even though this material has to be it also has to be soft enough to be pipes can be installed. It might seem odd to but it's much simpler to excavate narrow than try to keep those areas open during backfill this wet well to the surrounding sewer system, These trenches will need people working You can probably guess what they'll be using to or cave-in. Shoring will be installed necessitates. These steel boxes arriving They get put into place with the Since sewer pipes are often buried well below they terminate at the bottom of a slope, they have of the soil above. To make sure the pipe can carry around the envelope of the pipe. This gravel the bedding material. It's called bedding because The bottom of each trench gets a layer of gravel But, before the pipes go into the trenches, You may have noticed there are no holes in the tank just yet. That's because the location of the pipes is critical. They work by gravity, so it's essential exactly as required in there's a chance that a subtle shift or twist misaligned. It's just easier to drill them installed and backfilled in its final place. the measurements with surveying equipment You know the old saying: measure twice, This is the core drill that will be used to is drilled into the wet well, and a concrete This allows the frame of the core drill to be temporarily bolted to the The drill is assembled on the frame. And before long, It's basically an overgrown version of the hole saws you might have used on wood hose to lubricate and cool the hole saw and keep hand slowly but surely through the concrete Eventually, it breaks through on the inside of the wet well. All that's left is That's hole number one finished. Two more to go. The to work. It's not long before the second hole smoothly as the previous two, and by the end of The gravel bedding in the first trench gets its elevation and there are no protruding rocks that into the trench. To create a watertight joint a link seal is installed around its perimeter. plastic to seal the annular space between compresses the rubber material, creating A second length of pipe is lowered into the trench pipes attach together using a bell-and-spigot which has a gasket that provides a watertight that it doesn't damage the gasket as it slides The two sections of pipe are pulled together using a chain hoist, and eventually the backfill This first sewer line actually won't connect being. As this area continues to develop, lift station is needed to deliver all the plant. The San Antonio River Authority and their so they made sure to proactively upsize this capacity is inevitably needed in a few years, instead of a completely new wet well. But pipe will allow the new lift station to connect Until then this one gets capped off. The solid PVC cap and it's almost ready to be buried. That's the first Since this trench isn't as deep, it doesn't gravel is spread into the trench to level is used to make sure the slope of plans. Once the bedding is in place, That big black bulge in the middle of the pipe has been designed not to move, even slight or structural loads could put stress on These flexible couplings give each sewer of the wet well like a gross bendy straw, of a break. It's covered in plastic to A second length of pipe is added to the line. Then the whole You can get a good look at that link the loader brings bucketfuls of bedding material until they're ready to backfill the rest of the This pipe will eventually tie into a manhole that will so we'll be back here in a minute. The third line running to the new wet the existing pumping station already facilities will work together to move raw This third line needs to pass under the and that's going to require a saw. This crew has cut through this slab like butter. It connects blade and to minimize the amount of concrete by the surveyor. Then they break the concrete Once the concrete is up, the crew can bedding gravel is added to the bottom is dropped in to protect workers from a Thick steel plates are used on top of actively being worked on to allow vehicles from accidentally falling in. Now that it's time The first pipe is lowered into the trench It is inserted into the last hole of the wet well. And then bedded Once the plumbing is complete, the trench boxes covered with the gravel bedding material that will the bedding material doesn't need to be compacted plastic lines. Once the bedding is in place, shiny In the rare event that someone is they should uncover the tape first to let them Finally, the trenches get backfilled with soil friend, the vibratory, remote-controlled, trench It is kind of cute, but this roller compactor packs a size for working inside these trenches. A layer of backfill is added to the trench, Every once in a while, a technician checks the using a nuclear If the density were to be too low, the backfill Around the outside of the wet well where a has specified that, instead of compacted soil, the where it was trenched out for the sewer lines, it bit of a mess at the moment, so instead of trying the crew instead just uses the excavator bucket Where it can, the flowable fill is placed Watching flowable fill go in is one of my favorite things. And the Just like that, this project's sewer lines are Now it's time to The crew starts excavating for the connect to the existing system. But take a look It's groundwater traveling through the soil and it's moving into the new sewer line and right find when digging deep holes in the ground. But, is working correctly! The crew installs a pump to The first manhole will connect the new the existing facility. First the concrete is The excavator works carefully to avoid damaging the Once it's exposed and visible, shoring is the last piece before the manhole named because of the U-shaped holes that pipes. That line is in service right now, so it can't be disturbed. The manhole sewer. The crew lowers it into place the manhole doesn't have a bottom... yet. It Concrete forms, called falsework, installed by the flow, keeping the inside of the manhole tidy while dumped into the manhole and around the outside. An out and mobilize the concrete past the sewer but this concrete will be smoothed and shaped to Here's a peek into one of the other manholes on completed. While one crew works on this manhole, layer of backfill gets compacted into place Manhole number two also connects the lift station excavates downward to the line to avoid a shovel checks every so often until they Once the old line is exposed, they can excavate for the last segment of new Both lines that connect to the new wet well also River Authority to divert wastewater to the and maintenance. I'll show you how it all last segment of pipe going to the new wet then cut to length. Finally it is pushed into Just like the previous one, this is a doghouse lines that it will connect. The crew works to that will form the bottom of the manhole. You can wastewater line. Once everything is ready, the outsides to form the bottom. An immersion Again, this doesn't have to look pretty stable bottom for the manhole Once the manhole bottoms are cured, each one gets iron lid. And sealant tape is applied around segments to prevent leaks. Those blue pipes Finally the manhole bottoms and pipe segments get a where they terminate at the wet well. These the line. Then each manhole is filled with water the pipes in the manholes will be cut but for now the pipes are left continuous so Finally I can show you how all this plumbing fits here that runs into this existing manhole. And the opposite direction. Right now, they all flow station. But now, the San Antonio River Authority the two valves, means that all the wastewater from And the new line and manhole here, means that all into the new wet well too. There's just one This monster plug valve is the last one redundant. It will go on the 24" (or flowing into the existing lift station on functioning sewer line to install a valve. still using it 24/7. So how do you do a job A crew uses a diamond saw to cut out the concrete excavator begins work to remove the soil above the Like all the trenches on this job, this one will need shoring to keep the soil from collapsing the crew gets the line uncovered, but it can't from the surrounding area has been collected one!). Before the valve is installed, all that This bypass pump is just the right piece of for the pump between an upstream manhole and the Then they build a ramp so vehicles can get over the top. An inflatable millimeter diameter sewer line while the wastewater straight into the lift station, level of sewage in the manhole and regulates the flow. Meanwhile, a crew works to cut the existing Once a section of pipe has been removed, This valve plastic pipe. Bolts connect a gland to the pressing it tightly against the pipe to The crew finishes installing the valve with haste, to backfill the trench just like the rest At the new lift station across the site, it's It might be hard to tell, but all of this work is still happening under what Now that all the pipes are installed, the site needs to be brought will eventually get concrete is backfilled with crushed rock that interlocks and compacts into an site that won't be used to support any structures the material is spread out in an even layer called Then the roller compacts it into place. An inspector checks the density of the backfill as a the new compacted soil using a metal pin. Then the This rod has a radioactive source on the tip. It actually but backfill is important. A lot of expensive don't want it setting over time. The nuclear gauge soil based on how much of the source radioactivity Most of the underground work is done by now, but pretty big pumps, which means it needs robust the pumps will run in underground conduits. Then the bedding gravel goes in to provide With the conduits installed, a layer of precaution to warn anyone digging in the future the trenches are backfilled with select fill the controls shelter. They use a vibratory plate and a tamping rammer (also known as a jumping jack compactor) At this point, there's a lot happening all at once on site, so keep the story clear. Construction schedules are This area will eventually get a concrete station's electrical equipment and controls. The shelter will be supported by three posts The crew works to install the will make up the posts' foundations and compact form tube is checked for level and elevation Each hole will also get steel reinforcement helps the concrete foundation resist forces like Once the posts have been installed and concreted of the shelter pad. They install formwork around in the slab, and form around locations where before long, it's time for the concrete trucks. It's spread roughly into place Then a screed board sets the top surface. Once all the concrete is in, a magnesium large aggregate in the concrete. The bull float smooth the concrete in both directions, pushing Then the slab is left to cure. It's a little hard to see with the concrete lined with these little wooden triangles called from this slab, you can see the nice 45-degree chamfers not only improve the appearance of the chipping or breaking over time, extending the the rest of the shelter can be installed. Steel back wall. These sheets will eventually from sun and weather. We'll come back have made some progress on those panels. The area between the wet well and the new shelter the pumps and other equipment aboveground. But compacting the subgrade below the slab and checks shelter, this equipment slab starts and a mat of reinforcing steel. The However, before it goes into the forms, a little How do we know that the concrete delivered specifications required by the engineer? or at least a technician on the site does. check the workability or consistency of the mix and rodded to remove air bubbles. Then the cone is lifted, The distance from the top of the cone this must be within the allowable guidelines. Too into the forms. Too much slump may be a sign This test also helps verify that the concrete Next the technician checks the air content of to the concrete sample, compressing the bubbles be measured. Not enough air entrained in the flaking, especially under freezing conditions. finish and create surface defects. Finally, the technician uses plastic concrete cylinders. These cylinders will after they've had time to cure to make sure the engineer. If the concrete company made it would be caught by one of these tests, and Luckily, all the concrete on this project This equipment slab is placed just like the one at is too stiff, a broom is run along the surface another one done on this project, but we're still the light pole. Like the shelter, this pole will the drill just arrived in a pickup truck. Skid one has been equipped with a miniature drill rig. the hole, and now it's time to drill out the soil simple: spin the auger until the soil is broken then do it again; and again. It doesn't take almost as deep as this little auger the power lines through conduit to the light. a cardboard tube is used to form the pier above Meanwhile, workers are making progress forming scaffolding will have to be assembled support the underside of the concrete so scaffolding is erected inside the wet scaffolding will have to be removed through so all of this has to be easy to disassemble when plywood false cover over the top of the wet well Unlike the equipment slab that is essentially a slab has a lot of embedded items. In addition to the stilling well, each of the three discharge diesel pump, and vent line for the air release nothing to you right now. I'll show you what the biggest blockout is the access hatch that will the wet well once the project is finished. The in the concrete slab. Then it's secured into place One challenge with the concrete slab above the that structure no matter what. If the heavy want the slab on top being separated from the engineer developed a pretty cool way to make sure and it involves a lot of cardboard. These are space of the wet well cover slab. Well, perfectly reminder of how strong this select backfill can you need a hammer drill to break it loose. The the site already built, so it's kind of like These cardboard forms are strong enough but they will quickly deteriorate, The concrete is designed to only be supported ensures that, if the wet well settles without experiencing undue stress from the If you had a careful eye, you may have caught some simple carpentry for molds. We called stones you might buy at the hardware store. Once all around the formwork for the wet well cover they leave an empty space between the concrete the edges. We don't want soil collapsing into getting in there either. So, the project requires around the perimeter of the wet well slab. When filling the void while still allowing the slab The reinforcing steel is installed inside sure it conforms to the engineered plans. And that reinforcing steel is needed to make sure since it won't be supported from underneath (once electrical conduits, and the access hatch are The concrete is spread into place with rakes. And, it's vibrated to help You can see the air bubbles coming place. The finishing crew carefully floats The foundation for the light pole gets concrete concrete in the trench carrying the electrical This is a perfect example of the pace of heavy work to get this light pole and wet well cover the trucks and finishing crews arrive and A few more structures need to be this job is mostly over. One is the slab turned on in the event of an emergency or of service. The subgrade below the slab conduits are installed that will carry the The wet well also gets an electrical rack to sensors, and pumps. There will also be to service the wet well when it's complete. trenches and the wet well cover slab here. The carpenters assemble the formwork. And, the fresh concrete is placed inside. Once the concrete is cured, off these slabs and they get compacted the electricians have the rack and junction they're backfilling, the crews finish can really see how soil might collapse into them. Another concrete placement is for a If the pump ever leaks fuel, this curb will keep A pipe with a valve makes it possible to The last place we need some concrete, for now, have already been installed on the concrete the rim and valve box covers. This area is and formed. Then the concrete is Remember that these manholes aren't doing still running straight through them with no those lines can be cut is on its way. A crew power washes the inside of both manholes That's the job of this box truck pulling into supply of fresh air, it can generate hydrogen also extremely corrosive to steel and concrete. To environment in a wastewater system, the walls and will get a spray-on epoxy liner. The worker dons into each manhole to apply the coating. The gun Touch ups are applied topside. Next, another worker uses a trowel to It only takes a The parts of the wet well that won't be lined applied to the inside walls. The worker checks applying the right amount. The manholes and wet there are special safety precautions about meter to check for a hazardous atmosphere. They They have a rescue winch installed to lift happen. And they have a spotter whose only job is they're staying safe. Before long, the entire wet The masking is removed from the access hatch. And, this team will be back once the bottom of The concrete slabs are almost all complete. The electrical shelter is ready for equipment; and lot is left to be done, but these last steps Pipes are arriving on site to the San Antonio Now that most of the underground work is equipment that will connect the wet well to the protective coating that, in most cases, needs and so is the sand that will be used to paint. The process of sand blasting, uses compressed air to fire media through but there are lots of other materials that air.) All the steel pipes for the project coating. This gives the flanges fresh surfaces and it cleans and roughens the outside of the Once blasted clean, the pipes are ready to be in the field. Paint used to protect metal the pros. This spray painting rig also trailer-mounted compressor to deliver paint to masked off to make sure none of the coating set up on saw horses and coated. All the But we don't just hope the coating we double-check. This is a dry film thickness paint is built up around the pipe. Turn the wheel coating thickness in mils which are thousandths that the coating meets specifications, it's The very first lines will go into the wet well, before that. This assembly has been useful to hold and for the spray liners to stand on while they dismantled inside the wet well, and each piece While one crew gets the last few pieces of scaffolding out, another using string lines. The strings make it easier and valves are moved into position. And plumb wet well directly below each of the three A lot of these pipes are quite heavy, so the more time to help lift them into place. It gets into position, puts down the outriggers to help create a stable pipes. The first discharge line is lowered into to a special quick-release connection system The next section of the first discharge line is set at the bottom of the wet well, then re-rigged lifted into place. Once positioned correctly, the for the other two discharge lines. The first pipe is lowered into the wet to the pump discharge quick release, then the through the blockout, and lifted into place. The concrete blockout are filled with link seals just Before long, it's time to start connecting pipes will sit on supports that are bolted and then anchors get epoxied into the holes. support rigidly to the slab. Most of come together using flanges. A gasket between and the ring of nuts and bolts holds each All these pipes and fittings come together understand them if we go in order. I'll walk but I want to start with the pumps, and they Before they go in, the bottom needs a little the center of the wet well, the outside accumulate. The engineer specified that the pumps in a bowl shape to make sure there are of suspension. And that's going to take some site and gets set up by extending its boom. and a finishing crew works to get the new pumps will eventually sit. Once this concrete epoxy liner at the bottom of the wet well. Each of these pumps is rated to use 50 kilowatts gallons or 3000 liters per minute to an elevation station. And there will be three of them in the for sewage applications. The San Antonio River except water, human waste, and toilet paper into in the case that something larger or more fibrous in the pumps have a special shape to avoid getting clogged, each one can be disconnected from the wet well for service. That means installing the Each pump has a knuckle that fits into vertical hoist or a crane simply lowers the pump along it seals against the discharge line with connection without having to send someone to Each of the pumps' chains is hooked at the a pump from the wet well for inspection securely attached there as well. Those electrical and up to the junction boxes where they are Part of the job of the control system so this wet well needs a liquid level sensor. a length of pipe inside the wet well meant to that happen from the wastewater flow. This is almost the entire height of the wet well. You this shot as crews start to fill the wet well the float switches installed as well. If the level these simple float switches will set off an alarm shelter to let operators know that the level is and overheat) or too high (which could cause an overflow). The wet well also gets a gooseneck This water is just for testing the pumps, but this wet well from the surrounding sewer lines. will trigger the control system to automatically And if the level keeps going up, a second pump lead-lag configuration helps the station account as a standby. The lead pump, lag pump, and standby Each pump has its own discharge line, we saw be to an aboveground manifold. First the lines makes it easy to see if the pump is running line gets a check valve that only allows flow from simply backflowing wastewater into the wet the lines each have plug valves so they and valves don't last forever, so designed to make it easy to service After the isolation valves, all the individual passes through an automatic air release valve. at this high point and constrict the flow. This release air from the line without letting any air bleeding from a pipe full of raw so the air bleed line runs right back to from leaking onto the ground if And, just like this facility is designed for lots of redundancy. The three pumps are Sewage keeps flowing, even during emergencies and power designed with contingencies. A fourth pump, wastewater flowing if this facility loses grid The diesel pump has a suction line see here. And it's discharge line runs valve and plug valve like the others. But the manifold also includes an emergency bypass bring in another mobile pump, hook it up All 5 pump discharge lines come together ahead of how much fluid passes through the pipes each meter to the ones at the end of the line to malfunctions between the two. One last plug facility for maintenance. And then wastewater This is a pressure-rated sewer line that original lift station, and now it's time extended this line toward the new pump station pieces until the discharge manifold was finalized. connection is attached with a compression fitting underground pipe is installed. Then, concrete is called thrust blocks that will distribute the moving over time. The metal pipe is wrapped in And now this lift station has a direct connection In many ways, a wet-well type lift your basement. The water level comes up, it and the water level drops back down. But in many ways this facility is a basement sump pump, and most of those ways and control systems of the pump station. Both new one are fed power from the grid through the electric utility. Each of the three phases entire facility to be isolated from the grid, a and then a fused switch that will protect the of these monster fuses is rated for 350 From there, power heads to the control shelter and new pump station to be isolated for maintenance. it's all about redundancy. If the power goes in a mobile generator and connect flip the transfer switch, and power the converts the 480-volt service to 120-volts Of course, a high-voltage facility like this protect workers and make sure that a fault can be into the ground and welded to the conductors to gets tested to make sure it's well connected the ground rods and a test electrode on and the resistance between the two is more ground rods would have to be installed, This panel houses the remote terminal unit for the and Data Acquisition or SCADA system. Rather record data or change the controls, it's easier SCADA is a type of industrial network and databases to keep accurate records and this one. An antenna at the top of the shelter and the remote terminal unit provides an But that doesn't mean there aren't manual that allows an operator to start and stop each soft start each one to avoid huge power surges, and error systems to shut down a pump if next to it has the circuit breakers for each These panels connect to the pumps through pretty clever way to run the cables through. First to the other side with a vacuum. Then the cables Once all the electrical work is done, The contractor starts cleaning up the site items is installing bollards to protect the attach to drilled concrete piles to create last concrete of the job goes in. This slab creating a driveable area for maintenance the concrete that was removed to trench in one of The bollards are installed, and concrete is Now all that's left is to get this facility in operation. The first test of the distribution system. If something goes wrong, it's proverbial fan. The hose goes into the wet well On testing day, the plan is simple: turn on as designed. The pump manufacturer has a Each pump is turned on. They check the pressure And, they check the flow meter to ensure the pump wet well. You can easily see the level in the wet they run the emergency diesel pump to confirm it's is to check everything in this sophisticated the very first time, but before long, all the It's been almost an entire year of work to get the built and running. We've followed the process from And if you look closely, you can see how much the surrounding area Those new developments and new houses will depend on this pumping treatment plant. All the people who live and work and that's kind of the point. We want our sewage you've enjoyed getting an up-close look at what it all the hard work that goes into even the most Huge thanks to the San Antonio River their engineer UEG for fielding all our questions all their subs) for putting up with us on the not a small thing to have a film crew watching you it is. Thanks to our streaming partner Nebula, the link below. And huge thanks to the Practical There's a relatively new term in Italian, but it refers to retired people who spend their we all deserve to be those old pensioners, first hand. And documenting the construction of mine for a long time. It took a ton of work hopefully we made it look effortless! What do you shoot me an email or leave a comment below. Thank you for watching,