Pre-Invasion If they had wanted us all dead they heads. The fact that they didn't meant We saw them coming a few months before arrival, astronomers spotted the tell-tale 'dimming' between the stars and the earth. We what was coming a few days later- and the Twenty six massive ships- though of course point were the gargantuan meteoroid these aliens couldn't possibly be that far ahead shields to protect their spacecraft while of light. But the fact that there were so many of whoever they were, weren't coming to visit. They When they ignored our attempts at communication we were pretty sure they weren't friendly. preparations, shifting to a war time economy the US military was recalled home for the the United States survived, then and only then Europe and Asia were on their own. flipped their spacecraft around and fired a whopping ten percent the speed of light. We fiery plumes blinded our cameras, long skinny and fully surrounding the central core of each Landing craft. Technically, we fired first. Like many other Iraq/Afghanistan vets, I got eighteen year olds fresh out of high school. I the Fighting First. At 0942 hours Zulu scene should be night), we made Fiery streaks lit up the night sky as their there were one or two, then dozens. Then hundreds. would attempt to land, but radar allowed us to figure out to within a few hundred miles where dispersed across the most likely landing zones for each Rapid Response Force to immediately We got lucky, they landed right on top of us. Patriot and NASAM batteries were the high altitude interceptors. Designed to these were our best weapon for hitting the aliens sensors would be blinded by fiery plasma outside scream up into the sky and- hit! We all let out my breath. I guess I expected a force field multiple of the large, reddish lights turned This was their most vulnerable moment, our Patriot missiles- we'd need them for Next, the Air Force had its turn. We assigned to our Rapid Response Force, and F-35s. The F-16s and F-15s engaged the a smaller missile than the Patriot's PAC-2. the incredible speed the descending landing craft lethal. Dozens more tumbled out of the sky, But there were hundreds coming down on could do but prepare our armor and IFVs for an they touched down- we wouldn't give them time to The landing craft fired their retro rockets making them easy targets for our attached smaller stinger missiles of the Avengers had but were zeroed in on the thermal plume Taking out just one of those engines meant the its occupants to a very unpleasant end several for heavy machine guns to reach out, but they Things were going entirely too good, From an estimated 344 landing craft, each the size The aliens had flown straight into the teeth of knocked twenty percent of their forces out. As the landing craft flew over us to hit their from their bellies. There was the sound of and hundreds of darts, each about the length of them. I watched one drive straight through and when I thought the worst was over, the entire within. Another one of these spikes embedded then it let off a blinding flash. Several feet of and the driver must have been turned into ash. Over a hundred hummers, Bradleys, Strykers, and darts before the landing craft finally touched The craft nearest to our location popped several disgorging troops. One of our Abrams put a round a dozen or more of the aliens. Turrets ringing unleashing a volley of bright white projectiles a distinct metallic sound, but penetrated far Lucky for us, the turrets weren't particularly with the Abrams staying put at just under 3,000 its 120 mm smoothbore cannon. Our Bradleys but the landing craft were so large We got ordered to save our missiles, as turrets laying out an inaccurate, I wish I could remember more, but from an overhead landing craft Days 2-8 I awoke in a field hospital nearly 72 hours later. but miraculously spared most of the crew. Someone grateful, but felt awful. I'd basically slept When I awoke I found out the aliens had landed mile diameter circle. The first landing craft were our mechanized forces. But the rapid fire turrets deadly, until they were knocked out one by one by to blow up the ships themselves was fruitless, explosions. Whatever their tactical shortcomings, Those turrets bought time for landing craft inside the makeshift tank battles since Desert Storm raged I gathered a few things about the aliens from them Elves, from Tolkien's Lord of the Rings. They tall, spindly bodies and small faces with huge stood about a foot or more taller than a human, Second, their tech was tough and more advanced it seemed their space fairing capabilities were been no more than a hundred years ahead of ours. any armored vehicle on a World War I battlefield, Thankfully, our tanks could still put or two hits as long as they weren't at you can only push materials technology so far still subject to budgets, especially if they I demanded to be sent back to the front, but that time I noticed there were much less wounded asked the doctor about it, hoping that meant we and said not many were surviving the alien Days 9-13 We were in retreat. The aliens had broken through lines. I couldn't remember the last time the US As soldiers and medical staff rushed to transport an intelligence officer grabbed me and He knew my name which surprised me, then He knew I was a veteran who's already but in the hills and streets of Iraq other five, I could tell they were He had a special mission, and we were going to go to ground, let the Army retreat and the hiding and nab one of them alive, drag it back to geeks for study and interrogation. My eyes alien... behind enemy lines?! Wasn't this the Major Hubrack shook his head, not this time. Days 14-18 While the army retreated, we the aliens didn't seem to be looking very made camp under some thermal-proof tents There were six of us. Major Hubrack was I had never heard of. That told me he and it didn't surprise me that he had the for his special operation behind enemy lines. all I knew he was a madman, playing at his earth. But he didn't seem like one, he was want plotting against you. He was the first to "This is their first war against a combined ate our MREs in the dark. I was curious, so I before they landed they didn't perform no precision strikes against command and control They don't even have any real air power, Everyone stopped eating simultaneously. "They've never fought against a modern they remind me of the Russians: big on artillery- they got lots of all three. I suppose the Russians at least have I could see that Major Hubrack had without ever getting his hands on one. "We're their first invasion. Or, the first modern few industrial revolution or pre-industrial build tanks and use artillery. But they don't use they've ever met stiff resistance, even amongst they were unified a long time ago, or maybe had a species. Of all the rocks they chose to land The Major shook his head, genuinely sad invade the one world that had been at war with a lot of what the Major said was ringing true. "Well then, if they're so bad at fighting why are because at the end of the day it wasn't "Their technology is better. Tanks and rifles do. You can ditch the body The Major's words hung in the air Nobody said much after that, all of we were better at fighting, but was that Days 19-24 The Air Force had been making life hell for telltale roar of jet engines, launching The Major was right, the aliens didn't have much our heavy use of it. He supposed that the gravity so high that atmospheric flight was But then you should expect the Elves to be in heavy gravity. Maybe their atmosphere Yet it seemed like the Elves had no unless they were equipped with some sort of from a distance as they disembarked from their to the front lines. Most stood at least a and those weird wrap-around almond shaped eyes people claim abducted them. They talked in a weird excited or scared- like when a loitering F-15 of infantry- they let off a series of melodic If the aliens had come to earth without learners. They had dismantled turrets from on mobile platforms to provide air cover. This but it kept our Apaches and A-10s at bay. It was out what must have been a hundred rounds a second But they were still vulnerable and the US Air Force was giving We watched from our hiding place, the Major Things he would be able to report to superiors a better intelligence picture of how these aliens military intelligence, another thing the aliens Our primary mission wasn't forgotten though, we needed to capture a live one. The Major our position so the enemy would thin out, Days 25-28 There was somebody else out there, another team must have been special operations, because The first clue was when we were watching a column front. Lead vehicle hit an anti-vehicle mine I'd watched alien trucks go down that same but 35 pounds of shaped charge ruin pretty much any armored vehicle's a second explosion thundered at the rear of detonated remotely. The rearmost vehicle was the column stuck, dashing off the road wasn't In the same breath, four Javelin anti-tank guided column, smashing into four separate vehicles. but were as lightly armored on the top as incinerating the crew inside. Panicked Elves or turning blindly into the swampy woods the panicking alien infantry, there were few Then just as fast as the ambush started, it ended, with the unknown attackers slipping because the Elf tanks came with two rounds- one destruction. Once they got going with the second I counted four tanks and at least Americans. If we kept this pace We needed to be somewhere the aliens had deeper into enemy held territory. So we packed up Days 29-33 We set up camp outside a small town, the type than three stories tall. There was no telling a satellite radio but he said it was only for learned to sniff out electromagnetic signals, I marveled that we still had satellites at the Elves had thought of taking them out, it drifting in very high orbits over the earth. our existing satellites with swarms of cube would have a hard time finding a floating Our new location allowed us to recon what life was like for civilians caught behind Days 34-38 I expected armed patrols, maybe some sort a slave camp- I don't know. What No sign of the aliens at all. What we We made contact with an elderly couple living at skin as six heavily armed and camouflaged dusk. They were overjoyed to see us though, but was no liberation force. Then they filled us in The aliens were yet to establish real their points across by a lot of gesturing and population, going from house to house. with their entire family. Once gathered up, the The first group was the elderly and the very or higher and anyone 10 and below. The second mobilization in anticipation of the invasion even in rural America, but there were plenty with health issues. Everyone in group two was The aliens were exterminating anyone of young or too old to fight. The Major believed once the war was settled, bringing in all elderly behind to take care of them until But they hadn't gotten everyone of fighting over occupied America, and the couple knew while contact was made. It would be good Days 39-44 They called themselves Wolverines, and I fighters. Their leader, Johnathan Wood, was a technically disqualified him from the draft. He and I think the Army was in error because Wood was a quiet, unassuming man, not particularly shot and ice cool under pressure. He led a numbering about twelve, and had made it their job Thanks to them we found out that the aliens At first the convoys had very little protection, aliens were proving quick learners, and we were now heavily protected, but Wood was confident It was a perfect opportunity, so we spent several led us to a hidden supply cache of weapons and thousands of these all across America so that was a page straight out of Germany's World War II caches so that partisan fighters could rise up Days 45-49 We'd started calling ourselves Hubrack's only five of us plus the Major. Of the five, had been drafted during the initial round, and landfall. Both had kept their cool and impressed as he snatched them up before grabbing me group had been his first choice, but the Marcks had a mind for tech, I thinkt hands on alien hardware- though we were that might damage it until we got it back to instead of calm and quiet he was a bit of a designated heavy gunner, carrying a M240 bravo The Major split us up into two teams of together. It was our team that observed when It was a cloudy night, the three of us Wolverines. You could hear the distant roar of behind enemy lines. For whatever reason, the probably because they never imagined they'd A bright beam of blue light shot up and then there was a dull roar and aliens had just deployed some type of very the Air Force was off the front lines. From attack munitions from well past the range we'd enjoyed just got nullified, but what was aliens had adapted and deployed new technology. Day 50 When under ambush, the winning tactic is to Remaining in the kill zone is only going to A couple of bricks of C-4 were enough of heavy IFV. The heavy armor still allowed though I only counted eight out of fourteen because they were cut down as A second explosion rung out from the second set Javelins reached out and smashed into the escort disabled, but still deadly as we quickly found on one of the Javelin teams, shredding them with in such close quarters, the Javelins couldn't we could only hit them in direct attack mode, silenced the Elf IFV, knocking the deadly turret The Elf infantry carried weird, long and they themselves were built, but what came out punch through light cover, as many of our troops sure you had something solid like brick or stone our rifles, but like their ship-mounted The M-4 has no such accuracy issues, marksmanship for its infantry. Even be crack shots- you'd have to be to The firefight was brief and to take one alive. That meant I called out to one of the Wolverines and had him then the two of us dashed downstairs from the had a pair of basic, short-range walkie talkies, Geronimo. We were going in for a snatch and grab. side rose significantly. They were forcing the We dashed out a rear door and ran down a block of of the ambush kill zone. The rearmost IFV was and I scanned for any wounded with no luck and Courchaine were doing a good job keeping them trying to return fire while taking cover, We scanned up and down the line of vehicles, seemed to be in three groups, and the one in from the other two. I radioed Major Hubrack, He sent back a simple "affirmative". We kept words- just in case the aliens had learned to On the Major's order, a series of of sight and somewhere near the first and and Marks and I stepped out from The aliens' entire focus was on the heavy but at the last moment one of them must have because he spotted Marks and I and started It was too late. Marks and I opened fire, two in position, three dead within seconds. The survivor knocking his weapon out of his hands and bringing and Marks helped me drag him back towards the Then it all went to hell. A strange metallic sound, bright flashes, happened or else I'm sure we would've been barely had time to look outside and see the dropped another salvo of those large glowing The aliens had learned how to use but they killed a lot more of ours than their own. Days 51-56 Of our original squad, only Major Hobruck, myself, of Wolverines lived, most of them injured. The flying craft dropping those rods all over the blocks of buildings. It was overkill, but I casualties they were taking during an operation Welcome to war, human style. I thought I'd accidentally it took him over a day to come to. We but truthfully knowing little about alien if he had been seriously injured. Luckily While we licked our wounds nobody talked soften him up mentally for the long trip this wasn't the first time the Major had Days 57-60 We offered for Wood to join us on our journey him before because of his leg, but he'd something told me the US Army was currently Reluctantly, he agreed. There weren't enough behind enemy lines, it would be safer for the Elves were willing to inflict that much what would they do to local civilians Gathering our prisoner, we left for Days 61-63 At first we traveled only at night, but then difficulties seeing in bright daylight. It made black eyes. They were clearly meant so the aliens must have evolved on a low-light night vision technology anyways, it only made disadvantaged. The fact that our friend was us suspect the species might be bad jet lag after crossing millions He- she? It? Didn't talk much. not even putting up a struggle when we kept it fed with what seemed like rations he'd but I could tell he was limiting its food, keeping Again I got the impression that this wasn't the Days 64-69 We couldn't be too far from the front now, distance. It was the unmistakable sound of armored must have been one titanic jousting match. Looking of Elf artillery, spitting its strange but deadly terrible force when it hit the ground. Whatever vaporized everything within the blast radius. The alien artillery lobbed round after round amongst the concentration of guns. Counterbattery on radar, and our boys were quick on the trigger. It was far too dangerous to travel, so we set up situation from afar. The battle lines seemed to us a great view of the enemy's rear areas where up what I was guessing was a field hospital or so we could broadcast their coordinates, but track our signal, and bringing this one back alive Three days after setting up camp to wait for the this time further back from the front and by long-range cruise missile strikes. The but it seemed like no matter how much kept on coming. They'd have Days 70-73 The battle finally ended, and I don't think we a steady stream of Elf vehicles and troops was Another retreat by US forces with the aliens The Major tried to cheer us up, the he said. Overextending the enemy by waging and I hoped he was right and we We kept our friend gagged while enemy troops of wanting to escape or call out for this species was unified to the point of utter occasionally working together. The Elves seemed and occasionally working alone. Explains why they With the battle ended, we set out again, what must have been a former front now troops. Our best chance was to slip and hopefully not get shot by Days 74-79 I think I've learned the words for 'bathroom it'd be more accurate to call because it seems like the entire Elf language wind chimes and whale songs. The shorter the be. How the hell we were going to decipher this We avoided population centers on our way to was waiting in these freshly occupied cities and and then a ghost town full of the elderly and degree, and I wondered why the Elves didn't simply for? Why did they even invade our planet with I'd eventually find out why, Days 80-82 We ran into an enemy patrol completely by the Elves didn't seem to leave the and we'd never seen sign of them in the travel. More than likely though we were exhausted as we contemplated the fate Our two groups nearly ran head on into each time on the heavily forested dirt road. The he nearly collided with Major Hobruck who was a moment in utter shock- our captive gave But the Major didn't freeze like the immediately disarming the lead Elf and sending the aliens had in place of a solar plexus. Human but the attack worked as the alien crumpled Then the rest of us raised our rifles and other. Marks went down in a hail of alien gunfire, them. His heavy 240 had gotten slagged by the to travel instead with an older but much lighter rounds at a rate of 200 rounds a minute, all was shit as he hip fired the weapon, but then of him. Four of the aliens were cut down, with I turned my attention on the fifth surviving popping off several rounds as I plunged I couldn't let him get away and let As I crashed past a thick bush the Elf thin blade. I ducked under it by instinct The alien lunged again, and I managed to stop on to the hilt of his weapon. Despite being thin obviously lacking in self-defense skills. I underneath him, tumbling him to the ground. With sound of a wrist breaking, causing him to drop Then I grabbed my own knife, put a knee in his in close quarters before. And even if this Killing someone through a rifle scope or even iron sights is one thing. But The Major and Wood came crashing through in fury somewhere on the road behind "What do I do with this one?", I asked the one smooth motion he whipped out his sidearm "Can't bring another one with us. Too much risk." Days 83-87 Courchaine wasn't the same after Mark's death. reserved, Courchaine loud and pretty solid bond. I worried about also worried he'd snap our captive's Our Elf friend too seemed changed after the the entire time, or at least non-resistant. noticeably slumped as we walked along. Maybe we real soldier, just some supply grunt that had been Or maybe he had an idea of the fate that and had seen his last chance for salvation come and go. I was surprised to find myself after traveling with the Major for three months I One part of my brain said we had a war to win, at any cost. It was literally the survival of the part that used to look up at the wondered just what made us humans to begin If we were willing to do the horrible things I was sure were coming to this Days 88-91 We must have crossed the front without even own people. I nearly opened fire by reflex materialize from out of the bushes ahead to infiltrate behind enemy lines the way The Marines guided us at a fast clip clearing. Fifteen minutes later a Blackhawk the marines yelling at us to hurry up and load in- and definitely leave without us on it if we had gotten a lot better at targeting Flying at dizzying speeds at what I I found myself breathing a sigh of relief- Days 92-96 Rest and relaxation. Medical treatment for reconstitution. Despite being in life was temporarily pretty good. The Major and We were somewhere outside of Denver. We'd the border in Kansas. They'd pushed us back we got caught up on how the war was landings between San Diego and Los Amarillo and Austin, Texas, Asheville, and Randolph, New York state. We had defeated eradicating the entire invasion force and seizing Though all of the landings had been opposed, our location except Washington. The Baltimore but the US Army had held the alien offensive Force had paid a particularly gruesome toll flying combat missions even in the The offensive to take the political at least for now. Everywhere else was a The rest of the world didn't seem to be faring harder to communicate. The aliens had finally We still had contact with Europe through of. The Cold War had prepared us well for an and coordinate strategy in a world ravaged by had lost all of eastern Europe, nobody had heard were confirmed reports of nuclear detonations they seemed the only power to resort to nukes. rumors are they dropped several building-sized It seems they were willing to put up except nukes. Which means they wanted our News from Asia were sporadic. The Japanese and giving the aliens absolute hell. China aliens had seized Shanghai and Hong Kong along strong and free. Like in every other occupied men and women of fighting age were exterminated, Days 97-99 Something big was brewing, and I feared it pack up equipment though, but no one would They wouldn't even answer our requests to be sent stuffing our faces while we knew people were out We were approximately seventy five miles behind When I checked the flight line I was surprised being serviced by technicians. That night arriving and setting down somewhere Something was going on, something My suspicions were confirmed when quarters with a broad smile on his face. Day 100 Despite there being thirteen you could barely hear the sound of the with stealth coatings and all manner unless the aliens knew exactly where to look Seated next to me, Courchaine spirits were up. Despite our nation spirits were up. Despite the earth's fate Military intelligence had figured out and interrogated our captive thoroughly. Now, our planet, we were finally on the offensive- and Now go check out I survived 100 days of