This is my kitchen table and also my filing system over much of quality of mankind. I've often thought as private equity. And coach. I know how to do it. I've learned in doing my interviews some 250. I said fine I didn't negotiate with him. I did no due there. You don't feel inadequate now because the on the second One of the most important companies in the travel industry today concept of renting out one's room to make some extra money. Now apartments to other people. I actually used an air B and B I sat down with Brian Chesky who conceived of Air B and B has world. When you came up with the idea with your partners of a good idea. No. I mean it was pretty universally considered a said hey we've got this idea. We're going to build this Web site person who was kind of somebody I looked up to in Los Angeles. He said Brian I hope that's not the only idea you're working on the reason I think it worked was because I stumbled into this coming to San Francisco in October 2007. I couldn't afford to were sold out. And we had this idea. We said when we just turned don't have any beds but show at three our beds. We pulled them We made enough money pay our rent. But more importantly we they live with us for a week. And at that point I think we this would be an idea that would spread around the world. uphill road. Where did you get your initial money. Was that the weird story about how we raise money. So we had this kind of So Barack Obama John McCain are both running for president. And We're betting we're a bed and breakfast. started selling collectible breakfast cereal a Barack Obama it the breakfast change. And we learned about John McCain with a every bite. And we made these really funny looking cereal boxes. collectible breakfast cereal. So now it's late 2008. We're like desperate. We've launched kitchen. I'm thinking to myself I wonder if Mark Zuckerberg or room. sign. And I'm going out to dinner at a Thai restaurant in San Combinator. And they said you should join the Y Combinator too late. We already launched the Paul Graham eventually allowed to apply after the deadline. And we got an interview and that's doing this. And I said yes. And he goes what's wrong with them. admitted he hated the idea of everybody. At first he didn't get a box of Barack Obama's cereal that we made. And he looks at it. this is how we fund the company. And he looks to us he said if four dollar box of cereal maybe you will convince them that So Y Combinator let us in the program. I think we better. I the program you know. homes. And a lot of people started turn to everybody to save great recession which is causing a lot of young people to feel is growing. So people are comfortable meaning people on the an opening for everybody to finally take off. So traditionally would take it public and liquefy for the employees. The founders that. Why didn't you go public sooner. And you have any regrets I just didn't feel like we were ready to go public sooner. And I mean just as important. Remember when we were growing really and a lot of people were wondering was this business going to existential questions. Eventually we able that we were able to were able to collect four billion dollars in hotel tax became But I felt like going public was a big stage. It was almost like analogy but if you're like baking a cake you're going public is after you go public. Right. And so I wanted to make sure that pandemic hit that was more than a decade after we started. I was window. of 20 20. But I think looking back it worked out really well for pandemic but you obviously were probably you had to lay off some the pandemic hit I was working on our S-1. And like many people to go in one direction not realizing our entire world was about the side. We lost 80 percent of our business in eight weeks and then suddenly go from high flying to people predicting. Is this journalists predicting that we were going to go out of business. ended up having to confront this reality David that I realized into a burning house. If you could only save half your furniture we're gonna get back to the original idea of Air B and B the all over the world. We had to make the hard decision I ever made employees. But I wanted to make sure even in a layoff we could people a year of health care. We're I think very generous priced the IPO or the underwriters did at half of the price that twenty three or four billion dollars on the table. Do you look it. We came back from 20 19 as a put somewhere between on the of pandemic our valuation was below 18 billion dollars. I mean our valuation. We had warrants. And to be able to be a 100 low point it was really hard to imagine any of that was going to believe we had hundreds of thousands of people in retail trying price in any round. You totally could have priced a higher but gonna be a company that was going to reach a valuation like quarter and last year and they were record earnings record Covid has changed everything. People are changing the way they think the world is never going back to the way it was fully been a change in how we work. You know so for many people not to be required to come back to the office five days a week. And these policies. I think workers will because all the CEOs I be the second most important benefit after compensation. So I remotely. They might go into office but not five days a week. If flexible you're less tethered to any one city. And so I think anywhere. Some people that don't have kids like me can literally think a lot of young people and retirees do that. All of this about traveling but now a company about living half full. But a longer than a week a fifth of our nights booked for stays or that's not classic two three nights in a city. It's not long pandemic. Let's go back to your background. For those who don't know your a small town in upstate New York called New Scheme and which is were social workers. Yes. My mom and dad were social workers. and dad were kind of live normal lives as social workers. And player when you were young. Is that true. Yeah. When I was five greatest hockey player in the world. And I want to be just like athletics is your dreams come crashing down pretty quickly. By when that dream went away you decided you might want to be an ended up getting a scholarship to go to Rhode Island school kind of a big deal to get the scholarship. And my mom said like promise me that you one day get a real job. I said well what's a And I said Okay I promise I'm gonna go to Disney. And one day my ambition. I mean my high school yearbook quote literally was but I didn't really think I was going to be a tech founder. I town. So let's talk about it. You graduate from Rhode Island become a designer. So then you ultimately didn't like it that liked it for like three months because there's like a thrill have this yearning that you want to make something that's real months of doing that maybe a year I kind of member thinking remember like feeling like I could see the rest of my life and horizon. An executive exactly like the road behind me a kind of designer. I at this point realized I think I want to be an going to start. And this is now 2007. And so I think like the just sold to Google. It was kind of the biggest company. crash. And it just felt like the gears of the world were premonition that like I have to come to San Francisco it's Joe. Yeah. Yeah. You brought a third partner in. Yeah. So really can design a Web site but we can't actually code and build a Web host these three guests I look to Joe and I said like who's the because there was an engineer who used to live with me before got together and we said you know what. If you could build a Web hotel anywhere in the world. And that was the original vision. ground but that was a pretty simple idea. So as you look back on and what was the biggest regret you have so far in what you did The most important piece of advice I ever got was when I first something. He said it's better to have 100 people love your service. But the little apathetic he should start with a small turn them to advocates because of those hundred people. Love going to become your marketing. And it's easy to improve your million customers. Really hard to change it. And so do things did. And I think that really helped explain why we're so in your 20s and you never imagined being an entrepreneur and gives you billions of dollars and you hit on something that's anything and you try to do everything. You try to do everything divisions and we were extending all different places. And in having not enough money because I think not having enough money forces you to create tradeoffs. I think when corporations and decisions. The accountability goes down. There's a real sense of that lack of focus happened M.B.A. before the pandemic. So you did you get to know Barack Obama and is he staying in air BMD. we lifting the embargo in Cuba when he was president. President American businesses with him to show that business is now open businesses in Cuba except for Air B and B. So I went with him to it was just helpful to have somebody who could help me see the systematically about my decisions and the consequences that we very helpful to me. would recommend they build a company. The first thing I'd say is you out of crazy things but sometimes the crazy ideas the ones Now as I understand it you're spending a year or so going to air States kind of reasonable time zone. So when you want to book on to go or. No I you know there's six million homes to choose from am. I know. And I think sometimes they find out. Sometimes they Nashville Charleston Los Angeles now Miami. I need ideas for beat you do it yourself and you have a team of people that pick else is doing. I mean I always feel like people who build great use. I also think there's only so many things you see in the I try to use it as much as I can. I always wonder who sets the the rate. And do you negotiate rates. No no no. The host sets at ten thousand dollars a night or beyond. And you know we have scrupulous villas and people renting like you know little spaces launch we had people renting spaces under their kitchen table of space. So it's kind of everything from a couch to a castle basically take 15 percent. So when you stay at a place do you much you're charging not enough. I try to give feedback less on like a host will want me to like you know like go through some doing other Web sites and I'm like air B is a contract you know founder of Air B and B and saying hey I think you're message but I try to give them feedback and we have a review in the stay. So I try to write a pretty detailed review for But you sign it be she or Brian Chesky Brian Chesky. So they time they know who I am when I book the other half. I don't like and booking under a pseudonym. But I also don't want to tell then I'm not going to get the real experience so that half the pretty fun experience. You're 40 years old. Yeah. So at 40 possibly imagine. Have you thought about stepping back and you have. mean it was fun when I started. And then like there was this at the company. But I'm having so much fun right now. And if I company to spend another ten years just to get back to this going. And I just feel like you know I have so much I still want in the world. And I think part of our bigger contributions to communities. So that's what I'm focused on. Now the company that plus years and we're still together. It's hard to have three working together for quite some time as well. Don't you ever together so so well. It's a great question David. Yeah I mean are in tech that three founders have been together for 14 years. because I had the gift of having two incredible co-founders that themselves and they were very supportive of me as CEO. But the allow being right to get in front of the relationship. Like if argument. You'll kind of see the trees lose the forest which is really strong founding team intact. And that mean that compromises. So we tried to never let debates go so far that that made a big difference. So on philanthropy giving away money you thinking about that. Are there certain areas you want to of your net worth. But you know you have to take time to do it. because I thought you know the main reason was even though he to set an example. If I take something I could for the next gen redistribute the majority wealth back to society. Seemed like a know what I want to focus on. I did write in my giving pledge just helping maybe create scholarship programs helping young underprivileged. I was just kind of obscure middle class. But be here talking to you today. I you would have just never met that so many kids. Have untapped potential. Like me that their had the journey that I've had and I want to help kids see their that's maybe one area I'm passionate about. But make no mistake able to help. Final question for somebody that's young younger advice about how you would recommend they build a company. listen to your parents. Don't take career advice on your you know your parents. And when I use parents or proxy for any crazy things. But sometimes the crazy ideas are the ones that do it's probably solve your own problem. A lot of people are market. We were just trying to solve our own problem. If you of other people and it might be quite marketable and monetized. on on on. Focus on love. It sounds like a weird thing but I love working for that. Create something. People love consuming but it kind of is all comes back to passion.