Halo: Reach ends with a mission called Lone and the rest of Noble team try helplessly to from taking over your planet. The story is as every single time your team succeeds, it's made Noble team does everything they can, getting main mission of the story has you and Emile the Pillar of Autumn, but once he gets killed guns. And as that ship leaves safely, there's an Just 5 months before the release of Halo: be taken down for good by Microsoft. Despite the the community for Halo 2 was still deeply on April 15th, 2010, the servers for the for good. But it didn't kick them out immediately. finish their final match. The ship had left. But, Lone Wolf is a mission with a single Surrounded by nothing but wasteland, all as a seemingly infinite number of Covenant forces have tried, desperately, to find some kind of some miracle to come for them, if they survived but there is truly nothing left. All you can do after sending the last ship that The nature of online games means that one day, fanbase to keep living, but equipment and servers for companies who are always looking these old multiplayer games aren't a its time is ticking from the moment realized they weren't immediately booted would play the game a little longer. But Players on the Halo forums realized that so lose internet connection, they could stay on the servers as long as they the players still had one objective. Survive as beyond the Halo 2 days, the ways multiplayer games While video games of the past were certainly have what amounts to an endlessly updating new IPs or even just sequels, developers promising to always change and always games like Fortnite and Apex Legends and every update is a new game, with different One of my favorite things that Minecraft does is their real name is 1.16 or 1.5 or beta 1.8. becomes with each update, so every single version time. But then there comes the update sequels. was a massive success, but after a few more years down to a smaller, but dedicated community Blizzard's solution was to Overwatch 2. Which... was really just a big this one straight up destroyed Overwatch 1. splitting the fanbase or just wanted to update at Overwatch 2's release, the first game was no But Overwatch was not the first or worst was one of the first battle royale games to most of The Culling was focused on melee combat. grappling hooks and superpowers, you had It turned the game into a suffocating and felt like they were barely held together. and mechanics like crafting systems turned the else. After the release of PUBG, though, The As much as I and some more dedicated gamers like moments in PUBG made The Culling look like and In the wake of the newer, more profitable and decided to try and copy that formula. The Culling Peaking at an inspirational 250 players 1 hour was absolutely nobody playing the game. It and a particularly boring and bad one at fans and alienating their old ones. Two or three and even worse, the developers shut down the sequel's viral success. The failure both games have been taken off Steam [Facebook games] The list of games killed off by nearly endless, but the most interesting ones to of their life. At Gamescom 2014, Konami announced first Playable Teaser, one of the next Silent thumbnail depicting the woods, it was a game that It was a horror puzzle game that took one that repeated endlessly as the player learned The puzzles were so obscure that just getting collaboration, and to this day, some things aren't known for sure to be right. But it On April 29th, 2015, the game vanished from had the game in their libraries couldn't even their systems as the last people with access this experience that anyone could download with the game still on it became valuable, being coming out of a bad break up between And it wasn't even the first time something an app game called Flappy Bird was put on the videogames of all time, despite its gameplay being complete opposite to PT, the goal of Flappy Bird and yet this game was making nearly 50,000 dollars so bad about how seemingly addictive the game and just like PT, phones with Flappy Bird were selling the gripping, life changing experience Both of these games gave the world a viral and in that wake, developers from all over the you can find flappy bird ripoffs on games desperately trying to recreate what PT was coping with the loss of these games, We're used to videogames being something we can other lives in this other world, exploring a a place that we have control over, and that But some games refuse to give that to you. One working in a lab dedicated to curing cancer, of a lifetime. Called E48K15, your lab's cancer cells in the body, but after it it doesn't just eradicate cancer cells. It You're given 6 days. In that time, you can choose any number of other things. You don't know if a so every one of your decisions has the weight there's a number of different endings to the game. days with the ones you love. You can work every but see your wife die in front of you. You can But at the end of it, if you try to start again, or that, if there was some better ending, some can't. You get One Chance. It's where nothing you do can erase the mistake of the life you had before. The world around Another game that plays around with this idea of Undertale. A common theme in Undertale is turning and when it comes to restarting and saving and of determination, your character is essentially every single option you feel like without The Genocide run is fascinating we learn about Flowey, a flower injected quit, a flower plucked from the spot where Asriel to save everyone, to become everyone's friends, people, trying new things, over and over again As the player, we go through the exact same about and saw as friends into puppets for our what happens. And the game refuses After decimating the entire underground, character you've never seen before, not in Chara is the manifestation of power. Of the rush every person you kill. Chara is the thing the end of the Genocide run, we're no longer in they tell us, "Now, we have reached the here. Let us erase this pointless world, you get jumpscared. [Clip] But If you were to come back to the game, and redo the up until the very last moments of the game. Undertale makes it very clear. If you lose your the villain. You are flowey. You are chara, and is corrupted forever, as you live with the sins The final players left in the Halo 2 server were and 1 week into the mission, there were 14 servers alive. Everyone understood and even the final few were starting to or hardware problems, just 3 weeks after the left. There were no Covenant forces stopping the only enemy these final players truly Before Your Eyes is a video game all about time. jump forward in the memories and life of Benjamin for as long as you can keep your eyes open, but that becomes harder and harder to do. And once us windows into another world, but while we can While Undertale considers the genocide run it's more of an act of love. As someone who was it became my mission to learn as much Every little tidbit of information, every fun value and theory and unused I couldn't accept that I already experienced you yourself probably have too. And none of Why sequels and remakes and fanfiction are so but that we're grieving the loss of that first was pointless. It didn't matter if they stayed a month, or a year. Most people had already left, a story of helplessness, and one that ended soon on May 11th, 2010, Apache Enforcer, the There was a window of time, about 22 hours, the servers. It's hard to understand just how rare but just... one. One person left in servers that playing all types of games and living he went offline too, and Halo 2 had finally been And for those efforts, there was no easter egg or discovery that They were doomed from the start, and all this story still feels noble to me. After It's easy to forget that these portals to other Whether it's multiplayer or not, removed or not, the experiences we have can't be changed or and as distant as those memories get, they'll always be a part of you, for better and everyone else that stuck on those servers it was a celebration of life. In the face of end, they simply waved goodbye, until the door had