I learned so much from my dad. Work ethic? Yeah. Discipline. But at the same time, I also know Now I turn to my daughters and it's The paint. Oh well how many colors You want this. You want to do that. Okay, great. I close my eyes. I know it's coming. He grabbed a shovel, a big shovel. My dad did Said, have you crossed that line? I'm going to kill you. The drunk asshole crossed the line. He knocked him out 43 or 46% of the country would love the idea of Dwayne Johnson I mean, it either means you are a leader would be, that they like, we need somebody and lay the smackdown on everybody. You know what I mean? I do. If there's it's having a spirited conversation. I've always loved out of another person's how the mush in your brain processes that it's seen a certain way It feels like these days, though, we might be losing that ability, or it's become a little bit harder, you know? A few days ago, I was people were having really interesting conversations men, women, young and old alike. And every few minutes somebody would start their opinion Now, I would never say this I would never say this And I found that fascinating. So many of us have opinions and ideas that we are either unable And I thought to myself, if we cannot have conversations about difficult things, are now the difficult things, of fixing the difficult things? You know, I, I almost think of it One of the most dangerous places is a minefield, because You do not know All you know is at any moment, But the danger comes Imagine if discussing how to navigate the minefield was as dangerous That's And so in this podcast, and with every single episode I hope to get into those Let's chat about the things Let's chat to the people Let's come to consensus. Let's walk away. Still fighting but understanding But most importantly, let's have the conversation. This is one now with Trevor Noah. When? When talking about conversations, I can't help but think of all You know, the team the team I worked with You know, Christiana, I remember and I still have this I remember a world I remember a world where married Like now it feels like with somebody or won't with somebody who doesn't agree on Just one topic. Literally And that's the end. Now it's like, nope, Whereas before you would say But oh God, because they know We'll be like, But your opinions on football trash. Absolute trash. You know nothing about the game. I'm going to fight with you. Let me ask you this. And, I mean, I know this and you have my friend, but in your just completely private, Do you have friends Oh, none of my friends agree with me. My husband doesn't even agree. I haven't But that's like a position Spot the people in my circle. I know that they're cool. And I think the issue that we have a bad politic or a politic that the other person which I don't think is true. You say more about that. If you did? Because I know people in who on paper or what's considered acceptable But in practice, in real life, Like I speak all the time. I used to go to, like, and all of these, like, Vote in the right way And there'll be women in the kitchen There's a white men, by the way. Bring out the wine. And when the cheese was done, women and women would cook. And then when it was all done, it'd And these men are like, Your choice. One of my favorite interactions I ever had was when I first started I got, I mean, thousands I mean, every single day. That's all Twitter was in my life your trash. And there was one guy in particular It was interesting. He was like, And I always appreciate funny. I don't care how mean you are, I will separate the two and I go, That was funny. And this guy said something I'm really intrigued You don't know me. You don't seem to have ever watched Why do you hate me this much? And I will never forget. His next tweet to me was, oh hey man. Oh, it's like literally. And he had exclamations. He he wrote, oh dude, I don't even I just thought it was funny And then he said something And to be honest, I don't think I think you're going But good luck to you, man. And I actually think And then I responded to him so you think I'm going to crash And I said, okay, let's make a deal. I said, if I lost six months, for as long as I'm there. And he was like, oh yeah, you're But it's a deal. And I promise you now, from that day, we would tweet each other DM and we'd say, And I was fascinated by how different when I had an actual direct when it was this theoretical throwing of a stone as opposed to the you know, that's a lot of the way we are in traffic is because It's a lot harder to do that when it's like your body, there's this cage that separates you You're like, I will kill you. I will destroy you And I know if you've ever done this, and somebody pulls up next to you for everything They're ready to murder And you look them in the eye and they whole face, It doesn't matter. You see them kill you and you and I one if I wonder if that's what stops us that we're not actually having them We're having them with like a, like a where I'm sure each individual but when it's a swarm, to get to get a wouldn't you know? Which brings me to my first guest, the Rock Dwayne The Rock Johnson. Here you have a human being been widely regarded you know, most loving people. He's he's always trying to make fans He's always trying to, you know, He'll pull up to, like, a Hollywood bus that's And he'll he'll take selfies and he'll, He's that guy. And yet even he put out a video recently the world And I thought, man, if this is if even he's experiencing this, then surely there's something we need to figure out about what we're doing Surely there's something we need to fix in a way, think of a better person than an all around to make us smile. He's walking in now, people. The man, the myth, the legend. Christiana, But, say, what's up to the rock guys? Yeah, exactly. My brother. Thank you for being here. Thank you for having me. All right. Welcome. Here we are. Graduations, man, on your first show. This is a big deal. No. Congratulations on getting the rock. That's This is. This is getting the rock. You are. Everyone says to people, You're the hard. You do so much. I will put money on it. You are the hardest working person that I know You are doing everything. You are everywhere. You are like, The gym, you see? What time do you start? 5 a.m. are you one of those years? Yeah. I, I like to get up early. I like to get up early. And that way, hopefully I could Okay. And then I could get the workout part I feel like I saw a video of you 75th. Congratulations to you. Thank you very much. I feel like your mom has always been, you know, like your hero You know, I've read many of the things you've you've talked about her and many of It's it's it's so beautiful And watching that video, there were two things I was Number one was their money What was happening Yeah. What was happening? Okay, so in our culture, I'm And on the Samoan side one side in particular, there's a there's a, there's a dance that we do It's called the Tower Luna. And a woman will dance, people will come up and they'll start to celebrate And the throwing of the money and that's what that was. So when I go up there to dance, I just throw it up in the air. I mean, maybe it was like 25 one. So I always talk to my friends. I'm, you know, I'm And I'll always talk to my friends cultural norms can be when you move You know, when, when, In some cultures, it is disrespectful after eating a meal. You leave a little bit to show that That's right. In some cultures, if you don't finish what's on the plates, You've disrespected them. I can tell you now, in many cultures, Well, you got it contextually. No, no, I go that's what I'm saying. I'm saying it's it's a beautiful The world is I also loved man. I loved seeing you dancing there, so I because I grew up I grew up watching rugby I've always loved Samoans. I've always loved, from that area who was like Samoans what I considered the pinnacle You know, and it was men who were wearing these I don't know what it's made out of, but it looks like a red dress Like a to love, love, And you'd see and you know, forms of and you I love seeing you doing that the history and what we've defined as cool Have you always or did you also have that period oh man, I can't And then you found it again, Yeah, that's a great question. And to be honest with your brother, from my mom and my dad, is perfect and what you are is cool. Black culture, Samoan culture. Yes, we come from a world of pro And at that time, Trevor, wrestling was nowhere near the global and it was, so be proud of everything It was always be proud, I loved it, man. I loved watching it. I loved you celebrating it. No, because I also you know, when I travel and I'll do shows in and around the islands, It's so beautiful You know, it's it's so beautiful the icon that people Oh, I'll tell you where I'm from. That's exactly where I'm from. That's that's that's what you do It's a it's a cool thing. And and I got to tell you, as you go you start to realize just how special culture is, I've been lucky enough, and see and visit all these people but that moment when we're my mom on her birthday, what's really cool about that a handful of people who will come and be part of her birthday, who are new to the family And when that moment happens, every single time, And the ones who are experiencing where it's my mom, she. She's such a beautiful dancer. You see it in the video? You look at these people for the first time, because they're so moved by that. And I love that about our culture. I love that about our Polynesian Yeah. Why? And Samoan, Tongan, Fijian. Maori. It's it's, Like I use the word moana. And in that moment, You really could. I feel like you carry that with you. You know, you, I think one of the first times I met you in person was at the time 100 events Yeah. And I there was a picture of, and people asked me, they said, like when people always ask you what is the rock like? And I said, it is the craziest thing, is exactly the way he is. He doesn't surprise you in his charm, his vibe. You are exactly the way you are. What I wanted to find out, For real? Yeah. For real. What I wanted what has made you into this human. What guides you as this human, And and the reason I think you're to speak to about this so much of the goodness you know, whether it's how they see themselves you know, as an American, but proudly as a black person You know, you and it's like, hey, hey, Yeah. So let's let's talk a little bit about the formative years of the Rock Dwayne Johnson, you talk about being It seems like Right. Your dad didn't You you had this yearning What do you think that was? The yearning part of it. Why did you want to be What was it about wrestling Well, a few things, and not only did I grow up in it, I loved wrestling, I love the characters of it, time, you know, wrestling back then, late I think, unique experience in that and they felt like it was real and they'd have these and they'd be on their television and they would talk down the lens they're going to do to their opponent this Saturday night at whatever I loved all that, and I had a front row seat and everybody in my family, and it's what they, And so I think the yearning of it. It started to happen for me when, to be honest, So we were living We were evicted when I was 13 And I remember in that moment I was with my mom and we came home and there was a padlock So you have a week to get out. And that was it and that was it. And I remember just her and I, She was crying. And, my dad was wrestling, And I remember then thinking, I never And what can I do to change it? What can I do? Like what so I can't do shit right? That's a tough place to be in Right. So, I, I remember at that time well, all the heroes in my life They're big, they're strong, I should and if I went to the gym, So from that moment, now, years later, I fell in love Right? I love playing football. My goals shifted to, well, I was at University of Miami, We were national champions, I mean, we were battling back, those hurricanes back then, did I think you were in Johannesburg You know, But, we were really balling. So, I shifted my goals. And then when that didn't happen And I remember thinking this, I need to close this chapter Really listen to my gut. And I want to turn my attention I think I'm going to be And I think I was born to do fascinating about you as a person to engage with internal doubts as humans we face. I saw You're in the gym and it was a great question. You know, someone saying to you, how do you deal with the criticism, you know, that you receive in your life? What what what I was intrigued by was who the criticism came to. And I'll tell you why. I'll tell you why. You are somebody who has, for a very long time created content that aims to entertain, uplift it, You've done that. We've seen you, whether it's, you know, it's good. You like bringing that light Yeah, yeah. And I over the past few weeks we're living in a world for anyone to exist or to do anything, and not find some sort of And I feel like you're the paragon You have Dwayne Johnson, I was chatting to Oprah about this You know, the fires in Maui, some of the most devastating fires Immediately, Dwayne Johnson, the Rock and Oprah come together and say, hey, We're and we're asking everyone to join us. Just do what we're doing in any way The greatest sense of empowerment when everything seems And we're calling it the People's Fund of Maui, is going to go into an account Oprah on the Rock are giving and they're calling for others And, I mean, you saw I thought I'd missed something. I don't know if this I don't know from your office because I thought I saw the initial call and I went, We all doing something. And then, you know, when you feel Yeah, like, oh, I was like, but for what? And people were like, And how dare you? And why would you? And I was like, ma'am, people have asked people to join Sure. When did this become a criticism And I'd love to know how you process Sure, sure. I woke up the next morning, what? What happened? Did did I miss Didn't wait. Did something I know, yeah, but. So it took me a couple of weeks And I felt like that moment was a pivotal moment for me Number one, the brass tacks of it fund, the People's Fund of Maui, And these are my people. These are my Polynesian people, Can I go Ohana? Yeah. Aina. a my grandparents, they're all buried in the islands, So it meant so much to me. And I know it meant That we were able to come together Over 8000 survivors, by the way. Wow, we're helping right now. It's really beautiful. But what's interesting and the backlash started to happen So I always feel like in moments not to get caught up in it. It's important just to pause. Let's be prudent. Let let's pause. let let me just wait and see and I felt like my gut said it's going to take a couple of weeks, I don't want to respond to it right Let's stay focused on the mission is to help the survivors right now who have nothing, and so let's continue But at the same time, I want to pay attention to this, it really tested my ability noise from criticism that was really and this noise. And at first, Okay, how dare you ask us money? And I thought the We. Whatever you can Great. A buck, seven bucks, so there was the the noise that started to feel like Then it started to feel like it was, it just started to feel really noisy. And I wanted to make sure And I was just waiting for, well, that is worthy of my attention? That really makes sense. And then, that's it. This is what I feel like God did. It took me weeks before I just had a moment one night, do, I was having a drink. Drinks often help clear my mind and clear And once all that left, And I saw and it was something I don't pay attention to these guys, and all this other bullshit that they're saying, And when I read you're one of us was the thing Went back to when I was in Hawaii. When I got evicted, we had nothing. I was a troubled kid. I mean, you know, arrested multiple times. I was always pissed that There's a difference between And I was pissed. I was always angry getting in fights, And the last thing I realized the last thing that I wanted to hear Especially if the dude who I liked and he already has money And a lot of times I've been there when you're You're in it. Yeah. And you're not necessarily vibrating, and you're in it. So I came out of that I got it. Now I understand. And you know what people ask for money I admire how you think. I admire on, on multiple levels who has witnessed You also strike me as somebody who doesn't wish to be a perpetuate You know, I see in you something, we got into trouble both of us raised for a large part of our lives and, and you, you see in somebody, you go like, this guys is trying to move He's trying to do things that there was a when you talked about politics you know, which and literally before you came you know, my team and I was saying we had a simple rule. And that rule was And the reason we believed in mostly for people's safety. We said no so that nobody gets intimidated And the other one was just for civil But let's talk as humans don't I voted like this. Now here's the conversation. Just have the conversation. You'll be shocked because we start with the label That's right. I look at your life and here's, that that always struck me was you You live in a country And then this poll came out 43 or 46% of the country would love the idea of Dwayne Johnson And I remember I mean, it either means you are a leader would be, that they like, we need somebody and lay the smackdown on everybody, I do. So let's talk through two things. the one is You said if people that people wanted me to do, Tell me why you said that or what you would hope to achieve And and then also tell me how you see Do you have an interesting view? Not the not political parties, with each other. Sure. well, a few things. I just want to go back for a second because you said something about, this was my interpretation you know, we could screw up. We fuck up at a time, and. Yeah, but we learn from it, and I Yeah, but I also do And this has not let ego judgment, or early anticipation shaped my ability to receive what is happening. Oh. Oh, it's not easy. No, man. It's it's not easy. And so many times in the past, either my growth or my ability to see I never looked at it like that. Thank you for bringing that up. It's going to help So, and I just want to touch on And I know the majority of people out I do, I agree, we want to be We want to be good. so that was an interesting poll and I was really moved by that. And it was really, blown away. And I was I was really honored. I was, I'll share. I'll just I'll share this a little bit with you at the end of the year, rather, in asking me if I was going to run Wow. You. It was a big deal. And it came out of the blue. Wow. And it was one after the other. And, they brought up that poll. They also brought up their own deep and data that would prove, should I ever decide to go down that would be a real contender. Yeah. And it was. It was all very surreal My goal has never been to be And in fact, Hey, yeah, yeah, so I was moved by that why I had given that response, Then, of course, I would consider it. and after that response, but then I really And this is the truth, which is why So I have three daughters, a lot of estrogen in my house, but I have a 22 year old daughter, and I have a five. Yeah. And the 22 year old daughter, Simone, we grew up together. And I also know what it's like to be And I was, as a pro wrestler, a year for years So I know what it's like to have that separation not be there for the pick ups, And I didn't want that. I don't want that for my little ones And so that was my one of my primary who ultimately were like, yeah, but the other ones But so with the response, I responded in that way, And I do feel that way, by the way, the people would want, then of course I would consider it. Wow, the people's champ. That's. I love the way your face lights up It happens every time. If I was playing a game of poker I try and put a picture because I would know I think what I, is that I think you have, in changed the way people perceive And I think it's beautiful. You know, for so long, a dad was considered a strong man, didn't Come on, chin And then here comes you know, the definition of manhood. And you have your painting your nails, You are fully in their world. You are a proud girl, dad. And you are raising And you see it in your eyes. How do you think they've shaped How do you think they've shaped what are you consciously for their perception of men Well, you just said it. Let's start because it's the anchoring thing their model of what a man will be. I'm their first man in their life. So I take that, with all the DNA not only so serious, but I also Now, let me just take you back The man who raised me, who was Right. His dad died when he was 13. Those holiday, the holidays that came a new boyfriend was in. And picture. Boyfriend My dad's 13. he grabbed a shovel, a big shovel. My dad did, and drew a line in the dirt and said, if you cross that line, The drunk asshole crossed the line. He knocked him out Your dad knocked him out. My dad knocked him out with a shovel Wow. 13. they're dirt poor. They live in Amherst, Nova Scotia. The cops come and the cops say, well, he's still unconscious, When he wakes up, 1 or 2 He's going to kill your son, So the cops recommendation to my You know She's. She looked at her son, my dad. His name was Wade, So 13. He's out on the streets. Now, the reason that's my dad's capacity for love. 13 you're gone. So that's the man that raised me, Come on, work through it. Right? Get up. I'm getting up. You're getting up. I can't go to the gym. You're going to the gym. You sit in the corner, you watch. And that's. That was how I grew up. You're coming with me It was always rough. It was tough. But his. That's his version of love. Okay, so now, years later, when And to these three I learned so much from my dad on work Yeah. Discipline. Respect is given when it's earned. Be proud of who you are. Be proud of your skin color But at the same time, not to be hugged, And so in that I turn to my daughters and it's, Hit the paint. Oh, well, how many colors What do you want to paint my nails. You wanna hit me in the balls? I close my eyes. I know it's coming. It's that game. I close your eyes, daddy. Okay, here we go, man. So yeah, man, I mean, I, We have a complicated relationship, shape me being a man. My dad helped shape me being a man, on what to do. And you know, the stuff that I missed and that I want I feel you have become a guiding light that You know, there's no denying that many young men in the world right now Yes. You know, and I think a lot of young men just told the world would give them and that would be the way And now that it isn't, they don't You know, or are we still allowed to be men? And it can be confusing with some of It's it's noisy, it's noisy. And I think somebody like you exist these young men in a really powerful you know, because it's not just with You're One of those is, is depression. There was a time in the industry. There was a time in the world hey, man, hands a moment in my life No, you couldn't be an action star and say and still be the top grossing That I feel like is one of the best I mean, I mean, this is and of course, and the best looking. Let's make sure we throw that in But we'd like you. That's that's you fought against and beaten speaking about the struggle when you spoke about that, was there a part of you Didn't even think about it? Didn't even look at it that way? I didn't think, well, Maybe there's a reputation Big, strong men. Strong men. it's that culture. How is it going to be received? I didn't really think about it. I just remember But I remember being in an interview or something, I started talking about it, and I certainly realized and this was probably years ago, how much it helped guys, how much it helped people. So, you know, I but also, Trevor, not knowing what I was going through. Yeah, I didn't know what depression There wasn't. Oh, this is depression, right? It's mental health. Yeah. People. People back then just thought They thought you were sad. they thought a lot of things. They thought maybe But you know what? They also a lot of people thought Yeah, but it's a it's a choice. You'll get through it. Wake up. It's a choice to be happy. So come on. Like buck up. Right. You got this move on. When a lot of times you just wake up And it's not that easy. You just don't turn it on And I also realized once I started to realize I didn't want to do anything, about things at first. It happened at University of Miami I came in, everything was great. I was on top, I get injured, complete I was done, I wasn't participating I wasn't going to class a first time You're isolated. And it all converged. I went through my Also, back And then when I got a divorce And then once I started to realize not only not only did it help me realize but then realize the power and how important that is. And now I can tell young men women, kids, students, older people, Hey, it's your superpower. It's okay. Talk about it, right? Be open if you're feeling blue, if you're feeling fucked up, Even if you don't know why. Because a lot of times, sure, Yeah, that this thing happened. Therefore I'm depressed. But a lot of times and the skies are gray. Yep. And you don't know what to do. And one of the most powerful things know you're not alone. Know that if you're experiencing it, there's a lot of other people it too and talk about it, And what do you do? And when that happens, I'm curious. So what I try and do is I track, The why are you open Yeah. So friends No no no because I didn't understand So before I was diagnosed with ADHD, I didn't even know I thought I struggled I didn't know until I read about it spend some time you know, therapists I didn't even know It was a byproduct of ADHD. I actually don't suffer I thought I did, so I speak about it I one you get rid of the stigma, I think there's something cool You know, there's something And so, for myself, what I do now is of what's happening If I wake up feeling blue, How long do I sleep for? What did I eat last night's, Did I not finish I just try and check. I just ask questions I'll be like, man, I don't feel like I'll be like, Do you even want other days And if it's yes, And I find if you just check in like I know now is trouble, then yeah, my motivation You know, I if I eat late, my sleep isn't good If I, if I'm not around my people, if I don't recharge, that's something And so I, I try and check in you. I want to go back to what you said Again, I would and what you can teach us Many people will experience divorce. You know again it's, it's Nobody wants to happen. But even when they can't you got divorced in that Your business partner? Yes. Your ex-wife is the rock from an individual Dwayne Johnson is everything apparel with under armor sexiest Man alive. Sexiest man Alive, of course. Of course I will throw more of these but but I'd love to know on on how are you able to be in a divorce with somebody? And I and I ask this for everyone and then still find a way to love enough to move forward. Because I'm sure Yes. What did you learn that to achieve everything I learned exactly that. What you just said, that We just have to be unattached And let's also be unattached the original goal wasn't divorce, And especially at that age for me, I transitioned out of wrestling, and I was very lucky and fortunate. I was on top Main Event but I want to expand, I want to grow with me. and then I thought, God, this is the biggest mistake Like. And so that was that. And going through a divorce our daughter at that time, who's going Who's another man? Eventually, Like there was all that shit what I realized was with Danny, my ex-wife, We're great friends. And, And as a force unto herself, She really is extremely, proud of is we realized early, Okay, we're going to get a divorce. This is real. This is happening. It's not what we signed up for. You know, is there a version of this as we move forward this business together? Can we continue to Is that possible? Are we fucking crazy? And the thought was, well, We have a beautiful daughter. We have an opportunity now post something not working out. Post a relationship and marriage but being an example for her and resolve something. And on the other side of it, what you may not be originally what It could be better. And so we realized that And when I said we went to work, it And I'm not talking about lawyers. We kept them off to the side. and we figured all that on our own. That's beautiful, that we figured it And then we went to them. But we brought in the experts, who are going to help us and we wound up doing and a lot of grinding because and you start to realize, about your partner, about the relationship, how you see everything, how you think you're but actually you're not. So, so that's what we did, and it wound up being, I'm so happy for you. Yeah. So there's a moment. I feel like it happens seminal, this is why I was born. This thing right now. Now I'm talking specifically So tell me a little bit. I heard the story, because I think it's phenomenal. And I have something very similar. Yeah. Which bonds us here is. So you went to a show and I'm Yeah. And you were there and he started performing, mic or something like that, And he didn't do that. Well. Right. He might still be your buddy. because he might be listening But he didn't do that well. And another one of your buddies Right. You're funny. And you got up there? So it was But yeah. Carry on. Okay. I can't wait to hear But you got up there Yeah. And there was something There could be something here. Right. Tapped into a light Behind your ribcage. Right. Tell me about that. So what actually happened in South Africa before democracy So you start with that. So the only people who could do comedy were people who didn't say anything about the government, Anyone of any color So you have this burgeoning industry that's never existed. In many ways. It was like the wrestling that your dad was a part of That's right. Is this ragtag affair of, you know, You just find a space, You try to get the locals to pop in You don't know how it's going to go. You don't know what it's going to be. You're to allow you to put on this motley Yes, and it's going to be real. Yeah, but I didn't know about That's I was living with my and they said to me one day, hey, comedy show. I was like, well, what? They were like, Come join us? I was like, all right, Yeah, I get to this place. It's actually a bar, you know, a little corner Johannesburg, And we're sitting there and it was so ragtag, they had to climb through a window It's like a little window There's no like it's Climbs onto this little platform, People start laughing. Does this thing comedian name Great guy. And then he's on stage. But the night was bad. Comedians have bad nights. You know what Sure, you know what it's like that I mean, you were doing it to hundreds, then thousands, then, Tens of thousands of people, you know what it's like You know what it's like It was also no the high. Yeah, yeah, yeah. First line So it wasn't working My cousin gets drunk. he says from this he's like, boo is terrible Everybody knows each other. The guy from stage goes, he's like, You know how hard we work. So he says, why don't you And my cousin goes, well, but Trevor can. I'm sober now. I'm like, I go, hey, I know nothing about this. I don't think the comedian you think you're so big, I said, I've said nothing, And then he Now it's pride. Now I'm like, Because of the friends. Yeah, I go, I get on stage I didn't, And I turned to my friends. I'm like, what am I going to And he said, about the Nigerian guy Just tell them that story. I was like, okay. And I got on stage and people were howling And it was it connected me to something that has taken me And it's that I grew up in a household with so much violence and yearned and enjoyed for nothing Do you know what I'm saying? Amen. Like when people come to a show and people will tell you stories, my dad had cancer and the only thing My family was going through this You know, there's there's a powerful thing The joy that you may not even have And so that's that's something And that's what I, I mean, we were we were doing your moves in the gym We had detention, we had detention, where, you would just get locked in. And I was like, It was like a gym, really, And we would put out all these mats and we'd be like, art Let's go. And everyone would get in there. And I'm talking like almost two, And we'd climb up on the railing. This was our cage match, and you'd grab someone you get, You get up on the drums. The rock bottom, baby. And you get in right underneath, and then you'd jump down But that's what I mean. Think about. Think about how far that was. Think about how far you were from me Think about how far I was from And yet, in that moment, And so I think that's what I love. That's why I'm having That's why I want to talk we've forgotten that the same thing that connects us can be used to connect us That's right. We can reach consensus. We can learn. Yeah. You know, you don't agree with your friends on everything, your family, you fight with them, And so that's that's literally like, you know, we can And I don't know anybody who does it You have a you have a way You never left the wrestling They still respect you. You know, you've always loved and the things that you do. You sport the same thing, you know, whether it's XFL, and that passion. You have that and that's and you know Look, I gotta thank you I love that. And you're the best The sexiest man alive. Come on. This is this is something We we always have to acknowledge. I make my family acknowledge it Everybody line up but I got to say that I heard that, Yeah, this version is even better, I expected to hear, because this idea and I always like to say one of our anchoring tenants that I do or anything that I do, I don't want to make them happy And I feel like if we're lucky enough we can influence a person to like me hey, come to us and do all I can and send you home happy, It truly is. Yeah. So before I let you go, that I want to ask all my guests. Because you meet You know, had I met you a few decades ago, And I met you, and another time, you'd be stepping Well, people said because of, like, And yet here you are. You know, the most popular You know, you didn't have to put It's true. No, no, no, no, I love it It's the hero's journey. It is the hero's journey. Yes. So what now? You know you are now you are still able to be an athlete And, you know, you know, you also are somebody who is powerful in, in Hollywood You know, you show that I mean, so the screen Actors Guild, you see your efforts in philanthropy, I mean, making drinks, but but what now? What's what is the thing that you are looking for, but in your life, like, you know, All right. This is this is the next step Oh, this is the next thing that I'm trying to achieve in myself The next thing is this, And I feel like along the way I got lucky and you hear, well, you work, the luckier you get. But I do feel that by I had just these angels Yeah. I just help And take care of me And, those angels, by the way, I could count them on one hand, have fingers left over, So I want to preface it And I'm a lucky guy and I'm lucky to. Had climbed a mountain well aware that at times And the thing I want to do now is not stay here in this place on this mountain, I want to build more mountain than professionally, spiritually, emotionally. Humanity is so important to me. And not only build more mountain, so we can all build new mountain, So it's all about And in that, that is the and again, no no no. But I know what you mean. It's build new mountain. It's growing. It's being open. And especially now when there is so Yeah, yeah, there's so much bullshit from the moment you wake up. Yes. Moment you go to bed, you open your phone, It's there's so much But man, there's also so much build new mountain. I love that build new mountain So we're I love it well, Dwayne Thank you for your time. Thank you. You know what's great? You will always have been You know what I love And I'll leave you with this. So me, the first guest I had on And the reason I always appreciate is because the firsts that most people are afraid to do, and that is trust You come here, you don't know how this could go, And I honestly, I appreciate I remember what happened with Kevin No one would be my first guest. They're like, who is this guy? We don't know what he is. South Africa. What part of Africa? The South. We put in the name for a reason. They were like, And I said, let's ask Kevin Hart. And they're like, oh, so let's just ask him. Yeah. Kevin responded instantly. Said, I'm in. He said, I'm in. And I remember And Kevin said, because I remember that nobody wanted to give a shot. I remember what it was like And he said, and if I can, it's funny I see why you guys get along so much. If I can be a part of building And so I'm glad that I now have what as both of my first. Thank you so much, brother. Well, thank you brother on not only an incredible career, I appreciate it, man. Thank you so much. Thank you brother. All right, let's I cost you some money here. Oh seven. What now with Trevor Noah is produced by Spotify Studios in partnership Fulwell 73 and Odyssey's The show is executive Ben Winston, Jenna Weiss produced by Emanuel Happiness, Music. Thank you so much for taking the time Thank you for listening. I hope you enjoy the conversation. I hope we left you with something and, hopefully we'll see you again Same time, same place, Next Thursday,