- Welcome back to NautiStyles and we're back with our (relaxed electronic music) Price point is under $100,000. - The cool thing is it (upbeat electronic music) - Today, we're gonna be touring this 1998 Carver 405 Aft Cabin Motoryacht. The reason we wanted to show you this one is because the price You can get in on a liveaboard or a starter yacht for under 100K and it's also in a really good condition, it's been really well-kept with less than 100 hours. Okay, we're gonna start - [Rico] Very large window on the aft. - This is a window to our aft cabin, aft cabin that we wanted to All right, what else do we have here? We have a transom shower, hot, cold water. - [Rico] Shore water - This looks like it was - [Rico] Yeah. - Okay, let's look at what this is. - [Rico] A massive storage box here. - [Victoria] Yeah, I don't - [Rico] That comes in pretty handy, having that on the transom. - [Rico] It's also your - You have your swim ladder right there. - [Rico] That's right, let's switch spots. - [Victoria] Okay. - [Rico] We got a water - And this here is what? Oh. That's your shore water In case, I mean back in the - Yeah, true, true that. Now these days, it's - Yep. our fuel fill right here, yep. - It's gas. The cool thing is it has brand new motors. - [Victoria] That's the reason Rico wanted to show it to you. - Generally he would shy but he thought this was a good option, especially for the price point. - Exactly. Just replacing those engines must have been the price of this boat. - [Rico] Pretty much, - Okay, so welcome to the cockpit. - [Rico] So technically, we because below us is the owner suite. - Exactly, so this is loose furniture. You guys can do whatever you want here. You can even do a build-in right here. You can do foldable chairs You can do like a lounge So there's a lot you It's a really good amount of space. For the size of the boat, it's definitely a lot of room here. Quick disclaimer, the dock that we are on actually doesn't have shore power, so we are running a generator. So at least we know our - [Rico] Yes. - But it is what you're that's the generator running right now just for us to be able while we're inside 'cause it's hot. - [Rico] We even have outlets over there. - Oh, you're right, right there. - Power outlets. - Yeah. So there's a full enclosure here, which you can of course but it is nice to have if it's raining. Also in the colder climates, You have these weather - [Rico] Pretty cool, that much for Florida but if this is really, really nice and actually this becomes - Exactly. Let's look at this quick - Yes. So we have a sink right here Ice maker, very cool and this? - Oh. - [Rico] And then there's something up on top here, it looks like. - Yeah, what is that? Wow, are you serious? That's a big storage. - [Victoria] How do you even get there? - [Rico] That is crazy, - [Victoria] You can - [Rico] Oh no, actually you can open this from the bench up there and - That's really cool. - And you still have this You could put a little basket or something or extra things if you needed to. It's a really good space. All right, let's go forward. - Sure. the bow real quick. - Okay, so we have rails everywhere. The rails right here are not very tall but you do have this But it's nice, it allows you if you have bigger hips to get I would say it's pretty safe. So there's bow cushions here. - Three. They're still in a decent get that reupholstered if There's a large openable hatch right here for our VIP cabin that - [Rico] So then we have a single anchor up here in front with a little cover here. There's the windlass in case the windlass has we have the two foot remote Search light all the way up on top here. Yeah, that's it. So let's go back into the shade. - [Rico] Yes, I'll follow you. - Summers in Florida, (dog barks) - Our dog friends are back. Our dog friend is not He is frustrated. - We're not even on his side. He was just as frustrated at the ducks and ducklings going by. - Going up. - Cool thing. - [Rico] We do have dual staircases up. - This is cool. - It's an interesting layout. If you guys have been you do know that we've spent and ours was also an aft So it kind of rings home. This is similar but different. - [Rico] It is, it is. So here, well the helm here is not all the way forward like Here, the helm is actually in Pretty cool because you have So docking-wise, this I can see absolutely everything, the whole sideline of the boat. The only difference is, which - Yeah, the layout was If you guys are interested in I'll just put it in description I'll put it right here so we don't have to refer back to it. To us when we get to of course we always compare it to because it was a similar size. - And a little bit of a different layout. - [Rico] So cool here is and then you have a bench You can step up a little bit. The visibility is really, really good and then what would you for how many people? - Five people? and it's kinda cool and comfy when you have, you can put your feet up. - Oh yeah. - Like this is a cool So I feel like it's very usable. You can easily sit with like eight people up on this flybridge. - [Rico] And everybody There are cupholders here. is rated for eight people (laughs) but it does fit eight people. - Okay, what do we have here? - Storage. Oh, this is huge. - It goes all the way through. - Oh, so this whole space right here. That's pretty massive. A lot of storage actually. - All right, should we do the helm? - Yes, let's do the helm. - [Rico] Back a step up, of course, as you guys can see. All this is enclosed. It was just taken out for us filming. - Yeah. a little bit more open and- - It was really hot. (laughs) So it does have a full enclosure that you can pop back in. - [Rico] To the helm, we have shift controls here. Yes, you are correct, these are separate. So we have a separate shifter and separate throttle controls. They are actually Upgraded chart plotter VHF radio, stereo over there. All our analog gauges for the engines and water temperature, Our hour meters, as you guys can see, 68 here, 68 over there. Brand new engines. Then we have our bilge pumps horn switch and navigation lights as well. Water indicator right here, and our helm wheel and of Very easy, manageable even for somebody coming in as a newbie. - And this is a one helm, right? This is your helm. - Okay, perfect. Real quick, I wanna take a second and thank you guys for Subscribe and do the Share arrow. It makes a huge difference. If you're interested in what's behind us, this yacht is for sale by - [Rico] That's right. - Which is Udo that you guys know, which also represents Fjords and if you're interested we do have a video of them that recently aired on the channel. I'll put it in the description (upbeat electronic music) All righty, let's check out the interior. So we have double doors. - [Rico] Oh, and the top goes up too. - Yeah. - You can open this up. So you can actually leave this, have the breeze coming in if you have some good weather. - It's not too hot and close - Yes. Oh, it's nice and tall. Welcome. Check this out. - Oh wow. This could be a starter yacht. - [Rico] This reminds me a - Yes, same couch, right? - Yeah, it looks pretty much - For those of you who we used to live for eight which was 47 feet overall extended platform but and it was a great, great We loved it and we had a - [Rico] Typical aft cabin layout. - This is why we wanted because aft cabin layouts - 100%. So we have windows right here. We're keeping these closed a little bit 'cause it's really, really hot outside. So helping the air conditioning it's really, really nice and bright in here if you open it up. Especially if you're on you can just open the shades and just beautiful views anywhere you are. As we know because we had the same one, you can open these up and have a little La-Z-Boy function going on, pretty cool. Right here, we have a So if you would like to have more space, you can get rid of it. Also you can put a high-low It's a nice use of space. So you can have dinner here, breakfast or if it's too hot outside Storage, let's start with the storage 'cause it's going to be Same here, storage. - Then- - Okay, let's see here. - What's behind the chair? - What is it? - [Rico] I know what was behind the chair. - [Victoria] Was it a TV? - [Rico] Originally, Now it looks like somebody and the TV is up on top here. But what I would do, I would this empty wall here instead - Yeah, actually it would be - [Rico] It would be a great spot. - Agreed. Should we go forward to the galley? - Yes. So we're going forward and two steps down. - [Rico] So I really, really it is a couple of steps down but you're completely connected. - Yes, it's nice to Something we didn't have Look, it's a great home office. I was talking about having hollow there but forgot that we have a table here, so technically you don't need it. So this is like a proper living room and this is your dining - [Rico] And you know there are still some - Right there. - Yeah, so all of this, it's really nice and bright - I know, right? A really good height. You could be really tall and Let's see, we have, what's here? Let's open this up for you. - [Rico] Oh, our breaker switch panel. Got the low voltage on the left and then we have the AC and then of course also our and our voltage indicator. Ship-shore switchovers as So yeah, everything right here. - We have some drawers Do you think there's storage in there? - I believe so. - Yep, we do have storage underneath here. Continue on. - [Victoria] You wanna - You want me to? - No. - It was a trick question. All right, the galley. I like how it's exposed so you feel very connected It's not a lot of countertop space but you do have this table right here. So if you really need some So let's see, we've got some Storage right here. A nice little cupboard here. Okay, let's see. - That is cool. So it kind of protects it from splashing. - [Rico] Yep, and you have You can put your ladle or - Yep, so it's a three-burner Of course, ooh. I've never used one of these. (chuckles) Of course, you can upgrade All the appliances would be easy to upgrade. - You do? - And this is our oven. So we actually have a There's still a drawer underneath. Storage right here underneath the sink. A pretty good size sink here. A bit more up here. Okay, this is a little deeper. This thing here is? - Which is a really important thing to have in a boat if it's gonna be sitting and you're not using it at times. So really, really important, especially in places like you wanna make sure that It's a good thing to have. It keeps the smells out and behind this is actually one of these - [Rico] Oh, the built-in coffee machine? - Yeah, are people gonna be Check it out. - Oh, I see. - That's a Black &amp; Decker. - Wow. - [Rico] So you can probably remove that and put a whatever, espresso maker, an Nespresso machine. - [Rico] Whatever in there. - It's a good little cupboard that looks like might have been upgraded. - [Rico] It looks like it - Yep, so it's a freezer and a fridge and you still have this space here. So technically if you really are cruising or need a little bit extra you could put some baskets here and actually extend this like a pantry if you need a little bit more space. - Yeah. - [Rico] Same actually - [Victoria] True. - If you pull up that blind. There's still a good - Yeah, totally. - [Rico] All right, - We have a two-cabin, two-head layout. So we're gonna go forward into our forward cabin. We can call it a VIP but there are only two I don't know, is this a queen-sized bed? Full? It's a full size bed? and it's a very strange shape. It's pretty tiny here on the foot end. - Yeah. towards the head end. So I guess up there, it's a queen size. Down here, it's a, I don't know, full? - Yeah, full size maybe, yeah. Two people could sleep here but definitely a very So I'm looking at this yacht as possibly like great for a couple, you know? This is your overflow cabin or just being able to have extra storage. - [Rico] Exactly, yeah. You rip out the whole mattress - Put a washer and dryer in here. - [Rico] Put a washer and dryer in here. You could do anything. Is there storage still underneath it? - Let's see, all right. - It looks like it. So first we have, oh, this I don't know if you can see that and then we have drawers here. Two drawers. - Large, then there's a Right here. - Oh yeah, actually it's deep. It goes all the way in there. - Okay. - [Rico] And then we still have this one. - Hanging locker. Oops, a hanging locker. - And we have an openable hatch that we saw on the exterior - [Rico] Yep. - So you can open that up to give it a little more cross-breeze - [Rico] I don't know. - Should I? - Ah-ha. - Yeah, nice. So that's nice and convenient. - [Rico] A little TV here, So if you wanna mount a TV on the wall, you can probably do that and - All right, should we go and - Let's do it. - [Rico] But first, let's - Oh, there's the head, we Okay. Two beds, two heads. - I did. Two cabins, two heads. There is a shower curtain that they've taken off 'cause I guess they're not using it that way. So they're probably using it For just people that and we have a sink. We have a little bit There's a trash can in there. There's a little medicine cabinet here and all the shelves as well. So look, when the curtain is here, all of this is dry and protected. - That makes sense. And your shower would be here. - Oh, okay. - [Rico] Is there anywhere to, or you just hold it in your hand, huh? - Maybe they had one and It's possible 'cause they All right, let's go check - [Rico] Okay. - Like to get into a yacht, it's pretty hard for this kind of money. So it's a nice option for a starter yacht or a yacht on a budget. Storage. More storage. Trust me, if you live in a A bit more. You will probably fill it up. - Look. Oh wow, this is a big cabinet. There's a bunch of stuff stored in here. Actually, it's a hanging locker. - And it has a- - A window. So the cool thing about this is you have a completely private - Bedroom. - It should be private, no? (laughs) Okay, check it out. - It is a walk-around bed. - You have these two cute on each side, which is nice to have. Ooh, (laughs) there is for basically your nightstand. You have a bit of space here. I mean personally, I'd get and things and just use the Yes, so this is a queen size bed. - [Rico] Yep. - Great amount of I would say 6'6&quot;. - Okay. So for most of us, it's gonna work. Sorry, you tall people. Big hanging locker. that's a big closet actually. - That's bigger than what we had. - Yeah. Look at that huge drawer right there and a bit more storage. There's a TV in here and some more. Yeah, I think it's a pretty good size. Oh wait, there's more. - There's more. - [Rico] This is a great You have more storage space. - Yeah, with like a - Yep, exactly. Four drawers right here. Yeah, you could totally live on this. - [Rico] So another cool thing is you have an openable - That is cool. with a mosquito screen, by the way. I'm looking through here, a mosquito screen is on You can open this up to even if you don't want to - This is very cool. - And the position of the bed, right? They made the best out of this cabin. - I agree. What's that do? Huh. - [Rico] I guess a little - There's like a little, it actually gets deeper, like this deep. - So I guess it's a bit of a There's lights here. - Okay, and we have an en suite. - Is it a wet head, or? How does it work? All right, check this out. - Yeah, is there- - There's a window there? - Yeah, there's a window. - [Rico] Oh, that continues - Yeah, so it's actually This is a good size, - [Rico] Nice walk-in shower. - It's at least a one It could even be a two-person shower. - [Rico] Your countertop Some storage. - Below and above. - [Rico] And these ones fold up I think. - Oh, look at these. That's great. Check it out. - [Rico] And then of course, - Oh, this just goes all the way around. - [Rico] Yeah. - And more storage right here. - Yeah, it's pretty sweet actually. It could totally work. Checking out the engine room? - Okay, let's do it. (upbeat guitar music) - Let's check out the engine room. I'm going to put this right here. All right. Thank you. There we go. It's gonna be a quick tour. There's not much to this engine room. We have a Fireboy Fire Our shafts right there of course. Battery charger over there. Brand new gasoline engines, Less than 100 hours on them, 68 I believe. Wow. Yeah, that's a fresh Then we got the Kohler which we had just running. So it is pretty warm in here. (laughs) Anyways, got the fuel tanks Lots of space here. Look how much empty space Unbelievable. That's crazy. Yep, another fuel tank Air conditioned units So we don't have any chillers here. Engine mounts over there. Exhaust system of course. Before we go out here, are our batteries right here in the center actually pretty conveniently located if you have to replace them. - All righty you guys, I Put it down in the comments Would it make a great liveaboard We really appreciate you guys helping us keep going and bringing you great content. Bye. (electronic beep) - [Rico] I should have I could've jumped in - Yes, okay, you wanna do? - No, this water.