Did you sleep well? Food, food, water, we need water. Food, I'm so hungry. Food, food. I need water. Do you want to eat? Tell me what information is recorded in the black box. I don't know. No, no, no. David, don't wear it. David, no, David, no, you can choose. You have the right to eat delicious meals and you can die at any time. No, David, no, David, the choice is yours. No, David, what are you doing, are you crazy? Decide. The power is in your hands. I hope you can hold on until those Chinese special forces arrive and report to Lord Shenjing. When we were searching the perimeter, we found a parachute on the hillside. We found a parachute on the hillside, but no body was found. So the pilot who flew the plane may still be there. If you are alive, Lao Luo , put down the knife. Don't shoot before you put it down. Brothers, we are Chinese soldiers, but it was you who killed Dong [ __ ]. Did you say it was you who killed him? You arrested the wrong person. He was not killed by us. We are not your old friends. What are the enemies doing when they come to our territory? Listen to me. We are passing by you on a mission. Have you misunderstood ? Did you misunderstand? Let me go back to the village. Let's go and take them back. Brother, listen to me. I don't have time to explain to you . Gonna go on a mission, put my men down, put down the weapons, put down the weapons, put down the weapons, hurry up, put down the weapons, put down the weapons, hurry up, put down the captain, put down my men, I can't lose any more brothers. Go, go, go, go. , come on, hurry up and wait where we are. The uncle's knife was stabbed with a Japanese weapon, not our dagger. If you don't believe it, you can make a comparison. Now that the cause of death has been found out, please return our weapon to us. Dad, you can't listen to his one-sided words. Aman returns the weapons to them. Abba, yes, Abba, you are going to fight the Japanese. We will go on a mission to avenge your uncle. Then we can't stand idly by. I will take my brothers and You go together. This is our own mission. We can't bring danger to you. Xiao Qi, Xiao Qi, received the reply. Xiao Qi, Xiao Qi, this kid is not going to be locked up. Maybe it is beyond the reception range. He went there on his own first. He went there first. He knew where to go. The closest place to the Japanese stronghold was the ammunition depot. No matter whether anyone was there or not, he would go and have a look. I think if we don't get beaten to death by the Japanese, sooner or later, we will be killed by this guy named Qi. He doesn't care about the Americans. Are you there? They must have an ambush to catch up with Qilian City. Then you will stay in this land forever to save your life. Xiaobai, take the high ground. Xiaoqi, it's okay. You understand. I need you to cooperate with me now. Can you trust me? Of course I trust you. I trust everyone in the special operations team. I just heard you calling Xiao Bai's name. Now is the best chance to prove whether you can succeed Xiao Bai. What is the fastest speed of Xiao Bai's two shots in two seconds ? , It's only two seconds, it's up to you, bragging boss, boss, boss, the target is not found, boss, I can't find any Chinese here. Expand the search scope. I told you that you must pass my level. Remember, don't say anything. Understand. This is a secret marking our position. We need to be together. We need to be together. Yes, we are soldiers. Remember? Don't say anything. We just lean behind the tree. What happened? Be careful. Go quickly. You can go anywhere. The boss has found the target. Let's go. Our people have withdrawn. Japanese reinforcements have arrived. We withdraw and fight back on the spot. The three of us can't stop us. If we can't stop, we have to stop Shangguan to buy time. The enemy is outflanking us on both wings. If they don't withdraw, we will make dumplings. Keep our distance and let the enemy stick. Only our superior officers can take people out. Quickly, report the situation here to Commander Shenjing of the theater immediately. Mr. Shenjing, I came here on your father's order to receive you and transfer you to the rear. Unexpectedly, I didn't expect that you were still a step too late. I can't let you go. Don't worry, Shenjing-kun. If we run away, the enemy will conduct a comprehensive search to find a way for them to chase us. I hope Shangguan can take them out. I'm really worried about my fate. It's dawn soon. Can we? It doesn't necessarily take ten minutes to run out. It will be daybreak in ten minutes. It will take five minutes to deal with the Japanese. Take out the remaining grenades. Understand Harada-kun, we must entangle them when daybreak comes. Divide me into two teams and attack. Let's go. Lao Luo, retreat, wait, the captain hasn't spoken yet. Lao Luo, prepare to retreat. Everyone, hurry up and go through this forest. We will be safe. Thank you, boss. I think it is safe to go this way. Let's go this way. What did we see? Let's move quickly. It's because you guys, my boss, are there to attract the Japanese. Captain, we are walking in a circle and we can't get out of the enemy's control range. Shangguan should have already left. We found a long gun and surrounded our people. Listen. Gunfire seems to be nearby. Looks like we're chasing in the right direction. Which part of it? Come on, I can't walk. Get up. We need to rest. We can't stop . Get up. Get up . We need to rest. We need to rest. Hurry up. Get up. Get up. , everyone, get up, we have to rush to the nearest position in front to be safe , get up and go, come on, let's go, keep going, grab what you want, grab what you want, grab one person and one piece. Are you really from the Second Preliminary Division of the National Revolutionary Army Expeditionary Force? Do you have any water? I'm pretty good. I was a defeated member of the West Yunnan garrison. I became a prisoner of war and was imprisoned by the Japanese in the Laohupo Prisoner of War Camp. I escaped two days ago while taking advantage of the chaos. I'm also a hero in defeating the Japanese. It's great if I eat something you broke. Captain, just now That shot probably alerted the Japanese. Can you guys still go? Where are you going to go home? We have been here for several days. Several brothers tried to run out of this forest and were killed by the Japanese. If you believe me, just follow me. It's up to you three to walk fast. If you follow me, brothers, and if you meet the Japanese, your captain won't treat us as human shields. He can run away by himself. Don't worry, bro. He won't even stay on his own. Take Captain Hong, who you left behind, with them. Our speed has slowed down. You have divided the weapons and ammunition again. What to do if you meet the Japanese? Bring them with you. It's your choice. How many people are there? About twenty or so. We all know the direction. Let's run. You can get out within five miles . Remember, go east where there are our people. Let's go, old squad leader. Don't rush to inform the nearest troops here to encircle and suppress them. It's a waste of time. Receive, receive, Lao Luo, Xiao Qi received in place. Slow down, slow down, be careful. Slow down, slow down, be careful. Be careful. Xina took off his clothes and prepared to suture the wound. Take off his clothes and perform a suture operation. Okay, you guys. The captain reports to the captain, my captain, they are still attracting Japanese troops so that I can bring these Americans back safely. Orders, 1st, 2nd, and 3rd platoons, set off immediately. Don't wait until reinforcements arrive. Copy up on both sides and stick up here. Don't be reluctant to fight. , brothers and sisters, retreat one by one. When the Japanese army comes, retreat quickly in this direction. Brother, go back and go home at three o'clock. Withdraw the captain. I have run out of bullets. I regret that this is the end of my first mission with you. Is it too late? It's too late to regret now. So many people are here to see us off. Boss, I'm here. Wherever you are, that's where I'll be. Let's go. Boss, hurry up, get in the car. Boss, hurry up, get in the car. Boss, say it quickly. How did you escape without me? With you, we are equally powerful on both sides. Without you, we just have the upper hand. All the Americans were safely delivered to the boss. Don't worry about the mission you gave me. Brothers fought for it with their lives. If I don't send those Americans back safely, how can I have the nerve to come and pick you up? You've done a great job, and I count on your credit. If you heard me, if you heard me, if you heard me, if you didn't, then count on your ability. The special operations team led by Grand Reporter Hong Zijie has successfully sneaked into the enemy's hinterland. Please give Zhang Jiangong an order immediately to order the assault company to continue the attack at all costs to buy time for the special operations team. Gu Robin, I have sent the special operations group to blow up the enemy. Why are you conducting air raids on the enemy's ammunition depot? This battle must be won. Only the Flying Tigers can complete it, not the four members of the special operations team. You must know that air strikes will accidentally damage my special operations team. Sorry, I can't trust them to call the plane back right away. The vehicle transporting ammunition will be arriving soon. Your department must be ready for loading. I know who is here to ask for the specific departure time and route. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. I'm here to save you. I'm here to save you. Hold on, hold on. Everyone is hidden. No one is allowed to come out without my order. Hold on. Hold on. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Hold on. Hold on. , two, three, four. Take this woman away and drag her to wherever. There is no need for women on this battlefield anymore. Come on, shouldn't women go to the battlefield? There are still men in this country. You have your battlefield, and I also have mine. The battlefield protection Shangguan received that the Japanese were not fooled. The regiment commander, the enemy is covered by artillery fire and cannot attack at all. Hurry up and ask the division commander for instructions. If you persist like this, the enemy will counterattack and the whole army will be wiped out. The division commander just called and ordered to wait for another hour. What are the special forces already? We are dispatched. Just hold on for a while. Hold on for a while. There will be a turn for the better. For such a big battle, bet your money on these four people. Stop talking nonsense and execute the order. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Go to the target. The Japanese on the second floor are surrounded by the enemy. How old is Luo Luo? Eighteenth company commander, I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid. I know you are a good company commander. Will we all die? You won't be able to do it within an hour. Xiaobai, company commander , there are people on the plane coming to save us. Company commander, this is the United States. The plane is here to watch the excitement. Even if there is no American help, this position must be taken down by me. This is the boss, Lao Luo. Xiaobai, I'm fine. Sean, pay attention to the location of the Japanese ammunition depot ahead. Check the weapons and prepare to fire. Edward, Edward, you Are you okay, Sean? We have to return. We can't end up in enemy territory. Absolutely not. Sir, Boss Shangguan has entered the hole. Boss Luo has entered the hole. The five-minute timer is not allowed to start. The three o'clock direction for catching people is Chinese. What do you want? Go out and pass my level first. I said you want to go out and pass my level. Five minutes after I enter the cave, you must evacuate regardless of life or death. Understand, evacuate, evacuate. Then you will stay in this land forever. Didn't you hear my retreat? Don't you want to save him? Five minutes after he enters, no matter life or death, we must retreat. I don't care. Be careful. Get out. If you think I want to retreat, then let's go together. This is an order. This is an order. It's an order . Do you know? It's an order. Do you know? It's an order. Do you know? Retreat. Listening to this movement, the Japanese's ammunition should be at the bottom. The special forces team has succeeded. Send my order. Let the brothers brace themselves and prepare for the last counterattack. Take the position for me. Charge, charge. Xiaobai, Xiaobai, what are you doing? Let 's go back now. It's no use. I want to pick up the captain's body. You guys go away. Do you know what he will say to you if the boss is alive if you do this? You are a soldier. If I'm not here, have you forgotten all my previous orders? Well, well, well. We can do things that Americans can't do for them, and we can do it beautifully.