15 Most Terrifying planets and where to find Hi, we gathered up some of the most unusual Check them out! 15) Slasher Planet In this image, the nightmare world of HD 189733 human eye, this far-off planet looks bright with the friendly skies of Earth would be is deadly. Its winds blow up to 5,400 mph whipping all would-be travelers in a sickening in the rain on this planet is more than an cuts. This scorching alien world possibly The cobalt blue color comes not from the reflection a hazy, blow-torched atmosphere containing In its atmosphere, there are a lot of silicates. nearby star, they evaporate and produce gas precipitations. with a cascade of blue drops of glass. slasher planet. 14) TrES-2b This is an alien world as big as Jupiter, ammonia clouds, reflecting more than a third - it is a dark, gloomy world, darker than only glimmer that indicates its presence is of an electric stove: the effect of the scorching kilometers away. the light that floods it, making it blacker reflective than a brushstroke of black acrylic What astronomers think makes it so dark could they do not yet have clear ideas. However, at least: it's hot enough to emit a faint TrES-2b orbits its star in synchronous rotation, the same face towards it. 13) 55 Cancri E Cancri E, twice the size of the Earth but that make it one of the densest exoplanets 55 Cancri e is the closest super-Earth to detailed observations of the surface and atmospheric This planet is so close to its host star that away by escape and evaporation processes due it seems that 55 Cancri e managed to keep is not yet clear how this could have happened. ' diamond planet ', since models based on to speculate that its internal composition Turns out carbon actually exists, but studies the atmosphere. 12) PSR B1257+12 Have you ever heard about pulsars? are about the size of a large city but contain together, a gravitational wave propagates deformation caused by such a wave! Well, this planet, PSR B1257+12 b, along with and creepiest to be discovered as they orbit That's exactly what makes it so unusual. to complete one orbit of its star: imagine so! How weird is that? 11) Hd 189733b close orbit around a very active dwarf star. of over 900 degrees and for this reason, it partially dissolve and create long trails It is actually one of the most extreme exoplanets than that of Jupiter, the planet is very close completing a circle around it in just 2.2 planet's atmosphere to touch temperatures is defined as a hot deadly Jupiter. 10) KEPLER-70b exoplanet smaller than the Earth, and it has Kelvin, probably the hottest known surface precise temperature is unknown, it is predicted extreme is that? 9) WASP 12 b Wasp-12b is another extremely dark planet. Hubble Space Telescope, an international research light the exoplanet reflects. for a very low albedo value. that it prevents the formation of clouds and power, are found in ionized form. enough that it can break apart hydrogen molecules atmosphere to behave more like the atmosphere that probably determines the low albedo of 8) GLIESE 436-b Astronomers think this planet hosts a large as &quot;Ice-x&quot; on top of a rocky core. But this found on this planet. This ice substance can -- we're talking so hot, it could literally Just so you understand, if you managed to would literally melt. So, how come water is still solid at these This is because of the immense gravity of This strong gravity compresses the trace amounts it from reverting back to its liquid form. 7) VENUS Despite being in our solar system, Venus is It is the second planet from the Sun and has that its surface is much hotter than that Volcanic eruptions are always present on Venus. but of sulfuric acid which condenses and rains Hey, if you are still here, it means you are subscribe now and press the bell notification? 6) OGLE-2005-BLG-390L b This planet's name is very hard to spell, about it. It is likely the coolest planet ever discovered! It orbits around a very cool star, a red dwarf, degrees! thousandth of the heat that the Sun would It could be an icy planet, a frozen analog 5) 51 Pegasi b discovered. theories were not compatible with a giant an anomaly. This was what made it so strange. However, since then, numerous others have and Tau Bootis systems, and astronomers have possibility of orbital migrations. but today it is believed to be a gas giant. without being torn off by its host star's rotation with its own star, that is, it always 4) COROT-7b CoRoT-7b is the first extrasolar planet that This was a discovery for the search for life for some signatures of alien life, we better And COROT 7b had some familiar features, thus and we are not just a bug in the universe! CoRoT-7b orbits its star every 0.85 days at It is so close to its star that its surface temperature is CoRoT-7b's radius was determined to be 6,600 its mass was initially found to be at most that are larger than Earth but are not gas 3) COROT-3b It is an amazing planet, just under twice Its temperature is so high that it is probably it so special again is its mass. far have a mass comparable to that of the Venus, Mars, and Mercury. The terrestrial identify. Until now, most of the methods used of the planet: the more massive it is, the With temperatures towards the core of the makes a swim in the center of an active volcano Moreover, an enormous envelope of hydrogen, This acts like a greenhouse, and the planet That's almost 5,000 degrees hotter than you'd fry long before you even got close Unfortunately, or luckily? this amazing world 1) OTS 44 Astronomers say OTS 44 could be both a free-floating planet (170 pc) in the constellation Chamaeleon. substellar objects, with approximately 11.5 1.1% that of the Sun. Its radius is not very that of the Sun. able to say if OTS 44 is a rogue planet or Further studies will surely break this degeneracy, features of this mysterious object. This video ends here! What's your favorite Let us know in the comment below! to share it, and I'll see you next time on