Did you know your beloved pepper plants gardening, everyone told me that peppers no chance of frost. So every single garden and then start this slow excruciating video, I'm gonna show you two steps that matter where you live so that you can grow year after year without ever having to start in colder climates, but then I moved to the power of pepper plants. In fact, the four years in the garden and that opened different breed of plant. So when I moved Illinois, I brought my new knowledge of I could do a lot more with my peppers summer. So all that to say, if you live you don't even need to do a thing to survive for years in the garden and you possible. I've gone back to client's peppers and they're still there and thriving. end of the season and they will come and you'll have a nonstop supply of mild climate and you don't have any frost But if you do have frost, then you wanna with simply just digging around the plant, it from the garden. Now you don't want look at your calendar and see when frost maybe two or so weeks before your first you can literally do this the night before frost has arrived or it's probably going simply removing your pepper from the garden, going to repot it. So all you need for nice container, and some great organic it. So we are going to have two options some way to grow plants outdoors through greenhouse or a cold frame or a low where you can protect plants from frost going to be option one. Me personally, I two, which is bringing these pepper plants essentially means they're going to hibernate. just going to be existing in the soil back out when things warm up at the beginning you can either grow these undercover choose to grow them inside, take it from rinse the roots. Now you're going to find can just up pot this, put it in a container, there's some stuff in here you might not girls and boy are they mad at me every And they definitely let me know it. So three daughters, I am going to rinse the got teenagers at home, you should probably rinse these roots completely off, making I bring it in to my teenage infested home. roots a little trim. I was able to get need all this root, especially for the be making fruit for a while. So make sure they fit nicely into the pot. Man, she had some nice roots, didn't she? trimmed the roots, they're ready to go of the plant. So I am using a gardenery growing outside but also for coming inside. a window. I'm going to be keeping my be perfect. I'm just going to literally garage. So I'm making sure these I'm gonna put in some nice we hope, and just making sure this plant And like I said, there's two options much stay the way that is because you're cover in a cold frame, in a greenhouse companies, I would love one. greenhouse, so she is just going to bring we've got a little bit more pruning to do. not just with peppers, but all kinds of eat from the garden every single day same. I got a free resource to show you -round right below this video. You can you subscribe to my channel. Please subscribe that, it tells the people in charge here So you could also like it and maybe share The bottom now it's time to prune the gonna be hard, but we are actually gonna get it down pretty much to nothing because not really doing any work, you know, like to make stuff You know I'm saying we're not, you know, writing books in our sleep. this plant, we want to tell it, you really long nap, a long winter's nap. literally cutting off pretty much the entire only leaving a Y, like a Y shape so that We're gonna leave these major stems, but this feel sad, feels scary, feels brutal? point that you're literally killing your anyway, okay? It was gonna die anyway. yard, they die anyway, so why not try maybe you do this, maybe you do it with see if it works. And, you know, see if the winter and then come back and maybe and cutting, cleaning and cutting and I'm main branches. Now a huge mistake I made tried this. Like I said, I lived in wanted to have it in Chicago. And so I and producing in my window sill in Chicago the experiment did not go well, right? feeling the need to be productive because branches were still on there, everything needed to be growing, but it was freezing Chicago. And so the plant died a very die quickly with frost, it died over months. right? Do you want to go indoors, let it and let it try to produce a little bit have decided I don't do that anymore. I don't ask anything from it, just a total So this isn't my friend. I mean, is this with this or what? I mean, I think everyone may not look like much now, but this is summer peppers, springtime peppers. This pepper seed in February and pray to God means that these plants will be ready to early as the frost is gone next year. So about how to make your peppers last comments, we'll do a follow -up video. happens. But I want to see your peppers other channels and show us what you're go for this challenge or not. Whenever You know I will be sure to like it. your peppers forever. It's the