Closing of business for today I finished work early today, so I cleaned the sink.I'd like to take care of the troublesome things first and start enjoying a nice evening drink.Thank you for your hard work today! Akahoshi is delicious today as well.It was raining today so I gave up on shopping, but I think I can make do with what I have at home.The tops of green onions sometimes have mud in them, so wash them thoroughly . I'm going to cut it into pieces.I'm going to drain it.I'm going to make some green onion ajillo that I saw on TV and thought looked delicious.Oh , there aren't enough green onions at all.It's definitely something that would go well with alcohol.It 's longer than I expected. Cut it up.Pour plenty of olive oil on it and prepare for the main dish.I found a way to use the leftover dangmyeon at the supermarket.Unfortunately , I don't have any beef, so I'll use pork.It all seems like a lot, but this is actually quite a bit. I don't like it if I don't have it, so I use it all. I bought some bell peppers because they were cheap the other day. I have half an onion left. I heard that if you cut the lucky bell peppers from the inside, they won't taste bitter, so I've been doing that ever since. Today, I'm going to make bulgogi dangmyeon with the ingredients I have on hand. I want to make some.When I was shopping at the supermarket the other day, I saw something called bulgogi dangmyeon, and I remembered that there was some danmyeon left at home, so I decided to make it today.Bulgogi goes well with alcohol, and I also like dangmyeon, so I wanted something delicious. It looks like it's going to be done. Squeeze out the garlic and fry it in sesame oil. In the meantime, finish the green onion. The only seasoning seems to be white dashi stock. It's super easy and helpful. Stir-fry the green onion so that it doesn't mix with the meat. It's a nice touch of autumn. I wore long sleeves because I wanted to feel it, but it was really hot lol - Liquor, soy sauce, sugar, gochujang, garlic, sesame oil danmyeon was boiled, it was ready to go.I stir-fried it while mixing it with the sauce.It ended up being pretty hot. Would the frying pan I used be better? To finish , add sesame oil and sprinkle with sesame seeds and it's done! Take out the chilled beer and start doing it right away! I'm glad I was able to do it surprisingly quickly this time, it's cold! Both look delicious so I'm not sure, but I'd like to start with green onions . At first, I was surprised by the unfamiliar taste of olive oil and white soup stock, but the green onions stir-fried in plenty of oil are sweet and the Japanese seasoning is unlike anything I've ever experienced before, so it 's really delicious.I have a feeling this will become a regular member. The garlic is so steamy that you can't go wrong with it. I also try the green onion jeobulgogi, which makes my chopsticks go further and further. The familiar bulgogi and the unfamiliar dangmyeon are a surprising couple. It's a new sensation with the addition of dangmyeon, but the dangmyeon is filling, making the Japchae delicious. It tastes a lot different from the bulgogi, but the strong flavor of the bulgogi is the best.It 's a bit of a shame that it's not beef, but the pork is also delicious.I think I'll really get addicted to it... It's super delicious, and if you just have green onion bulgogi, you'll want rice too. It 's an extra-thick version of Japchae, so you can have it all by itself as a snack.I love Japchae, so I can't resist pairing it with Dangmyeon.I was hungry, so I ate it without thinking.I don't know how many servings there are because I don't pay attention to the portion size each time. It's going so well that I don't have to worry about it lol. Autumn has arrived, which brings early appetite. Beer is also sold out. Autumn is my favorite season, so I want it to come soon. The scent of sesame oil is fragrant. Today, I'm using sesame oil. Sesame oil plays an important role.I prepare to add more drinks.I forgot to change the gas, so I added more gas than usual.It 's unusual for me to mix it first.I've been drinking a lot lately. I'm addicted to balls and want to go for a highball right away.The smell of Baskar is nice.It goes perfectly with today's dish.Actually , Baskar goes well with almost anything lol.I also put plenty of gochujang in it, so it has a slightly tangy, sweet and salty taste. But I can't stop using my chopsticks.It was finished quickly, but it also finished quickly.I quickly moved the empty hot plate to the sink.Then I concentrated on the food on the small plate.I put all the danmyeon in it, but as expected. It seems like there wasn't much of it. It was crispy cold and delicious. Today's meal was nothing short of a one-plate dish where you can get both vegetables and meat at the same time. I was hooked on bulgogi for a while, but it was nice to be able to make it for the first time in a while. I forgot about the green onions and got hooked. I'm going to eat it on garlic rusk. There 's no way that olive oil and rusk don't go well together. Even though I finished eating it, I felt unsatisfied and found some leftover taiyaki rummaging through the freezer. I defrosted it in the microwave. And in the meantime, I took an ice cream break lol. The chocolate crunchy giant corn wasn't as crispy as it was, but it was a little moist. Once it's defrosted, I'll finish it off in the air fryer. In the meantime, I'll add some drinks. It's an ice cream that goes well with a highball. The chocolate is surprisingly not too strong, so it's suitable for adults. Maybe I want to wait for the taiyaki to cool down a bit, because it 's crispier and tastier when it's cold! This is my new favorite taiyaki, and even though it's packed with red bean paste, it's delicious without being boring! Again , I threw away the package without checking the name ... I always buy by looking for the red package.The crispiness and the generous amount of red bean paste are the reasons why I end up buying it in the frozen section.Now I'm rummaging through the pantry and doing a little washing up. I took a break for a while, but it looks like I can still eat it, so I want to keep it in a safe place and eat the Hachioji ramen that has passed its expiration date.I feel like I'm going to be hungry todayI have nothing left . I'm also going to grill some sausages.We'll start with beer again.It 's a classic that's consistently delicious today.I open the lid and pour it in.For some reason, I've been forgetting to put in the hot water lately.LOL It's about time for the sausages.Let 's start with the sausages. Itadakimasu has something crunchy in it.When I checked, it contained Gyoja garlic from Hokkaido.I came here and Negijo is delicious. I forgot to measure the time for the cup noodles. I'll loosen them up and see how they look. I 'll leave the ramen for a little longer. It's a little tangy and delicious, and the skin is thin and crispy. It looks like it's about to get good, so I finish the ramen. I'm going to eat Hachioji ramen after a long time.I'm really happy.First , I'm going to enjoy the soup.I finally got to the noodles.These thin noodles are the best.The sweet taste of onions and the rich soy sauce soup are irresistible.I had dangmyeon today, so I don't think I need to finish it. That's what I thought, but the Hachioji ramen was the perfect way to end the meal.Today 's food is not in season or anything, but my appetite has started getting ready for fall before my fashion.I feel like going to the delicious food market at the department store. ~ These thin noodles are really delicious. To be honest, I'm not satisfied with this chashu and it's so flimsy that I think it's just part of the soup stock. I want to drink this soup and beer for the rest of my life. Today, I had sweets and ramen, and my stomach was full. It was a very satisfying day. Thank you for staying with us till the end today.