Peace be upon you from the United Arab Emirates. This is one of the richest also with two of the wealthiest Dubai and Abu Dhabi. We're starting the trip in Abu Dhabi, famous for one of the most beautiful Wow. As the name suggests, the UAE is formed by seven in total. What's the most important Emirate? I'd say the capital and the richest. - They all are. That's a political answer. - They all are important - Abu Dhabi. A lot of people think it's Dubai. But, no, Dubai is the neighbor, It's the most famous, and also it's the richest one. - Dubai? - Abu Dhabi? - Okay, just making sure. And we quickly learned [music] The Emirate of Abu Dhabi while the city of Abu Dhabi is located almost on the geographical [music] As we were in Qatar we figured it would be nice of this part of the world. And why not, right? It's an hour-long flight, We came directly to Abu Dhabi Prices are cheaper. It's easier and more affordable in between Doha and Dubai. And from here to Dubai, That's what we're gonna do later. In this video, we're going to discover and what it looks like today. The very first construction over here. You know what? - You made a mistake. - [laughs] No. - Okay, what was the mistake then? - I didn't make it, - Okay, we should have planned in each city. Because there's a lot to see, both in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. We already know that because we have - Yeah. At least it's a good excuse to come back. We're staying close So for this trip, I see people in bikinis here. ...with one important exception. So beautiful. Get ready to spend a day a modern city with 1.5 million people, surrounded by desert. We are now at the most famous it's called, just like in Doha, and it is huge. You know, it's a huge park 8 kilometers long. The famous area is actually We're going to save that But right now, I just wanted to come here [music] Very interesting, public beach, right? No need to pay. And it doesn't look like - Oh, yeah, you have to put - Well, something on, I see people in bikinis here. - Yeah, not quite a Brazil bikini, but yes. We're here during winter You could comfortably go to the beach But during summer, will be amazing. - It'll be hot. It will be 100 degrees - Still, let's go check it out. Wow, this is so cool. Look at this, how thoughtful. Special access for seniors, The walkway goes Look at this. We can comfortably without worrying You could go kayak. Look at the prices. And the water is so inviting as well. Look at this. This beautiful [music] It is so perfect. It's warm. We should have planned A lot of the Corniche here is man-made. I thought it was just because they wanted but actually, not really. Reading over there, that there are a lot And even this island here, they were built exactly [music] See? Just like in Japan, no cars... But because the light is red, - I wouldn't, I would cross. - Okay, now that it's green, let's go. And another thing I noticed, drivers are very respectful If they see that you're waiting It doesn't matter Look at this, So many mosques all over. And to go in, And it's right in the middle Look at this, busy street, Nobody takes anything. - Okay, Renata. What are those two items? - I'd say religious objects. - [laughs] - No prize for you. - Okay, so what are they? Look closely at the left one. I'm thinking that's a teapot. Number two on the right, - Ah, it looks like, yeah. - Why doesn't the audience Renata or Gordon? Okay, Renata, - I still think - The one on the left, The one on the right, - Makes sense, but an incense burner After a 15- to 20-minute walk we arrived at this beautiful square. Look at this, how nice. There's a mosque over there, and there is a historic fort. That's what we'll try to visit. Most forts and fortresses are built by the water to protect As we'll soon learn, to protect their most We're about to visit Qasr Al-Hosn. Not sure this is how but this is a very important It was the first stone building Hello, is it possible to visit? - Yeah. the name of the place here? - Qasr Al-Hosn Qasr means palace or castle. - Ah, okay. That watchtower was the very first It's from 1761. And it was built exactly to protect They had fresh water here. And then the fortress Wow, the original gates There's a legend that the people to this place here And look at that, That's the meaning of this expression, - I told you, I'm right. - Oh, yeah. - A cup with a teapot. - Yeah. Wow, look at their map - Right here. - Where we are? - Do they have the Americas - Yeah, they did, look at that. There's a small museum and it's very nice for you This area has been inhabited but the city of Abu Dhabi, was officially founded in 1793. So when this place here by the end of the 18th century, it became also the permanent house This was the room of Abu Dhabi sheikhs. She is considered one in Abu Dhabi's history. - Look at who had teapots? Wow, how interesting. Look at how this used to be. look at it now. [music] Again, just stopped for me to cross. And this in main boulevards, just keep driving. It's very nice. Do you see that? That's a camel. Yeah. [laughs] - Never seen a camel before? - I've never seen a sign [laughs] There's a falcon, - They're animals of the desert. - World Trade Center. And what's that? - Ah, you're so smart. No, I'm just guessing. - Yes, you are. - Is it the day that I'm gonna be right? [music] This is a little different. - Good prices for a sushi. Wow, look at their infused water here. Look at this, how beautiful. We just came to the grocery store and we left with all this food. Everything looks so good I got this manakish. It's a dish that I tried in Qatar. I loved it, Mmm, cheese manakish. It's so good. But the cheese is different, Still delicious. Good? Happy? - Look. Oh, it reminds me of Rio. Now we're going to visit here in Abu Dhabi, the one that you must go - Where are you? - Abu Dhabi. [music] Oh, my goodness. - Thank you. Bye-bye. Thank you. - Wow, this is one Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque. It is amazing. We came here by Uber so we wouldn't know how convenient It was like US$ 14. It's kind of far, actually, - But entrance is free. - And entrance is free, - Take the Uber, Spend your time - Now here is something interesting You think you need to walk no, no, no, it's the other way around. [laughs] That's the entrance. If you don't register this is where you come. You can just walk in, - With passport Got it? - Oh, wow. I thought it was just a tunnel. This is the dress code here, If you don't come ready, you have to buy here at the shops. Price is starting at AED 45 and AED 50 for men's clothing. Yeah, men pay more here. [music] Oh, wow. They had construction workers This mosque was the vision He wanted to create for all cultures Wow, wow, wow! I was just seeing As you come in, One of the largest and most Here it explains that 31,000 people And the ground is decorated with flowers This is believed to be the largest You cannot walk that way, And from here, you just admire. That main dome over there, it's all decorated with verses 1,096 columns here Look at this clock, Six petals, and they indicate This is the main prayer hall. This is the world's largest carpet. More than 1,200 artisans and it took them two years. [music] It's interesting you see &quot;photos stop&quot; over here. But actually, you can take they were not very rigid. I don't know if it's prettier So beautiful. I am so happy we came because you got and extremely and there is a lot to see. We went for a walk during the day, and then another walk at night. It was amazing. A lot to see inside, out, Now come dressed accordingly because I was used where you can just borrow but not here. [laughs] Here if you don't have, Actually, I heard but with the pandemic, So now that we're at a mall, - Oh, you need to eat, - Okay, you're telling me - I could eat. But since you dragged - Oh. - Oh, from Brazil! - Yeah. I don't know if you watched - Yes, you won. You won. Thank you so much. What did we get here? - A shawarma, didn't we? Some vegetables, some fries. - Middle Eastern food. - And a little zest. - Mmm, peanut. - Peanut? Wow! Oh, my God, how big is that? - Mmm. As big as it should be, baby. It's delicious. Wow, wow. We got one plate here to share. Look at how many pieces, It's a lot for two people, - Mm-hmm. - The price was AED 64. - Including two drinks. Close to the mosque, there's a memorial where you have this amazing view. It was from there that Gordon from the beginning of the video. And at night, it's also worth it close to the World Trade Center. Everything is lit