Last month, I invited 32,000 game And what's more, those games had So I wanted people to make games about I wanted people to make games about absolutely And I wanted people to make games about changing size - games about growing, and As always, the incredible GMTK You put together a whopping 7,600 it - another recording-breaking And so, just like every year, I got people to rate and rank all of the games - leaving And boy, there were some Beautiful, imaginative, creative, But - I have to gonna be picky. So these are the 20 that really stood out to me. 20 super smart games about Let's take a look. Conventional design wisdom suggests that you shouldn't use a full-on physics system or else you'll end up with something But then there's Little Slime Blows Up. Here, the devs lean in to the So this soft-body speedrunner who can suddenly expand to double This motion launches you off the ground - making for a springy, bouncy jump that But, then, you realise you can also use your And then, it becomes clear than you expand, and get stuck in the gap - useful for bypassing some of Bringing to mind Jelly Car Little Slime Blows Up is a cute We always see a few grid-based puzzlers in First up is Nested. This is a really clever game So in each level we start as a big pink doll. But hit a button and the top will pop off, You can now move that one around independently. Perhaps go off and hit a button, get back in the pink doll's belly, or - hit the button again to reveal This nested, fractal design sets up a number of simple conundrums about getting the And sometimes having the right There's nothing too taxing here - but you could imagine this game being expanded to Lovely stuff. The other grid-driven puzzle game I So we have this red balloon dude. And we can use the pump to increase his size until Later levels will teach you that the level tiles in the way, so you can use Until that bites you in the butt, of course. Time for a rethink! More ideas are introduced in each stage, like blocks that must not be There are new rules - like, what happens same time? And later you'll have an Thanks to some smart puzzle and overall sharp presentation, Next on the docket is Picture Perfect. So this is a cozy game about forced perspective. You know - that fun optical illusion where and another far away, in order So by fiddling with the zoom, the camera we can make someone pinch the Washington monument. Or fit inside the Gateway Arch. It's a fun little challenge, made twenty times And then you hit the final scene and collection of images - but it was a road trip. A father and daughter traveling across And that's just incredibly sweet. Picture Perfect takes the vibe of cozy and crushes them down into Now, speaking of photography, here's Shutterbug. This is a game about snapping photos of the insects in a grove - by using your So you can move the window around to to make the shot smaller - or swap between In order to challenge you on this, the like take a photo of a bee but without Or take a landscape shot of It's a simple game - but it's a good time Speaking of which... There were so many games about Like, so so many. Yes, you're all very clever! But lemme pick my favourite: Windowframe. In this one, the game takes windows - including some that you can resize. So maybe we can stretch out this Or inch this window around a big red obstacle. Then we hit windows that actually can use this window to shrink down Later we get moveable windows, clever windows that move alongside Nothing will give you trouble, and - I'll be honest - without the floating But the simple design, easy controls, and clever I wasn't surprised to see games But I was taken aback by Sucky Safari. This game - about a cute vacuum cleaner on mass in order to grow bigger - so But this time there's a twist. You see: you can easily suck But larger critters like geese will So what do you do? Well, you spit those so you can safely suck them up. What on earth am I saying Uh, anyway - when you've got enough stuff in your belly you can choose to swallow Now you're using ducks to pelt penguins Oh - but watch out! Angry animals can damage Watch that heath bar! This is, as you can hopefully But it also puts a tactical spin on Katamari that And that was a really nice surprise. It's Pizza Time! Which means This one is about rolling out a pizza base in different directions in order It's just that the ingredients from mushrooms and olives to, well, fridges, PCs, cars, biplanes, sky scrapers, This game has no chill. Zero chill. It is chill free. The scale expands so fast it's utterly comical. And to keep up you'll have around the desk as you practically Always remember that you only have a couple so make them smile, make them laugh, and no chance to even think about Next up: PlankTown. This one is about building a plankton village A village, I should add, that includes All to protect your plankton people So, yeah, it's a Vampire Survivors like - a enemies, leaving you free to waltz In this case, upgrades are literally building and while the game is pretty generous you like - including entire houses at have to stop and rebuild to make everything fit. And that happens a lot because this It's not pick one of these things and shove it on your building - it's take all And so within the space of a few lumbering, weaponised shanty town Hitting them so hard they fly It's fun, frantic, and a good don't worry about making it fair on the enemy. Just give the player a good time. Alright. Lemme show you My Shadows Are Bright. This is a game about a valiant knight, Well, that's the dream at least. It's actually just some blocks, action figures, and other toys being placed in front of a But you can then swap perspective, to see those familiar objects interpreted That means you must flip back rearranging the objects to The scale bit comes from the fact that as their shadows gets bigger - making it So you'll need to think carefully about the My Shadows Are Bright is short, but it's sweet. And I think shows a lot of potential to explore Check it out. We saw a lot of games about game development. Games about making games. It's all very meta. My favourite, though, was Blueprint Hell. If you've ever spent some time with Unity's shader graph then this game It's all about hooking nodes up to other Level one is nice and easy. But each level just adds More nodes. More connections. More inputs and more outputs. Because each level builds on you'll need to think ahead and keep things tidy. You'll need to make sure your Now - I do wish the game Maybe certain connection or bits of the graph that you can't build on. But still - as a veteran it felt good to have a blueprint Okay, I didn't really think that someone could make Tears of the Kingdom This is Tinker Co. This is a game about building your So slap on some wheels, a drill, and a hopper. And it just works! You can now drive your madcap machine around the mine. And you can add more. Giant wheels that let you bounce. More body parts. More drills! Go nuts. The physics system can handle it! Almost... It's a smart idea, and it's achieved really well. It would be a pretty standard game but the creative twist of letting you make I had a good time with this one. Okay - it's kind of a meme that people And this year was no exception. In the top 100 alone there were about 20 world, pushing boxes, pressing So this year - I'm being mean. I'm being ruthless. I'm picking one puzzle platformer. And that one is Getting Goopy. This game is about a bouncy green blob who can pick up slime to grow - or And thus begins a handful of Perhaps using the recoil of or shooting your blobs through a tiny And new ideas are quickly introduced: like walls that you can only walk And buttons that have to be It all feels great - it's nippy and It has quick transitions and an instant restart. And it's got genuinely brilliant puzzles Basically - you know that thing where you play a game made in 4 days and Don't you hate it when that happens? Uh.. asking for a friend. Of course. Okay, I love this one. It's called Grow to Perfection. So it's a game about guiding ants around a tiny nest to gather resources and Once they've got enough, the egg The camera zooms out, So you do it again - there's now more resources. A new mechanic about combining raw And a new egg to hatch. And so on. But here's the thing: at any point Perhaps improve the speed and so you have more workers Wait - this is basically Factorio, but fractal. This is Fractorio! And it's blowing my mind. It's just so satisfying to scroll as you burrow into the Earth and then And seeing all the levels I ended up playing this for twice as which is a high complement to give when Give it a go. Probably the best dragon-based postage So this is a game about packing of a bag, by carefully placing and But if you have too much stuff you can simply Sounds easy, right? Well, notice that so other objects need to be scaled up to You also have to deal with multiple just to keep you on your toes. The game also has a clever scoring system. You just need to pack the but you can get more points by They also fill out the grid and impact the weight, so you'll need to think carefully This game's cute art style, and smart scoring system make Let's get artistic, with Nearest Neighbor. The set-up behind this game is delightfully silly. Aliens have invaded the planet and The only catch: the aliens So your job is to recreate these great That means recreating shapes, colours, Which, for anyone who's done a You'll get the idea behind the surprisingly relaxing to turn these This jam saw a number of games about the But my pick of the bunch, so to This is a game about a giant thistle that You can use this to snake the plant through gaps But you also need to think about water. The plant drinks water as it grows, and if the So you'll also need to think about your roots - how can you use your More mechanics are introduced later, like multiple paths and spheres that And while the World of Goo inspirations are clear It's very impressive and well worth While the theme of a GMTK Game Jam to make a game within a certain limitation or rule, it's always totally fine for people to interpret the So how about taking the word &quot;scale&quot; to mean the scales on a fish? That's the This is one of those addictive feedback loop So we send a little hook into the depths, hunt Next, we need to scale the fish in a cute mini Go too fast and you'll damage Then, we feed the fish to a hungry And then finally, use that cash to buy go deeper, and grab fish more easily. Loop, repeat, do it again. It's a winning formula, and it's done to perfection here. Not much more to say - just give it a go! Another interpretation of the theme was taking Like our next game: Blueprint Bob. In each level we have a handful And we must place them down to construct a tower. Hit play and all the blocks And hero Bob goes from architect to acrobat as and stand on a point higher than the goal line. Simple but cute, effective, There's always one team that And this year, that award goes to Pizzascaper. Yes - these crazy cats made A fast paced, neon-lit, In this one you can shoot out blocks into the environment, and making bridges and platforms to But soon enough you'll realise Because if you stand on a block while it expands, it shoots you into the air and gives And so it becomes a whole new game: creating And so sure - it's pretty similar But the infinite usage allows for This game just flows, and it feels It's tough, but really rewarding. And there we go! By playing with size and scale, these designers came up with Games where players have to decide Games about the chaotic thrills Games about scaling in power. Games about playing in multiple scales. And games about scaling the Now: time for some honourable mentions, I reckon! Cappy &amp; Tappy is a co-op game where one and the other is climbing up a gigantic tower. The Boiler Room is a brilliant squished-down Pikmin game about collecting Train Set GO! is a nested metro manager that's Benedict Beaver the Builder is all about And Shrink is all about a psychotherapist who But there were just so many great games! What you lot can achieve in And I played even more amazing games on stream - A huge thank you to everyone who took part, Thanks to itch.io for hosting the jam, to and to my Patrons for letting us run GMTK Game You can now register your interest for 2025's jam, so you'll get an email as soon But until then, thanks for