In October of 1347, devastation and disease Twelve ships from the Black Sea docked at waited on the docks to welcome the sailors almost everyone aboard the ships had been They were still there, but they had succumbed in terrible black boils. Everyone was warned to get away, to let the of the harbor, but it was already too late. The Black Death had arrived. The people of Europe had heard rumors, whispers the trade routes of the East, leaving desolation Persia, and Syria. There were stories of swollen boils under and, before long...death. The illness worked so swiftly a man could be dead by morning. Now, this same pestilence had landed in the hand of death and sickness had a grip on everyone's Shortly after the plague's arrival in Italy, then continued on to Rome, Florence, Paris, As the pestilence continued its uncontrollable Something was invading their homes and taking was causing it, or how to treat it. Some doctors believed that the disease was the plague on its breeze. Others believed it to be a spiritual sickness, man floated out of his eyes and attacked a eye contact with him. Others thought it must be divine punishment, Amidst the chaos and mistrust, the finger-pointing anything to blame, doctors did their best they had. Proposed cures ranged from the useless and Some physicians prescribed bloodletting, pricking a patient's body, along with most of the blood Others had the sick take baths in vinegar did little to stop the progress of the disease. Some cures were expensive, calling for an into a glass of wine. Other treatments were honestly a fate worse own urine, ingesting snakeskin and precious Working with plague patients was a potentially enough to take on the task needed to take They were outfitted with a specialized uniform: a bird-like mask ending in a pointed beak. The mask contained a rudimentary respirator-like spices, camphor, or a vinegar sponge. They believed that, by overpowering any potential against the diseased air. The costume included a wide-brimmed leather without touching them. All in all, a plague doctor's attire was easily in appearance. However, what might be unsettling to see today, and misguided humanoid anomaly contained by in a dark time. Seeing a man enter town in a long dark coat, perhaps, all was not yet lost. And so, as news traveled about a mysterious their bodies into masses of infectious boils pits outside of town, the people of a tiny arrival of one such Plague Doctor. They hoped a physician would arrive before feel the cloud of illness creeping ever closer. It was a joyful day when, one morning, a young pot and a pan together and crying out: &quot;A A doctor has come to town!&quot; Indeed, just behind the young man came a stranger, wide-brimmed hat. However, instead of the beaked mask, this manner. He wore a white porcelain mask, frozen in Behind the eyes and open mouth, the villagers This must, they thought, be some sort of new he had brought with him from whatever medically Still, before getting their hopes up, the &quot;Excuse me.&quot; An older farmer, a respected pillar of the &quot;Are you a physician?&quot; &quot;Indeed, I am!&quot; The stranger replied cheerfully. &quot;I have reason to believe the Black Death I was sent here to provide my services to In case there was any question about his identity, bag, filled with tinctures and tools, with eggshells and saffron. The townspeople couldn't help but feel lucky to their town, to arm them with the tools Later that day, their fortunes seemed to double This man was dressed far more traditionally, from a physician tasked with treating the The man was dressed in long dark robes, leather He carried a bag, similar to that of the first The same older farmer approached the doctor, He couldn't remember the last time he saw hamlet at the same time. &quot;Have you come to help us, Doctor?&quot; He asked. &quot;Fear not, my good fellow. I have. I am here to fight the Great Pestilence, and of medical knowledge. Tell me, are there any infected yet? I would be happy to treat them.&quot; The farmer shook his head. &quot;We are all healthy here, Sir. But it is fortuitous indeed, to have two great times.&quot; The Doctor tilted his head to the side, perplexed. &quot;Two? I assure you, I am traveling quite alone.&quot; &quot;The man who arrived before you!&quot; The farmer insisted. &quot;Come and meet him, I'm sure you two will More than a little confused, the Plague Doctor where he was ushered to a table that had one He greeted the Doctor with that frozen porcelain congeniality. &quot;Ah, another Doctor! Welcome, my dear colleague. It will be a pleasure to work with you.&quot; The Plague Doctor sat across from the Mask, &quot;I was unaware there would be another physician &quot;Not to worry!&quot; The Mask's smile seemed to widen, though of &quot;It will be a relief to have someone else I am certain we will work together quite well.&quot; &quot;Tell me,&quot; The Plague Doctor began, &quot;How did in this town? It is my understanding that none have fallen &quot;Rumors, that is all. And in times such as these, one can never After all, we took an oath to help those in The Plague Doctor couldn't place why, but fellow in the white mask. Something about him did not seem quite right, the rustling sound inside of the man's bag, that had gathered on the table in front of Still, perhaps the exhaustion of his journey Many hands make for lighter work, and he should He was used to working alone, but he would Besides, it was entirely possible no one would summoning him to the town was based on inaccurate He would stay a fortnight, evaluate the health he would travel onward to the next town and But before that fortnight could pass, someone The old farmer's wife ran to the tavern in after the Doctors came to town. The Plague Doctor was already awake when she piece of toasted bread with butter. She begged him to leave his breakfast and Her husband had collapsed while milking the His forehead felt hot to the touch, slick As he looked, the Plague Doctor could see tell-tale boils that he had seen so many times He instructed the woman to stand back, to his sickness. Then, he began a thorough inspection, using beneath them. Sure enough, there were more boils there. &quot;Your husband is very ill.&quot; He told the weeping woman. &quot;But I assure you, Madame, I will do my best We will begin by letting the blood from these He pulled a scalpel from his bag, and began &quot;This will release the humors that have gathered &quot;It will not work.&quot; A voice behind him disturbed his careful work, the white-masked man watching him from the &quot;I beg your pardon?&quot; The Plague Doctor straightened. &quot;This man needs a different cure. Please, allow me to treat him.&quot; The Plague Doctor hesitated, uncertain about But the pleading cries of the farmer's wife to try his own treatment. &quot;Very well, I will let you work.&quot; The Plague Doctor left the room to give the The farmer's wife joined him, and the two for whatever news the other doctor might bring. Finally, after many hours, he returned. &quot;I am very sorry.&quot; The man's white mask now bore the expression His gloved hands were covered with blood. &quot;Your husband's condition was far too advanced. If I had arrived sooner to treat him, and my colleague, perhaps I would have saved him. But he is with the angels now.&quot; The woman began to cry again, and as she wiped man do the same, wiping something thick and Strange. And then there were the words he had said, core. &quot;Are you implying I am to be held responsible He demanded. &quot;Of course not, it was the Plague that took But...well, we will never know exactly what him first. Never mind, best not to dwell on such hypothetical The white-masked man held out a cup to the and viscous. &quot;My dear lady, in caring for your husband You will take ill and follow him into death from taking in you. Please, drink this. It will keep you safe.&quot; Before the Plague Doctor could ask what the taken the cup with trembling hands, and drank &quot;Please do call on me if anything else troubles My condolences for your loss.&quot; And with that, the white-masked man was gone. The farmer was the first citizen to succumb be the last. Once the disease had its hooks in the town, In spite of taking the strange curative drink, later. All throughout the town, more and more grew sight. The Plague Doctor did his best to treat the homemade tinctures of herbs and wild mushrooms, bathing them in the purest of vinegar. He even resorted to some of his more experimental had questioned, had dismissed as far too close He took the blood from a healthy cow and attempted He deliberately stopped the heart and then snake. Still, he was unable to save any of them. He was beginning to lose faith in himself, suit. Slowly, the families of the sick were beginning white mask instead, trusting only him to help And, somehow, help them he did. The Plague Doctor couldn't be sure what the His supposed colleague was secretive about observed. He would not leave his makeshift workshop, saw his patients. But, whatever he was doing must have worked, was a person whose fever broke, whose skin returned home to their life just as it was The Plague Doctor couldn't understand it, He had cured patients before, he knew he had. His successes had been renowned throughout generals and kings. But now, here, ever since he met this new was terribly wrong with his work. Perhaps the other doctor would allow him to In his current sorry state, Plague Doctor a great man. Once he had absorbed some of his knowledge, state, do as much good as he once had. One evening after he finished his supper of Doctor summoned his courage and decided to As he lifted his fist to knock on the door, other side. He was not ordinarily one to eavesdrop, but made him hesitate and listen for a moment. &quot;I am afraid you might be right.&quot; The Mask said. &quot;There is something unusual about the other I do not wish to cast aspersions, but...it here once he arrived in town.&quot; &quot;Do you think...he brought the disease with The other voice, belonging to the local judge, &quot;I am sorry to say that I do.&quot; &quot;What can be done to stop this? To drive the Plague out of our community?&quot; The judge asked. &quot;In my opinion, there is only one choice. The Doctor must leave this town. By choice or by force, dead or alive...that The Plague Doctor clapped a hand over his Conspiracy against him? But why?! He could hear rustling on the other side of He must hide before they spotted him! He ducked into a closet, shutting the door dark as the judge's footsteps passed by outside. Finally, it fell silent. With a sigh of relief, the Plague Doctor pushed But there, waiting for him, was that unmoving This time, it was smiling, a malicious, gleeful &quot;Oh, hello, Doctor.&quot; The Masked Man said. His words were polite, but his voice was cruel &quot;What have you done? Why would you tell the people such slanderous The Plague Doctor demanded. &quot;Simple. They need someone to blame, and I won't have The Masked man laughed then, a hollow sound. &quot;Haven't you figured it out, Doctor? Haven't your brilliant deductive skills led Why your cures have done nothing, why all thrive?&quot; &quot;...You made them ill? Deliberately? But how? And why?&quot; The Plague Doctor gaped in shock and horror. &quot;The how is for me to know and take to the But as for the why... I'd be happy to tell you, because no one will I intend to rule this town, the first of many And there is no way to inspire loyalty in of the Black Death. Unfortunate that you had to arrive and complicate But you will soon be taken care of, and then The Mask cackled again, triumphant and wicked. &quot;You VILLAIN!&quot; The Plague Doctor roared, grabbing at the to fight. He could not get a grip on the man, but the a horrible sight. Where there should have been a man, flesh but a skeleton, dripping black slime onto The mask covered a face of bone and desiccated propelled by unnatural, evil forces. It was too much for the Plague Doctor to take, do: he turned, and he ran. The Plague Doctor grabbed his cane, his trusty &quot;Please!&quot; He cried out into the night. &quot;Listen to me! You have been fooled by a Devil! He brings desolation, not the cure! He is the sickness!&quot; &quot;You're a madman!&quot; The judge cried, brandishing a flaming torch &quot;You brought death to our town, and now you &quot;Please, my dear fellow, hear me! You are not safe here!&quot; The Plague Doctor begged. The judge lunged at him with the pitchfork, cane, the Plague Doctor grabbed his arm with The judge's eyes went wide, and he dropped &quot;He killed him!&quot; Cried a bystander. &quot;The false doctor is a murderer!&quot; As the Plague Doctor watched, an angry mob weapons. They would not hear reason, they would not He would have to flee. The Plague Doctor ran until the cries of angry had faded into dark and silence. And then he ran some more. He ran all the way to a neighboring town, in a white porcelain mask, bringing a Plague and pray that these people would listen. Now go check out "When Day Breaks SCP-049" When Day Breaks?" for more battles of wits between the Plague