[RINGTONE] Commander Flanders, you Got some good news. You guys got the green on one of our aircraft carriers I've looked over your but we're going to you check those things off. OK. Should be a good few days What about maybe me and soaring in the skies? Wow, uh, it could be tough but we'll see what we can do. All right, Commander Flanders. We appreciate it. We'll see you guys Welcome to our home for Everybody has a bucket list. That list of things you've whether it's a wild adventure We want to take and share them with you. Welcome to Bucket List. [INTRO MUSIC] Uh, we're lost. To put the massive size of the USS Nimitz is over holds 6,000 people, So what's the price $4.5 billion dollars. This is our master we're hoping to pull off while Time to kick things off So we just got word that to go out onto the flight taking off and landing. We're shooting the planes Let's go! Make sure you get Yeah. OK. This is literally The yellow shirts on the They help launch and Earlier today, we trained by a Navy Shooter. He taught us all we needed Thumbs up, and then and whatever you're ready. Shoot Shoot, baby. I've wanted to do saw the movie &quot;Top Gun.&quot; Each Navy Shooter launches the So naturally, we decided to flair to it. I think for me, personally, and arrow, pull back, boom! We're waiting on the tower I am freaking out! [SCREAMS] Yeah! Yeah! I mean, I got to be honest, the Unbelievable performance. Codes! Hey! Great job, great job. Thank you! I can't really hear what you're The dab is never dead! Never dead! [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm nervous! Man, that was insane. All right, here's They just cleared the deck, on the aircraft carrier. Let's do this, guys! Next up, probably my favorite. Hitting golf balls off the Don't worry folks, we've These suckers dissolve. Gar, how you feeling? Feel good. Nice. Let's bombs away, baby! Never expected to be in the middle of the ocean. I'm a little worried about It seems like a tight fairway. Oh, it is clutch, but it Hey, this is the XO. That's out of bounds. You're going to have Out of bounds! You've got to hit a provisional! That message was from from the top of the tower. Sir, yes, sir. Ty, get him! See you, boys! Yes! It's probably the most fun It's pretty awesome. OK! Great shot. I've never club twirled on That's nice! Oh, that's fun. We have one ball remaining each, Good luck to you, Gar! Oh! What a bomber. Not bad. Oh! Oh! The club is it's scraped. It's scraped pretty good. Oh, wow! You launched that! Oh! Sparks! We got sparks! Ladies and gentlemen, come up with our call signs. On the end here, the big Over here, we've got sunburn. Sparks, Clearthroat, So, not bad. Hey, I could use some ice cream. Yeah. No! No more ice cream! Shut him down. I haven't got an official no, to wakeboard behind the ship. Not happening. He would die, if We are going down into where we'll get a chance Good thing I went on keto! After spending a we decided to cool with a Navy tradition. Ice cream social time. Pistachio will be you just have to sell it. I have cookies and cream. This will be the number one. How can I help you, sir? Oreos. M and M's, double scoop of both? Sure. Double scoop of both! Kind of gotta get in there. Can I interest you in No, gross. Call this the no How's it going, man? The official flavor in No, I'm good with this one. Thank you, though. Haha, yeah! I have yet to be turned down. Feel like we should So we're on a runway where want to make sure that so that it doesn't get and bad things happen. So, Tyler is looking Bird poop. Shrapnel, whatever. You gotta get that. Totally honest with you but when I came holding a little bowl and they were like, oh, you That's the kind of thing Got some FOD! No way! Mine's bigger. Guys, wanna find more FOD? We need the FOD bag. Oh, she looks amazing! And warm? Oh, yeah. Oh, hot! Boy, it's a little closer I think we might have I think this might have This stars out here To our knowledge, this a fish has been caught off the This could be a monumental day. And it could also be a fail, Eh, we'll see. I don't know if anybody on off the back of a ship. Haha, yeah! That's what we're going for. That's where we wanna be! With all the lines in it was just a waiting game. So we headed up to see what We're up here on I'm about to fly our The ship itself is all the planes together The radars up there? They got to be expensive. I'd say at least a Everything is in billions here. Plus if you'd crash, to look for all the so that you don't Foreign object debris. So you're saying, maybe billions, maybe billions. Definitely billion. And then 3,000 angry sailors. Yeah. Good luck with that! Have fun. It's gonna be great. I'm feeling confident [CHEERING] Here she comes, everybody give Permission to buzz the tower! Holy smokes! What is wrong with you? What is wrong with you? Heads up, guys, coming in hot! [SCREAMING] Thought getting was going to be the hard part. Turns out, landing was. This is insane, I'm a pilot! Down! Get down! It's running out of battery. Get it down! Pilot Cory is totally fine. He is safe. Hey, you just peaked. Congratulations. Thank you, thank you. Nice peak. Very nice peak. Hey, sorry about scaring I can't believe You know what I always say, this when we're eating. Lot of hungry folks out here. We've got a little We're going to chum the do some more fishing So this is the burnt We've got approval to of the top of an Hard to believe, but it's true. When you get permission, I've been given the into one of these hush puppies, Gonna be sick! Maybe don't hang on It's pretty durable. Thank you for your service. Enjoy that. This has got to be the in the middle of the Pacific. This is the aircraft Bang! Let's go! What an honor to be with these wonderful What a treat. Currently in the bridge, this This is where everything happens, including checking Got the pros driving I'm going to see to let me take a quick shift. Guys, I am officially It's a terrifying thought. Man overboard. Little to the left? It's not my fault, OK? What's happening? You can whip it to the left, Yeah, you got to Dude, you are-- What are you doing? Just drove an aircraft carrier. This is by far the biggest, vehicle I've ever driven. Well, it's been a fun few We are getting ready to I don't know if I didn't think But we do have to from the catapult. So that'll It'll be a doozy. Getting a little But-- Guys, we got a fish on. What? Oh my gosh, oh my gosh! We got a fish! Go! Go, go go! Fish on! We got a fish on! We got a fish on. We got a wiggler. Yeah, we got it! Land him, land him! [CHEERING] We got the call we had fish These guys made it happen, Thank you guys, job well done. Whoo! Unbelieveable. It's not how I typically board a What's up, guys? Slantnose and Sunburn, See you back on the mainland. Hold on, baby! That was like Mr. Let's go fly a jet! The Blue Angels is the oldest in the world, to attract new recruits by showcasing the talents pilots on the planet. Some of these put these pilots as at speeds around So when the Navy asked us to We're going to go We're going to go over What you're going to experience So before we were able to we went through an hour-long training session, which taken a little more seriously. In the case of ejection, He's like, hey, we're He's probably going to-- he's probably going to put it We're having issues we're going to have to eject. But that will not Cody's getting strapped He won the rock paper and it is minutes I think he's freaking He's getting his I predicted two pass-outs Dude, I'd pass out on I'm going to be honest, I was glad I wasn't But I really wish Well, if this isn't on your Here we go, let's Oh, that's amazing. There's no turning back now. Should be a fun ride, But I'm looking forward to it. See you guys in the air. All right, we're going We're moving, we're This is insane! Where are we going? Oh, he's driving it! See ya! Bye, guys! This will go up there as I've ever done. This is Cody, we're we're about to take off It's going to be sweet. All right, you ready to go. I think so. All right, you ready to go? Yes, sir. All right, we're going to You will feel the afterburners And there's 50 knots. There is 100. There's 140. We're flying. 330. Oh, he's moving. You ready to go? He's moving. Ready, hit it. Going upside down. [LAUGHING] Oh, baby! And that's how you get to Wow. To the left. Ready, hit it. There's four. And here comes six. I'm going to bring We're going to start There's one. Two. I could do those all day. Nice. And up we go. So there's our 2 and 1/2 G's. Again, we're just If you look to your right, And that's everything So you see that straight I'm now going to show you how Here comes the afterburners. There they are, kicking in. We're already at 400, which So that's probably the fastest That absolutely is. There's one. There's two. I'm going to pull the jet Thank you again, man, Oh absolutely, my pleasure. All right, we're going Ready, hit it. All right, there's Then we're going to back OK. I got one more thing, I usually You can let me know based on how your stomach feels. All right, Tyler, you ready? Yes sir. We're going to go to the right. Ready. Hit it. Keep working for me, You're clear for a left turn. Roll it out. Woo! Roll it out. How you doing? Nice. How'd you do? Awesome, baby! Sounds like you did pretty good. I felt good through that one. Bringing home party favors. And welcome back, Awesome. That was absolutely incredible. He's alive! Yeah! Careful with that bag. Man, that was so cool. Oh, you're pretty pale. Am I? He's pretty pale. The last one, it just The world is on you. You're just like, Ahhh! That's what you looked like. Yeah. I got sick. I'm not going to lie to you. How many times? Five. You barfed five times? Yeah, the spins And once he comes I'm still spinning but You're nauseous. It's just pure nausea. It was insane, though. On behalf of the team, I for coming out with us. Thank you very much. Appreciate it, man. I do feel like I earned that. Blue Angel, bros. Mav, Goose. I'm Mav, right? No, I'm Mav. What? Obviously. I'm the copilot? You're the tall Goose. OK, cool. Comment below. Let us know what bucket list Special thanks to the US Navy, You guys are unbelievable. It's been phenomenal From the sea to the air, And I don't know, what like the North Pole? Yeah, the Arctic that'd be See some penguins, ice Yeah. Where are the other guys? I don't know. I think they went inside. Signing off for now. Pound it, noggin see ya! [CHEERING]