Hello everyone, I am Gao. Today we are going to cultivate natural yeast. Growing natural yeast requires two materials: flour and water. Let's talk about flour first. Most flour on the market is chlorine bleached. The bleaching process kills most of the bacteria on the wheat, which is not good to our yeast cultivation. You want to use unbleached flour. I usually use unbleached whole wheat flour. Bran and germ contain more nutrients and microorganisms, which can help us cultivate yeast more effectively. About water. If your tap water is drinkable, it probably contains chlorine. Since chlorine is antibacterial, so it is not good to our yeast cultivation neither. Fill tap water into a glass bottle and leave it in the sun for a day; use it the next day. You can also use cool boiled water or filtered tap water. With the flour and water ready, we start cultivating the yeast. I divide the whole process into two stages: 1. Cultivate yeast and kill unfavourable microorganisms. 2 Increase yeast activity. In fact, these two stages are carried out spontaneously. If we deal with them separately, it will be more targeted. Let's look at the first stage. 10 grams of flour, mixed with 10 grams of water. Mix well and cover with a small plate. Place in a warm place. You can place it next to the kettle. If your room temperature is low, place it in a box with a few pieces of paper underneath to make it warmer. You can also put it in a microwave or an oven. The ideal temperature is 24-28 degrees Celsius. My fermentation temperature is 24 degrees Celsius. Below this temperature, the process will be slower. The next day, after 24 hours, it doesn't seem to have changed much. Turn it over and you can see very small bubbles and only a little trace of fermentation. Smell it, it's not sour, nor smelly. It smells like a raw piece of dough. Add 5 grams of water and 5 grams of flour directly to the cup. Stir. Continue fermentation. On the third day, you can see a lot of fine bubbles. But these small bubbles are not entirely produced by yeast. After mixing the flour and water, with the warm temperature. Various strains of bacteria were activated. There are strains of bacteria that we want, and there are also bacteria that we don't need. If you smell it, you will know that it has a bit of sourness and rancidity. So there is no need to observe its height changes at this stage. Continue to add 10g water 10g flour to the cup. We added 5 grams of water and 5 grams of flour yesterday. I added a little more today. Because this is an accelerated process. Day 4. The fermentation changes are more obvious, and the rancid smell is also more intense than previous day. Various bacteria and microorganisms begin to fight, compete for resources, and reproduce desperately. Take out 10 grams of dough, add 10 grams of water and 10 grams of flour. Stir. Continue fermentation. On the fifth day, the fermentation continues and the sourness is increasing, but the rancid smell is significantly reduced. Although you can't see any obvious difference with the naked eye, the dough has undergone essential changes. This dough is not that dough. A few days ago we mixed flour and water to activate various strains of bacteria, including lactic acid bacteria. It begins to multiply like other species of bacteria. As the number of lactic acid bacteria increases, more lactic acid is produced. Gradually bring the dough to an acidic environment. An acidic environment inhibits the growth of unfavourable bacteria. From now on, the unwanted bacteria will slowly decrease. Yeast and lactic acid bacteria are good friends and can live together. Take out 10 grams of dough. Add 10 grams of water and 10 grams of flour. Our accelerated feedings not only provide nutrients for lactic acid bacteria and yeast, but also maintain the acidic environment. On the sixth day, you suddenly find that it is a pleasant sour smell, no more rancid smell. Congratulations, natural yeast and lactic acid bacteria have won the battle. The unwanted microorganisms were controlled. The first stage of cultivating yeast is declared successful. Next comes the second stage: increasing yeast activity. There are two key points: First, the most important factor affecting yeast activity is temperature, so be sure to find a warm place. Second, don't starve the yeast for long periods of time. After nutrients are consumed, replenish in time. Let's take a look at the steps. Take out 10 grams of dough, add 10 grams of water and 10 grams of flour. Let me change a glass so that everyone can see clearly. From this point on, place a rubber band and observe its height changes. It help us judge its activity and control the number of feedings. Also from now on, we collect the remaining dough and put it in the freezer. I didn't collect the remaining dough before, because it contained unfavourable bacteria. After unwanted bacteria are controlled, the yeast grows faster than at the beginning. On the sixth night, about 7-8 hours later, it reached its highest point. If you look carefully, you can see a little trace of the fallback. You can feed it at this time. Next, it needs to stay overnight, at least 12 hours, to prevent it from starving. I increased its feeding ratio to 1:2:2. Put on a small rubber band. On the morning of the seventh day, about 12 hours later, it had doubled in height, with some signs of falling back. You can feed again. So far, yeast activity is enough. Next, I will maintain this 1:2:2 feeding ratio, and feed twice a day. After a week, the natural yeast is cultured successfully. You see, we have divided the whole into two stages. The concept is clearer, the steps are simplified, and yeast cultivation become easier. How to store yeast if you don't use it for a long time? I usually use the freezing method. Into a plastic lunch box, put 10 grams of yeast, 10 grams of flour, and 10 grams of water. The ratio is 1:1:1. Mix well and place it in a freezer. It can be kept from several months to even a year. Take it out a day in advance when using it. You see, it's frozen. Then put it at room temperature and let it thaw slowly. Because it was fed once before freezing, it has enough nutrients during thawing. After 24 hours, you can see that it has increased in size and there are many bubbles on it. After flipping it over, the bubbles under the box are more obvious. The yeast is alive now. When we smell it, it's the familiar sour smell. Continue to feed it in a 1:1:1 ratio. Stir and place a rubber band to check its height change. After 8 hours, it had doubled in height above the rubber band. You see, I fed it just once, and the frozen yeast came back to life with full strength. If your yeast doesn't rise this high, you're back to the second stage: How to increase the yeast activity. If you have cultivated natural yeast once, you will know that natural yeast dough is a symbiosis of lactic acid bacteria and yeast. Lactic acid bacteria provide the unique flavour of sourdough and inhibit the growth of miscellaneous bacteria. The bubbles produced by yeast reproduction make the inside of the bread soft and fluffy. Natural yeast is the most natural and perfect leavening mechanism, so the sourdough starter with a history of thousands of years can be passed down to this day. Thank you everyone for watching. I am Gao. See you in the next episode~