A Man Squatted 500 Pounds After Chugging 3 This Is What Happened To His Legs. LF is a 28 year old man, presenting to the leg. The medical team takes a full body scan, and that LF might not have much time left. They need to move him to another hospital LF was a nurse working in the hospital. During the events of 2020, while taking care a caffeine habit. At first, it was just coffee in the morning. But very quickly, it became a whole pot of Then he added energy drinks, before moving One morning at 5am, LF was going to the gym. He downed some energy drinks to prepare himself. It was time to lift heavy. While he was warming up, everything felt good. He loaded up the bar. He walked out the rack with 500 pounds on him down in to the ground. After coming up with it, his vision turned He racked the weight, and he could tell that But then he laid down to do some crunches. Suddenly, a pain pierced through his chest. He felt like someone had plunged a sharp object A burning started radiating to his neck. His fingers started tingling. Walking around in a world of hurt, LF thought wrong position. But as the minutes passed, the feeling only Drawing upon his medical training, LF suspected Heart attacks are when the heart starves of This typically happens because of a blockage. The heart is metabolically energy to function. When a heart attack happens, its often because supplying blood to the heart. A medicine that can quickly start to work Aspirin, which is almost always given to patients LF had cared for these patients in the past, him now, he immediately tells his coach to the medicine can absorb quickly into his body But, it didnt seem like anything was wrong. LF's heart rhythm was normal-- no signs His blood pressure and his heart rate, were Because he was only 28 years old, and was anything was wrong. LF was still standing. He was responsive and oriented. This means his brain was fine. Paramedics told him to sit down and take a They convinced him that he probably didnt leave the gym. But as the hour passed, LF still had pain At home now, he laid down on his bed because A tingling in his fingers and his right leg was racing, unsure of what was really happening. In the bathroom, nauseous. LF goes to empty his stomach into the toilet. But then suddenly his right leg becomes numb. He collapses to the ground. 911 is called, again, and LF is brought to At examination, the medical team instantly color than his left, and that it's cold This could be stroke. Instead of a blood clot in his heart, it could it of oxygen, causing it to become a different LF was sent in for a full body CT scan, and couldn't believe what they saw. When someone experienced lifts really heavy bench press or deadlift, they often perform That is, they breathe in and hold their breath, The reason this is done is because when the single part of the body as tight as possible, of failure. You have to do this while you're lifting And the weights I am talking about are ones the bar, you have thoughts that linger the to make it. I'm not talking about something like squatting 5 times body weight. The problem is, when the breath is held in pressure inside the body to skyrocket. You can see it happen in real time because of their neck. The body is a closed and self contained system, can test the flexibility of the blood vessels. The heart starts to beat very hard and very flow to become chaotic and turbulent. It's well documented that this setting increases In the overwhelming majority of the time, problems, the body can handle this. In fact, when you're lifting this heavy, can severely injure yourself. But in the setting of an accident, something An in LF, there was an accident. The CT scan images showed that LF was experiencing Aortic referring to the aorta, the largest oxygenated blood all throughout the body, of. LF's aorta had ripped open from the inside But this rip was contained to the inner linings This explains his sudden chest pain radiating right leg? Immediately when seeing this, the medical hospital that could take better care of him. An ambulance was called. On the ride over, LF called his mom. He gave her bank passwords, social media logins, as someone who was medically trained, he knew He knew he might have waited too long that there's a chance that he's not going to The ambulance arrived to the larger hospital When I was told about this case.. this could have been me. I did powerlifting. But over time as I finished school and did to slowly became nonexistent. I thought, how do I get back to being active where I am in life? And so I signed up for CoPilot who helped They helped make this video possible. I pay for CoPilot. I'm really glad I came across it. First, they ask you for some quick info, about for in context of fitness. They then use that to match you with a Coach. I talk with my Coach AJ, at least 5 times Quick messages to make sure we're on track. Then, after an introduction call, your Coach where it ties in to the App. I go to the gym, the App links my Phone, and Now you're monitored. To track progress. Heart rate, movement, reps, pace during each It shows you how to do each exercise. Your Coach plans your workouts entirely, and You can also change your Coach at any time. AJ tailored my plan to fit my travel schedule, one day when I was visiting, and the Army re-emerged and he started coaching me, based CoPilot has a feature where you can share So I shared my workouts with my dad. And now he follows along too. Exercise and fitness are celebrations of being CoPilot helps me realize that goal. This is something for everybody, whether or Go to go.mycopilot.com/Chubbyemu or click code to get 14 days FREE with your own personal Surgeons quickly took a look at LF. Blood vessels are made of different layers. The inside is called the intima. Typically, when blood flows through, it kind the hole of the vessel, called the lumen. When a tear evolves from the intima, blood but, blood is a fluid. If it can flow into something, it will. LF's tear started from where the aorta emerges Blood started seeping into the tear, pushing False Lumen. Blood stuck in here, doesn't travel through separating the layers, before eventually emerging creating another tear. Surgeons repair the area where his tear originated. This should fix, most of his problems. And.. it seemed like he was doing well. But very quickly, the medical team finds that The legs make up a high percentage of muscle But when we look at how blood is circulated is telling us its priorities. When blood is pumped, some of it goes right Then it goes towards the brain, the arms, it keep traveling to the legs. But, because the legs are so muscular, it But fixing the origin of LF's aortic dissection, right leg. The muscle start to starve of oxygen, and Muscles are covered by a layer of tissue called As LF's muscle wastes away inside, the leg The increased pressure further starves it The swelling chokes out the vessels supplying If left untreated, his right leg will need They send him in for surgery again, to make But just doing this won't fix why his right place. So what was happening? This brings us back to False Lumen. The blood flow through this evolving tear to exist. Even though the origin of LF's aortic tear False Lumen had started to pool, causing that The swelling is so great that it collapsed blood flow to the leg. This is called Thrombosis. Thromb meaning lump, but referring to blood A disorder because of a blood clot inside In order to quickly get blood flowing again clot, and use a tube to connect it with the This is a temporary fix while they decide When surgeons cut into his fascia to prevent damaged muscle waste quickly spilled out and Surgeons had gotten in at just the right time The kidneys are kind of like a net that filter But as LF's damaged muscles started collecting blocking flow, preventing him from making As the days pass, the medical team has to to try to catch wastes that should be caught He's intermittently placed on dialysis, But very quickly, the tube that was connecting leg became infected. Hospital bacteria started growing, and spreading heart rhythm to become erratic. This isn't too abnormal when one receives of patients with exactly the same problem His heart beat was so uncomfortable, and he by accident, that he wouldn't wake up. But why did the aortic dissection happen in Well, lets look at where the tear happened, Do you remember turbulent flow? Well, when fluid flows through a bend, the the amount of stress in the system. This stress has been shown to cause changes A lot of methods used to classify Aortic Dissections Arch. LF was a previously healthy 28 year old man have multiple risk factors. Heavy weightlifting features more than just Aortic dissections have been described in dumbbell. There might have been a positional component position, or he kicked the dumbbell back to But also, there's the component of LF taking that would have compounded with this heavy Lets start with caffeine. It's a stimulant. But it does that stimulating by blocking inhibition. In regular doses, like 400 milligrams or less, and maybe more productive. But at excessive doses all the time, rather body to release adrenaline, which is going When you drink caffeine, it takes usually in half. That is, it takes around 4-6 hours for your If you take a lot of it, and it increases remember, most people continuously consume could reasonably expect that you could be on the Intima through the Aortic Arch. That's a potential risk factor, but it might LF. Lots of pre workout supplements, also feature Sometimes it's really the only actual thing And sometimes people take multiple supplements, It's all going to add up to much more than So, their blood pressure is high from just Add in energy drinks. Add in more caffeine throughout the day. Then add in really heavy lifting. Add in that LF went to lift heavy on a winter appear to be more likely to happen. All of these risks can add up. And blood vessels are muscles. That means the aorta has its own set of blood of the blood that it's delivering to the This is called the vasa vasorum. It's possible that LF's aortic dissection flow causing heavy stress on the intima, but or supplements, had also affected the integrity We're never going to know for sure in his in literature. We know that supplements contain multiple it's a "proprietary blend." And nothing in this space is required to be But we know... many people simply consume that it's coming from many different sources Sometimes from bread restaurant lemonade. There's other complex situations too, such problems, including ones for mental health. Those can increase blood pressure. But he wasn't taking those. And neither was he taking performance enhancing LF was medically trained. Being able to have a career, pay his bills and make a living healthcare licensure. Even just having performance enhancing substances because many of them are controlled substances. And the overwhelming majority of reasonable and bills for the next several years than Can performance enhancing substances increase It looks like they might be able to. In the intensive care unit, LF's surgeon They will get access to his aorta through They will make a cut along his aorta where Then, they'll remove the part of the inner and pin down the remaining portion, before to his right leg, again. Valsalva maneuver in very heavy lifting is body tight throughout the whole movement to What happened to LF was more than just Valsalva, most importantly, it was an accident. I lived a very similar arrangement for many I didnt lift in the mornings but... this could As days become weeks in the hospital, LF's Nothing needed to be amputated. At physical therapy months later, he was able he was able to make a recovery. Hey everybody my name is Luis Flores and I'm Right now I can still go to the gym, I can still I can't lift more than 35 pounds. I drive with my left foot. And I can still do patient care. Life goes on and I gotta just adapt with what One thing that I would have done differently symptoms is that I would've went to the hospital That way I wouldn't have sustained the deficits However God works in mysterious ways. I'm just glad I that I went back and called that second ambulance. If you're at home or you're doing something not right, please get checked out immediately. I would have never thought at the age of 28 I would go through such a medical emergency, to the point and tell her what my wishes would be. There's always a saying in the medical field And now that I have the perspective of both me an edge to be more and more of a compassionate My goal now is to get my Doctor of Nurse Practitioner Doctorate Program and so that's some thing My program starts in the fall. Best of luck in your studies, Luis. And thank you so much for watching. Be sure to checkout CoPilot link in the description. Take care of yourself. And be well.