Now I'm Mm. That's done. It signifies you're And, widows are not But I continue keeping it, Because he didn't believe in after your husband He said, it's crap. Do So I took an ...and started what is I started with three people. And today And we have more My marriage was love Because in India, In India when the boy or the girl is Is something really You know, now people So similarly, if HIV-positive naturally the parents pressurize And then they come to us. We say, you can't spoil somebody's Mm. It's done. So go ahead. OK I'm going to tell Both of them are HIV positive. I know Karthik for the last 16 years. He's a great guy to have around. I mean, I would have Have coffee So what is your qualification? So at least she must be So have you decided you want Yes, definitely. You fell in love. Yeah. She's a very pretty girl No, but you're 38! If I had a son, 38, No, we don't want that to happen. I There must be someone We have to find Yeah? So let's hope we do. We'll find I was working at the Madras Medical And I was reading the medical journals AIDS everywhere. So I we're going to look for AIDS I can't look for gay men. So I said, look, it's transmitted So why don't we look amongst So we went to the police and said, we want to draw We tested the first hundred and got So we re-tested the whole thing. Again No doctor at that point of time I had to admit them I could see right in crying and needed I remember the first pregnant She was just crying. She must have been what, 20, 21? People have criticized me. My professor How can you touch a sex worker You should throw them You know, this is the way But I find those are women And it is their right to have good thought about me. I used to feel what I was trying to do. When I was at the medical school, there They were socioeconomically not He wanted to eat only After three years of being together, So I went and asked my a Muslim or a Christian? She said, Oh But when the whole real story I didn't say that for For you, how can you marry We were in love for 43 years. My husband's favorite flowers. She seems to be in a sort So I was thinking of No how it'll work? She goes chuk chuk She's a Kashmiri. No, no. She knows a few words and things like this because I think sometimes they Anyway, my husband never talked and She just has to do exercise. She's She was 75. Yeah, yeah she's Our body has a lot of immunity. And that immunity is due to the white And the white blood One of them is known The CD4 decides which cells in the So if you destroy the CD4 When a person gets infected, these virus attack the CD4 So over a period of time, the So from 800 it can come down to, If it comes below 350, We start them on anti-retroviral We look at their CD4 counts, Then we look at all the Clinically, are they fit? Only then we start looking So instead of matching horoscopes, their laboratory details of CD4s, then we get them married. It's and tomorrow we get them So in short, CD4 is our astrology. I met a very nice girl. She's a by the parents, you know, Yeah. And then she conceived. And an HIV test every time And she found herself positive. Even that, though she was I'm negative, I'm negative. Yeah. She couldn't have gotten it any to have a test. And finally it was So she, her parents said, if so now they're divorced. But it's already now, what, two years, Her request is it doesn't Not from outside. And she wants from a good family That's all requirements she has. Yeah, that's all she wants. I have is your parents - will or something like that? She will gel beautifully She's a very giving Ah! You're much more So it's up to you then. You Then if you think you want to meet, There's absolutely no hurry. You oh I have to get married! No. Because for you it's going to be the And for her, ...any woman! Good afternoon, how are you? I'm OK. So I thought I'd warn you Yeah He's a nice guy. Working And I was imagining you CD4 counts are around 300. We want everything to be happy for you That's only aim we have. No we won't let anything If we can do a little for someone, We will advise them to use a condom to have a child. And then maybe and ask them to not use so that she can conceive he can get it and to her and make things Lots of people in India tell So many orphansare going come. But people with HIV We get people who are known within 3-4 years progress, We have to start them on drugs. Karthik, after 16 years Whereas Manu in 4 years So there is a difference at which the virus is progressing. I am not sure. I am I'm sure with the drugs she should I'll make sure she survives and That's our duty. To take It is a chronic disease. Can But you have to take it lifelong then the virus becomes resistant to the I've never attended any They bring the invitation, and say please don't They see us in the wedding. Is there something wrong? You pray for everyone. Show your foreheads. Show yours.