LEGO released a series of Muppets minifigures, and currently, they're all homeless, so building for them to live in with a working Here's all 12 of the figures: Gonzo and a lot more--with all this variety, ever done. For once I'd say each minifig but when you buy the whole series Any sane person would just make something like but we built an entire LEGO city and we're planning on one for the next, but dwellings into one big building instead, with As I was drawing this out, it reminded where you build a skyscraper and collect a ton of went on to make a Tiny Tower about Gambling, say I'm a fan of this one, we could TOTALLY I laid out the base for the first floor: lives (who we'll be building later), but than the apartment floors, since we come in. Obviously a door wouldn't make but we will keep this pattern of windows With the gray walls and these stacked a lot like the Daily Bugle set, except But I chose gray because I'll actually have what I thought... but quickly realized that enough to finish the first floor, and we have so I'm just... gonna... have to... [inch towards Order parts from Bricklink, an online store sellers all around the world! Normally we just but we just finished our LEGO city and I want at least until we start the next one. So, we need to buy new pieces to build our I deleted our progress to count up the bricks 7 to get the number of parts we need to order. We're gonna be on our own for the interior but I ended up getting everything in 3 so that'll take forever to get here. And all the much easier to just... NOPE, I'm not gonna do it. After weeks, the orders started to roll then came the windows, and finally, long. This says fragile in Greek. I but eventually got inside and... look at all the lobby floor that we previously put This section here on the side is the so this whole thing's not just a flat, precious window pieces. We'll also have can be a different color. I'm lightly basing with a dark tan floor and purple striped walls. family, who you don't get to meet yet, but Then the reception area has classy white marble brain a little. I put in a little desk with and this bell. Ooh I like that. And because I we used these bricks with grooves to make elevator we have this gap here, but come on, that's cool, it. It's kind of an obstacle course getting from Speaking of the entrance, I spiffed up the border and the actual door. Then I used this piece uh, okay nevermind. This one actually works. Above landing on this license plate tile I'm using With the ceiling and these hanging speedran the 2nd floor walls for Statler and taking their heckling to the next level with I'm immediately punching a hole in the wall I the side here, so the two can brutally insult the crusty, just like them, so we can add this thick wallpaper, locally sourced from one of my old Behind that, by the way, I'm trying this black I don't know how I feel about it... I'll add this lamp and these ratty old recliners sleep, eat, even go to the bathroom in them. They because mayhem is moving into the floor above It's a shame we didn't get the rest of the band, really want to bunk with the Swedish chef, so be changed into a statue of Zoot. Blue carpet, and a raised stage in the middle for the drumset. the size of his setup. Rolf's grand piano wouldn't so let's build him a yellow keyboard with these her bass and a potted plant--it's... kale. Then we'll awesome-looking band. On the wall I tried to but Animal covers most of it anyway. But it's done I stole these numbered bricks from a LEGO Not sure what to do with the lobby floor yet, but Floor 4 only has one Muppet now: the Swedish can make a world-class kitchen for him with a tan but just had to make a few acquisitions to Just like the color scheme I discover for the fridge in here, so next to the stove I built glizzies. No, that feels weird to say, I'm just what's in a hot dog? "Bork bork bork!" of the wall to hang up some cabinets. One for with a spoon? "Bork bork bork!" He's great at an absolute necessity not to be confused with Finally, we can cover this gap with the most from IKEA, and it uses crafting table pieces here to cover up floor space I didn't but we can add a tomato-sized blender on Spinning on up to floor five, we've got Dr. These designs are so much fun, except combining For this place, I want to channel the energy AND I actually have enough leftover yellow We've got the same gray floors and yellow over the windows so no one can see inside I modified the back wall a bit to attach this some shelfs full of strange objects and other a work desk, and BEHOLD: the NAME TRANSFORMINATOR. familiar face, I modified the kitchen a bit and This is a comedy club for Fozzie and gave it brown floors and blue walls before but that's okay, because he's actually GONZO I built him this cartoonish cannon to blast that we can light to launch in 3... 2... 1... Kinda ruined the wall there, but we can just patch chicken coop, dude that's nicer than my house. We're done. Fart shoes, from the put on a show and raise the funds to pay their give him his little bear friend from Muppets put on a show and raise the funds to pay their Christmas movie, where they band together, put on save Christmas. Plenty of material to work I made this sign. THERE we go. This may be the you're laughing! You're laughing, right? You have I built floor 7 the good old fashioned way Kermit and Miss Piggy. The all-time power couple, so living together may be challenging. We'll called dibs on the side with the door, so Kermit Lavender carpet for Piggy, and I'm pretty sure someone just I really like the split colors of the walls, scavenge this Winnie the Pooh set. Nice. This is. We'll take this mirror for Piggy's these green pieces to build a lily pad, and a walls, along with narcissism and this incredibly This room keeps getting better, but their buying expensive clothes, I made this coat rack with MEMES, which is expensive for me. I bought order just for a butterbeer piece, which and kinda just sneezed for this one. Feel free a crane won't fit, but it's time to struggle previous design with what I've learned taking the system. This mechanism allows it to stop at each perfectly. You just kind of turn it so people I covered everything up, it literally because I've neglected to label this floor massive L and very carefully try to cram But now all of these floors look SO COOL. DO DOO DO DO DO. *ahem* Sorry. But now Mr. Ditkovich, and his daughter Ursala. with a crate of oranges and a stove the reception desk while Ditkovitch I told the Muppets I'd cover their first what happened to all my mon...ey...? Ah. Right. if they can't pay up, so... after all this we failed. The Muppets are going right back to do what Muppets do best: band together, put on Electric Mayhem started off strong, Miss Waldorf just kind of just slept through out the name-transforminator--results are I've stopped questioning what's going on here, Somehow whatever that was raised thousands of skyscraper looks like next to our LEGO city, which