Mosfilm Studios The Experimental Creative Studio Another thing, my darling You come to me in my dreams you float wherever you wish, or on some errand, I can't say... But my breathing like someone had shot me WHITE SUN OF THE DESERT Written by Valentin Yezhov Directed by Vladimir Motyl Director of Photography Production Designers Music by I.Shvarts Lyrics by B.Okudzhava Starring: Sukhov - Anatoly Kuznetsov Vereshchagin - Pavel Luspekayev Said - Spartak Mishulin Nastasya - R.Kurkina Gyulchatai - T.Fedotova The film was made with Lenfilm But you should know, my darling that the class struggle as of today is principally and generally over, and the hour of global freedom So it's my turn now to go back home, to build my new life with you in my native land, Two o'clock. Have you been here long? I'm lucky with stuff like this. I made a promise that as soon I'll go straight home. I've dug out 2 of them, Then there was the 3rd. I dug him out, he grabbed me That's the story. His own gang I'll dig you out now. And take care! The sun was setting Black Abdullah is a beast. He doesn't even If we'd been a second late, Why does he do it, 'Cause he's a bandit. As soon as we reached these parts, Abdullah decided to go abroad, So no one would have them. With the women, we'll never He wanted to off them, We can't just leave them Here's some dried bread I'm a little late as I am. and I still roam these sands. That's all I can spare. In Pedzhent I can't stay longer, I'll go straight from here. I'll reach the Volga, and Samara's There'll be no peace as long as Being dead is peaceful What d'you have against Dzhavdet? He killed my father and buried me, he took 4 sheep, all we had. And whatshisname... with Black Abdullah or what? They hate each other. Dzhavdet's a coward. Well, Said, good luck. Comrade commander, look. You should've taken him through The chimney? Sukhov, help me, we'll finish him off You alone are worth a platoon, The Orient is a tricky business. Why are you here? There were shots. Take the women at least. I've spent 3 days by the old I thought Abdullah They've tied me up, dammit, Rakhimov, I'm going home. You take them, He's at the Dry Creek now. To keep them far from that bandit. I'll give you a man and a horse, What do you say? There aren't any of our people - That's right. Mount! Comrade women! Don't be afraid! We'll finish off but for now you're He'll feed and protect you, Wait! Wait! Damn you! Am I going to wander this desert Let's go! Don't go to Pedzhent. We'll wait and see. Give him the horse. Here's the list, comrade Sukhov. Zarina! Jamila! Gyuzelle! Saida! Khafiza! Zukhra! Leila! Zulfia! Gyulchatai! Gyulchatai! Right face! Follow me, ladies. My soul yearns for you, my dearest Katerina Matveyevna, Yet there's been I think it'll take 3 days, no more. As a class-conscious soldier, with escorting a group of comrades It should be noted though, the people here are agreeable, one may even say, warm, with quite a spark in them. My feet are now running back as my revolutionary duty commands me. On the 3rd day I'd like to report to you, our deployment is running smoothly, in the spirit of brotherly unity and consent. We're walking through the sands but you, my only and unforgettable So we don't advise you It does no good. I beg you, not the museum! Wait. - Why are you here? My name's Lebedev. - I see. Where's the populace? Bring the harem here. Look, comrade curator, these 9 liberated women are also a great treasure. Any questions? No questions. You'll rest here for a day. Jamila, Zarina, Gyuzelle, Saida, Khafiza, Zukhra, Leila, Zulfia, Gyulchatai... Gyulachatai! 'Museum of the Red East' Good-bye, ladies! Comrade Sukhov... - Maybe another day? - Comrade Sukhov... Rakhimov is coming tomorrow Said, good luck to you. I'll just have a swim Don't get buried again. Fiends! Barbarians! Hands up! To Red Army soldier Sukhov. With respect. Brigade commander M.N.Kovun. Abdullah had 11 wives. Abdullah'll come - Why are you silent? Do you prefer an easy death, or want to be tortured first? I'd prefer torture, of course. - Semyon, ride to Abdullah! Leave it! Now move. Why are you here? There were shots. Abdullah has... too many people. That's right. I'm writing to you again, because I have a minute to spare. So I'm relaxing in the hot sun, like our cat Vaska We're sitting on the sand without worrying about anything. The sun is so bright here that you see only white. Comrade Sukhov! If Rakhimov is late, Abdullah will kill us for them, Hello there, fathers! Dynamite Begging your pardon! Where did you get it? We've been sitting here Petrukha! Take the box. Tell to the ladies there'll be Yes, sir! What's wrong? Tomorrow Abdullah will be here. I can't. Did you see - Dzhavdet's not here. Dormitory for Liberated - They took the valuable exhibits. I told them to use worn carpets. But they were made As you were! Don't be afraid. It's our master. Master, no one should see our faces. Only you. You're our new husband. Tell your man not to come. Comrade women! The Revolution has set you free. You don't have a master now. And call me simply, comrade Sukhov. Forget your accursed past. You'll work freely with us, and each of you will have Any questions? No questions. Down with prejudice! Gyulchatai... Show your face. You shouldn't think I'm serious, if anything. I don't mind you were I like your quick disposition. I could ask for your hand My mother is good and kind. - Show your face! Hold it! - Gyulchatai! Announce the reveille Look, as of today, You'll be responsible... No. The master appointed me But I'm serious, I wanted to see her face. Go to the white hut, it's Find out who's there now. Freeze! Hands up! You know whose house you're in? - Answer me! What's wrong with you? You've never heard I've lived through it all! There was a time when everyone in this place knew me. I had them all like that. Now they've forgotten me. Stop! Stop, I said! Why'd you kill my men, Said? I sent them to tell you not to look He's not there. Your father was a friend The road is easier if you have Look here, your Majesty, Mrs. Separation, I feel cold with you, That's a revelation. A letter from my darling, No luck in dying, Look here, your Majesty, Dear Mrs. Fortune, You are good to some of us, To others you're torture. A nine-gram piece of iron, For the heart's enough. No luck in dying, I'll have luck in love. Hey, boss! D'you have a smoke? - What're you doing? Sukhov, you say? We'll see now Forgive me, for I have sinned. Catch! Come in! - Did you see the peacocks? I've swapped my uniform for them. Petrukha! I don't indulge. That's right. I'll only finish this Drink up! Have a seat! I like your Petrukha very much. Will you give us the machine-gun? - Waiting for Abdullah? Look, Sukhov, I used I used to have smugglers. Now there's no customs house I'm at peace with Abdullah. I don't care who's Abdullah and who're you. If I could go with you What's the matter, then? Let's go. Shall we go? Let's. Hello. Hello. Guys! Come back! What did you say? What did you promise? - At your age! It's not enough for you now you want me to become Pasha! Pashenka! Forgive me for Chrissakes! You'll get killed for nothing! So, guys. I won't give you the machine-gun. We see. The peacocks, you say? Who called you here? - Have you measured it? - Will it burn? When it ignites, start to count. 17, 18... 42... Let them take the launch now. They're going abroad. After they That's right. Clean it up here. The swans... could they have come - Where are you from? I haven't been there. I left home when I was So I knocked about the world from the Amur to Turkestan. My father told me before he died, 'Abdullah, I've been poor So now I want Allah to grant you an expensive robe and a nice I waited for far too long, 'Mount your horse and take if you're brave and strong'. My father didn't say anything. Your father was wise, what's good and evil? A knife is good for And it's bad for he who doesn't Allah, where is he, our husband? It's her fault. Gyulchatai! When I was Abdullah's favorite And he even beat someone Our husband forgot us How should we understand him? But could... Gyulchatai - He doesn't like her dress? What's the matter? How old're you? Forget about it... daughter! Maybe you really I'll give you to Petrukha He's single. He'd take you - I'm your wife. Can't you say that Gyulchatai Would she be offended by that? She would! How many times We're supposed to have only one Is it bad when a single husband gives his presents only to you, It's good. One wife loves him... Another one sews his clothes, Another one feeds the children. But the only one? - Nothing can be done about it. Sure it is. OK. Good night. We'll talk tomorrow. Ibrahim! It's his robe! Poor Ibrahim. You'll stay with us Another thing I'd like Katerina Matveyevna, that there are times that I feel like I'm choking. And I wonder how you're doing there. What troubles might you have? The grain should be rich this year. But our separation is not for long. I'll still have to help finish some business here, my priceless Katerina Matveyevna. I'm sorry for the slight delay. He's nowhere to be seen. If you're here, come out! We're faithful to you, master! Jamila. Haven't you been my favorite wife? Have I offended you just once? Why didn't you die? Drop your gun. Drop it. If you turn I shoot. Hands up! Your dagger. 5 steps forward. Tell your sidekicks to get out I'll let you go if your people I never miss.. Abdullah. Put your hands down.. Makhmud. Ride to the shore, all of you! Load the boat, prepare to launch it. I'm staying here as a guest. If I'm not back by noon, come back and settle accounts. No get out! Petrukha! You'll stay here. I'm going ashore. We'll see Abdullah was kidnapped! Don't tell anyone. Just don't. They're gonna cheat you. They'll get on board. You'll set Abdullah free, Unlikely. You're giving me caviar again. I can't eat this damned stuff I wish you could get some bread. Jesus, where can you get it now? You need to eat after drinking. Aren't they scared No one comes out of their houses. The Central Committee's rep is still And the red-head who's come to us, they say, That's not a good sign. Jesus, you shouldn't get involved, Enough already, Gyulchatai! Show me you face! Show me! Looks like someone's prowling. Gyulchatai. Gyulachatai! Bring me some water. Hands up! Oh it's you? Why're you there? Please, not a word to anyone. Open your veil, will you? Petrukha! Now leave, quick. You can't stay here alone. I can't. Abdullah will kill Abdullah will kill you. - Farewell. If I'm killed, who will take revenge on Dzhavdet? I counted on you, Said. If the fates don't let us Katerina Matveyevna, I was and am, to my last breath, faithful only to you. And if it may happen that I remain I may be a little blue, Or it may happen who were mostly warm and, delicate. I bear witness, as fighter for the happiness the Red Army soldier Trans-Caspian International Regiment, Sukhov, Fyodor Ivanovich. Well, curator, are the women gone? I detained them. Look, this is the tunnel. It leads to the shore. The Samonides made it. No one's used it They're nowhere to be seen! They couldn't go far. Let go of my hand. Let me go! - What is this violence? Be so kind as to stop There are no women here, and I There should be Duck! Closer! Follow me! There's no one here! He couldn't bury them in the sand. No one's here either. How could you open this bitch? - By blowing it up? Save at least one bullet, Abdullah. You'll have something Look here, your Majesty, Mrs. Alienation, Ardent was your hugging, But there was no affection. In silky nets you're trying To catch me, now lay off. Out of luck in dying, I'll have luck in love. Look here, your Majesty, dear Mrs. Conquest, I haven't finished singing... Still singing? ...as you might have noticed, You devils, stop lying, Abdullah sent me. We're out Stop this stupid song. Out of luck in dying, Stand up when a Lieutenant - What's wrong with you? The full one. Abdullah, do you still Or are you disguised as a man? Abdullah, your wives - I feel good with them. When I ignite the oil, you'll feel really good. As good as it gets. Can't stand them anymore. Grenades to some, Let the plague take them! Move it! Quick! Are you asleep, freak? Where are you going? I'll bury you in a ditch. Long time no see, Abdullah. A very long time. Are you still roaming? I'm too old and lazy now. Those were the days... What are your people doing? Do they really want to blow it up? There's a fellow there, Fedor! Is Petrukha with you? Petrukha is dead, Pavel Artemyich! Abdullah knifed him. Pasha! You go! A good wife, a house, what else does an old man need? So I spent some money, I'll make some borsht now, with bran, they'll be rough, We've been here too long. and we'll go to Astrakhan Time to tend to our son's grave. And we haven't been to church Put your embroidered shirt on.. When I see you in it, I remember When we saw each other Pasha... Do you remember At the Kazan fair, remember how you did that staff captain? Listen, Abdullah... Isn't the load too big for you? All your goods smuggled, huh? There's no one at customs. Do you want us to pay with gold? You know me, Abdullah, I'm offended for my great country. Aristarkh, settle it Fire it up! Wait! Abdullah! It's me speaking, Said! What do you mean, Said? Kill him! Vereshchagin, get off the boat! Now you wash up, guys! He's gone, he went after all! Damn him... Well, customs man, Abdullah, customs say it's OK! - Makhmud! Take him from behind. Makhmud! Don't let him stick his head out. Don't start the engine! We'll come closer, Fedor Ivanovich. You'll explode, stop it! I'm here, Abdullah. You can come out, ladies. Look here, your Majesty, Dear Mrs. Fortune, You are good to some of us, To others you're a torture. A nine-gram piece of iron Out of luck in dying, The sun wasn't up yet Could you wait? And then we'll take the railroad. No, it's out of the way. - Take the horse at least. Got to feed it. Farewell. Well? Jamila... Zarina, Gyuzelle, Saida, Hafiza, Zukhra, Leila, Zulfia... Good-bye, ladies, and I'm sorry Thank you! Don't mention it. What are you going to do No. Dzhavdet is mine. If you meet him, don't touch him. Well, good luck then. A good day, and a pleasant moment. How are you, my priceless Don't take my latest delay amiss. It seems to be my fortune. Nothing like that will happen again. So I hasten to inform you and wishing you the same...