- [Narrator] With its low and large local population, Muscat has been described But now, as Oman looks without oil, the country is pouring billions of dollars into projects across the country. One of them is this, Sultan Haitham City. It's a new model for a that breaks the Dubai archetype. As other countries in the region struggle to execute ambitious is intended to offer for a Middle Eastern city. Its buildings are mostly and there are thousands alongside ones for expats and tourists. But some experts worry may already be outgrowing the project. Muscat is wedged between the Gulf of Oman and the Hajar Mountains. It's home to about one-third of the country's rapidly Oman has a population of but by 2040, it anticipates to 7.7 million. To house them all, the country is investing One of the most is happening here. Sultan Haitham City is designed across more than a dozen neighborhoods, along with 25 mosques and 39 schools. Though for a landmark project the scale and budget are relatively small. The Line in Saudi Arabia, for instance, is expected to house 200,000 people after the first phase completes, with a projected cost of $100 billion. And Egypt's controversial designed to hold more will cost an estimated $58 billion. Oman's smaller ambitions has less money and fewer people, but also because the country highly values its local atmosphere, where native Omanis and work in service jobs. In Dubai, for instance, only 15% of the city's - When I visited Muscat a few years ago, one thing that was crystal was that they do not want They were really insistent on that. - [Narrator] It will take a while to see if the new model succeeds. Sultan Haitham City won't Oman needs time to convince local people they want to live here. While Oman has a high home ownership rate, the government claims 89% of its citizens own their own homes, the country is still facing and the government needs to figure out how to get people to Under the current system, in single-family homes Citizens are entitled to free but they often wait years for lots that end up being far from In Muscat, this has led with lots of traffic. - The biggest issue in the region, and not just in Muscat - [Narrator] Leaders in the region have gotten extremely rich but they make sure to spend to maintain stability. In particular, they've paid for things like free healthcare, - And this is really how have been able to secure the through housing policy. - [Narrator] But lots of the land these countries have left to dole out is farther into the desert, and will become increasingly unsustainable as resources decrease. - So there will have to be - [Narrator] Sultan Haitham in much denser neighborhoods but maintain the privacy The government is also for Muscat that would go here, connecting the new city to the old city. Metro systems have been a long-time goal for countries across the Middle East that want to reduce traffic and improve their international image, but many have found them and time-consuming. But this project isn't just about fixing the Much of the development's housing because the megaproject is also a key part of Oman doesn't currently as some of its neighbors, but the country is hoping With its picturesque setting it's one of the oldest It's also safer and than some of its neighbors. So in theory, it shouldn't need flashy and impressive projects to draw visitors. But some wonder how long it will be able to imitate neighboring - It is very difficult to of a place like Dubai. It really has this hold on people's urban and they see what is happening and they simply want to - [Narrator] But this approach often prioritizes international investment over local people. - I've coined the term dubaization, that there is a certain that Dubai is promoting, where you basically You erase all that has existed in the past and rebuild it in a different way that is based on on people not staying for the long term, but for a certain amount of time. And then of course, the building and towers and spectacular - [Narrator] Oman is already in Muscat, like this on the city's waterfront. Early rendering show the much taller than the country - It will significantly So you have that skyline Now you have these 30, in the center of the city geared So this is not social housing. That is quite problematic. - [Narrator] And while may attract investors and tourists, they often fail to help locals and can lead to more wealth disparity. This isn't as much of an issue while resources remain plentiful, but it could cause issues long term. - When you have a society then this immediately and social scientists will confirm that. The Arab Spring was really Of course, it was brutally so for the moment, things but in the long run, I don't - [Narrator] For Muscat, the question will be whether it can its local character as it or whether plans like its new waterfront will fundamentally alter it in the direction of neighbors like Dubai. - There is a way to try to to both have the spectacular and the more intimate and human-scaled. I don't think that these have How can you achieve both? It's difficult. (pensive music)