- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm and ophthalmology at This podcast is separate from at Stanford. It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is InsideTracker. InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've been getting my blood and that's where the simple reason that only through quality blood work, and now through the advent of DNA test can one really get a clear picture of what's going on with their health. Things like metabolic all the various triglycerides. These are things that can only be measured from a quality blood test. And now with DNA tests, you can get an additional window into your current health status and the trajectory of your health. What's really wonderful is that you don't just get numbers back about the specific levels and metabolic factors, you also get a lot of information about what you could or should do in to put you on the course to better health. So for instance, it will about particular foods to eat or avoid, particular exercise regimens that you might want to adopt and the frequency of those regimens in order to move those markers InsideTracker has also added a new feature that makes tracking your progress and analyzing your data even easier. For those of you that use such as the Garmin watch, that's now compatible with their platform. So you can couple your with your blood and DNA for and insights on your health. However, if you don't there's still a lot that you and their tests. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can visit And if you do that, you'll get 25% off any of InsideTracker's plans. Use the code Huberman at checkout, that's www.insidetracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of and use the code Huberman at checkout. Today's podcast is also brought to us by ExpressVPN. ExpressVPN is a virtual private network that keeps your data secure and private. It does that by routing through their servers and encrypting it, so that no one can see or sell your data. I'm familiar with the effects well enough. A few years back I had I don't know exactly how it And it was a terrible amount of work to have that reversed and secured. The great thing about ExpressVPN that it's running. I have it on my computer, I turn it on anytime I work at home or when traveling or in and it runs in the background, it doesn't change anything with my computer or the wifi. It just secures my data and about what I happen to be I don't feel like I have except my bank account passwords But with ExpressVPN, it basically you can't be tracked and no one can access or steal your data, which is terrific. So again, I use it when I'm If you want to start protecting using ExpressVPN, you can go and you'll get an extra three months free on a one-year package. That's www.expressvpn.com/huberman on any of their one-year packages. Today's podcast is also brought Athletic Greens is an all-in-one vitamin, mineral, probiotic drink, that gives you a total foundation and probiotics to support I've been using Athletic And so I'm delighted that I started using Athletic Greens and I still use Athletic because it's the simplest to get my basis of and probiotic taken care off. All of those things combined of my health, such as brain health, such as gut health. For instance, there's a showing that probiotics support gut health and that the gut brain access focus and cognition, as and various aspects of physical The list sort of goes on and on. With Athletic Greens, it has all these vitamins and minerals and various other things and I actually really So the way I use it is once a day, sometimes twice a day, I'll mix it up with water, I add a little bit of lemon or lime juice. I think it tastes great without But when I add that, it's And I'll drink that mid-morning sometimes instead and sometimes again in I'm able to drink Athletic and not have it keep me awake. If you want to try Athletic Greens, you can go to and if you do that, you They'll give you five free travel packs, which make mixing up Athletic Greens while you're on the road, And they'll give you a year Vitamin D3, as many of you know, you can get from the sun, but many people even if a lot of sun exposure, still have vitamin D3 And vitamin D3 is very important for a huge number of metabolic and other aspects of health. So once again, if you go to you'll get the five travel packs and a year supply of vitamin D3+K2. Today is the third episode about physical and and skill learning in general. And today we're going to talk for fat loss. And fat loss is something that interests a large number of people. Many people want to lose fat, many people are athletes And in general, we know that that are too high is unhealthy for us. And most people struggle to lose fat. Most people struggled to but most people especially or what we call adipose tissue. Now, this is a huge topic on the internet. There's a lot of controversy. Today, we're going to related to fat loss, and that are powerful for fat loss that I'm guessing most of you You may have heard about a few of them, but I'm guessing you haven't This episode is going to be that are gleaned from a variety of aspects of the literature, including the use of cold, including brown fat, including something called beige fat. We're going to talk about We're going to talk about all that are governed by your nervous system. And this is I think an important gap that's missing in the You can hear a lot of about the role of things like insulin and various diets like ketogenic diets or vegan diets or Mediterranean diets. And there's some great stuff out there, and there's some really and there's a lot of controversy. We did a number of episodes talking about the role of hormones on metabolism and the role of food So if you're interested in those topics, please check them out. I will touch a little Things like insulin and But today's episode is mainly how the nervous system, neurons, and some of the cells like glioma and macrophages, how those encourage or can Because it turns out they can. Remember your nervous system and your spinal cord that they make with governs everything. It's the on switch and the It's the on switch and the off switch. It turns out also for fat burning. And so the nervous system and other neurons has in the discussion about losing fat. Now, I would be remiss and I'd probably come under if I didn't just acknowledge upfront a core truth of metabolic science and also of neuroscience, frankly, which is that calories meaning how many calories you ingest, versus how many calories you burn is the fundamental and in this business of fat loss and weight management in general. There's simply no way around the fact that if you ingest far more you're likely to gain weight. And a good portion of that weight is likely to be adipose tissue fat. It's also true that if than you burn, that you will lose weight, and that a significant portion of that will come from body fat. What portion? Depends on a number of factors. But that simple formula is important. On a previous episode, I with the statements of And indeed there is Robert Lustig, who's a at UC San Francisco has talked about how highly processed that we utilize food, and can lead to higher and other metabolic syndromes that a calorie is a calorie and that's it. So a calorie is a calorie and we need to accept and meaning calories ingested But the calories burn portion by a number of things that you can control that can greatly accelerate or increase the amount of adipose tissue or the proportion of adipose tissue that you burn in response So your hormones are important. Your thermogenic milieu, meaning how warm or how cold your body is? How cold you make it, how warm you make it? But also your level of metabolism. Your levels of thyroid hormone and something that's but is well supported by how much innervation? Meaning how much connectivity there is, between your nervous system and fat. Today, we're going to talk about the fact that your body fat of various kinds, and there are several kinds of body fat are actually innervated by neurons. Neurons connect to your body fat and can change the probability that that body fat will be burned or not. So your nervous system of this process, and it plays a strong the calories burned component. So as usual, we're going to I promise I won't go and all sorts of things We're going to break down that process into two important steps. And if you can understand then the rest of the tools to understand and manage. And I do believe that with many new tools that into any kind of fat loss regimen that will greatly accelerate that process, because it's grounded in Throughout the episode, I'm going to talk about In fact, I'll mostly talk I will also talk about Many of you are into supplements. Some of you aren't, and that's fine. For those of you that an important issue in a for fat loss or otherwise of those supplements and the accuracy about what's in those et cetera. I usually mention this at but this podcast we've partnered Because Thorne we believe of stringency in terms of in their supplements and the If you want to see the supplements I take, you can go to www.thorne.com/u/huberman. You can see the supplements that I take, that will also allow you to get 20% off any of those supplements, or 20% off any of the other Thorne has partnered with the Mayo Clinic and all the major sports teams. So there's a very strong Again, you don't need to use supplements. I'm certainly not encouraging if that's not your thing, but if you're going to use supplements, make sure that your supplement source is one a very high quality. With that said, I want to get started and talk about the and how neuroscience, Before I do that, I want to set the context correctly and extract some of the key takeaways from previous episodes, because if your foundation of health and your foundation of hormones and your foundation of it's going to be very hard to get the most out of any kind of exercise In previous episodes, I and the details going We don't have time to do that now, and I want to get to the new material. However, there are a couple bins, a couple items that you should make sure you're getting correctly. And if you're not perfect about most people are not perfect about them, I'm certainly not perfect about them. But we should all be and sufficient sleep. I did four full episodes on sleep and how to get better at sleeping through things like light timing your sleep correctly if you're a night owl or a morning person. That's the first four of the Huberman Lab Podcast. Get your sleep right, get your light exposure right, avoid bright light in your eyes at times you wanted to be asleep, and get bright light in your eyes at times you want to be awake. So get your sleep right. The other thing is essential fatty acids. I talked about this in but I also talked about it We need fatty acids. They are vital to so many You don't have to get You can, if you want to, but you need to get them from your food. They are essential. There's a reason there's an Of the fatty acids, there are multiple kinds, but for the antidepressant effects where the levels of fatty acids and also healthy metabolism and we'll start to shift the on bloodborne cardiovascular factors. The key thing is to get the levels of EPA that you ingest above So that doesn't mean just or more of say fish oil or krill oil or whatever your preferred source is. It means getting above a which may require that you than just a thousand milligrams per day. That of course can be things like fatty fish, or if you're not into eating fish, you've quality meats that There are other sources of course also from plant sources. So look, those up online. It's really easy to find. But the research and the literature shows that you want to get above of EPA per day, because that's when you can and position yourself for good fat loss. As well for people who they crave sweets all the time, I talked about this in and hormones and food. That you have neurons in they're seeking essential fatty acids and they're craving and seeking Now, these are not supplements they're craving those things because that's what your body But those same neurons And so many people who are craving sugar can satisfy that sugar so to speak what they actually want, which are amino acids and That includes EPA, but and amino acid that can if you take a teaspoon of that, or even a tablespoon of You have to ease into that a little bit, because some people can get from too much glutamine. But glutamine has also been of leaky gut. It's a powerful amino acid. And yes, you can also get it from food. Things like cottage cheese are And then finally you can't to have a strong metabolism aren't correct, and your thyroid levels aren't correct. You can overdo iodine. So you don't want to do that. A lot of table salt but some people need to add iodine, by ingesting things like kelp, et cetera.. But one of the best ways to and metabolism in general, is to make sure you're Sometimes called selenium each day. Simple way to do that is to ingest the highest concentration of selenium food that I'm aware of, which is Brazil nuts, one or two or three of those per day. You'll have more than enough selenium to meet the thyroid needs. You don't want your you don't want a diet So again, sleep, sufficient EPAs, glutamine if you have or sugar cravings can really help. Get your gut microbiome, right? I may have missed saying that, but get your gut microbiome right. That does not necessarily mean you need to ingest probiotics. You can, if you want to, but you can also just or two of fermented foods per day, that can greatly assess. So things like sauerkraut, kimchi, every culture has a different source or sources of fermented foods, those can really help the gut microbiome, and then make sure that is supported through the ingestion of sufficient iodine not too much and sufficient selenium, not too much. Okay? Sleep, EPA, glutamine, fermented foods, iodine and selenium. That sets the basis for how things like exercise, cold and and other things that we're that are I'm guessing going that can really increase the of calories in versus calories burned. Okay? So on the one hand we have versus calories burned. However, I would also be an incredible study that Alia Crum at Stanford. She's a faculty member, professor in the psychology department. Looking at how belief affects, just thinking can impact like exercise on weight loss. These are just incredible results. What they did was they took subjects who were hotel service people and come in and change Divide them into two groups. One group, they were told moving around and doing your duties for your job, meet the standards for US and movement, et cetera. And a basic lecture about how movement is good for you, et cetera. But mostly just that met the standards for the US. The other group, however, was about how movement and their daily routine was very good for cardiovascular health, it could be good for And then they tracked these subjects over a period of many weeks. The take home message from this study was that simply being told can lead to weight loss, et cetera. Led to significantly more body fat loss, waist-to-hip ratio that most people would want. But essentially a slimming And all sorts of other positive effects on things like cardiovascular health. Simply by the knowledge can help various health markers. So this is remarkable and it speaks to the power of the nervous system and the power of belief in and our physiology that we're outside our conscious control. Now, of course, any of you which I imagine if you watch this podcast or listen to this podcast probably thinking, well, maybe they just moved around more, or maybe they stood up and sat down more, maybe they did something And indeed there's a strong possibility that they did things differently but the mere knowledge that that movement is good for you, shifted their behavior in the direction of enhanced weight loss, fat loss, et cetera. So how we think about a affects how we perform those activities. And how we think about and has a real effect on our physiology. So somewhere between that governs fat loss and weight loss, which is if you ingest more you'll either maintain or gain weight. Typically, you'll gain weight, although not always. If you ingest about as you'll maintain weight, typically. And if you ingest fewer typically you'll lose weight. That's the kind of rule of fat loss. And yet we also have these and this has been that how we think about a process, whether or not we think it's beneficial can change our physiology in ways that can be beneficial to us. Somewhere in between those two extremes of hardcore metabolic science and belief of why a bunch of protocols that are grounded in quality and in physiology that you can leverage to increase the rates of fat loss. And so that's what we're I love this topic and it's not that I'm so obsessed with fat loss, but rather the first the project was thermogenesis and fat loss. I joined a laboratory as an undergraduate, and the guy I worked for and how they impacted thermogenesis. And so we looked at how how antipsychotics, antidepressants, various weight loss drugs How those impacted body temperature and fat loss and metabolism? And we just had so much fun doing it. So if you detect a smile on my face, that's what that's about. And I also learned a lot, and I also came to really appreciate that this tissue of our bodies, adipose tissue and fat, we think of as just this unfortunate thing that's like we're told if we ever entered a famine You come to realize that they are there as fuel for which is our metabolism. And there's a third player. And that's where it That the nervous system, to turn up the intensity of that furnace. It has the opportunity to that we produce and therefore that we burn. And I was also really intrigued growing up, I think we all know people who can eat a tone and never Or people who seem to eat very little and seem to gain body fat very easily. And I was always intrigued by that. And it turns out there are a that relate to that. But the nervous system is the one that we can really control. Both through behaviors and what we eat, but also in terms of this thing There was one particular that does not suggest any protocol. In fact, I'm going to discourage you from following this protocol. Please do not try the compound One of the favorite things was to find rare compounds and test them. And at the time I was and I learned about a compound that was actually discovered of World War II. And it was discovered who were working in these factories would take a brush and or a paint rather, and they would then paint onto things like bombs and And they were losing weight like crazy. It turns out that occasionally and then they would go back on the brush, and then they would paint and missiles and so forth. Bombs and so forth. And they started shedding And many of them losed, excuse a significant portion of their weight without changing anything what they were eating, et cetera. It turned out that that compound is something called Dinitrophenol, DNP. And over the years Dinatrophenol, in some niche cultures, mainly bodybuilders, athletes It is a absolutely terrible because it's highly fatal goes too high. Hyperthermia will kill you. And indeed many people have as a weight loss drug or attempting to use it as a weight loss drug. But Dinitophenol really which is that your like thyroid hormone and But your body temperature and the way you utilize energy is controlled by your nervous system. And the way Dinatrophenol works and the way that the change the way fat burns up. So we are not going to suggest, I am not suggesting that However, there are other things that you can do that can between these neurons in ways that can powerfully And I don't know why we don't but probably because most of what you see out there on the internet focuses more on what you could eat and should eat or shouldn't eat. It concentrates on exercise regimens which we will also talk about. But the burn factor, your thermogenic if not the most important factors in this business of fat loss. And since I'm a neuroscientist that's what we're going to talk about. So let's talk about fat utilization. Let's talk about how fat which is sometimes also What I'd like you to know is that this is a two-part process. Okay? In reality, there are And if you log onto the internet, or you open up a textbook fat utilization, you're going to see a lot of chemistry. And I'm happy to go deep into But I think most of you in what are the leverage points? Where can you exert control that benefit you? So I'm going to focus mainly on those. Okay? This is not to upset the aficionados and I will put in some There's two parts to this process. One, is fat mobilization. And the second is fat Okay? So the first thing that to get burned up or used and reduced is that it has to get mobilized. And that's a process called lipolysis, but I actually don't care if you just have to move that that it's in. You have to get it out of the fat cells. All right? Fat cells can be visceral or they can be subcutaneous Most people are thinking when they think about fat. So here's the deal. And if you want more detail, great, I'll touch on that in a bit. But basically stored fat has two parts that are relevant here. It's got the fatty acid part, and that's the part And that's attached to and they're linked by a backbone. So already, probably too much But what you want is you So if you just can you got to break the backbone between glycerol and these fatty acids. Okay? That's accomplished by but you can forget all that if you want. Remember, we're just So the first step is to moving around in the bloodstream to get them out of those fat cells. And then they can travel And that second part, remember first part is mobilization. The second part is oxidation. Is then those fatty acids, those are potential fuel. They're just potential fuel, but you haven't burned the fat yet, you've just moved it They're going to go into cells And once they are inside those cells, they're still not burned up. You need to oxidize them. Think oxidation is the burnup part. They need to be moved and then they can be converted So just to really zoom I don't lose anybody. You got to mobilize the fat, then you have to oxidize the fat. In other words, you have to mobilize it, then you actually have to If you just mobilize it, and you don't convert it into energy, you don't oxidize it, it can be returned to body fat. And many of the things that is to increase the mobilization of fat, but also the oxidation of fat. Okay? So you have two opportunities and both of those by your nervous system. By neurons that literally that we call axons into that provide a stimulus to be mobilized, and then later for more of Okay? So we could go really deep on this, but I'm not going to go because this isn't a biochemistry of fatty acid metabolism lecture. This is about how to burn fat But remember, there's a mobilization step, and then there's an oxidation step. I think anyone of you, all of you should be Mobilize then oxidize. Okay? Mobilize then oxidize. So what are these neurons What are they releasing exactly? How do they actually And how do they increase fat oxidation? Burning of fat. Well, there are a couple that encourage that process. And the main one that you need or adrenaline. The conversion of these in the mitochondria of cells Okay? And adrenaline is Adrenaline is released which set a top our And it's also released from the so-called Although that name is a bit of a misnomer, because it has nothing has to do with stimulating alertness and promoting action of the body. There's a big mistake in the literature that is finally being The mistake in the literature and the release of adrenaline and fat oxidation. In fact, it was thought for a long time that adrenaline swimming of when you're fasted, because fasting can increase adrenaline or when you're engaging or when you're stressed is That's actually not the case. The adrenaline that the burning of fat is coming from neurons that actually connect to the fat, not hormones like adrenaline in your system. It's a local process. And this is very important what you do, the specific and the specific environment you create that can stimulate these meaning to release fat, to mobilize it and then to burn it, is going to be a powerful in order to increase fat loss. So what have we said so far? We've said that you've got to and that your nervous system It's not just about calorie deficit. Okay, so let's talk about how to activate the nervous system in more liberation, movement, and more oxidation of fat. So one of the most powerful which is also called that connect to fat and more fat mobilization and But I'm not talking about exercise. The type of movement is extremely subtle. And some of you may be familiar but I'm guessing you're with what I'm about to tell you, which is that shiver or for the release of adrenaline and the increase in fat But shiver is not just induced by cold, and there are other that can greatly increase There was a group in England that discovered a pathway by can greatly increase fat loss. This is the work of Rothwell and Stock. It's very famous in the And I learned about this early on, when I was an undergraduate and I asked, how did they come across this? And here's how the story goes. They were aware that some people overeat and yet don't put on weight. Other people overeat and they seem to accumulate Now, this is long before about microbiome and it was long before many besides insulin had even been discovered. What they did was they and did not gain weight. And what they observed was in lots of subtle movement In other words, they were fidgeters. And that's what they call them. I'm not going to do the British But Roth and Stock were British. What they found were people that overeat but don't gain weight as a consequence. And in fact, many people who had a lot of resting tremor, not of the Parkinsonian type, but they would bounce their when they would talk, they would engage in they were sort of electric. In fact, now in science, I was chuckling about into this literature, because the other day I on a totally different topic and we all adore him. He's over in Europe and he's this tremendously So we like to poke fun at him. And every one of his movements and staccato. And he's rail thin and And so it fits very of Rothwell and Stock who discovered that fidgeters people people that have a head bob people that nod a lot, people that stand up and sit and people that pace to 2,500 calories more in the experiments that they looked at. And indeed, there's been a and these numbers check out that simply moving around a lot, even if those are subtle movements, greatly increases the amount And people who overeat, the people who can have the or doughnuts at all and to the same degree, they are people that move They're are people that very quickly as well. There even have been studies that correlate with fidgeters. Fidgeters stand up very or they start to gather whereas non fidgeters don't. So dogs like my bulldog Costello, Every movement is incredibly Sitting down as a process, if you ask him to sit down You ask him to get up and he kind of looks at The fidgeter is the You say, how are you doing? They go, great. So even sometimes their although not always. But staccato movements, And in 2015, and again in 2017, there've been studies using some modern metabolic tracking and indeed simply moving a lot, being a fidgeter, bouncing your knee, standing up and pacing several times or many times throughout the day led to considerable amounts when people were ingesting if they overate, they and burn off that food. And if they were trying to lose weight and they incorporated of deliberately trying to fidget more and move around during the day, pace, stand up more quickly, sit down more often, sit down and stand up more often rather. They found that they greatly anywhere from 20 to 30% increases. And in some cases, you know, who burned a lot more. It seems to work best in people who are already slightly overweight. So for people that are overweight, who are kind of averse to exercise, fidgeting might actually And 800 to 2,500 calories of calories when you Now, why am I telling you this? Well, there's clearly a which is that you can increase without having to go on I do hope that people because it's so important and body health. But nonetheless, we are all time limited and we are not all so I have a family member into exercise, but if I were to tell her, for instance, you need to fidget more, So this is a powerful way that are burned. Now, that's great. And you can think about the protocols. But I want to nest that protocol in what I said before, which is that, fat is and the epinephrin they release. You might say, well, how could lead to so much caloric burn? And that's where it Rothwell and Stock and subsequently found that these the engagement of certain that are nothing like exercise. It's not these large coordinated but rather subtle little And here I am doing a lot of tapping the pen, this kind of thing. I was probably that kid And I was like, I try not but I was definitely a knee bouncer. I'm not particularly lean or not. But I was definitely... This is a common activity for me. People that do that sort of thing, it turns out that it's not that we normally think of, of like, oh, you'll swimming, yoga, et cetera. Those subtle movements not just the core, but all our limbs and our musculature, those low level movements, they trigger epinephrin and they stimulate the And then that fat is And I find this fascinating. I wish more people knew about it, which is why I'm telling This has nothing to do with exercise in the traditional form, and yet 800 to 2,500 calories per day. That's a considerable If you are in a calorie maintenance mode or if you're sub caloric, that's going to add to it The data on this are tremendous. I'll link to a few studies. If you're really interested in learning about what's called neat. N-E-A-T which is non-exercise NEAT. So what's the protocol? Fidget. If you're really interested and you already exercise, you want to burn more or you don't have the or you're averse to exercise fidgeting, movements, staccato movement, standing up, walking around, pacing, all the sort of nervous activities that were so critical of other people and sometimes in ourselves are actually mobilizing and oxidizing a lot of fat and a lot of energy. And while this probably won't compensate for chronic overeating, the caloric burn from and very likely can offset a meal that had excessive calories or a kind of steady And it also starts to open and discussion about when you travel, you tend to eat foods your normal ones. We tend to eat foods that we also tend to be a when we travel we're on But all of that aside, just the use of something And it's almost like a tremor, but also these select short, I'm intentionally doing So you have examples that you can use to select from if you like. These can have a major effect on fat loss and it raises a second tool. If these low, meaning that we engage in trigger from these neurons of the that innervate fat and increase fat mobilization and oxidation. Now, it should make sense why shivering is one of the strongest stimuli that one can incorporate Now, shivering is almost We think shivering, we think cold, because when we get cold, we shiver. And there are two ways that And there are several ways you can leverage shivering and you can leverage cold But you have to do it correctly. And most of the people that are using cold and frankly suggesting cold as a means to increase metabolism fat loss are suggesting the exact wrong protocol. In fact, the one I'm going in the opposite direction that you'd hear about. So let's talk about how to use cold and how to leverage shiver as to increase fat loss through of these fatty acids. So in recent years there's in the use of cold for improving stress tolerance, improving metabolism, I've talked about a number of those things and the uses of cold on this podcast. In fact, did an episode on through palmer cooling, cooling the palms in specific ways or the And if you're interested in that, and how to improve performance you can check out that episode. But most people out there typically by taking cold showers or by getting into cold a lake or a river or a And they are doing that meaning they both would like and burn fat, as well as Since today, we're talking through the use of science-based tools. I want to emphasize a study just a couple of years ago, showing exactly how cold Okay? So we have several kinds of fat. Three kinds in fact. We have white fat, white adipose tissue, and we have brown fat And there's a third kind White fat is the type think of as fat, subcutaneous fat. And it is not particularly It is there as an energy storage site and we have to mobilize the fat out as we talked about before Brown fat largely exists and on the back of our And it's rich with mitochondria which is why it's called brown fat. And brown fat has a whereby it can take food energy, it can take food, basically, break it down and convert it And there's some but unlike fatty acids from white fat which have to travel elsewhere get broken down in mitochondria and convert into ATP, et cetera. Used by the mitochondria rather. Brown fat is thermogenic. It can actually use energy directly. It skips a step, and I by going into all the biochemistry of it. Beige fat is sort of in between. It's white fat that could be brown fat, because it has some mitochondria in it, but not as many as brown fat. Now, cold exposure does several things. Making ourselves cold mental resilience because doesn't matter if it's a cryochamber, doesn't matter if it's a cold day and you forgot your sweater or your parka. It doesn't matter if it's an ice bath or you're lying down in the snow. Cold causes the release of And it causes the release of epinephrin from these neurons that connect to fat. Now, the big effects of cold on metabolism and fat burning are going One, is that if you you have the opportunity to as well as to convert more So you essentially create a That's the way to think about brown fat. It's like a furnace. And so with this principle that we started with a calories What you're doing is you're of burning, you're increasing the burn of energy by increasing the intensity so to speak. Okay? I'm talking here kind of metaphorically. Now, how can you do that? Well, if you get into cold water or an ice bath or a cold day, and you try and remain you actually short circuit this mechanism for increasing The paper published in nature shows that it is shivering itself that causes the brown fat your burn rate and your metabolism. And it works like this, when you get into cold and you shiver, the shivering that low level those small movements triggers called succinate. S-U-C-C-I-N-A-T-E, succinate. And succinate acts on the brown fat to increase brown fat thermogenesis It actually increases body heat through this brown fat And it also over time can by converting beige fat Now, how much cold exposure and how often? That's the key. But before I give that Remember if you resist the shiver, you are not going to get the because you are not going to So if you want to get your body heat, your thermogenic level to go up, you need to shiver. So now we have the NEAT, the non-exercise activity thermogenesis. So low levels of activity which are done away from cold, maybe do them in cold as well. As well as shiver in response to cold. And so the shiver itself is valuable for triggering the release of succinate. In fact, succinate is being evolved now by various drug manufacturers as a potential treatment for obesity. Although it hasn't really hit the market in its final form yet. Succinate is powerful for So how many times a week do you need to expose yourself to cold? Will depend on how much and how much you're trying There are studies that describe of exposing yourself to cold, either through cold or other cold water. It doesn't have to provided it's cold enough excuse me, between one But it turns out that can be valuable. The question then is how long to get into that cold environment? And how cold should that environment be? So first let's talk about how long to get into that cold environment? The answer here might be than you might imagine. Most of you might think, oh, well if one minute is and if three minutes is better But remember the goal is release of succinate, so that succinate can It turns out that if you what you want to do is and then get out of the cold and then get back into the that will definitely than just getting into the cold itself. So what I'm not referring to, is getting into the cold and waiting until you shiver Okay? You also don't want to get hypothermic. And I want to be clear. You want to get approval from your doctor before you do any of this. When you get into cold water, there are two factors that will dictate whether or not you shiver. Probably three, but let's just talk about the main two. One, is how cold it is. So how cold should it be? And look, if you get into It can actually shock your heart. It can actually give you a heart attack if it's truly, truly ice cold, and you're not adapted to that. So proceed with caution, please. I'm not a physician and I don't Just cold enough to be uncomfortable is a good place to start. So for some of you that's for some of you that's for some of you it's going Depends on how cold adapted you are, and people vary in terms of how So what you need to do that you can get into one to five, probably one to three times a week. If you really want this And you want to get in until and then you want to wait anywhere from one to three minutes and then get back into the cold. Now, you'll notice when it'll almost seem soothing, it might actually not induce shiv... It might take away the So here's a potential that you can play with. Find a temperature then That's going to vary depending and how cold adapted you are. One to three, maybe five times a week, get in until you... Or get under the shower or whatever it is, until you start to shiver. Genuinely shiver. Then after about a minute or so, get out, spend one to three minutes get back in for anywhere but try and access the shiver point again. And you might do three So it's three times in Okay? That's a great starting place. And what you don't want to to cold so fast, that pretty soon you're because remember the shiver is the source of the succinate release that will trigger brown fat thermogenesis. So if you'd like to see you can access it zero cost at a website which is www.thecoldplunge.com. The Cold Plunge is a company and they were kind enough to gift one to the Human Lab Podcast. But I want to emphasize that The folks at the Cold Plunge in marketing their product, but one of their main to engage in cold exposure and goals like fat loss, Resisting inflammation. But their main focus is and encouraging people to use not just through their products, but through cold rivers and things like cold showers, whatever is most convenient and accessible for various people. And so we needed a place these protocols in a permanent way, and not just for this episode. But so what they've agreed to do is, to post the protocols there, they should be very easy This particular protocol we're referring to as the fat loss optimization protocol for lack of a better name. And it's really grounded in how cold it can be used to induce shiver. And again, it doesn't really matter how you're accessing that cold, provided you access to the shiver, and you're moving from to a slightly warmer environment. So getting out of the cold shower or getting out of the ice bath, et cetera, or out of the cold plunge, and then back in. Because it turns out that the cooling and rewarming process of the And so that's distinctly different than just trying to get into the cold and stay in the cold And if you zoom out a little bit and think about some examples in life, you'll understand why For instance, people who do you have these polar bear clubs, I think they call themselves. They do these cold water swims. I would sometimes see these to Alcatraz and stuff like and they tell me it's very stimulating for the mind and body. Great. Sometimes those people are very lean, oftentimes they're not, and they're getting a And one of the things that happens is, if you expose yourself you adapt, you become cold adapted. And when you do that, you no longer get the epinephrine, the adrenaline release from the cold and therefore you don't and the shivering and the quite as intensely. So if you want to use and certainly cold water swims can be fun. And there's, you know, long they're great. I've gotten into cold water swimming for some period of time. You can use cold for But if you want to use then getting this shiver and rewarming which or increases the amount of shiver. That's going to be the way to go. One note about cold that it releases. A few years back there about this hormone called which was associated with cold. And there was a lot of excitement about its potential role so much so that people this as a potential fat loss drug. To my knowledge that went nowhere. The science eventually as the main factor in through this brown fat pathway. But if anyone out there is aware of any positive effects of iricin or of any signs of irisin or that I'm speaking about I'd be very curious to learn. Now, I want to just talk about and talk about a period in your life in which you were rich with brown fat, you had a ton of brown fat, and that's when you were a baby. Babies can't shiver. These neurons that release are not wired up and really aren't present at sufficient levels or when you are a baby. And therefore you can't shiver as a baby, and you can't warm yourself very well. To compensate for that, mother nature installed in all of us an excess of brown fat early in life that exists again in the upper back, and the middle of the back Over time if we don't expose or do other things that make a shiver, we lose a lot of that brown fat, but what's interesting about brown fat is that there's some evidence that brown fat just like white fat can both increase in size, but that you can also add new cells. Now, there's a little bit controversial. People always say you can't you can just shrink them Well, it turns out that from these little nerve and succinate circulating in the body may and I want to underscore of increasing the amount probably by converting these So that allows us to become where we metabolized like crazy and we'd heat ourselves Some people have taken the putting ice packs on throughout the day. Did a episode all about and there's this, let's I have to imagine very, who are wearing literally, I'm not joking. They are these cool pack They go by a name that I'm but you can find them on Amazon. Those are people that are and on the groin to like testosterone. But as well to try and and trying to increase their metabolism. Just remember if you become cold adapted, you're not going to get to the same degree. So cold is a powerful tool for fat loss, but you don't want to adapt. This is reminiscent of a rule that you hear about in endurance exercise and in strength exercise as well, which is, that you want to use to promote growth or progress. So growth of a muscle or If you go 10% further you will likely see an provided your recovery the and do that same round of exercise. You'll be able to do more work or complete the work You've adapted. If you do 20% more distance you won't necessarily see the same commiserate level of gain or improvement. And so likewise with cold, if you're quickly moving to 10 minutes of exposure, you're overlooking the opportunity and increase in metabolism in smaller increments. Okay? And this also speaks to the rationale for using cold exposure for certain periods, but then maybe not doing it year round. If fat loss is your goal, maybe use it for two, and then stop for two, because it is such a potent stimulus provided you engage in the shiver. Next I'd like to move to exercise and types of exercise can Before I do that, I just want to mention a for those of you that are how neurons connect to fat? This is certainly a paper if you're interested in diving and reading all the various studies. It's a review. And the title of the review of white adipose tissue and That's neural innervation and the control of lipolysis. It was published in Frontiers You can find that free online. They have the full text available. The first author is It's a great review. And I've talked about a number of things that are mentioned in the review. Follow the references in that review and the reference trail as we say, if you're interested also how neurons control brown fat. And before I moved to exercise, I also just want to highlight something that comes up every few years and has largely been considered myth now, but that is actually more interesting than most people might think, which is this issue of spot reduction. You know, in the 80s and 90s, there were a lot of commercials, late night infomercials, where they would talk If you do sit ups, will If you do hip raises or glute raises, will you lose gluten hip fat. And I think everybody and understands that fat metabolism is something that happens That some body fat is than others. Everyone varies in where or lose fat last. Number of factors that influence that, and in particular hormone receptors. But now at least in the spot reduction and the possibility of real true spot reduction reductions a body part or body area targeted way is becoming more of a reality because exercise that of these nerve fibers, these neurons that innervate fat. In theory, if you can increase released at those particular they're actually called fat pads in the scientific literature. In theory, you could increase mobilization from those particular body fat sites. Okay? So because the new view that is that it's not adrenaline kind of bathing all your fat tissue, but rather its neurons epinephrin locally that in theory, exercise that stimulates or exercise coupled or low grade shaking movement, or the NEAT, the non-exercise could in theory lead to local enhancement of mobilization of fat tissue. So I think that spot reduction actually will soon be using the appropriate technology. What does this mean for you now? What could you possibly do Well, I think it speaks to the fact that if one is going to engage in exercise that doing exercises that involve lots of different body parts and movements is likely to encourage the maintenance and or growth of these neurons that innervate fat throughout the body. What this means is changing engaging in novel types of movements may actually be one these so-called stubborn body fat pads. Now, there's a little bit of speculation in the statement that I'm making, but if you think about it it makes sense. If you become very adapted of exercise, whether or not you're subcaloric or not, you're on maintenance calories are not, you are oxidizing some fat always, and you're utilizing the in a regular way. And pretty soon this innervation because there's no reason why should continue to release epinephrin unless you give it a or the fidgeting or in this case to do novel forms of exercise. And there's some anecdotal evidence and I don't even want to call it data, but anecdotal evidence quote on quote stubborn body fat, if they start to adopt they can start to access And again, fat pads is the correct way to refer to these in the So what we're focusing that fat indeed will be in response to a deficit in calories. But that the way that neurons and those body fat stores, affords you a lot more control than perhaps you ever previously thought. So let's talk about movement. And the more traditional aka exercise has been in metabolism and fat depending on whether or not for, instance you're fasted whether or not you do your cardio first or your resistance training first. And this is again in the literature for which there's a lot of controversy, but in digging through we're finally starting to when is best to do exercise? And what types of exercise to The topic of exercise is a not as controversial as nutrition and diet which we will talk about in a few minutes. But it's a particularly interesting one, because different types the musculature of the body in different ways, and can have vastly like hormones and metabolism or not it's of high intensity, moderate intensity or low intensity. So rather than think about weight training versus cardiovascular exercise, I think the most simple way, the most fluid way to have this and fat loss is in terms of Whether or not it's done doesn't really matter. And those are high Something that's seems to have in recent years. So-called HITT, H-I-I-T. So high intensity interval training. Sprint interval training. So that's going to be very or moderate intensity So we've got HIIT, SIT and MICT, M-I-C-T. And we can get a little bit I'm not somebody who measures while I exercise. I generally know whether I could continue for a very long time, or whether or not I'm doing something that I realize is going high-intensity. But if you'd like to this sprint interval training was defined as all out greater than 100% of VO2 max bursts of activity that intersperse with less So this would be sprinting downfield for eight to 30 seconds, then maybe walking back and then sprinting again So that would be SIT. HIIT, H-I-I-T is defined as submaximal, so 80 to a hundred percent that lasts 60 to 240 seconds intersperse with less So on a standard 400 meter track, just to give this a a four minute mile would be although people run faster So that's four 60 seconds laps, but that's back to back to back. I think in my best shape or I don't recall which I around the track, but of course I couldn't or third or fourth if I in the fantasy land and not reality. But 60 seconds would around the track, maybe 90 seconds, depending So 60 to 240 seconds. MICT okay. This moderate intensity is steady state cardio these days on the internet, which has performed continuously at moderate intensity or if you prefer heart rate Okay? So we can think about high, medium and low intensity exercise. Although low intensity usually means that you could carry on a conversation, or maybe you have to gasp while trying to talk and run. That's I think going to to have this conversation because there's so many that people do and intensity is important. Let's ask the question are wondering about, which is, is it better? Meaning do you burn more fat And fasted in this respect in the morning, you've been fasting all night, you just hydrate and you exercise or sometimes people will ingest caffeine, there's controversy as to whether breaks the fast. It has to do with whether something for another episode. In any case that would be fasted. So probably not having eaten anything for anywhere from three to As you could also be If you had lunch at noon and it's four or five or 6:00 p.m. Is it, will you burn more fat if you exercise without without ingesting any calories first? And people have tried to every which way people say, well, you can fat fast, because fat and protein doesn't lead to as great increases in maybe you can have a few And indeed insulin will I want to be really clear. The burning part of fat in the cell, the movement of the fatty and the conversion ATP, However, it's been shown that it least for short it doesn't really seem to before training or you don't, if your goal is fat oxidation. Now, I want to put an asterix near that, because there are some exceptions. But there were several studies done that, and the kind of the classic ones of these, I'll read out to you. What they basically did is they to increase their blood And the kind of classic study So in 1976, so it goes way back, which is that glucose reduces And then some other studies they're very easy to find on PubMed. You put in Horowitz 1999, [indistinct] is another drink milk with glucose in it. So sweet sugary milk And you can find a number of examples where eating before exercise that's oxidized during the exercise. And you can also find a lot eating during exercise will not reduce the amount However, the types of exercise whether I was medium or low intensity is all over So it's very hard to And then if you look really you start to find meta analysis where people have actually and some modern studies where it points to some very specific And so here's the rule that I extracted from that literature. At a period of about 90 minutes of moderate intensity exercise, I want to be clear, at about or after 90 minutes There's a switchover point whereby if you ate before the exercise, you will reduce, excuse me, you will burn far less fat than you would if you had So let me repeat that. If it's moderate intensity, so-called zone two cardio type exercise, at the 90 minute point, if you happen to have within one to three hours then you reduce the amount from 90 minutes onward, whereas if you had fasted you hadn't eaten anything to the exercise. At the 90 minute point, you will start to burn had you eaten. Now, 90 minutes of moderate So that's a pretty long run. Even if you're running like a 10 or 12 minute mile, that's a lot of swimming. So that's a lot of walking, that's a lot of hiking. However, there are people who or running all day or walking all day. And if you want to burn you want to oxidize more fat Now, there are also studies that you don't have to wait to 90 minutes in order to get this The studies I was able to find and that looked to me like with no company bias or no These are studies that were largely funded by the federal government pointed the fact that if one or even the very high like sprints or squats or deadlifts or any kind of activity for more than these, you know, eight or I would say up to 60 seconds. So a set of lifting if that's done for so weight training or power lifting or these kinds of things or up to 60 minutes, we'll then the switchover point in which you can burn more fat, if you go into that fasted comes earlier. And this makes sense about the 90 minute point Zone 2 cardio. That 90 minute point is the point in which the body shifts over basically, sugar that comes and realizes this is going on for a while, I'm going to shift over that is in reserve like body fat. This is going to happen for a while, so I'm going to start Now, fat doesn't have It is innervated by neurons, And you don't actually control This is something that of various hormones. What has to happen is insulin So if you ate before the exercise, you'd have an increase in insulin, if you ate carbohydrates you'd have a bigger increase indeed you'll have and fasting will give you Well, then that switch over in the exercise. And if you think about if high intensity for 20, 30, 40 minutes, so maybe lift weights and If you are fasted, the literature says that you're going to burn than if you had eaten before So what does this mean? This means if you want if it's in your protocols and you have been approved exercise intensely for 20 to 60 minutes, the higher the intensity that about is going to be, and then move over into Zone 2 cardio. And if you do that fasted or I should say. And if you do that fasted, then indeed you will burn a If you need to eat or you that also can work. And if you train very intensely, you're likely to shift over more quickly as well. So again, this isn't really an issue of how long you exercise. It's an issue of how and therefore what fuel So hopefully I've made that clear, but basically you need to deplete glycogen or through high intensity exercise and then move to a steady state exercise that will allow you to burn more fat. Or you need to perform a medium intensity or low intensity type exercise before you shift over to burning fat. And indeed it seems that will facilitate the burning But if you can't even get to the exercise, if you're somebody who just you're unwilling to or unless you eat something, then obviously eating And what you eat prior to exercise, that's a whole other biz and fight about whether into it with low carbohydrates But in general, the theme Which is that you want insulin if your goal is body fat reduction, if you want to oxidize body fat. So fasting in some cases, fat fasting and other cases where you're just ingesting fats. Fat and protein, in some it will be eating carbohydrates. I'm not here to dictate a That's just how the hormone and fat oxidation works. Now, one thing that's very interesting and cannot be overlooked is this issue of how much energy you burn And some of you probably but the whole business of and people counting the number of calories they burn during their aerobic session or during their whatever session is only one half of the equation and it really eclipses which is how much of an does a given exercise And we could talk for hours about this, but the simple way to view this is that, high intensity training, of weight training, sprints, I don't know these days I to do burpees that people So I'm not suggesting any You have to decide what's right for you. I do burpees. I don't seem to be injured from them, but I hear that they're So anyway, push-ups, sit-ups, whatever it happens to be that's of higher intensity or sprints taps into glycogen stores and we'll burn more energy per unit time than moderate intensity. High intensity burns more That's straightforward. What's interesting is that all the studies that I was able to find on what happens after that type of exercise showed that the percentage of fat that you burn after high intensity In other words, you burn a lot of glycogen during the high intensity exercise. And then after the exercise, the post exercise oxygen consumption as it sometimes called goes up. We know this after you train intensely that post exercise oxygen sometimes for up to 24 hours. And it is during that period of time that you oxidize more fat not glycogen. Now, what's interesting is for people that do long bouts of low or moderate intensity exercise. So typically this would swimming, biking, et cetera. So 60, 90 minutes, two hours maybe even people that or half marathons, when they stop training, they burn more glycogen, even though they were burning during the low intensity exercise. So there's this kind of inversion. High-intensity burns more more body fat afterwards. Moderate to low intensity more body fat is oxidized than glycogen during the actual exercise So I don't want this The point is you should that you're going to do regularly, but it does seem that the followed by moderate intensity exercise is going to be optimal Because when you look at the and you look at the overall increase in basal metabolic rate, moderate and high intensity training followed by low intensity training or even just followed is going to be the best way because of the ways that it This could be distilled whereby three or four times a week you do high intensity training or followed by low intensity training especially if you're And I should just mention about fasted is about performance. If you want to perform really well, this is for reasons of performance and you want to, you know, it's it's not for body fat purposes. Well, then all of this kind of falls away and is modified by what's But what we're talking about today is how to optimize body fat loss. So train moderately to very high intensity and then moderate to low intensity, or train moderate to high intensity, and then go about life. And in fact, I have a friend He likes the train intensely and not that often protocol So he'll train for 20 with weights or just body he does burpees and push-ups and just kind of moving and But where he's breathing really hard, the goal he always says is, I want to breathe hard And then afterwards he and moves into his day. And he's walking around and taking calls and carrying around his children and doing all these kinds of things that keep him really busy which is kind of like low intensity work. So I think you get the principle now. But you should all be asking yourselves as scientists of yourselves. Why would it be that would lead to more or less fat loss? I mean, it can't just be We already established that. And again, it has to do with the neurons. It has to do with how we So while non-exercise activity the fidgeting and cold by engaging shiver tight Big movements that are meaning they require a lot of effort, deploy a lot of adrenaline and signal particular types and amounts of fat whereas low level intensity exercise, low or moderate intensity exercise, walking, running, biking where you can do that easily, there's not very much adrenaline release. So adrenaline aka epinephrin is really the final common path by which movement of any kind, whether or not it's low level shiver, whether or not it's lifting or doing a long bike ride. Adrenaline is the effector of fat loss. It's the trigger end, it's the effector. So now I want to turn our that increase epinephrin and adrenaline, as well as compounds that work outside the adrenaline epinephrin pathway to increase the rates of fat loss. I almost always save and things of that sort to the end, because I do believe that towards behavioral tools and before they look toward a supplement or a particular thing that This is mainly to try from the kind of magic that there is a magic pill And frankly, there never will be. But there are some compounds that can greatly increase fat And understanding which or mobilization can be very useful if your goal is to accelerate fat loss. There are things that people can ingest that will allow them to oxidize more fat. And that occurs mainly of epinephrin that is that innovate fat tissue. One of the more common ones is one that you may already be It's well-established that if you're caffeine adapted. I talked about this in an earlier episode so I want to make sure If you are not used to drinking caffeine and you suddenly decide I'm going to drink a big cup of coffee before training, you will vasoconstrict and So that's performance. If you're caffeine adapted however, there's this kind of where ingestion of caffeine serves more as a performance enhancer, both by increasing alertness, but also by way of dilating vasculature of allowing more blood flow. Now, caffeine for burning and mobilizing more fat It can be effective at You have to be careful if Some people have just the and their mind goes crazy, and they're very uncomfortable. It can have cardiovascular or hypertension, et cetera. So please check with your doctor. But 400 milligrams is roughly or two cups of coffee. Nowadays, there's a lot So if you go to a typical cafe and you were to get their medium-sized that would have close which is why, if you're a and you don't get that gram of caffeine in your coffee each day, It can cause constriction in ways that's complicated, but you'll get a headache. Some people like the 100 to 200, 300 maybe 400 before training. And indeed that will lead It will do that because you and adrenaline. So let's just place this in the context of what we said previously. Let's say you normally do Zone 2 cardio, so you're going out for for 30 to 60 minutes or so. I think the current recommendation are that people engage in 30 minutes of moderate intensity for that's 150 minutes. If their goal is to improve or maintain health of the 80% of people in the United or anything close to it. We are way below threshold has recommended. In this case, the I think are pretty good. That's one could always But 80% of people aren't even doing that. However, just using the logic and the understanding of is affecting this fat oxidation process. If you were to go out for 15 minutes and you drank caffeine before you went, yes, you'll probably oxidize Can you compensate for the exercise you're not doing just Well, probably if you were if that caffeine makes The amount of calories that unless the run is very intense and you're wearing a weight it's not that great, right? Then you probably get you in somewhere into the 400, 500 calories burned area. But I said earlier, and to support that fidgeting for a day can burn anywhere from 800 So you might say, well, ah, but it doesn't trigger the activation and the positive health effects of the cardiovascular system. So fidgeting alone can be great, but you need exercise for other reasons. Caffeine can enhance the amount of fat that you burn in any duration of exercise. And it can shift the percentage of fat that you oxidize compared to glycogen. Unless you take that caffeine that you're training The bottom line is, if you like caffeine and ingesting somewhere between prior to exercise somewhere before exercise can be beneficial if we're talking about fat So that's caffeine. There are a number of other things that have existed over the things like ephedrine which I think maybe an all states because people were dropping because they were heating up too much. It's interesting it wasn't causing heart attack. It could trigger by way If you'd like to know, increases in body temperature and heat. Now, those drugs turned because people were overheating and dying. There was also the big Fen-Phen craze. That was a drug that was which actually was quite effective as an anti obesity drug, a treatment for obesity that It was FDA approval was removed because again people were dying because of cardiovascular effects. I don't know if people were So what is the solution? If caffeine is the kind of the of using compounds to increase the rate or percentage of fat loss in what are some of the other and interesting? Well, in terms of tools and have reasonable safety margins, I've talked before about This is something that can be triggered by the ingestion of yerba and I guess because I'm half Argentine, we grew up drinking mate. I think I was drinking mate from the time I was about three or four years old. I don't suggest that for kids. I don't think kids should But anyway I did it and Mate increases GLP-1. GLP-1 is in the glucagon pathway. So let's just quickly As you recall, fat is and then it's burned up. It's oxidized in cells. It actually needs to And those fatty acids are in the mitochondria of the cell. High insulin prevents that from happening and glucagon facilitates that process. Glucagon facilitates that process through increases in GLP-1. The short takeaway is mate increases GLP-1 and yes, increases the percentage It increases fat burning. And that is especially true, it turns out from the if you ingest mate prior So if you want to burn before exercise is good. Drinking it at rest when will also help shift your metabolism toward enhanced burning of fat Now, there's a whole that's being developed right now that are in late stage trials or are in use for the which capitalize on this GLP-1 pathway. They go by various names and there are people on the internet who are selling these things. They are prescription drugs and I want to emphasize that and you obviously wouldn't want to use any of these without a It does seem that they are effective for the treatment of and lead to fairly significant weight loss and reduction in appetite. So this is kind of the is pharmaceuticals of GLP-1 metabolism are drugs such as somatical, I can never pronounce this. I can't seem to pronounce Semaglutide is the way S-E-M-A-G-L-U-T-I-D-E. Semaglutide but that's not But Semaglutide is the way on the internet. In any case, this It's actually a GLP-1 and they go by various So the GLP-1 pathway is interesting. Most people, including myself, are not interested in to increase GLP-1, I do it through the ingestion of mate. I just get the mate leaves, What's kind of interesting, that's not often discussed is that you can increase you can essentially reuse the tea. The first time you drink it And in fact, some people find that mate almost tastes like burnt leaves. It's too intense. You don't want the water to be too hot. But I learned this trick from a friend. You can reuse the leaves probably for about a And in doing that, you start of the compounds from the mate So it's kind of cool. You can kind of get an increased effect. So what I'll typically do is and just sip it throughout the day, and I do like it before I train. Some people who don't like mate might prefer something like guayusa, which is spelled G-U-A-Y-U-S-A. G-U-A-Y-U-S-A, guayusa despite the USA ending to it. It's from Ecuador. And it's a sweeter tasting tea. It doesn't have any sweetener in it, but the leaf of the than the mate plant. I sometimes will mix the two and then make the tea with that. There's no mate or guayusa These are just tools to increase And again, the Semaglutide of the that's kind of the heavy and again should be only So those are the compounds that really increase There are going to be a number and glucagon that are toward more fat burning. We talked about a lot of on hormones. We talked about it. We did a whole episode on And so for instance, berberine, which comes from a plant that are now in kind of growing use for reducing blood glucose. They are very potent at which will reduce insulin because the job of the hormone insulin is to in the bloodstream. So there are a huge gallery of compounds that will reduce insulin and thereby can increase fat oxidation. And that's because, as I mentioned before, fat oxidation, this conversion in the mitochondria is So if you keep insulin low, you're going to increase that process. Which brings us full circle back to the issue of diet and nutrition. There is really solid at Stanford and from when you look at different diets, you look at low fat diets, high fat diets, keto diets, intermittent fasting, provided people stick to it doesn't really matter You can still get a caloric deficit and you get weight loss. Adherence however is always an issue. And so what I always say is, that you want to use the eating plan that is obviously but the one that allows you to adhere to whatever it is that the right? If you can't stick with something, then it's not very worthwhile. But from the purely scientific standpoint, there's also an advantage Now, that doesn't necessarily mean you go to zero carbohydrate. I've talked before about is to go lower or no for alertness to get that that goes with it, et cetera, and the ability to think and move and do all the things I And then I eat carbohydrates at night 'cause it facilitates That's what works for me. But when insulin is low, you do place your system in a And so that's why I think a from lower carbohydrate or because when insulin is low, you are in a position to oxidize more fat. Both from exercise and at rest. And I should mention, and it's appropriate to mention that if you're interested of caffeine, of mate, GLP-1 you want to learn more about those. You can go to this wonderful website which is free www.examine.com. You can put in yerba mate, it will describe the three studies that show increased fat oxidation, both during exercise and at rest, and as a consequence not in metabolic rate. One thing that's interesting about mate is it causes a slight for reasons that still escape me. There's a single study showing that heart rate is slightly reduced which is kind of nice because if, when I drink too much caffeine my heart rate goes up, maybe that would increase my but I don't like the feeling being up too high. I like my heart rate but not when I'm just kind of resting or working and throughout the day. And for some reason there's an effect of mate but reducing heart rate just slightly. So that's interesting. And it probably lends itself [indistinct] explains the subjective experience that I've had of that mate even mellow stimulant. It's not this really supercharged from coffee or other sources. Although if you drink too much mate it will also make you jittery. And there's one more compound in terms of increasing fat loss, and that's carnitine they lie in the same pathway. We can return to our basic and oxidation. After fat is mobilized and needs to be oxidized. So the literally the burning of fat and conversion of it into energy that is accomplished and is facilitated by the presence of GLP increases that process And we talked about some both in this episode L-carnitine and acetyl-L-carnitine in particular facilitates fat oxidation. It helps convert fatty acids into ATP. And indeed supplementing That's been shown. At what dosages? Well, people ingest to two grams per day in Some people who are really extreme are taking injectable L-carnitine, I've certainly not tried that. I confess I have used it in but in part, because of but also because of the other So in exploring the effects it has a huge variety of It can reduce ammonia in the blood that is actually a quite strong effect. It can reduce things which is you want to to be managed. You do not want them too high. Can slightly reduce blood glucose. I can slightly increase HDLC, the good form of the blood lipid and slightly reduce overall cholesterol. And as I mentioned, it can slightly modify the pathway involving glucagon, such that you get a considerable effect, not a huge effect on fat oxidation, so it can improve pat oxidation rates. It has a number of other effects, some of which I talked and that sort of thing. It has strong effects and sperm quality. So clearly carnitine is doing and lots of different cells. It's impacting sperm motility. They're in a large number Slight reductions in blood pressure and has these interesting during exercise, reducing inflammatory So it has a number of are quote unquote positive of things that you may want. And I should emphasize may. You certainly don't need in order to lose fat, but now that you understand by which fat is mobilized and oxidized, it should make sense that if L-carnitine is important for converting then supplementing L-carnitine make sense. Acetyl-L-carnitine is or the form of L-carnitine I should say, that is transported and utilized And so that's why sometimes we distinguish between L-carnitine So once again, we've covered We've talked about the science of fat loss and in particular, we've from the perspective How neurons and in particular like adrenaline, epinephrin and oxidation. We talked about NEAT, fidgeting, this non-exercise type movement that can greatly increase caloric burn. And why that is. We talked about shiver, another form of non-exercise movement that can really increase due to the shiver, due to the movement, as well as increase thermogenesis through things like brown fat, and even the conversion which is a good thing if We talked about cold as to induce shiver and an out of cold as a and avoid cold adaptation to oxidize and burn fat, If you want to check out there at www.thecoldplunge.com and in weeks to come more protocols to that website not just for fat loss, but for things like resilience, reducing inflammation, et cetera. So be sure to check those out again, those are totally cost-free. Talked about exercise. How rather than thinking or weight training exercise, that we should perhaps of this adrenaline system with fat stores and or high intensity exercise. Whether or not we show Turns out showing up to if you start with high intensity movements and then move into lower If you're going to go long duration, it probably doesn't matter than 90 minutes, whether We talked about caffeine as a stimulant and a stimulus for epinephrin as a way to access more fat metabolism. And we talked about compounds that come from things like this GLP-1 pathway that can so much so that the are now developing compounds specifically to increase GLP-1 for treatment But you can leverage the GLP-1 pathway through the ingestion of things like mate or guayusa if that's of interest to you. And then we talked about L-carnitine and how L-carnitine itself is critical for the fat oxidation The conversion of fatty acids to energy. And why having your insulin low and things like L-carnitine high or sufficient at least can facilitate the burning of fat, fat oxidation. So we covered a lot of material. That's a lot of protocols The little list I just gave right there didn't even begin to and corners that we discussed. I hope you found this both for sake of understanding fat loss and how to lose fat more if that's your goal. As well as simply to of fat metabolism from from the perspective If you're enjoying this podcast and you're benefiting from the information that you're learning, please subscribe on YouTube. That really helps us a lot. There's also a notifications that will notify you anytime We release new episodes every Monday, but sometimes we release So please do subscribe on YouTube. As well if you could subscribe that's terrific and really helps us. And at Apple, you can give If you think we deserve As well as you have the opportunity to give us feedback at Apple. The comment section on to give us feedback whether whether or not you don't like an episode. Aspects that you particularly liked, suggestions for future content. We do read, I do read It takes me some time. I sometimes fall a little bit behind depending on other duties, but I read all the comments and I do take them into account when developing this material and the structure of the material. So please do provide feedback We really appreciate it. Other ways to support the podcast are to check out the sponsors that we mentioned at the That's a terrific way to support us. As well we have a Patreon. It's www.patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And at Patreon that will allow at any level that you like. I've mentioned supplements If you're interested you might want to check out Thorne. T-H-O-R-N-E. We've partnered with Thorne because they have the in terms of the quality of and the amounts of the If you want to see the you can go to Thorne, thorne.com/u/huberman. And you can get 20% off that are there, as well as any of the That's thorne.com/u/huberman to get 20% off any of the And last but not least, I want to thank you for your And thank you for your [upbeat music]