Translator: Zsofia Herczeg This is a picture in the mid-1950s walking around Sydney. A few years later, in about 1959, my grandfather died under the care This is a talk about death and dying, and it's too late to leave, (Laughter) But it's about death and dying naturally and normally coming So, why was it that my grandfather was allowed to die at home but my mother, 25 years later, which I'll come to. One of the reasons was that at that time there wasn't much more or less This isn't all that long ago. So hospitals were where you went but if you were poor as well, and you sat in your bed and sometimes you got better, You can see this in films at the time, where if anyone gets injured then there's a bystander A few years later, the bystander says, &quot;Quickly call an ambulance!&quot; So what was it in hospitals It was about the early 1960s, marvelous ways that we could image complex surgery, we divided the body into &quot;-ologies&quot; - neurology, cardiology, and the surgeons also divided the body up and gave themselves different names. And then, of course, And 25 years after my grandfather died, I became an intensive care specialist And I thought I could keep These were the early days I thought it was infinite, And in many ways, in some ways, it is. If I had a relatively normal I could keep everything else going. At that time I had I now work in an intensive care unit 4000 Australian dollars But it's not only the number of beds it's also the type of patients Many of them are over the age of 60, many of them are in their 80s and 90s, and many of those are So how did this happen? Well, it's sort of like a conveyor belt. With my grandfather, it was expected that he got treated If you get sick we almost always call an ambulance. It's very frightening The ambulance takes you Emergency departments are highly stressed. They resuscitate you, they package you, and they get you ready And then you become And here I am, in the intensive care unit, This is a picture of my mother It wasn't the same The last six months of her life, she was admitted 22 times She wasn't told People didn't tell her that as you get older, and you become sicker. She wasn't given any choice about this. It was simply she got sick, admitted to hospital. I had to be a son so I didn't interfere until finally a very special doctor &quot;Your mother is old, and she's dying, and we should let her go in peace.&quot; That was such a relief for all of us, and of course, And so, 48 hours, my mother passed very comfortably away. What did my mother die of? Well, when I was an intern, but we're not allowed to do that any more. We have to make up a medical term. So for example, everyone that dies, their heart stops, so we write down So cardio vascular disease is the most common way of dying (Laughter) What was really troubling for me was &quot;What is wrong with me, Ken? If only they'd find out then we could do something about it.&quot; This is very difficult to explain because when you get old, you get sick, and it's very difficult to put your finger And also, medicine That's what we learn about for six years: the diagnosis. A single diagnosis. Hospitals are wonderful places if you have a single problem However, when you become old, the combination of all the so-called whatever the medicalized word is - add up to something that as yet, we haven't got I like this word: frailty. Because it comes at it It's not a series of medicalized terms, it's frailty. And I'm sure many of you in the audience and you know what happens as you get more frail. And I particularly like this frailty score So you start off at number one, you are very fit and then you gradually more and more vulnerable. Until you find it until you become even more vulnerable. Then you are confined to a wheelchair, and finally, you haven't got Despite all the specialties and all the marvelous things age-related frailty is not curable. So TED Talks are not only they are also about the solution, and what I'd like to talk to you about is what we are trying to do about it It's not really about high technology It's not fancy stuff. But I'm very fortunate that has a culture of looking at things putting the patient in the center, and thinking, well, So, believe it or not, doctors in hospitals to recognize people at the end of life. I know that sounds very hard to believe. So we are working on a tool about people that have got months It's called the crystal tool. It's very simple, can be used It's just a combination like age and the frailty score Now, with everything there's uncertainty. Uncertainty is inherent in medicine. So take, for example, a 20-year-old person we do all the tests, The first thing we do - well, the first thing &quot;How long I've got to live?&quot; So just using all the data we've got we can say, &quot;Well, maybe a year. It could be six months. It could be two years. Maybe, in exceptional circumstances, but the disease is terminal, And it's the same thing with the elderly. Some score like this will at least able us And the next stage But believe it or not, doctors are very uncomfortable I'm not too sure why that is. So the next step after we recognize in an honest and empathetic way. The next step after that is also logical, but believe it or not, It's to empower the patients So you'd be honest about how long they've got to live, Maybe they'd like to keep maybe they'd like the most but at least, it would be and a proper way to make a decision. However, many people, we've found, don't want to keep coming once they know they haven't got In fact, about 70% of people, in this country, in America when are asked, would rather die at home. Now, this contrasts with, about 70% of you will die So there's a discrepancy here, which sort of reinforces the fact that we are not talking to people The long term solutions The long term solutions are things like putting the family doctor advance care directives, you need to be thinking about this talking with your loved ones But then we also need if they are going to die in the home, so that they are looked after, so that they've got respite care. I'd like to be controversial here the last few months or year of life is a medical challenge. Maybe if they've got pain, But most of it is about community support: facilitating the carers, making sure their house is clean, making sure they're washed and all of those sorts of things. This is not so much a health So dying in the elderly has been hijacked. Patients are divided and we try to fine-tune A little bit like birthing was which was also hijacked. Women in labor were taken to hospital, strung up, legs apart, baby taken out, baby put in with all the other babies, fathers not allowed fathers not even allowed to hold the baby. This was the normal way in the 50s and 60s. That's similar to what's happening So this is where many of you will die: surrounded by high technology, cared for by well-meaning people with a lot of expertise It's also that we hear about medical miracles and that's exciting. But we hear about what health can do, but we don't hear very much We need to be far more honest about the limitations of modern medicine. There's rarely a day goes by that one of us doesn't say, &quot;Please, So this is one of the most important You need to take control Thank you very much. (Applause)