This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Sign up for the Nebula bundle deal at Curiositystream.com/ext right now, before it releases to the public. At 5 P.M. on December 31st, 2019, the MV Hazel On board were the last few holdouts of those This would be the final time the town's rustic collection of snow-dusted crimson, As it exited the protected harbor, the permanent from 54 to just two. For those onboard, and the two still standing in the air. Mike Parsons, who, along with his wife Georgina, a "palpable sadness" had enveloped the Although an all-but-inevitable conclusion, "Bartlett: This is nowhere. There's nothing else there, you know. But still, people got the love of the land I mean, you know this." As the ferry cut through the low-hanging fog and as the 2010s faded from present to past, a chapter of its story that had begun some What was once a boomtown-gone-bust was now That day, electricity that had powered the two churches, and the dozens of heartily built Unopposed by streetlights and the hum of habitation--night town of two, and Little Bay Islands became and Labrador this century to permanently relocate. The abandonment of Little Bay Islands, and the first place, is enmeshed in the intertwined Atlantic--all of which, across centuries a rather nondescript fish. left plural to acknowledge the community's on its last leg. At its height, more than five hundred called lush forest and rocky coast home. What brought people to Little Bay Islands to do with what was on land, but rather what "Thornhill Verma: But the reason why settlers Labrador and populated the outports was because wild fish. And that continues to be the case..." Beginning with Paleo-Eskimo peoples arriving Passage peoples two thousand years later, the first to recognize the wealth of Newfoundland's Not long after the Little Passage peoples bit busier. Northern and Western Europeans were next to unlike contemporary explorers, they weren't Simply put: "Bartlett: [00:10:43] Cod, when cod was King." Cod's prominence, its centrality to life broadly, spans well beyond Wilfred's lifetime; When Norse sailors landed on Newfoundland they skirted from one cold, barren shore to easy-to-catch, high-in-protein fish to fill For the Europeans that followed, source of sustenance, but a resource with Although British and Basque fishing ventures it's likely that enterprising vessels cut Columbus and John Cabot in the 1490s. Once Cabot had come across Newfoundland though, that these faraway waters were so well stocked in the ocean and it'd fill with fish. While European explorers Cabot's description of fishing in the Northwest of the Atlantic Cod. An omnivorous bottom-feeder, cod are both and as such, gladly take bait and don't Properly treated, cod keeps, too. "Bartlett: And cod, one thing about cod I mean, you could keep it for a long, long you had to. I don't know how long you could if you really But usually it was cut, split, and sold and Spain." Countries that, as Catholic, were eager to lent. As the fish gained popularity in the 1500s, and appearing in the pages of of Paris, and Dumas' Le Grand Dictionnaire along the rocky shores of the continent's These hearty, self-reliant, coastal communities, of Newfoundland from the 1700s onward. Built on and around the water, Little Bay out at the rich waters of Notre Dame Bay and and protective coast of Newfoundland--was The earliest census of Little Bay Islands Bartlett believe that British fishers may on the islands decades prior. Whether settled in the 1820s or the 1720s, European expansion. And without an abiding climate or much in its southern relatives off of Cape Cod, Little a strictly ocean-oriented economy. From the nineteenth century to the mid-twentieth, stasis. By 1950, the town, along with the rest of had added a few more saltbox homes, a couple more modern boats in its harbor. But still, Little Bay Islanders went out each At day's end, they picked their kids up from local union meetings. When they had a chance, they caught up at When they made it to the weekend, they headed into the town's two churches. When winter turned to spring, they planted the peak summer fishing season. And when they tired after a long career, they At mid-century, Little Bay Islands still happily had. But, while change isn't always continuous, And soon, intruding engines of change showed It came in the shape of a 280-foot British coast of Newfoundland in 1951. Alongside an invading fleet of smaller trawlers Japan, this would change cod fishing forever. While outsiders weren't new, as fishers Little Bay Islands, the technology was. "Bartlett: [00:13:44] Then all of a sudden, drop a net over to start of a boat, or over bottom of whatever is in front of that net And not only where we're taking a lot of cod, I mean, if you want a lot of cod and there's in the ocean dead." In just a decade, traditional methods used line, nets, cod traps--were superseded by of fish and flash freezing them, all while At the same time that massive ships consolidated consolidate Canada's coastal population. In an effort to save on expensive government Centralization Program of 1954 and the Fisheries thousands from remote outports to population In the 1950s and '60s, the waters around and towns not so different from it began feeling But not only did Little Bay Islands persist shops, processing plants, churches, and school For the moment, there were enough fish to in by the ton and the town's continued small-scale That moment, however, proved fleeting. With innovation, mechanization, and the ruthless By the 1970s, annual fish three decades prior. Cod populations couldn't keep up. With collapse on the horizon, Canadian officials and placing quotas on the fish. But it was far too little, far too late. By 1990, in some spots, one could hardly find "Bartlett: I faced up Labrador coast five they had a moratorium up there for two years, But, you know, it is, like I said, nobody In 1992, the Canadian government banned nearly The moratorium aimed to revive the stock over Today, nearly 30 years later, the moratorium The collapse of the cod industry The town was, the town is, in many ways, a "Bartlett: Little Bay Islands is one of It's, it's a beautiful harbor there, in fact, boat in one end, and a big boat through the what it is. And it's... no matter how bad the weather And I guess that's one of the reasons why People had to go off the island and get enough that kind of thing... because according to But it was located to the fishing grounds Now, though, the most important fish was gone. As an industry, fishing didn't line the create massive financial wealth, but it did It nurtured the small-town comradery that in the same lines, singing the same hymns, It furthered family bonds as mothers and fathers As the rest of the world moved toward urban path for those enchanted by a rural, rugged landscape. Fishing made it all possible, and Little Bay The town had no backup plan, no alternative go awry. Here, cod was king. And now, cod was dead. While fishing stayed a consistent economic practice has proved dynamic; requiring flexibility, "Thornhill Verma: So resettlement is as of Newfoundland and Labrador as the fishing Some--the earliest seasonal fishing parties, better home bases--moved by choice. Others--indigenous peoples and outport communities or forced to relocate. While Little Bay Islands had dodged resettlement by the late '90s it was becoming difficult time to pull up stakes was quickly arriving. In the years following the efforts to crab, shrimp, and capelin--fish through to today. "Thornhill Verma: So while the East Coast as the cod moratorium happened in July of what people don't realize is that this is Gone, though, were the jobs that cod provided Post-collapse, the newly jobless left in droves. "Jenn: [00:30:01] And in the decade that of Newfoundland and Labrador, move away." As Little Bay Islands' fishers moved to relied on their presence--the grocery stores, In 2009, the crab processing plant, the town's women who worked the plant little choice but In just a few decades, the bustling town--with the Poacher's Lounge filling to standing quiet. As families peeled out of town one by one, momentum. In Newfoundland and Labrador, "Bartlett: I don't know, resettlement is in Joey Smallwood's day and it is a terrible that was there all their lives, and it didn't In the wake of the cod collapse, the government 2010. This time around, the resettlement program the provincial government from initiating community to approve the decision by a 90% Still, more amenable terms aside, such a move "Thornhill Verma: But I think the reason Newfoundland and Labrador, is because it feels And so I felt that even when we sold my grandfather's of Newfoundland and Labrador, here I had this was tied up in for hundreds of years, and to have that physical link to a place that to his childhood home and beachcombing along dory with my family members, you know, to do something different next year, summer vacation.' It's this connection to place and culture And so I think that's difficult for people." Bays Islands. When opportunity died, the town was bound As the Grand Banks clogged with oversized profession to one with an expiration date, "Bartlett: [00:28:39] And that's what has was going to go, in the summertime when you're plant, working in the fish plant, or you went to the wharf, cutting out tongues, you made But now there's nothing for them to do. Come out of school there is no... very few Labrador today." In many cases, their own families urged them "Thornhill Verma: I mean, my grandfather that wasn't by accident. That was by design. My grandfather and my grandmother wanted to and certainly Newfoundlanders and Labradorians and sea or in a classroom, but they very much education and to go on and have careers that As the hope that the fishery would soon recover made their way to the mainland--leaving behind but unmoored from economic opportunities and With the processing plants dry, the fire department closed, and the town was a shell of its former self. For the 95 aging full-timers, 45-minutes away assuming fair weather, the time had arrived The result: 85 votes for, 10 against--missing Four years and zero miracles later, they voted This time, it was unanimous: Little Bay Islands In the months following the their next move, packed their belongings, to operate off-grid, anticipating summer visits. In addition to the $250,000 Canadian dollars they retained their property. Gone though, were the costly government-supplied No more power, no more snow plowing, and no Those with unwavering bonds to the place where where they felt at home, would be back... It couldn't be. As the MV Hazel McIsaac disappeared back into their newly off-grid home to ring an era both foreign and familiar. Over were the centuries of permanent settlement Canada. Returning, though, was the remoteness and earliest days--a uniquely disconnected way first place. In recent years, seasonal visitors, sea kayakers, upon the striking landscapes and quaint coastal But fishermen, like Wilfred Bartlett, and Verma aren't yet ready to agree to the Devil's "Thornhill Verma: My family still lives As much as I'm proud that people go there a long time, not just a good time." Staying for a long time, though, requires A healthy fishery requires something that on their own--future forward, stringent, and international level. Outports today, while built spirit, bend to global forces. But then again, Little Bay Islands, and outports economics and politics well beyond their wharves--spanning It's likely too late for Little Bay Islands, outports. The lesson of Little Bay Islands is not that can't exist. Instead, it's that it can't exist in a While proudly independent and situated well hinges on their relationships and ties to And while the people of outports get to decide that will decide if they have to. I really hope you enjoyed this first ever The second episode is up now, we're going then more every three weeks after that. However, that third episode, the one going streaming platform built by creators to give As Nebula doesn't have an algorithm, we don't now and having a month-long gap until the one of the countless ways creators experiment We also release extended cuts of normal videos, and publish all our normal videos early and If you enjoyed Extremities here, you're Best of all, the best way to get access to deal. This also gets you access to their enormous documentaries. For example, you could watch "Origins of by looking at one of the newest pieces of past few decades. All together, CuriosityStream and Nebula is and it comes at an unbelievable price--just both combined. Best of all, signing up at CuriosityStream.com/ext independent creators, and your support will this channel, to make sure it's something the future.