Welcome back to ScienceClic, Imagine lighting a candle. The that travels in all directions, This bubble is in 3 dimensions, and surrounds it is impossible to get out of it because Imagine that we only perceive a 2D slice of space. The bubble forms a circle If we decompose the situation image by image, we can construct a diagram in which the bubble of This cone widens from the past to the future, and The sides of the cone are tilted at 45deg, because for any given amount of time, light in one year, light will always travel a This type of object is called a light cone. As light, and whatever we do, our path remains In relativity, these light cones are essential In particular, they restrict To understand, imagine an event that occurs This event won't be able to affect us Before that, no information since nothing can be This explosion can only be seen and felt on "Causality," the fact that one event can trigger More importantly, light cones allow us between the notions of "time", and "space"... What is the difference between time and space turn around, or trace a path But through time, all objects are In time, it is impossible to turn back, we Light cones allow us to through space, we are free but through time, the successive light We cannot turn around because we are This property allows us to define rather in relativity, is simply the direction It is this direction along which we cannot which all allowed trajectories point, Space on the other hand is the set of all In an area where the universe is empty, with no Time and space form a symmetric, rectilinear grid, direction. We can thus define &quot;time&quot; globally: But imagine now that the universe contains a we drop an apple, the apple will gradually fall However, gravity affects not only matter, but over time, they will also be drawn the light cones are no longer aligned with each Near a massive body, the direction and in other words, &quot;time&quot; is bent If the apple falls, although it was motionless at Mass distorts the geometry of the their orientation depending on where The more massive a body, But imagine a massive object that is very compact. that below a certain altitude, all light If we were to light a candle in this place, would be destined to fall towards the A black hole is a spherical a sort of bubble, in which the curvature of If we consider a 2D slice of space, the black and traces a cylinder through spacetime. The boundary of the black Above the horizon some light rays can escape, In a black hole, lightcones force &quot;Time&quot; itself points towards To understand what a black hole really is, it is that of an astronaut who and that of a distant observer, For the distant observer, gravity is very weak, For him, time flows from left to right. The as it traces a straight line But let's now take the perspective As she gets closer to the horizon, bent by the presence of the black hole. When she the astronaut does not realize it, but, at For the astronaut, the horizon is not a it's a diagonal which rises at 45deg... While the distant observer sees the black hole time and space are tilted, such that the which explains why it is impossible to escape. When she crosses the horizon, the notions of the outside: time is now pointing downwards space - the horizon of the black hole is in our past, and the center of the black hole is a destiny we cannot avoid. Below the because it is in this direction When a massive star collapses in on a last bubble that tries to grow, but within a such that the bubble seems A black hole has formed. It is a light cone... If we straighten back the direction of time, for flowing from left to right. In this straightened diagram, we see explicitly cone, emerging from the collapsing star, and from Once below the horizon, we are forced to hit the curvature becomes so intense that our models is an event... in the future. Finally, if we compactify this diagram, we and the inside of the black hole form two the rest of the universe is behind us, in our Our only possible future is to fall...