(SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) NARRATOR: The animal kingdom... A remarkable collection breathing, natural wonders. Enthralling, impressive, tenacious, and nurturing. Innovative, tough, surprising, always genuine. Discover their past, present, and future. Just breathtaking. Just intriguing. Just tremendous. Just animals. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Reptiles, creatures that can simultaneously (HISSING) and wonder. Scaly, alien-like skin. Cold, vacant stares. Raw energy. Qualities that often induce Yet, there is more to this than their tough, Reptiles can be nurturing, delicate, and vulnerable. This exploration focuses on the dominant group which includes lizards and snakes. (STIRRING MUSIC) Together, they account for This branch of reptiles can be found throughout every continent their &quot;cold-blooded&quot; nature restricting them from this region. Snakes and lizards have conquered and aquatic environments. With more than 10,000 species they are a rich, diverse crowd. Among them, devils, monsters, and dragons. Fantastical names for amazing members (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Like feathers are to birds and fur is to mammals, scales are the tell-tale feature These three groups, are all vertebrates, animals with backbones, which represent about five percent To be classed as a reptile, a vertebrate must have skin or bony plates known as scutes, or have a combination of the two. Female reptiles have the ability with either leathery Finally, this type of animal meaning they cannot control Instead, they rely on their Class Reptilia is comprised of Crocodiles and alligators Another group are the Testudines, which include (UPBEAT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Next is New Zealand's tuatara. While lizard-like in appearance, they are unique, the sole members of their order. Finally, the largest order, a Latin term that means This group snakes, and worm lizards. Although there are thousands they all share two characteristics. Firstly, these reptiles Snakes shed theirs as one piece. In contrast, lizards moult Secondly, the jaws of squamates are in a unique way, which enables them allowing them Of the three sub-orders lizards have the highest diversity, with more than according to a recent estimate. To get around, Their heads are small, supported by short necks. Lizards have moveable eyelids Overall, a lizard's body and tail (MUSIC CONTINUES) Of all lizards, the Komodo dragon of Indonesia Adults can reach three metres, longer than a large motorcycle. Some of their smallest relatives like this electric blue species plus leaf chameleons, which are found in Madagascar. The next sub-order is called There are approximately three and half thousand (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Being legless is an obvious between them and lizards. To move around, they undulate their long bodies. Eyelids are absent, and while a snake cannot they are protected by a transparent Compared to lizards, their jaws are incredibly flexible. A series of muscles, allow them to spread wide apart. Forked tongues are seen on all snakes but only in some types As for toxicity, about 15 percent of snakes say, one in six. In comparison, that number is approximately Due to its length to weight ratio, South America's giant anaconda stretching out between and measuring about 250 kilograms. That's similar to 20 bars of gold. (MUSIC CONTINUES) At the other end of the scale as thin as spaghetti and a mere 10 centimetres in length. The third sub-order of squamates a relatively small group Worm lizards usually have long bodies that either have reduced limbs These burrowers grow of about 15 centimetres. Together, the three types make up one of the most fascinating (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Like any type of animal, the squamates have been classed There are roughly 58 families On the lizard side, one well known family which can be found in Africa, Asia and Australasia. Like snakes, monitors have forked tongues This is a perentie, Australia's largest lizard, reaching up to two metres in length. They inhabit arid regions Monitors are known for their size. The largest lizards in the world The leader of the pack One of their closest relatives lives in the deserts of Southwestern the Gila monster, a type of beaded lizard. Weighing about two kilograms, these chunky reptiles Their brightly patterned bodies in unusual, bead-like scales Like their monitor cousins, Gila monsters are venomous. Glands in their lower jaw which flows through the grooves (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) The next group are the Iguanias, which include chameleons, agamids, and iguanas. Iguanas are herbivorous reptiles, native to the tropical zones These marine iguanas are demonstrating why are sometimes called a lounge. Agamids are found throughout Asia, Many of these lizards Instead of being smooth, they have a ridge down the centre. Crested backs and throat flaps As for their chameleon cousins, they have vivid patterns, mesmerising eyes, unusual feet, and lightning fast tongues. Most species are found in Africa Next, the skinks, which have a wide distribution The majority of this group in shiny, smooth have eyelids that move, and wide fleshy tongues, which this Australian is freely demonstrating. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) This is a close cousin, a shingleback lizard. Its scales make it look like One final lizard family are lizards with flat bodies, flat heads and short necks. They inhabit all continents, Many species have fused eyelids. Their tongues often glide like mini windscreen wipers. The Dominican Republic is home Measuring 16mm, it's one of the smallest lizards In terms of petite size, its equivalent in the snake world Threadsnakes are a type a little-known group Similar in appearance to earthworms, these non-venomous burrowing snakes can be found in tropical The rest of their kind belong to Of them, colubrids About three-quarters of all snakes Colubrids are solid-toothed, rear-fanged snakes. Due to their unsophisticated many are considered harmless. They can be found in In Sub-Saharan Africa, egg eater snakes spend their time or on the ground looking for (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) This glossy, brightly banded reptile or false coral snake, which can be found slithering through It is the only species of its kind. In contrast, there are more than These non-venomous snakes can be Pythons are bulky, with triangular-shaped heads ideal for grabbing food. Carpet pythons have to blend in with the undergrowth. While green tree pythons rely on to disappear into Many species can reach yet all of them use their long bodies and constrict or squeeze them. The &quot;New World&quot; hosts another family which include anacondas, boa constrictors and tree boas. While similar to pythons, boas are generally smaller and come into the world rather than via an egg. Here, a gaping boa constrictor Elsewhere, a different genre of snake This is a death adder, a type of elapid. Elapids are venomous snakes, characterised by a set of hollow that are used to inject toxin. These reptiles are found In general, elapids are active creatures that have long thin bodies King cobras come with a hood, loose neck skin that flares out to create a formidable display (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Sea snakes are that spend most of their lives Their paddle-like tails make these venomous reptiles While elapids have fixed fangs, those on a viper able to move. A handler gently shows this action. Vipers are found in many parts and typically have (TENSE MUSIC) Rattlesnakes are well known members Their famous tail tip the same substance in claws, (RATTLING) Muscles in the tail tip up to 90 times a second to create a noisy buzz Innovative, eye-catching, and at times, daunting. Together, snakes and lizards are an impressive branch (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) When it comes to survival, every creature relies on adaptations and special skills to improve their chances. Reptiles have literally For lizards and snakes, scales are their Their entire skin is encased by which are comprised of keratin, a fibrous structural protein. This natural coat of armour scratches from rough surfaces and keeps them water tight. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Many reptiles use their appearance By adapting the colour and patterns to match their environment, they can safely hide Natural camouflage can shield them and prey alike. (MUSIC CONTINUES) Should their disguise fail, some have a back-up plan. Many lizard species, such as geckos and skinks, can drop their tails an ability known as caudal autotomy. The severed tip serves as a decoy, giving the rest of the reptile and time for its tail to regenerate. Spitting cobras will also take to defend themselves. If threatened, they can contract the muscles and spit toxin, with the aim to blind their attacker. In addition, cobras will extend their hood an example of a startle display. The Australian frilled-neck lizard is famous for putting on this type Being cold-blooded or ectothermic means reptiles tend to exist with that comes the need Their scaly skin helps them One desert dweller, is able to use its prickly exterior Minute channels draw water up funnelling it towards their mouth. Depending on which group squamates have a number of Lizards crawl, using their diagonally opposite feet Legless lizards use their sides And snakes use their sides One reptile that prefers to soar is the Draco flying lizard Their &quot;wings&quot; are created by and a set of elongated ribs. To take off, these scaly aviators then launch. (UPBEAT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Reptiles may not be seen flying but they constantly do this. When they flick out their tongues, snakes and lizards chemicals from the air and ground. Their tongues don't have taste Instead, they're inserted into a special section called the Jacobson's organ, that senses any odour particles. In terms of hearing, snakes do not have ears, but they do listen by placing to sense vibrations. In this way, they can determine the size In contrast, lizards have ears, yet no visible ear flaps. Compared to snakes, lizards have better hearing. Their eyesight is also superior. Studies have shown their surpasses that of humans, which makes sense, as the majority of lizards and make decisions. The cone-shaped eyes on chameleons as each one can move independently Many reptiles, such as come equipped with a &quot;third eye&quot;, a small indentation Known as a parietal eye, they are a cluster that can determine small changes Should a predator pass overhead the &quot;third eye&quot; will detect it. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Certain snakes can via these pits These &quot;pit organs&quot; sense heat, infrared radiation, allowing snakes to hone in on It's adaptations like these that give reptiles the edge, no matter where they choose to dwell. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Reptiles have been roaming the planet Their origin traces back to the water Between five and four hundred fish were the dominant vertebrates. In simple terms, the next step were the tetrapods, or land living vertebrates. Among them were primitive amphibians. From them, such as Hylonomus, which existed about They're believed to be fully adapted to life on land. By producing eggs with shells and having tough skin that protected them these beings were less reliant and could venture further afield (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Next, this group branched off At this stage in history, reptiles thrived. There were several offshoots, such as turtles, lizards and snakes, plus archosaurs. The archosaurs themselves flying reptiles and dinosaurs. Out of the squamates, lizards emerged first, the earliest fossils dating back A million years later the oldest fossils being discovered leading experts to theorise that Boas and pythons are considered to be Evidence of their lizard ancestry small hind leg bones hidden vestiges of their past. (MUSIC CONTINUES) In the modern world, is the closest relative These reptiles are the last whose ancestors trace back Another type of creature with are birds, which are thought to have emerged Like reptiles, birds are vertebrates, lay amniotic eggs with shells, and have scales on their bodies. Out of all reptiles, crocodiles have the closest ties The reptilian family tree is not It's more like a bunch which have, over time, resulted in the diverse range of scaly-skinned animals (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) To succeed in any given environment, an animal's instincts as do a wide range of behaviours. One behaviour reptiles exhibit Not being able to reptiles rely on the sun's heat giving them energy to such as hunting and defence. Additionally, soaking up rays helps lizards and snakes which they need for healthy growth To avoid danger or search for food, lizards have an obvious means Being legless, however, Swimming is another talent (UPBEAT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Water dragons have that propel them along. Lakes and ponds offer If needed, and remain submerged Coral reefs in the Western Pacific When swimming, pushes its one large lung A trip to the surface for a breath will give them hours of time Generally speaking, reptiles are solitary animals, breeding being the usual reason they will come together In terms of vocal communication, the majority of snakes and lizards When threatened or stressed, hissing is a common type (HISSING) It can be coupled with body language. A hissing snake coiled back sends a strong clear message. (RATTLING) A rattlesnake uses its tail In contrast, male geckos to stake out territory or to communicate (CHIRPING) If a chameleon some males are able to put on to express their intentions. This, along with mood are some of the reasons why not, as the widespread myth to match their environment. Chameleons are able to change colour The first contains pigments, below that is a layer of cells that reflect and scatter like tiny prisms. The chameleon's nervous system can change the amount of space When relaxed, reflecting short wavelengths, such as blues or greens. A rush of excitement or stress causing them to reflect like yellows and reds. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Another quirky trait of chameleons They have a slow, rocking gait. It's thought they do this by mimicking leaves this behaviour helps A good example of how slow and steady in the never ending game (UPBEAT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) One thing all animals during the course of their lives is to replace themselves. The majority of snakes and lizards deliver their next generation Species that reproduce are called oviparous. Many types of chameleons females laying their eggs Depending on the species, it can take 4 to 24 months For a Labord's chameleon, life moves fast. In two months, these independent babies their entire life only spanning of the Madagascan rainy season. (MUSIC CONTINUES) Not all lizards have The Komodo dragon has the longest, able to survive (STIRRING MUSIC) In general, These baby Inland taipans have eight to ten years to explore Albumen bubbles and oozes this liquid being nutrient and moisture supply. Once free of their leathery casing, a newly emerged taipan By adulthood, they'll be four times that size. Not all reptilian eggs This python has turned itself into her coils keeping while she guards them from predators. Some reptiles, like death adders, are ovoviparous. Instead of depositing their eggs, mothers incubate them internally, then give birth to live young. With death adders, (UPBEAT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) When fully grown, they'll be approximately In the wild, they can survive The longest-living snakes are boas. They can exist for two decades. While impressive, other reptiles longevity-wise. Tuataras can survive The largest reptiles of all, are known to lurk waterways Out of all land animals, giant tortoises come out on top. Slowly but surely, these massive reptiles can plod about for one and a half centuries. (ACOUSTIC GUITAR PLAYS) Food is the fuel of life, and reptiles, being a diverse group, enjoy a wide range of diets. Marine iguanas are strict herbivores, plant eaters that dine on algae and below the waterline. Reptiles can also enjoy Land mullets inhabit which provide a continual buffet Many lizards, and all snakes, Thorny devils get They can eat thousands To catch a meal, chameleons rely on which can be as long Diet wise, eggs are a good option for reptiles. No chasing is required, and they're relatively easy This nest of massive emu eggs should satisfy (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) As long as it's meat, Komodo dragons are not picky eaters. This one has located a carcass. Whether it's carrion Komodos can gulp down 80 percent in one session. Venom is a substance despite the fact that only a sixth (TENSE MUSIC) This noxious fluid that contains natural toxins. When injected into prey this substance immobilises the animal Some species use constriction When attacking, they bite and hold their prey, then coil around them and squeeze No matter how they obtain food, the next step is to swallow it. To do this, a snake opens wide and gradually shunts its lower jaw backward-curving teeth gripping it, helping to &quot;walk it&quot; down. (GUITAR PLAYS) Within their chosen habitat, reptiles play a number of roles. They can be both predator, and prey. Apart from making contributions the eating habits of help an ecosystem stay balanced, by keeping population numbers Carnivorous species also provide Plant eaters are excellent A sample of the many ways reptiles, big and small, assist in the maintenance of healthy, (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Since early times, reptiles have attracted attention Some inspiring myths, others becoming cultural symbols. Around the world, snakes mean different things. The Hopi people of North America danced with snakes that asked the spirits for rain. Afterwards, they released to ensure good harvests. The ouroboros dates back a symbol of infinity, eternity, and the continual cycle of life. The Hindu deity Shiva, Lord of the Animals, is commonly depicted wearing As snakes have a fearsome, this necklace affirms and every other creature. Some reptiles have been credited In parts of Africa, chameleons are feared, some believing they can In India, (SNAKE CHARMING MUSIC) The ancient art of snake charming Snakes are not always seen In the Bible, for tempting Eve Their supposed evil, have been featured in ancient fables through to modern literature where they've been depicted and young wizards. In the real world, reptilian venom such as the use of antivenins Researchers have identified that naturally increases which could potentially help Whether they are fictional villains these scaly creatures are curiously appealing. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Out of the vertebrates, reptiles do not always get Gaining a better understanding allows many to see past that's often attached With greater awareness, what was once seen as slimy, can now be admired, appreciated and respected. Despite their hardy, and long history, the modern world exposes reptiles such as habitat loss, pollution, and changes in climate. Hunting and over-collection also puts stress on as do invasive species. On a global scale, it's been estimated that one in five Among them are jewelled geckos, various species of boas, and sea snakes, a number being classed as either Around the world, conservation programs By the late 1990's, invasive predators and grand skinks in New Zealand. An intensive trapping operation, capturing feral cats and ferrets, plus the establishment of saw a remarkable recovery In just three years, skink numbers rose by 94 percent. While human activity others show remarkable adaptability. Many species of snakes and lizards For example, in warmer parts Anywhere reptiles exist, simple actions can be taken Planting gardens and will encourage lizards and snakes. Reducing pollutants and lowering the demand for goods are both positive steps. (STIRRING MUSIC) For a group of animals that and managed to outlive them, it's the least they deserve. Apart from the invaluable role lizards and snakes captivating skills, and astounding diversity Captioned by Ai-Media