Stanford University. [APPLAUSE] Thank you and good evening. I am Professor Harry Elam, the Education at Stanford. And on behalf of the I welcome you to tonight's Lecture with our featured [APPLAUSE] Now, I got to tell you that She spoke to students and the generosity, the she had in terms spoke about touched and will touch you tonight. The Harry and for Exploring What Leads was made possible by an by the Foundation for was directed by the Rathbuns' &quot;Harry's Last Lecture,&quot; as it's is the title tonight. And a s someone named Harry, The Rathbun Fund of the Office of Religious Life discover and reflect upon during their time of potentially and spirit here at college. In this day and are driven by the and the pressures to concerns over employment it is all the more important the space to think, but about the great The Rathbun Fund has created opportunity to help experience with a focus the pursuit of and a dedication to making the And now to tell you more and to introduce tonight's it is my pleasure to introduce Jane Shaw. [APPLAUSE] Welcome to Memorial Church, that Jane Stanford put at and welcome to the All that we do in the circle, which is and at Windhover, our recently is designed to explore as a community what it means In our work as the office we encourage members to explore both We support the working and we host discussions, arts all designed to help us think The Harry and for exploring what leads generously supports It was made possible by an by the Foundation The centerpiece is this which brings notable, to campus each year. It is our pleasure this evening members and participants in Community, many of whom and some may be And in particular, we warmly Richard Rathbun, his wife Lacey, and Milo. We're so delighted you [APPLAUSE] And now, it is my and of course, my privilege, to fellow for 2015, Oprah Winfrey. [APPLAUSE AND CHEERS] She has to have a little than that, because she had She's known to us host, who changed the very on her show The Oprah Winfrey She's known to us as who especially starred in Purple and The Butler. She has Harpo the extraordinary film, Selma. She's the founder has 16 million readers She is an acclaimed with a passion for reading, encouraged so many the pleasure of imaginatively through books. She's won many awards for including many Emmys and most of Freedom. She's an exceptionally who has founded a girls' Miss Winfrey's and she would say from her deep sense of spirit So she is with us the Rathbun Lecture as one of of our time. She encourages millions means to have a spiritual life. And that, she's told us today, thing to do. You can catch her having with other spiritual on her Super Soul Sunday You can read her wisdom What I Know for Sure. You can engage in deep as it goes on tour But this evening, we are and we are truly grateful that about what leads to Distinguished guests, Miss Oprah Winfrey. [APPLAUSE AND CHEERS] That was great. Hi, y'all. Woo! [APPLAUSE CONTINUE] Y'all just don't even know what in this hall. In 1970, before a thought in the mind of God I was in an oratorical contest School. And the great victory for was to have our national in this very church. [CROWD AWING] And as I stand her today, but I won the prize. [CROWD CHEERING] Wow, I know, I came in today and Dean Shaw, that because one of my has been to evolve a student in the that I could be of my knowledge, the information from thousands of that I could call And I dared not call myself from you, and because you and you are here at I'm going to take that. So thank you. It's been an amazing First of all, I have one of I have 20 girls in college and one of them, [? Shadai, ?] [APPLAUSE] And she's a sophomore. And we came to Stanford I I can't remember. I remember landing on and we didn't know if she As we got into the car and Momma O, these are my people. And I can understand why. Just being here in the stimulated brilliance makes So I wish I could have and I'm thrilled that I who does go to this school. I love everything that And I'm really excited, a part of the Harry because I have spent hundreds and thousands hours talking to and not just spiritual who have been deemed so, but from levels of dysfunction, who were suffering, who were in trying to be the best And they allowed to come on our show, and share their stories. I am one who believes in I believe in the process because I know that all life And those thousands have been guests on the were also audience members And I would say that and it's everybody's job So when I talk about my gift I'm It's just a fact, it's a gift. Hey, he, ha, yes. One of my gifts that was a little girl growing being raised on a tiny little is that I knew how I was a great observer of life. And I grew up believing that God's child. It's because every Sunday down the road, a dirt road from no running water, I was saying this to my great and she said, it sounds like And I go, it kind of was. No running water, no is down the road from us, as I was getting dressed And I'd always sit on the left pew in the second row. And I would listen to the thy God is a loving he would say the Lord But most important, I heard and through God all And I literally took him at I had to leave my grandmother and I was sent to live in had other children, I got because when people would I would say, Jesus is my daddy. Sometimes he's my brother, But what I now know and have although I call and although my vision to be inclusive of all things. All, all, God is God is all, in all things, with the beard. And now that that view I still understand how important girl-- we weren't not to mention you know what I mean, Harry. A little colored for whom there was no vision my grandmother's as she had been a before her had been a was that I would grow up one And she wished for me And she used to say, I hope when you grow up. I hope you get good white So my grandmother had no idea with good white folks She just wouldn't get it. [CHEERING] She wouldn't get it. She wouldn't get it, but And she's up around in Lord, have mercy. I didn't see it. But I now know that having that greater than me was in charge that it wasn't just me alone is the thing, is the value, is So my vision, my of what it means to has grown as I Acts 17:28, my favorite Bible and breathe and have my being.&quot; So my every attempt since I was a little that I call God, to literally To live in the breath to breathe me as God. And that is the been able to manage fame, handle grow in the wisdom and glory that I know to be God, because I move and breathe, In everything that I comes up and out from space, even when I didn't So I have paid because I understand that my is always speaking to you, with the people, with the that you can understand if you are willing to is speaking to you. Now it took me a while to and to understand I started paying And one of the accept the fact that I can offer and wisdom and call myself is that every single person who hear there was like talked to-- a lot of them and a lot of them wouldn't but every one of to say that was and that I could into the best of myself, which Your number one job is to and to grow yourself into And so I had a lot of great I mean, old boyfriends are Woo, boy I got a I'll tell you about that later. But I was doing an Oprah One of my greatest teachers We were doing a show And on Tuesday Singapore Airlines flight 006, Angeles took off with Four crew and 79 passengers a total of 83 fatalities. There was a Typhoon rolling and the plane went Now what's interesting, and he had had several, several, I'll talk about later-- shouldn't have gotten on the He got on the plane to be one of the survivors. And on the Oprah Show do you think it was-- what were one of the survivors? And I said, do you think it Because he was in first class next to an exit door. He said, yes, I been the position of the plane, he says. And the fact that I So I said, you don't believe? You're not a religious man? You don't believe that of divine intervention He goes, no, I'm not I do not believe it I don't believe that. I did see, he said, as I got that it looked like with people strapped into And it seemed a bit to me, as like there was a light coming I guess you could call it an And some lights were It changed, he It gave me a new in a sense, that I now believe but life continues on And I thought, you know, but I thought the brightness are how one lives one's So that's one of the major with me since then, he says. I want to live my life so is one of the brightest ones. I got chills when he said that. So much so, nothing to We'll be right back. What do you say after that? I want to live my life it's very bright. That's one of those and you know that it's bigger Because I always knew at least a million other Because if I can are 20 million people it means that somebody else also That's what connection is. So I thought a lot about that, in thinking about and preparing About how does one Because ultimately, isn't We want to lead a life transition people can say, wow, was a bright light. First of all, I from a deep sense of and why you're here. It comes from being on a regular basis, and the holy gratitude that on a regular basis, just it is to be here Close your eyes for a And breath with me. Just close your eyes. And if you will put your and gather your And lets feel the vibration and as you take three Inhale, and as you exhale just blood pulsating through And another inhale. [EXHALING] And another inhale. [INHALING] [EXHALING] And keep your eyes closed. And let's just think this day that you have in and out thousands of times. This day, where many of those you just expected But the truth is, that the next one comes. This day, how you what your thoughts How you've carried how you've been allowed to have some challenging, some push you forward another day Earth as a human being. Let's just think about that. After all you've been alone and the many days in to this prestigious, esteemed made that have brought Open your heart and say the only prayer Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're still here and you to do better and be better, who you were created, and what Thank you. Amen. Open your eyes. That's how it starts. That is the and purpose in your life to your breath. In all situations, in all to know that the value of It's really big It's really big, has been called from the to fulfill the highest as a human being, and How do you do that? Well, I think you let every in the direction all religions can agree In all the with so many people run the gamut of all and emotional to understand that what Marianne There's really only two and that's love and that's fear. And in all of you are you're either moving in the In order to have a meaningful And not the schmaltzy, but the kind of love the kind of love that when and nobody even knows you're The kind of love that says I'm you choose love. The kind of love the right decision, even when is wrong. You choose love, because love and it's everything that and harmony, and corporation, So when you choose when you are mad, you know they are to that space of the breath, in my being, and make to move a little closer in is going to bring you grace, yourself, and by honoring but honor the other person. I've learned to choose love over rather than choosing That was a big lesson for me. Do you want peace, or do you want to be right? For a little while I was Rather be right with I am a Christian, I raised in the church Sunday school in the morning, Bible school at night, prayer choir practice. I grew up in the church. I would say I don't go to My church is nature from me. My church is my life. I experience church with every person I And I try to live my of the law, the third If I had only one wise offering The third law of of the universe actually, And my favorite which says for every an equal and opposite reaction. There are lots of different that call this other things. In this country sometimes What I know for matter what you do unto others, So anybody who's seen the there's a line in there when says to Mr., everything and she holds her two That's the third law of motion. Newton didn't know going to articulate it you done to me, So that is the tenant And before the which says every action there's before there's even the there is the intention And if there's one force the meaning of life for with a pure sense of intention. Now this came to to be one of those people who I said yes many I should've been saying no, and for saying yes. Anybody ever done that? You say yes, then you mad Because when you say yes people follow the Because why do you say yes? You say yes because you to be upset with you. They're not. You don't want the you want the person They do. And that is why they I couldn't understand it. I just gave you some money, Oh, that's because I didn't and so now you the money meant I wanted and that's why you're back So I tested this when I first came to discover Seed of the Soul. I say, I'm going to see if for this disease to please, bothering me. So this is what I learned nothing is showing that you didn't order there. If it's there, it's there So I have a big life, and things So one day Stevie I'm not name dropping, No brag, just fact. It was Stevie, an he he loved me either, he was something, but that's OK. And I, at the time, Because when I first started my salary or my earnings were I mean the first year Did I make that much money? Oh, my god. It was very difficult where my boundaries were, poor and didn't have anything. So it's easy when you don't for money. And they say I need $500, because I'm just trying It's harder when you're now in the paper, and you get you didn't have before. So how do you set I was having trouble setting for even strangers. People would show up and say, Oprah, I left my And I would, because So, don't try that Don't try that now, So what I learned is that keep showing up is because think that I'm such a nice for anything. You can get me to do anything. I'm going to say yes, So when Stevie I thought I'd try out Let's start big. He wanted me to donate and I didn't want to because I have my care about a lot of people. But the problem is when you have want to give to everything. So every letter I ever know you love the children. Yes, I do love the is going to have to So I said to Stevie, And as a person who has was waiting for will never speak to you again. I will never call you. I will never sing And he didn't, he just said OK. OK? OK? It's OK? He said, OK, check you later. And what I learned from have angst and and put yourself in said this morning because they were mortified. Over a phone, I said? Really? You will put yourself in a state isn't even thinking about you. So learning that I determine for myself what what I wanted to do, give give of my service, to give it to when I did, that And just because you doesn't mean you have to Just because you have all of and on you doesn't mean You get to decide, the master of your fate, as William Ernest And understanding that really in that I was no longer driven me to do, but took making choices based is the next right move for me. So being able to go that I called the power station the Divine flow. Being able to tap into and all of life and in this room, all beings, We had a meditation this about entering that space. That space is real. You cannot, in my opinion, a life of self reflection, of and knowing who you are spiritual self reflection, to you are here. And when you understand and you allow yourself to tap is the force, the universal and you do that with a sense of that only your become untouchable in whatever So one of the reasons been able to be so successful is we had fierce competition from I would always say you can't run their race, And you really can only You can't even worry about you can only run your own race. That lesson that gives to the Wicked Witch of you have no power here, Because I have seen over the and even in my real people losing their giving your power You lose your power when of somebody else's have no power in any energy which is your own. And your real job in how do you master your field. How do you do that? By consistently in the space of that that power that you comes from a source that Because nobody gets out Nobody is making it alone. And when you are trusting when you are sad, when you are you are challenged, when you are that which is fearful, trusting in your own power. I couldn't get here by When you look at a little town, apartheid Mississippi in 1957 more lynchings of black man else in the world, where you literally, when white people Where there was no as a black man or black woman, or teaching in the And my ability to step into that I called God is And I consistently mine that, isn't something that you can are a spiritual life. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin said, a human experience.&quot; I know this to be true. So it's not like you can go you already are one. And the real job is aware of the soul's calling in, above, around, and be about the business There is no one else There's nobody like you. And what you've come to do is like no other, doing the same thing. I met a bunch of people today I go, woo, a lot coming out of Stanford. A lot of great ones. And although everybody's very similar things, the level of uniqueness that you can bring. Nobody does it like you. And understanding that what you've come to is your gift, your offering and how much that matters. It matters to you, it that you love, and matters to It's just, you know, It's a miracle that And when I think of that nobody really kind of My father had sex with Can you imagine? That's a powerful seed. Woo, honey child. But one time, one time. And he wasn't in love with her. He said she was and he wanted to know and she showed him Now I got a yard that's where it all started. And to think that something poodle skirt and my the door at the time. She'd had her eye on him for a To think that as that would create a little grew up and had, and to have the opportunities I can assure that is It's grace. It's grace because I was allowed and let it carry And I'm not telling you what or what to call it, but no fulfilled, meaningful, without a connection I haven't seen it happen. And the way for sustainability You must have a What is yours? Well, for some people it where they nurture themselves. I believe that creativity, conscious kindness, empathy, gratitude, all in the way of becoming So I started a I mean, I was journaling was standing here in 1970. I actually have in my Stanford and what it meant And for years all filled with he don't believe she did that to me, and And about the late '80s of a gratitude journal to me. Gratitude journaling has become leads to an enhanced, a more and you can start it today. And you can, I for a week you would Because every day, and five things I write down or that brought me joy And by practicing you realize is, is in the morning thinking things going to be? Because some days And then you have to that's one, exhale, that's two. OK, I made my five, So practicing allows you to take that's why it's a spiritual taking stock of your life. You're assessing where And in order to maintain a sense it requires also being that after you've done a wonderful song by you just stand. There comes a time when you've actually and you really want but it still isn't coming that you feel that it should. I know that what is for I know that for sure. And I know that many times, is happening to you, it is for you to strengthen you. Because my definition strength over time-- strength, strength, times strength. So I'll leave you with I said this today It's one of my favorite changed the meaning the trajectory of my life. First of all, when I was doing come to Chicago and started And I had asked my and I needed two months And they said to me, you your contract says you So in order for us to you're going to have to time on your contract I wanted to do it so badly I'll give up the next in order to do it. What happened was after The The Color Purple and so successful, becoming so still called A.M. Chicago-- wanted to renegotiate And my lawyer at the time said, You never want to be in a that important to you to because the boss says you can't. You want to be able to your own decisions about and that was something that So the fact that I had not been Purple is the reason why I made to own my own show. And that has made in the trajectory of my career. But let me try to story because it changed I wanted to be in more than anything I've I read the book on a Sunday. I got up, went back got every other I passed it out to I was clearly obsessed People see me coming talking about The Color Purple. Here she come again. I literally would walk I see all these backpacks, I would walk around with I ran into somebody And I'd say, oh, I have one right here. And as life would have drawing things to you, Out of nowhere, supposedly, But I get a call from a casting casting for this movie this movie called Moon Song. And I said, are you sure And he said, no, it's Because at the time, didn't want anybody to know he So I go and audition I can't believe that God because I am auditioning Do y'all know Harpo is I think that is a But not only am I I'm auditioning with somebody When all I'd really asked help me get in this movie. Help me get in this movie. I don't know anybody I'm in Chicago doing a I thought I could be script whatever, the last Bottom line is, a long time and the agent said, you and I didn't call you. I hung up the phone. I was so upset I decided and I'm going to That's what they I'm going to the fat farm. I'm going to starve myself caught up with me. I know they hate me I'm going to go and I'm and I'm going to try to have with The Color Purple. I'm going to try to let that go. Because now much And I am on the track, and I can hear my [FLOP, FLOP, FLOP] And I start crying, because are rubbing together and my hair is getting wet. So I started to pray. And I started, I'm And I'm asking God, help me let this go. I'm obsessed, I want it. Reuben Cannon had told me that for that part and then and that Alfre Woodard So I thought for going to get that part. And I'm running around the And the way prayer but if you don't release it, it goes nowhere, it's just So I started singing this song. Do you know this surrender all, I surrender all. All to thee my blessed I sang and I prayed and I the pain, the suffering that Reuben Cannon had that I don't call you. And then I realized, oh, so I won't be able to go going to now pray Alfre Woodard in the movie. Let me bless Alfre be able to go see this movie. I start singing again, Please don't let me have Woodard who took my movie. Let me have peace in So I pray, I pray, I pray until a woman comes out and a phone call for you. And in that phone call show up in Steven and if you lose a pound So I stopped at the Dairy Queen. [CROWD CHEERING] But the point of this And the point of the I could just be a script I was just happy to be The point of this the universe can dream, the flow of your life can dream, dream for you then you can When I finished The Color Purple your future is so And I say the same You Stanford students to be at this institution so shine, your brilliance. Your future's so bright The glory that the universe, is unimaginable to you, You can't even imagine it. If you will surrender yourself in alignment and allow yourself to become Take your glory, it's waiting Thank you. [APPLAUSE AND CHEERING]