Carlos, could you look We're thinking, maybe we should change it. We are at Chopards in Geneva, Here, the most important material is gold. It's good gold, 18 carats. This work demands a lot of concentration Chopard is one of the most prestigious Artisans work on exceptional pieces Here, Frederic is working on one of the five pieces It is for Kate Blanchett The raw material is stocked Gold bars worth 30,000 euros per kilo. Theo is in charge of the gold foundry, and for security reasons, I'm going to deliver 12 kilos of fine gold to our refinery workshop for gold casting. He has nearly 400,000 euros These gold bars are made in Switzerland. However, the country Where does this precious metal come from? Apparently, it's a mystery. It is impossible We know the company that melted the gold, but it is made up of old and new gold, from many different sources. Today it's not possible A symbol of luxury, glamour, and wealth. Gold is the stuff dreams are made of. It sparkles on the most beautiful women as well as in the bank vaults. However, gold also has a dark side. It has financed civil wars and human rights abuses. In Africa and Latin America, Who is buying this dirty gold? Switzerland produces 70 percent that are made in the world. From Peru to Dubai, we have been on the trail of dirty gold. -Do you have gold to sell? Unmasked brokers. There is no transparency. Welcome to a world of trafficking The world of dirty gold. What does gold mining look like? To get an idea, we're going to Peru, specifically the Madre de Dios region In the heart of the Amazonian forests, there has been a gold rush Forty thousand miners Here, gold is everywhere in the form of particles, It is clumsily mined, by thousands of gold washes. Umberto meets with us He has been operating He has five employees working for him. Hello, guys. The gold diggers pump the earth to extract the maximum With just some pipes and a motor, We filter it, and that way we can estimate the quantity of the gold particles It's a traditional method. A traditional method that uses mercury, a highly toxic metal, According to international regulations, mercury should only be used in secure factories. Two grams of mercury are needed We mix them together and the gold It creates a mercury-gold amalgam, which is what we put into the furnace. Isn't it dangerous No, well, normally we use boots. However, he doesn't have any boots on. He prefers to go barefoot, Umberto's men find between four and 60 grams of gold per day -Is it pure gold? The mercury should be collected in protective drums Here it is just poured into the river, and the highly toxic vapor it produces It is estimated that each year are released here. There are thousands of small mines and the consequences of this An area the size of Bangkok which is 1,500 square kilometers of forest and the soil is contaminated. The state has been trying from gold mining for the past two years. Authorities have forbidden any mining which has almost led to a civil war between the army and the miners. Listen to the motors. Jesus Menacho is the captain The Peruvian authorities that they are keeping house. Look, the motor is pumping Then the sediments are passed and the water -Do they know that it's forbidden? Well, I'm not sure if the know, Hey you, the skinny one, turn off your motor. You are in the process of mining gold We are placing you under arrest. What will happen to these two miners? They will be remanded in custody They could get between four Their methods are radical. Each barge is blown up with dynamite. Gold fever has turned Madre de Dios with its very own sheriffs and outlaws. Despite the risks, Towns to cater for them They don't have official names. This one is just called kilometer 108 Just like in the Western films, The trafficking of women has also become Adolescents who have come to work We film with a hidden camera. In this bar, the girls trying to entice us Some of them aren't even 15 years old. I am from Cutzo. Oh yes? Why did you come here? I came here for work. My job is to sell beers. I earn more than when I worked in Cuzco. Shall we go? Her invitation is clear. There is no doubt as to its meaning. Fifty kilometers away, In this building, who have been rescued He estimates that in this region, are being forced into prostitution. Like Wella, 14 years old, or Rosa, who is 17 years old. This is my bedroom. The woman who came to get me -She made out that it was a tea room. Yes. It's always the same story, They tell the girls and then they force them The mining business For them, alcohol They don't realize in the trafficking of these women. The dark side of gold human exploitation, In this world of violence, there are clans that fight each other As there is no security, the miners When they have a lot, it becomes difficult. There are thefts. -Are there murders? There are thefts and murders. There is one woman who, with her clan, Her nickname is Goya. Here, everyone calls her the Gold Queen. This evil Baronesa regularly A kind of mafioso in command This mining baroness has property that is worth 30 million soles per month Today, her clan is being prosecuted for illegal mining, money laundering, Goya never speaks in public. It is her daughter, Maruja Baca, who takes center stage Everything that people are saying It affects my family, We want to find out In Lima, the large daily national newspaper, a journalist has investigated He has made some astonishing discoveries We have tracked down We have proved that nearly all the gold went to Geneva or to Zurich. I estimate that in the last four years, they have sent around When you see her here like this, you couldn't imagine that she exports Half a ton equals 15 million euros. How is this mafioso able to sell and who does she sell it to? Victor, a former policeman, and we're going to attempt to meet her. She lives on the edge of Madrid de Dios. Neither policemen nor journalists Don't tell them that you're a journalist. Why? Oh my God, they'll smash your camera, they'll break your neck We are tourists who have come I've got a gun. -Do you use it? We cross the river to get to her village. On the riverbank, taxi drivers We discover Goya, Everywhere here, by diggers and bulldozers. There was a forest here before, In town, we film with a hidden camera. Arriving in front of Goya's house, we find armed guards, We say that we have an appointment and they allow us to enter. In the courtyard Upstairs, There is an unrestricted view all owned by Goya. However, the Gold Queen is not there. What's happening? She'll meet us in a restaurant. I don't know which one. Her employee will tell us. We meet Goya wearing a hat here Her daughter Maruja is at her side. We say that we are journalists I have to tell you, we've already done and they twisted our words. Therefore, for now, we won't do any more. I read that we produce kilos upon kilos, and it's not true. We want to find out Some newspapers have said that the gold Do you really sell to Switzerland? No, we don't know where it goes. -You sell to? Who do you sell it to here? To E&amp;M? Yes that's right, to E&amp;M. E&amp;M is a gold exporter. An intermediary E&amp;M has trading posts all over the region. Trading posts like this one -Can we speak to one of you? The El Comercio journalist which sells Goya's gold, was established He is the accountant of one of the largest currently deemed illegal, and facing charges On the other, he is the boss of E&amp;M, one of the largest gold exporters It is clear that she was sending through her accountant. Now we want to know A company specializing stores sensitive data about gold exports The data concerning E&amp;M is confidential We can give you the Peruvuian exporter, the foreign importer, the receiving party We have access to everything. We ask her to print the statement The year and month of shipping Here you can see The destination country, and the name of the purchasing company. Metalor Technologies. Metalor is a Swiss company that is the number one Its role is to purify the gold Based on Switzerland for over 150 years, our story is shared This document proves that in 2013, one hundred percent of the gold It is clear that there is a link between Switzerland's number one and Goya's mafia family. The same gold a reality that is very far removed presented by Metalor's promotional video. Our products are supplied to us by nature. In echange, One of our missions at Metalor We decide to ask Metalor and as it happens, the Swiss company is participating We managed to get ourselves an invite. All the gold manufacturers have come here clean production. Janet McCarthy, speaks on half of Metalor. We are dedicated in responsible and ethical supply chains, In essence, you can see to make sure goes through very stringent protocol. Thank you very much Every gram will be monitored. During the coffee break, we asked the Metalor official -Hello. Do you speak French? -English. Where does the rest of the gold come From, sorry this... Do you import, for example, No, we do not. We trace every single gram so we no longer source from the region. For example, when you see this document, for example, this company that exclusively it was involved which is illegal. I know the company. The company has made a decision However, I can say that the sourcing that is subject to due diligence goes through extensive due diligence. How do you do it? Do you go and see the company, &quot;Don't buy any more gold A man interrupts the conversation. Do you want to comment on E&amp;M? Later maybe. She's now going to make a presentation. We see that you're still buying gold. No, we're not. As I said, the company made a decision Could you excuse us for a moment, sir? -Could you excuse us for a moment? Extraction operation complete. That is the last we will see Back to Switzerland. Metalor is not alone and there is an even more serious issue. The sector's other heavyweight, Argor, is accused of having violated a UN embargo by buying gold from a country The only available images of its factory Algor employs 250 members of staff here. The gold that they melt here and each year with a value of 12 billion euros. American Kathy Austin wants to prove from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. A country whose bloody civil war has tragically killed six million people It's been dangerous When I've visited the mines, because I'm snooping into the business You are talking about individuals and companies that are profiting My investigation In 2004, Kathy went to the Democratic Republic In this amateur footage, we see her investigating At the time, the UN wanted to know how the rebels were financing when the country was under embargo. To find out, held by armed groups in the Kivu region. She went there several times and was accompanied Here the militia holds workers In these mine's depths, often children, for just one dollar a day. -What are you doing here? We are always looking for that, here. You always find it here. What is it? Gold! What I witnessed was the way rebel groups and forced the local population to mine. They were recruiting child soldiers. There was a lot of rape and a lot of massacres. It's one of the reasons why I really wanted to look Kathy wanted to follow the gold trail. She learned how the Congo rebels imposed on their country. Gold from Congo is secretly transported Once there, it becomes Ugandan gold, a perfect laundering operation. The gold can now be sold officially According to the UN, between 2004 and 2005. It is suspected and therefore indirectly In Uganda, In nine years, According to her, What we see in the case of Argor Heraeus is that they were actually taking gold and illegally laundering that Now, Kathy wants Argor She is assisted by the NGO trial, which is specialized These lawyers have analyzed all like this export license, which clearly shows A license that was given Uganda Commercial Impex. Then this second document, an air waybill It shows that this intermediary, sent gold to Argor in Switzerland. It is the link that allows us to accurately reconstruct and the Democratic Repuplic of the Congo, so we can hold the company responsible and in this particular case that they must have been aware The NGO trial has decided more aware of this matter. On the 4th of November 2013, Trials director Philip Grant announces that he has just brought in order to open a criminal investigation. The aim of this afternoon that has been brought one of the largest For the people the NGO has prepared a short but rather dark animation The gossips say that I am a looter, but I prefer to say My playing field at the moment is... Africa. Some think this is the third world. The first step The best is to choose a country with rival factions that are in conflict I am able to do business, Everyone's a winner. Unrefined gold is very nice. but it doesn't sell especially It's easy, we send the gold to refiners. Some of them will transform my loot I can see it coming, you're going to accuse them LOOTING AND LAUNDERING ARE CRIMES When the conference ends, will be rocked Okay, that's it, thank you. They are in a total panic at Argor. Argor is in a complete panic The Swiss courts against Argor for complicity something which has never happened before. I'm just amazed, it's an amazing moment. Kathy's nine-year investigation Obviously, I'm speechless. For the first time, of having to justify itself This sends out a message to the companies who are part of this chain that goes from looting Today is a great victory for justice. That was good, thank you for saying that The courts will decide if Argor was aware We have found He worked at Argor It's the first time that a manager agrees to talk to journalists. He refused to be filmed, but we were able We show him the Air Waybill, which established the link between Argor When those at Argor saw this document, they wouldn't have asked any questions? There was no way that Argor I think that Argor saw it. Maybe it was an intern, but in the financial department. It's possible because he didn't understand it. Incompetence. It's possible. I'm going to put it another way for you, In the gold sector, it's almost like Do you know what I mean? After ten years of work, after having processed it's like potatoes to them. You see what I'm trying to say. We try to speak to Argor, but the company claims of the real origin of the gold and refuses to be interviewed at all. However, there are a number of people who makes serious accusations The state prosecutor and it is frustrating from the company at all. I think... As I've said, there isn't anything new for us to respond to. Argor will not say anything else. We meet with the activist [foreign spoken audio] He has been denouncing the bad practices In April 2013, they took advantage the Baselworld in Bale, His NGO deployed this giant sign I believe that they know much more because they have their people in place and they know exactly They only stop buying We want them to become much more engaged and really not to buy through dirty gold. There is a total lack of transparency The precious metal arrives in Geneva and then is transported without passing These highly secure, vast warehouses An extraterritorial zone where armored vans and transport it The production of gold bars also lends itself as this raw material A ring from Latin America, a gold tooth sold by a Russian dentist, or nuggets from illegal mines. Everything ends up in the same furnace, and once melted, and the dirty gold apart. Stamped made in Switzerland, A perfect laundering system. In Zurich, Egon von Greyerz His specialty is gold bar investments. Hi, Johnny, I'm just on my way. I have gold bars In his case, the famous gold bars. These Swiss gold bars because they are the purest in the world. Here are two one-kilo bars. They are worth around 30,000 euros. This is four nines, which is the highest purity. Switzerland is the biggest producer Switzerland refines up to 70 percent People who invest in gold In times of recession, Over 15 years, a windfall for Egon's customers. Even when the gold price the buying was bigger than ever. Are your customers concerned No, never. The customers never ask. We have not had a single customer In Switzerland, no one asks questions and those who dare to do so Jean Ziegler, explains why to us. Swiss bank secrecy Whoever violates the bank secrecy or a foreign judge et cetera, on the movement of gold on Swiss soil, he is automatically sued by the prosecutor's office. The gold refiner or make a claim against them... it's automatic! Switzerland, gold and banks. It's an old story and one Everything started when the big Swiss banks to produce their own gold bars. The objective was to attract who were looking According to the University this system was devised from the outset with a view to seducing The Swiss banks in the international From that point of view, to hold a position at the nerve center of the gold sector was very important. It was a deliberate choice and the Swiss government During the Second World War, the Swiss banks melted gold notably from the Jewish Holocaust victims. Jewels, belongings, even going so far In the 1980s, the Swiss banking state from the apartheid regime in South Africa. There were arrangements or more precisely and the banks to conceal gold purchased from South Africa in the Swiss statistics. The current controversy are just the latest episodes of gold in Switzerland. For six months, with the government and its administration To try and meet with them, of the World Watch the country's third-largest industry. Eighteen billion euros in exports. The former president of the Confederation Ueli Maurer, will open the event. We shout our questions to him. Mr Maurer, I am from Canal Plus, French television. -Can I ask you a question? -After the tour. We've carried out an investigation where we have traced We've discovered Is it the industry driving this, or is it the state It's a collaboration between both of them. Meaning the state protects it? -Yes. Yes, it's necessary. Is it not embarrassing Gold from crime, or from war? We can do everything we can, but I don't think We get the feeling that the state is protecting an industry in search of illegal gold, it's strange. No, no, that's not the case at all. We've witnessed it firsthand in Peru Argor is on trial, That might be your impression, Argor, there's a criminal investigation No, no. Faced with difficult questions, We ask these questions again the luxury brand of the Swatch Group Is that a gold watch Yes, we only have gold watches All of them are gold. Clean gold? Yes definitely, we only use clean gold. Did you find some dirty gold? -No, he doesn't want it! -Can you guarantee it? You can never guarantee, We also buy it from the bank. Ask the banks if they can guarantee it. We've traced the gold's path who I think are your suppliers. Yes, yes. Thank you. The senior official in Switzerland who is tasked with improving is this man, Hans Peter Egler. We speak to him. There's no transparency. Actually, For example, you can ask the refiners Then you can verify, someone can verify. The NGO and journalists can't check, -I'm saying the government can. Nobody checks, Then you have dirty gold Just to remind you that you shouldn't film here. Their annoyance is important because the Swiss state for the past four years Well, good morning everyone. In 2010, Obama passed a law that demanded greater traceability Measures that are also imposed Since 2014, the gold importation data It is a small first step. Since legislation has been strengthened, another country has taken up the reins We leave for this small emirate A few years ago, the city became for the gold markets. Here, the yellow metal is everywhere. On the bodywork of cars Mini bars of pure gold Dubai's nickname definitely The city of gold. It's 18-carat gold. Well, that piece there -Are there customers who will buy it? Since worldwide gold regulations Dubai's turnover in the gold business Here, traders fall over themselves mainly through the gold souk, Here, every single workshop If I come with one kilo, can you buy it? -It is not a problem. Yes, if I'm buying gold I would need the Dubai Customs papers. If they have cleared, it means it's fine. -Here you are legal. Do you know if the other ones Almost everybody asks for the documents. -Okay, almost. Nearly everybody, an almost confession. With a hidden camera, we return to the Gold Souk markets -Do you know where we can sell gold? We make out that we want to sell a kilo and half a kilo of gold from the Congo. Gold that is under an embargo that in principle, no one should buy. However, it only takes a few minutes I have one-kilo official, Do you buy it or you don't? There is no problem to buy. -For one kilo you have papers, right? For a half kilo, I also have papers, Okay, I'll talk to one of my friends Okay. -I'll talk to him. How do you pay? -We pay in cash. Thank you very much. The seller calls us back He agrees to buy all our gold. A trader who regularly works in Dubai, anonymously confirms to us It all happens at the Gold Souk. They come with their suitcases and they sell plastic bags that contain... kilos and kilos of gold nuggets. These people come to Dubai and they sell the gold that they bring That's how they find buyers. Who is going to say no? To get to the gold souk, In Dubai, they don't pay much attention, with documents to support his assertions. This is for the export There's no original, this doesn't exist. This is just a logo Once they arrive in Dubai they're able to clear customs. There's no check The gold enters Dubai, Once it has arrived on their territory, Dubai's refineries will retrieve this gold One of them, Emirates Gold, opens its doors to us. This refinery of a big Swiss refinery. Today it is his son, How much money is there on the table? -This is ten. This is 10, 20, 30, 40, Four times seven is 28, We asked him about the UN report -You bought gold from Congo. You've been in a report of the UN... That was much before that. I think 2007, maybe 2008. Congo bought it in 2007, 2008. I doubt it's Congo either, You bought from Uganda, for Congo which stated that bought from Congo, It's always tricky. I think the supply chain for gold has become clearer and clearer Emirates Gold says that it is now one However, what about all the others? To talk about this, He is in charge of overseeing Okay, looks like a busy desk. In his office on the 50th floor, he sweeps aside all the criticisms Where's the evidence and the issue? Then you see a different story. It's over 20 percent of the gold trade Today we are the ones who are laughing, We're not only moving forward from 12 billion dollars of gold trade and the official numbers are 70 billion. There are different challenges in Europe and the new rules that are coming out. Dubai is a haven A haven. In the world of gold, these refineries are where On this very day in Dubai, Ahmed bin Sulayem of what will become -Ahmed, the spade is in 24-carat gold. If it's you telling me that Do you want a hard hat? The ground is broken that is expected to produce The demand and the business in Dubai that it justifies building What does it mean, the gold business Time will tell. Today, gold bars made in Dubai Twenty percent and bring with them the risk will enter the country once again. In this business, nothing is lost. Everything is transformed. Is dirty gold inevitable? We returned to Chopard in Geneva. The jeweler has found a solution. He has partnered the company called Fairmined. This gold is produced by artisanal miners The results are less pollution, There we find fine gold that have been extracted from artisan mines. We are going to ensure from the mine all the way to the market. Today, At Chopard, we have committed approximately five to ten percent. of our components from Fairmined origin. We are trying so that more mines can get certified Chopard launched its ethical collection Its ambassador, Marion Cotillard. Up until now, only a few pieces have been produced. It is a drop in the ocean, but the initiative has since been followed The luxury industry has understood could cost them dearly.