Only a short flight away Jordan is bordered by Saudi Arabia, As the cradle of civilization, Middle East countries are littered Jordan is no exception. Jordan is a living history book. Although Petra is Jordan's the ancient town of Jerash, is equally significant. Founded in the 3rd century AD it reached its prime under the Romans The Byzantine authorities Faced with the Persian of the 7th century the town was eventually reduced to ruins. Roman Jerash but today, At the southern entrance It's 25 meters tall and was built in honor in the year 129. What is unusual about this structure sculpted at the top The exquisite detailing. Continuing past Hadrian's Gate, It was built at the time towards the end of the second century AD. The Hippodrome was equipped and it could hold 15,000 spectators. It's believed that even in the Roman era, Greek was spoken here From the Corsairs starting gates, the four-horse teams, led by the charioteers, The chariot races were a highlight and bedding was common practice The drivers and the horses The teams belonged to different stables Today, the site of Jerash's considered archeological sites At first, Jerash was one of the ten towns As the name suggests, the group included according to ancient writers. It was a group of Hellenistic cities One of our problems of these ten Hellenistic towns, situated within this zone acting as a remarkably coherent whole. Only one was situated The Decapolis was the fruit during a period of great opulence. During this prosperous period, Jerash boasted paved streets immense temples, theaters, and fortifications It was all carefully planned and laid out. The Jerash site has always been occupied because it is situated in terms of water sources. There's one, for example, Unfortunately, it passes underneath so it couldn't be used to supply, apart from those in the east. There are also many sources This explains why the site Starting from the middle a small group settled permanently By that, I refer to the hill which is now the site of the museum. It's almost entirely artificial. It was a small hill built up from the Middle Ages From the Hellenistic the village started to expand spreading to the neighboring hillsides. It happened through the simple process However, we still know very little of more ancient layers of the town. We only have a few small indicators because, as you can see, the quality of the Roman that we cannot dig up existing ruins and destroy the paving We're forced to look for sites in order to carry out probes. Unfortunately, which we would most like to study. The oldest dated building in Jerash which you can see beside us, so without a doubt, We're in the Southern Theater This structure was built under the reign Only men were allowed Up to 4,000 spectators would enter They used tickets made of clay discs. In the front rows that were used to designate places. What is incredible here is the quality A spectator sitting in the tiers' back row would've heard equally well An incredible feat Today, during the summer, the theater hosts It's a surprise to see Jordanian soldiers playing the bagpipes In fact, this is evidence this time English. In many former they still play military music Although the performance style has been We are in front of the ramparts Most of the research on the town by an Anglo-American team led by Crawling. The original idea was that, given that Jerash was so well-preserved it could be used as a model and the history of the other towns. The organization of Jerash at least when you look at a map. The town was laid out as a grid suggesting that the town The town planning The town was surrounded One point to note is that the wall, contains the city's gates. We can see an example behind us now, built at the time According to the Americans, If the rampart dates from the 1st century, we can infer that the streets therefore, that the urbanism This means that, more or less, Several gates have been discovered but only the north and south ones The caravans from Arabia would've entered with its three archways. Here, too, there are many clues We've found some installations some of which are truly remarkable. Here we have an oil press, but the form of this particular It's a direct-pressure double-screw press. However, the most interesting thing As you see, the rampart partially The oil mill would be redundant as it is. Therefore, the building to the destruction of the oil mill. As it happens, of each stage of the site, the oil mill, and then of a residential house Hence, we proved the rampart dates but from the end of the 3rd with a pattern of the region at the start of the Byzantine era. Despite the lack of written records archeological research enables us Because here, have left traces of their existence This gate was, in fact, incorporated That is to say, the rampart rather than the gate being built Following this discovery, which forced us about the town's planning and its history. We can now show that the town's structure on top of an older, This knowledge shed doubt Now we've had to start over to try and retrace, little by little, We've had to go through Instead of looking at the structure to draw conclusions we now have to discover the history and build up an image Unfortunately, Luckily, we have one text about parts of history. The text of Flavius Joseph, who wrote about these towns The first Jewish revolution of the Jewish bands of Jews, who came to attack The towns of the interior, had Jewish communities who lived among Flavius Joseph writes within the towns united to fight back who descended from Palestine. Flavius Joseph also writes gathered up the local Jewish people It's quite clear that only one town and that was Jerash. Not only did Jerash not massacre they went so far who nonetheless decided Obviously, in such a case, the Emperor tended to consider Flavius Joseph tells us that Vespasian came with his troops I say razed. They vandalized a number of symbols, Unsurprisingly, the sanctuary of Zeus, which was the most important sanctuary What is remarkable, though, is that more beautiful than ever. We can get an idea of the town's history, to be representative It's a one-off case, as we see clearly in the case where Jerash alone It was no doubt the case during other important events This means that studies of Jerash help us insofar as it's possible, but they can't be used as a role model for understanding the history In the Roman era from 63 AD the site passed under direct Roman control and construction linking Jerash to Philadelphia, Little by little The center of the original settlement and the town started to spread out The grand bulk of the development of serious construction and then again in the Byzantine era. After this, the city suffered and simultaneously, sadly we cannot tell a severe plague, i.e., major epidemics, resulting in the start in the middle of the 8th century. There was a minor Abbasid occupation, and then a temporary reoccupation A small group of people later built a fort Following this, so that during 7th to 8th centuries, there was no one present on the site. This means that the site was free The town is wonderfully well-conserved There was no one around to destroy it. That's why Jerash is one of the most The decline and eventual abandonment The Greeks destroyed or displaced traces Then the Romans did the same Then the Byzantines. For archaeologists, the challenge is to get a sense For example, Paris's Louvre Museum set up an exhibition of an imaginary reconstruction using stones that had been dispersed Here we have two very important elements. The most significant is no longer visible that was carried out It is the building itself. We're in the crypto porticos Built in 27 to 28 AD a fantastic architect who succeeded here in constructing a set segmented archways, which were one of the major difficulties Nobody realized it, but what you see here The second element here is the building What is extraordinary is that which shows that they were voluntarily As well as these remarkable buildings, The architects of the day which had already been tried When you look at a site like Jerash today, You see the final state of the town Looking at the town map, you can see the main road with a series of smaller roads and regular distances. The town was planned as a grid, On the cardo maximus, a route lined is the Nymphaeum, It's a two-storey structure. In the beginning, Its existence testify to the opulence of Jerash. It was dedicated to Tyche, The building was covered and stucco on the upper level. A grand water feature cascaded down into a large basin, then ran into various pools and trickled out down a network of drains, However, recapturing the past When the Americans arrived here, Here, for example, They saw very little of what we see today, The map seems to suggest The first probes and discoveries When you first arrive here, there appears to be no reason Their evidence is coherent The excavations beside the south gate The existence of a burned ruin underneath the town rampart proved clearly If the ramparts are not first-century, then we can't be sure This detail forced us What's extraordinary when you look at the four columns is that one pair The two northern columns which meant that they had to add a prop because the horizontal lines If the horizontal lines were crooked, The height itself was not a problem, the architraves had to be propped up. One side is 20 centimeters shorter The one standing is the strangest the successive surfaces It's a three-sided architrave but on the right, it has four sides. The next one there has its two props. It was found on the ground. It's the one that was originally on top and to get it horizontal, Here we have a four-sided architrave, but it's just a cover-up who didn't always measure There are still people today and that isn't a bad thing. If you turn around, you can see columns. They're perfectly in place. They haven't been restored. Those columns were constructed A little further on, but the vertical mounts If you continue even further, but using entirely recycled material You always have to look closely. Otherwise, you can mistakenly conclude that the street was built which is what everyone will tell you. We weren't present during construction We only see the final modified state, The important thing is to bring together For example, during the excavations they dug under the street and came across the wells which were filled in, in 170 AD, This proves than the second-half It's the positioning of the street, not simply a question of resurfacing The street itself cannot have existed In the same way, the pavement you see was built using materials Therefore, although the columns behind it As you can see, it's a big mix. What's extraordinary materials are taken to be used in Byzantine construction, and one century later, the moldings in the triumphal artwork Still, would we know? Nothing remains on the site. Everything has been removed fragments of the capitals, When we start the reconstructions, we look for the connections The Temple of Zeus is a prime example in reconstructing the past. The site is littered with pillars, stones, evidence of the passing and of the violent earthquakes The work of the archaeologists the historical puzzle We are in the sanctuary of Zeus. It's a sanctuary built on several levels. We are currently on the podium, which was consecrated in 162 AD. This temple was constructed which remains underneath, because of its position This lower terrace is, in fact, and so, standing on this terrace, we can look back Here, we discovered predating the construction There is a series of buildings stretching over a period These structures do not conform at all to the classical canons We refer to this style as Oriental, because these are elements It's all a bit unclear. In the middle of the courtyard the temple itself. The inscriptions tell us that were worshipped in the town. Only the remains of the sanctuaries to Olympian Zeus and Artemis, The ruins of the monuments have always impressed visitors, but our real interest is in understanding which is linked to transport networks, The excavations have shown that, the two temples The most important sanctuary, which prevailed in the hearts was the sanctuary of Zeus. The temple of Artemis remained unfinished, they started and completed larger than that of Artemis. Archaeology tends to deal Occasionally, we have texts but we almost never have access For example, we'd love to have a text &quot;It was I, Emperor X,&quot; &quot;who financed the construction &quot;because I wished to demonstrate&quot; &quot;that the imperial power However, we'll never have that. The situation is complicated from the deserted temples were later used We are once again in front of a portico, with the pavement in front projecting out into the street. Again, entirely using blocks You can see the blocks of white limestone, the little palm-shaped cornice there, which once stood All of that was demounted and reused here, and the thermal baths, etc. Nothing is left at the sanctuary, its various parts We're helped by the fact dating from after 450 AD that the demolition We look in all buildings Sometimes blocks and sometimes, it's more complicated. For example, the Italian group excavating recently found 19 architraves altogether. They'd been used We're standing under the portico in the atrium leading up which is behind us. Underneath the basis of the columns, The architraves of the house of Zeus, which disappeared They've been recycled of the portico of the Byzantine church. You can see one here These blocks are easy to spot They're the only ones with a molding Above all, or clamps. These have recently been excavated We have 19 more blocks of the sanctuary The other major temple a Roman temple built in 150 AD The portico of the building They are so tall that on a windy day Eleven of them are still standing. This is the city's important monument, as the temple but also because of its proportions. The whole construction This is the entry This street is the cardo, We are at the foot of the propylaeum, The Sanctuary of Artemis There are no great surprises. It's a large 2nd-century structure. You won't find any unusual capitals This is a classical architecture However, one remarkable thing and how the different spaces We're currently in the area which was built up on the hill. It is invisible from here. Although here we're already which extended all the way to the swamps There was a street, a bridge, followed by a section of road. Then, a narrowing as you pass and then, a trapezoid-shaped plaza where we're standing now. The structure was based and, as you can see, Here, we're at the foot of the propylaeum and behind that, The staircase led It's a progressive buildup in front of the facade of the sanctuary. The composition's extraordinary, Although dedications to the goddess dedicated to her these current structures only date Here, you can see It's a colonnade, not a portico, meaning that the columns were purely In terms of its decoration, First, the triple-on, the three monumental doors You have to imagine doors that could be closed Behind that, separated by small landings, with, we believe, an altar. I say we believe as to whether the altar or something else. From here, you start to get a glimpse columns of the temple itself. The Temple of Artemis was intended and the most important temple It contained panels of fine marble Only the best sufficed In fact, this vision is deceptive, because you would not When you arrived you would have been faced by a staircase apparently blocked in by two large towers. Between these two, another colonnade, behind which stood a large wall, and probably a triple-on Up to this point, You really have to try you would be faced with something With a rise of more than 40 meters this was a stunning architectural backdrop for the playing out Processions would start at the river Now we're arriving at the summit. Our vision of it today Here, you should see a series of columns, The only ones left standing In front of us, you can see three blocks. These are the remains of the threshold You have to imagine You can't see any of it unless, Otherwise, the wall hid everything. One has to be wary of the impressions Partly because elements have disappeared and also because elements and do not correspond to anything We're now in front which was the major temple of the town, and which, from the 2nd century onwards, The temple was built within the sanctuary. A typical classical sanctuary, with a courtyard surrounded by columns, for example, the temple itself, This temple is very typical It has a podium and a massive foundation, on top of which is a series of columns What is unusual here It contains a series of underground rooms. We don't know yet what their purpose was. There are many plausible suggestions. Bearing in mind that access to the rooms the raised platform and the most sacred part of the temple. The other feature of the temple is the staircase Given that the priest alone had access, like in Palmyra in Lebanon some activities took place on the roof. This indicates that the roofs despite the existence which would be more typical The pediments were false, where we know there were pediments and even the cellar The temple is beautiful, and the capitals, They're amongst the beautiful The reason is simple: I mean that the building There should be architraves and pediments, because the building with only the temporary roofing in place. A series of columns You can see the shafts on the ground stone fresh from the mine. Over there, you see one of the shafts, We found the mine on the sulfur road. The shafts had remained there, The project was interrupted. We can see clearly that the temple was built The rock shows traces of excavations There are hydraulic installations which were added However, they also intersect which were cut into the rock. Here, for example, and another one there, Others have been filled in It's clear that we're on the site to construct the sanctuary. We can see that for certain parts you have to go and search for the rocks which is at the bottom of the tomb. Later on, all this was leveled out, and then pipes were run over the top, which were used The sanctuary had several large baths, When you look upon this tableau you tend to forget the techniques which went into creating it. This was the era of the stone industry. By looking at relics and customs, archaeologists have reconstructed during the construction I'd like to show you the little monster. During the excavations, researchers came across which corresponded to descriptions and the discovery amazed them. The technologies being used here We're in front of a reconstruction a hydraulic saw It's a truly extraordinary machine. At first glance, it looks like a monster, but it's the prototype because it allows to be translated It's the basis of mechanics, with a motor that uses hydraulic It works obviously This was thought to be from the 14th century. However, here we are in the middle and a machine exists in Jerash that can cut up to eight slabs We have proof the machine worked that you can see here. It was very sophisticated. One of the branches and, in fact, this one has been conserved, which today is totally in ruins. The tank provided water for the fountains, The overflow from that tank at the back over there, from where the water fell four meters This type of wheel fed from above but produces a great deal of power. In this case, roughly two tons of power. The water was finally evacuated and then flowed into the main drains. We are extraordinarily lucky because the supports for the wheel At the two ends of the short axis on which you have the centric axis, The centric axis which remains proof to this day. We know very well that it was a short axis and that things with the two column shafts. An American photo was found in exactly the same position which have been restored today. Looking at the blocks here, We found all the elements, the distances, and the height from which the water fell; At Hafez, but they couldn't understand so they didn't publish anything. That was more than 20 years ago, where I was able to visit There was also a second machine showing It shows that although we look for themes the one thing an archaeologist needs To be sensitive to any detail anywhere because you never know I tell you, during 20 years, For the moment, the one which has caused The site of Jerash and Jordan of the ups and downs A wealth of mysterious clues, which we piece together to form A great deal of knowledge Jerash has revealed some of its secrets, There is still debate about the details However, the fact remains Jerash was one of the prosperous places flushed with the innocence of success. The people of this area and very pragmatic. The decor was not fixed, with standard decorative styles They noticed things and played with ideas. You might say that the style with things being done in unusual ways, It's fantastic because we're always