Yeah, I'll uh, call you later because I need What the F*** What is this!? The letters are all messed up, how can anyone Actually, the Colemak layout is one of the It was designed to reduce finger travel and Okay, that's great, but why are we still using Hi Dygmates, I'm Dominique, and in this video many other new keyboard layouts that want Back in the 1800s, there were all kinds of In 1857, the first typewriters had Piano keys In 1865, a Danish guy created this writing and we even had this keyboard that kind of So how did we end up with QWERTY? Well, it was all thanks to Latham Sholes, in 1867, Latham and Glidden started working something It had a cylindrical platon and 4 row QWERTY If you look closely, you'll notice there's That's because they used the capital I and However, they had trouble manufacturing it. After several design iterations and failed The machine was acquired by E. Remington &amp; Sons They released the Remington 1 in 1874. Thomas Edison wasn't amazed by it though. He described this new invention as.... It's utterly difficult, the alignment of the One letter would be one-sixteenth of an inch wondering out of line. Despise Edison's dismissal, the Remington Setting the standard for future designs. In 1893, all the major manufacturers, including Premiere formed the 'Typewriter trust' and their typewriters. Then the Teletype company adopted the layout That's important, because from the 40s to for computers in the US, UK and Japan. Okay. That's the reason why we all use QWERTY but... Is it the optimal keyboard layout? What about Dvorak? Colemak, Carpalx, Workman, Norman, Engram, Well, Let's find out! This is the QWERTY layout we all know today, most frequently used keys. Okay, so what's your assessment of that? Yeah... QWERTY is all over the place. The most used keys are slightly off the home-row and, it depicts a heavier work load on the I guess back then, they didn't have a way And once it became the standard, it was difficult And it's not like nobody tried... Let me introduce you to Dr. August Dvorak. This was the first real layout to challenge I demand satisfaction! In 1936, Dr. August Dvorak wanted to prove And he wanted to replace all computers of His idea was that vowels and the most used While the most used consonants are on the The most common letters and bigrams, should fingers for maximum speed and efficiency. The least common letters should be on the And stroking should generally move from the This is because for most people, It's easier Rather than vice-versa. Despite all of his theories, Dvorak couldn't He conducted some studies, but they were not valid. Add the astronomical cost of replacing all and you can imagine why he didn't succeed. We'd have to wait another 70 years to seea This time, it's Colemak. A layout based on QWERTY, intended to ease This layout reduces finger travel and fatigue It's not an overhaul as significant as Dvorak. But it's commonly acknowledged as one of the What makes this an easier layout to transition is that the punctuation is in the bottom row. unlike Dvorak which had it at the top left. The heatmap displays a more horizontal disposition, but compared to Dvorak, it has more focus Then we have the Colemak Mod DH. Developed in 2014. As an evolution of the previous Colemak layout. The goal of this mod is to reduce stress from This is a trend that will continue in future If you ask me, this one is moving in the right The small modifications, push the heat map We can see how with both Colemak models, the hands and removes effort for the index. Then we have the Workman layout. What are you doing!? Did someone call a Workman!? Not now, not now, not now. Tonight, tonight, tonight. This layout was developed in 2010 and evolved It's more evenly distributed among the fingers, and relying more on the middle fingers. Next, we have Norman. Who's there? Tumbleweed Uhm. Anyway, this is the Norman layout. It was developed in the early 2010s and its than QWERTY. As you see, the middle and ring fingers are layout. Almost as if it was made for a split keyboard the pinkies. Now let's look at Engram. No, it's ENGRAM. Really, can you check? Engram. Huh. As I was saying, developed in 2021. Engram is a project completely created from Focusing mainly on the best way to type diagrams, Engrams! The punctuation in the middle creates a clear Which makes it one of the best layouts for And now let's talk about this interesting Carpalx. Carpalx is a keyboard layout optimizer. A community-driven project that must be acknowledged. This site has a section to design your own You can input books and texts to calculate These layouts are based on the users needs. Taking language and other specifics into the If you're interested in alternatively layouts, You might not agree with the criteria... But reading the explanation is a pleasure This is an example of a QGMLW layout, generated Which they claim is the best layout. See how the effort is concentrated on the Mostly on the right side. But, it's pretty evenly distributed. Last, we have the Halmak layout. Halmak is another project that started from Based on AI. It recognizes patterns and creates a layout The typing distribution is pretty even. The stress is mainly on the middle row and Making it ideal for removing stress on the So... should we kill QWERTY? Despite the effort of all these other layouts, There's still no hard proof that QWERTY is In fact, during the last ultimate typing championship, used a non QWERTY layout. and it was actually, Dvorak. Another thing to remember is that all these for typing in english. If you type in another language, like spanish, These layouts may not be as effective. Another caveat, is that non of these layout or layers. with a programmable keyboard with extra thumb You can re-map keys like enter, backspace, Avoiding pinkie stretches. You can also use layers and macros to access So, what does the future hold for keyboards? Surprisingly, what might end up killing QWERTY Voice recognition. Still, QWERTY is very much present everywhere. in phones, tablets, and even in your remote or, the search menu for Netflix. QWERTY for 99% of humanity, is a synonym for but now that more and more people are learning stations. it's most likely that we'll see an increased One thing is for sure, having a programmable and customize your layout easily. What do you guys think? Which of these layouts did you like most? and have you tried any of them? If you haven't, why not give them a try? We'll put all the links to these layouts in Thanks for watching and please don't forget If you have any requests on what video we And now that you know everything about the the message in the intro... Bye!!