Transcriber: Eunice Tan Boobs. (Laughter) The girls. Breasts. Sometimes they're a friend; But even when they frustrate you, (Laughter) And you do this every day of your life by strapping yourself The bra as we know it is 100 years old, and we believe a lot of things about it: it needs to be pretty; Well, it needs to be a lot like us. What we expect from our bras is a metaphor for what And since our ideas about ourselves maybe our bras should change too. As the only person in North America I've spent a lot of time studying bras, and I believe they're broken. The stat that 80% of women came from a study conducted a British retailer Another study found that 59% of women said their bra caused Think athletic apparel is the cure-all? Mm. Not quite. 75% of female marathon runners have at least one fit issue that causes discomfort. So when we consider over the past 100 years, why are we still fastening ourselves and calling it support? Is the bra really so great that it justifies a design No. Manufacturers of most types know it's easier and cheaper by making the same thing just changing the color or print. They've trained consumers not to expect leading consumers to believe that true innovation which is ironic because things not even we expect the manufacturers I'm not going to buy a new phone because but because the technology in it than the phone I'm currently using. The tech sector convinces us the apparel industry conditions us They count on our complacency. Sure, there have been microfiber and stretch padded straps, molded cups, So, wow! Look how far bras have come. But here's what a bra in 1930 looked like, [c. 1930] and here's what it looks like today. (Laughter) [2018] If that 90-year-old bra you would think it was You only need to be on Facebook one second But those bras are essentially And I have a concern: not only that bras haven't evolved but that we've been taught what we think we need, and we've been misled. So let's take a look at the design And for those of you who don't wear bras, I'm assuming you've encountered and are familiar with the technology. (Laughter) So why do we wear bras? We're told that's what Social and cultural norms have taught us or feel unattractive if they are drooping. If you have larger breasts, it can feel uncomfortable Maybe you wear a bra because you believe Well, I have news for you: (Laughter) There is no scientific evidence whatsoever that wearing a bra Not. That's right. The technical term for sagging is ptosis, and it happens due to factors like breast size, pregnancy, In fact, there are two studies which show that wearing a bra And while the jury is still out on these, it may be that keeping them weakens the breast-supporting tissues. Bra manufacturers are well aware of this. In 2000, the then-CEO was quoted in a British &quot;We have no medical evidence because the breast itself is not a muscle so keeping it toned up Sometimes I'm asked, &quot;What about the breasts I'm not going to show you but a quick Google search will reveal the variety of breast shapes matches the variety some are perky, The only difference is that ptosis is covered up by bras, so you can't see just how prevalent in those cultures. So if you're wearing a bra today because you believe it will keep you are wearing it for the wrong reasons. I know - I felt betrayed too. But based on the evidence we have, wearing a bra to stay lifted as wearing high heels, thinking they'll actually make you taller (Laughter) OK, so if bras can't prevent sagging, And what better way than with underwires? Two pieces of metal (Laughter) We've come to believe that underwires alone Wrong. Underwires were not designed for support; Underwires act like ponytail holders: They got a larger mass (Laughter) Here are two bras on the same woman: one with underwires, and one without. As you can see, the one without underwires does a much better job Although there are lots the underwire alone Most of the support actually comes from the stability Let's take a look at photos of women (Laughter) Those bras didn't have underwires. (Laughter) And those bras were so supported, (Laughter) I'm guessing this isn't that something that you thought turned out not to be. (Laughter) Except at that point, you probably (Laughter) Maybe you like you're used to it, Great! But if you hate underwires and you're only wearing them stop. There are plenty of supportive bras How do you find a non-underwire bra Look for a bra with cups rather than foam. Why? Think about how differently you sit Pretty different, right? You'll sink into the foam but sit upright in a wooden chair. A non-stretch fabric and does a much better job of supporting. Also, look for no stretch in the front If you're thinking, &quot;That doesn't sound very comfortable,&quot; I assure you that fabric-based support far better than wire or a church pew. So let's talk sizing for a sec. As women, we've been raised and by the way, when you're not that size anymore, it's upsetting. If you were always a size 6 you have feelings about that, just as you do when you go Chances are, you've also especially a cup size: &quot;I'm just an A.&quot; &quot;I'm a solid B.&quot; &quot;I'm a D.&quot; You probably have feelings about that too. You might even feel inadequacy or shame. But here's the thing: bras don't fit the way jeans fit. If you're a size 8 jean, you know that a 6 will be too small There's only one size But bras aren't sized there isn't just one size that fits you. And the reason I'm telling you this is that you may have mistakenly thinking that's just what you are, when you could be wrong and missing out on a world of comfort Let's take four bra sizes: 38A, 36B, 34C, and 32D. Completely different sizes, right? [38 A, 36 B, 34 C, 32 D] Nope. They're all the same size. These sizes all accommodate they just do it with a shorter Now, you might think you're a D cup, and then you just need to figure out Wrong again. A 38D, 36D, 34D, and 32D have absolutely nothing in common. They don't fit the same size So everything you've been told that A cups are always small isn't true. Would you believe it and have bigger breasts Sounds flatly wrong, but it's true. And some As - get this - You think it can't be true, but that's just and why we so often get it wrong. And much like the other ways these cup sizes are labels that are lies. When was the last time When was the last time you questioned something else but might not be? Why are sizes so crazy? Like, who designed it this way and why? The numbers 32, 34, etc. [OUR PATTERN DEPARTMENT] Initially, the bra size The assumption was that the clothing size small clothing size, small breast size. When it became apparent cup sizes were added by determining than the Victorian shirt size. But here's the problem with that: Two inches bigger and two inches bigger That created a lot and led to something which is how bras are currently sized. So all of these cups, are exactly the same. In fact, the manufacturers over and over and over again, change the length of the underband, The cups are identical. And all of these cups, are completely different. As the decades went on, and women no longer off the top of their head, (Laughter) a system of measuring around the rib cage was used to identify Why are 80% of women Because most women have no idea Currently, the global bra market Since 80% of those purchases that means approximately is spent purchasing the wrong product. I can't think of any other industry where 80% of consumers buy the wrong thing How is that OK? And the reason so many women is because they're wearing the wrong size. That's outrageous. Designing a system that would enable would be very easy to do. Just label all of the cup sizes the same! (Laughter) That's how most women And make the band size Because let's be honest: Unless you're living in Downton Abbey, who cares what (Laughter) How do you know if you're wearing the wrong size? Because that system of adding four many women are wearing a band size Reach around and pull the band If it easily stretches more than the width (Laughter) And I just lost half the audience because (Laughter) Why is having a large Because - here's another bra doozy - the majority of support comes In fact, if your shoulder straps are digging in, it could mean that your underband By the way, you don't have Most people have one shoulder so it's OK if one needs When you buy a new bra, be sure to also try on And be sure to find a bra You're supposed to hook so that as it gets older you can tighten it. And if your bra has had a birthday, it has outstayed its welcome. (Laughter) You should be replacing (Explosive sound) (Laughter) (Applause) I know - this is mind-blowing stuff, truly. (Laughter) No matter when you bought the bra bottom line is it's 100 years (Laughter) Hey, some things do get better with age, like fine wine or Helen Mirren. (Laughter) But not the bra. And it leaves us to question: Here's the thing: All bras are training bras. They train us from a young age that this is how things are, and there's nothing you can do about it. Bras have become I'm not saying we should all but we can do better than this. If we don't question something as small and persistent how can we question the bigger things? The time is now for us and it starts at chest level. Because for far too long, the very thing has let us down. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)