Hello everyone, I am happy tears. Let me show you. I have written down all the things you asked me to make. See if there are any messages left and tell me. I came one by one. What I made today is the marble-flavored orange that a sister wanted. The toast is orange-flavored marble toast. There is no recipe for this toast on the Internet. It's all my own research . The process was a bit bumpy . I bought 6 oranges and the average price was 6 yuan each. I just started making it. A yellow orange dough piece, but the marble pattern was not visible in the finished product. Then I racked my brains and came up with the idea of making caramelized orange slices , which would have the orange flavor and the marble pattern could be seen. I think I am really a genius. And you see Isn't this finished product quite like the color of oranges? When it was freshly baked, the house was filled with the aroma of oranges. The bread was also very soft and there was diced orange peel in it. It was very delicious . Marble toast is a bit difficult to make, but It doesn't matter. My sister's video is all about kneading the dough first and putting all the ingredients in. I used Qiao Li's kitchen mixer and kneaded it for 2 minutes on the 3rd gear , then kneaded it on the 5th gear for 8 minutes. After kneading, pull the dough to see if it feels strong. Then you can add butter. If you want to check the film, it will have holes and some jagged edges. After adding the butter, knead at speed 3 for 5 minutes , then turn to speed 5 and 6 until the film comes out. This is the key to the success or failure of toast. I think this is the only one. When the dough is kneaded and you pull it open, the membrane is relatively smooth. Poke a hole. The hole has very small serrations, which is about 9.5 points. Knead it until it is in this state. Knead it well. The temperature of the dough should not exceed 26 degrees, then flatten it and leave it to ferment at room temperature. The fermentation temperature should not exceed 28 degrees. When the dough is fermented, make this caramelized orange slice. You can add a little water to the sugar , or you can turn it on high without adding it. When heating, don't stir it. If it's not heated evenly, just shake the pot and heat it again for a while. It will start to color slowly. You see, I just keep shaking the pot to let the sugar in the pot heat evenly and wait until it reaches this caramel color. Then turn off the heat and pour in the cream and butter. It is best to put the cream and butter aside in advance and heat it over low heat. Stir evenly . Once the butter is melted, remove from the heat. After the caramel is done, set it aside to cool. Add the oranges. Peel off the peel , then put the orange zest, orange juice and eggs together and mix well. Mix well and then add high-gluten flour and cornstarch. In fact, if there is orange jam instead of orange juice, the effect will be better. Mix well and mix into a batter. Then mix with the caramel sauce and then Then put it back on the fire and heat it over low heat until it becomes a dough. Place it on top of the oil paper and press a piece of oil paper to flatten it . Fold the oil paper into a square, then roll it into a dough and set it aside to cool. If so, If the room temperature is particularly high, you can put it in the refrigerator to refrigerate this dough. It is best to let it rise until it doubles in size and then shape it to make bread. The bread from the second rise will always be softer than the bread from the first rise. Sprinkle a little flour on the table and roll out the dough. Roll it into a square, just big enough to wrap the orange dough. Put the orange dough on top and wrap it up. Pinch the seams tightly. I think this bread is much easier than making Danish toast because it is filled with dough. It's not that it's not difficult to roll out the dough. As long as your dough is not too hard, I think there will be no problem. My room temperature is about 20 degrees. You can just leave the dough in the room without putting it in the refrigerator . If you want to put it in the refrigerator, I think it will be fine. Don't leave it for too long, just refrigerate it for 10 minutes and let it cool down. The principle is that the dough should not become hard. The hardness should be the same as that of the white dough. If you find that the orange dough inside is lumpy when you roll it out . If there are lumps and lumps, it means that your dough sheet is a bit too hard. If there are bubbles, use a knife or toothpick to prick it. Roll it out to a thickness of more than 6 mm , then fold it into quarters, sweep away the powder on the surface, and then roll it out. Spray a little water, don't spray too much. It's better to make the upper and lower corners fit together. Or sweep the powder and spray water. Don't spray too much. Just apply a thin layer like this. Then let it rest for 10 minutes. Continue rolling after 10 minutes. When I rolled it out for the second time this time, I just rolled it out horizontally like this. If it doesn't work, cover it and let it rest for 10 minutes . Then roll it out again. Don't roll it hard . If you roll it hard, the dough will break. I also roll it out to 6 mm, then sweep off the powder on the surface, spray a thin layer of water, and add candied orange peel. You can put a little more than mine because the main source of the orange flavor is the orange peel. Crumbs and candied orange peel. Fold 1/3 of the dough over and put a layer of candied orange peel on top. Fold the other side and let it rest for 10 minutes. This time, roll it straight upright and roll it out to about 1 cm. The thickness is enough. When rolling, you need to alternate the upper and lower sides. Don't just roll one side and divide it into 6 parts. Don't forget to sweep away the excess powder and flatten it with the cut side facing up. You can flatten the top and then braid it. After braiding it , turn it over and roll it up. Place the two in a toast box and let them ferment in an environment not exceeding 30 degrees. When they are 9 minutes full, you can use a ruler to measure the distance between the highest point of the dough and the mold. There is about one centimeter left on the top and it is ready to bake. Cover the lid and put it on the lower shelf of the oven . I baked it for 28 minutes at 150 degrees and 195 degrees . To be honest, I also do this to achieve this full mold. I have tried it several times. If the dough is not full of the dough after baking, it must be a kneading problem. You don't have to think about other problems. I have tested it and it is definitely a kneading problem. When it comes out of the oven, the aroma of oranges fills the room. The moment I cut it, I have a full sense of accomplishment and surprise. My sense of accomplishment is that I am the first person on the Internet to publish this recipe. Please remember me. I am happy. It is not easy to develop tears. Please give me a like. Thank you very much for the bread. Soft and has a very refreshing orange flavor It 's really delicious . That's it for today. If you like my video , please give it a thumbs up and forward it. You are welcome to submit your homework to me. See you in the next video. Bye.