The inside job that helped Hitler rise to power. the Vietnam War. And a secret CIA weapon that They sound crazy, but these are just some that turned out to be completely true! And My Lai Massacre Cover Up. of atrocities committed during the Vietnam to the United States that the truth about it was Massacre took place in the small Vietnam hamlet US soldiers entered the village on a search and was situated was controlled by Viet Cong guerilla enemy combatants in the area, only civilians. from setting huts on fire, murdering between 347 as many as fifty children under the age of four against the women of My Lai that we can't actually barbaric actions of these troops were initially that over a hundred and twenty of these needlessly truth about the My Lai Massacre wouldn't emerge US' war efforts in Vietnam. The conflict had and now it looked like America had lost any of its troops in Southeast Asia. Military secrecy more shocking when the revelations were made it. These weren't just crimes against humanity by American troops, but acts that the US Army Among the slew of court martials that followed, the My Lai Massacre, and as a result was convicted behind bars. Sickeningly, he only served before having his sentence commuted... at But if you think that's crazy, it's nothing that came out in the Church Committee Findings. was the chair of the Senate Select Committee to Intelligence Activities. This was a 1975 Senate carried out by the US' own intelligence agencies, the Central Intelligence Agency, Church Committee findings included multiple political figureheads, including President Fidel Dominican Republic and the Democratic Republic operation conducted by the FBI to infiltrate rights activists, feminists, environmentalists, It considered these groups 'subversive', The Church Committee also brought to light Project its relationships with journalists to control the wherein the NSA was working with telecommunication list - a list that included Senator Church And, were it not for the work of the Church about the horrendous CIA experiments that took But these weren't even the strangest to hear about the CIA's secret weapon. as horrifying as they were, led to important agencies operate. Congressional committees were CIA and NSA, and famously President Gerald Ford carrying out of political assassinations. and peer into the dark plot that helped install the Reichstag Fire and the Nazi Power Grab. about assuming power over Germany in the most On February 27, 1933, the Reichstag, which was burned to the ground. The attacks were Marinus van der Lubbe playing the role of pasty. Hitler - already Chancellor at this time - used any left leaning or communist politicians out couldn't oppose the Nazi Party in the elections Hitler successfully turned Germany against threatening to take over, thus allowing the Nazis them to assume power over the country. the Nazis were responsible, especially books and attacking other institutions Operation Gladio... Would you believe us if we told you that, armed resistance operatives were carrying out No it wasn't remnants of the Nazi party Codenamed Operation Gladio, these covert the personnel of what would become the Central Operation Gladio consisted mainly of 'stay behind' sleeper agents in their own territories, event of an enemy invasion from nations like the These stay-behind operatives would within their home countries, then, should a and work as spies from behind enemy lines. Operatives were used to carry out political and false flag operations, essentially, against left wing parties in Western Europe. This and right wing terrorists as Gladio's network of anyone suspected of having communist leanings. denies the truth that their own operatives were only a way to aid Western European countries But the CIA messing with Europe is one of Americans back in the good old US of A? in trying to develop ways to prevent bootleggers they increased the amount of methanol, a poisonous that bootleggers would use to make liquor. While this increase led to thousands of deaths. both the sale and production of drinking significant resources to tackling the illegal Speakeasies and smuggling networks were primary which had itself become a lucrative business one operation was busted, another To limit the publicly available supply of alcohol, new strategy. As bootleg alcohol was typically US officials figured that, if it became to be included in these products, then they So, the US Treasury Department methyl alcohol and additional toxic chemicals A deterrent that didn't work. were admitted to the Bellevue Hospital in New York in the next few days. Many had inadvertently that was legal under federal law, but extremely staggering number of deaths that occurred as a While it's often misinterpreted that the it can't be understated the unethical lengths to in order to curb public consumption They might not have been dropping but the US government did increase the level of knowing full well that these were being used Speaking of incredibly dangerous things to put The now infamous Project MKULTRA is often but its successor often flies under the between the CIA and the US Department of between the fifties and the late sixties. The goal of Project MKNAOMI was to conduct specifically determining what substances or incapacitate a target... and then developing While MKULTRA had a strong emphasis on mind to weaponize bacteria and viruses, knockout that could be used to administer them. tasked with developing a whole arsenal with the US Army's Special Operations Command what are friends for? Perhaps most notably, guns that were modified to fire darts coated in to incapacitate guard dogs, allowing covert agents agent could be used to reawaken the dogs upon the While officially declassified information a CIA memo that proposed using biological 1967 by the Church Committee - and we've revealed to the world coming up shortly. Richard Nixon was forced to ban the military and Project MKNAOMI was dissolved. However, CIA scientist stole approximately eleven grams personnel at Fort Detrick, Maryland. This owned lab, going undetected for over five years. in sinister secret plots. Sometimes, it's US While arguably not as infamous as the likes the Lavon Affair was no less deplorable. Planned under the innocuous codename of Operation During the summer of 1954, a group of Egyptian intelligence to attack multiple civilian targets British owned businesses, cinemas, libraries and These recruits were instructed to plant bombs the attacks were to be pinned on communists, the in Egypt - or unspecified local nationalists. consisting of eight Egyptian Jews, bombed the buildings were also targeted, with the Egyptian by the person overseeing the operation - about With that information, they were able to swoop in covert Israeli cell of eleven suspects. While the four of the operatives died, two of them after to execution by the Egyptian government. and the remaining five received varying prison But the lingering question in all this is why? to pin the blame on organizations that opposed that the subsequent chaos would convince Western unstable, and therefore prompting these nations After the operation failed, Israeli defence orchestrating the bombing attacks and was incident being referred to as the Lavon Affair. had any involvement in the Lavon Affair until agents who had been involved in the attacks were President of Israel, Moshe Katsav - the covert But that isn't the last piece of military Far from it, in fact. So let's dive into Following the end of the Gulf War - which took of veterans who had fought in the conflict returning home. Reports came in from Gulf Austria and Denmark. But for those returning Gulf War Syndrome, the health issues they In every reported case, soldiers who seemed to suddenly develop a litany of ranged from experiencing chronic fatigue, a lack of coordination, outbreaks of as well as symptoms related to What made this so unusual though, compared to the was that there seemed to be a much higher rate those who'd fought in the Gulf War. The primary to sub-lethal amounts of chemical warfare as the inhalation of smoke from oil well fires, In the United Kingdom, several assessments determine if there was any link between those London was unable to determine any common countries like the United States were quicker to The UK's Ministry of Defence vehemently denied overwhelming evidence among veterans from the and subsequent research was conducted in 2009 more likely to report symptoms compared to other suffered from PTSD and reported a poorer However, as recently as 2010, an overwhelming received any form of compensation from their denied to those who served in the Gulf War and Sometimes, governments conspire to shaft large unfortunate dude. Welcome to The Dreyfus Affair the late nineteenth and early twentieth an artillery captain within the French army. evidence was discovered, Dreyfus was accused of convicted of treason... Wrongly convicted. a French spy named Major Hubert-Joseph Henry waste basket. The handwriting that had been used leading to what would become a controversial public were quick to believe the charges slammed was Jewish. Antisemitic groups in France at the the newspaper La Libre Parole, which claimed that Dreyfus was court-martialed and sentenced to life of French Guiana. In a harrowing public ceremony insignia torn off his uniform and his sword who hurled antisemitic insults at him and even However, in 1896, evidence would come to light Ferdinand Walsin-Esterhazy, as the true traitor. but after Esterhazy's subsequent court martial, he Dreyfus was court-martialed a second yet France was still deeply divided over the case. the French president, and then in 1906 he would Antisemitism is undeniably a horrible war. And what do we have to thank for In a post Oppenheimer world, almost the infamous World War Two collaborative the United States, United Kingdom and Canada irreversibly altering the course of history. distinct types of bombs; the Thin Man, a fission more complex, implosion type nuclear weapon, both of worlds himself, J. Robert Oppenheimer. Manhattan Project was severely limited. The goal Project was to keep word about the development of Axis power allies, in particular Japan, who would as a direct result of the Manhattan Project. from the Soviet Union; despite the USSR being the United States regarded them as a potential successful in infiltrating the Manhattan disseminated information about the program back of the Soviets' very own nuclear bombs. leaks during the 1940s from American journalists, far more damning. Around the time of the Second voluntary press censorship that allowed its Office reported on a list of prohibited topics. usually went into effect after important One of the worst violations in relation when a reporter for the Cleveland Press, the a military operation was occurring in Los Alamos had no idea that atomic bombs were being developed and approximate size of a classified military accounts of explosives being tested on the site, scientific director of the Manhattan Project. the US Army's director of the Manhattan Project, any follow up articles being published. This to ensure further information about the project considered drafting John Raper in retaliation for the journalist was in his sixties, and hardly at Next up is a scientific study boundaries on a truly unprecedented scale. that ran from 1932 until 1972. Funded by the Public Health Service and the Centers for Disease project was to examine the effects and symptoms there was no known cure for the disease. Public Health Service enrolled around six hundred with syphilis and 201 without - many of whom had enticed by an offer of free medical care, however to explain exactly what they were examining in the Those participating in the Tuskegee being treated for 'bad blood', a colloquial, describe a number of different ailments. as aspirin and mineral supplements, and told some fifteen years into the study, in 1947, the form of penicillin. The Public Health truth at any point, nor did they offer the become the standard treatment for syphilis. care to these men as their condition progressed, other severe health problems or even went insane 28 participants passed away due to syphilis, and linked to the disease. Forty of the participants' been passed on to almost twenty children. public outrage, Congress held multiple hearings the surviving participants of the unethical had died, received a ten million dollar in place in order to protect human subjects. involved in a sinister cover up... Okay, we lied, earn those secretive US government checks somehow! list, the Iran Contra Affair saw the United involved in several secret arms deals without the fact, these transactions were outright banned policies. Through the NSC, the US traded missiles Lebanon, as well as channeling funds to support The Iran Contra Affair was so controversial President of the US at the time, Ronald Reagan. political reach was limited by a Democrat majority Senate. But one of his major political platforms insurgencies that were operating around the globe, fact, they actively brought in legislation to of Defence had on foreign conflicts. had undergone significant changes to their pro Western government, replacing it with an the latter was now under the control who Reagan and his administration feared would So, without the approval of Congress, offered by the US to the Contras, the counter overthrow Nicaragua's left wing government. in Iran, however things were complicated when Iranian backed Shi'ite terrorists took a number hostage. In order to secure the release of the Iran, with plans to also channel the funds from These illegal arms trading activities were that was carrying supplies to the Contras was taken prisoner. Naturally, a public uproar quickly But that's nowhere near as freaky as what While MKULTRA's name lives in infamy, the often forgotten about. This was a sub project of program that started in the fifties. The a CIA chemist and spymaster who was permitted to as LSD on civilians... without their consent. mentioned who stole all the shellfish poison Anyway, back to Midnight Climax. clients into safehouses, where they were of substances without their knowledge, The unwilling participants were fed subliminal messages to make them carry whether under the influence of LSD they could be even assassinations. The goal was for the CIA to to gain control over the minds of enemy spies. used during interrogations, and combined the drug keeping them confined and alone for months at of federal agents and scientists took part people before Operation Midnight Climax, and the But we know what you've all been waiting Arguably the most infamous and unusual finding 'Heart Attack Gun'. This secret weapon wasn't and used in multiple assassinations. It worked shellfish toxin - hmm, wonder where they got that target. The darts could easily pierce clothing, little more than a small red dot on the skin. entering the target's body, leaving little trace, bloodstream, causing a fatal heart attack. meaning detecting it in an autopsy is next chalked up to completely natural causes. sounding weapon was revealed during the Church Congressional testimony on the CIA's many find photos of Senator Church himself Now check out "Inside the CIA's Terrifying