There are many ways to express ourselves. And no matter how much I sometimes like to push away the that's the vehicle to come back home every Circles, circles, circles, spirals, spirals. Seems some things they just come around over And the characters who bring certain experiences changes yet they are familiar somehow they Just lots of faces, lots of faces. And that's different and yet the same. So many layers of experiences and stories, so many clothes so many legends. I'm telling myself and yet from time to time an empty space. I can feel there is a black hole I'm trying I'm trying to connect to, I'm trying Circles, circles, circles, circles, circles, spirals, spirals, spirals. I can get so busy to so many different beautiful things and yet that black hole is still there. If I am truly authentic with myself I can I can feel that something Looking, looking, looking outside telling wearing more masks, more nice costumes. Another place, another country, another lover, another friend. Taking myself away from that black hole. Spirals, spirals, spirals Waves... As I stay in front of the mirror I can see naked not trying to hide anything, trying not to be anybody. Trying to not be trying. And as that ocean washes wash away all my thoughts, all the fears, all the insecurities all the stories, all the battles all the nice battles as it wash all of it away it seems there there is nobody to be but the ocean itself. We have known each other so quite a long time. Yes? My friend We have spent time together all over the world, been in so many different places. And very often you've been acting as me and I didn't even know about that. You kinda been taken roles talking to people making love and loving different ladies, telling stories. And there is a meeting when we can just see there is this place where we can meet And where I don't have to be you anymore and you don't have to be me anymore I don't have to run away from you and can &quot;Thank you Because in the end this is a very beautiful And I don't have to run away from you because you are so beautiful you are so beautiful Isn't he beautiful? Beautiful. So I wish that every monkey inside of me maybe somebody else would not take over that I could see that I could see and that I could give thanks for it appearing. Because in the end we are all connected In the end there is this theory that we have read in books and have seen in films. No! That's part of the experience to fall and So you know the theory, that we are all connected? Right? That's a really nice theory. Some ancient people left us messages with Very nice image, great reminder that everything is connected. And I feel like as much I would love to think positive I have so many negative thoughts As much I would love to laugh about this character, He takes over anyway And I get to love him more Because that's part of me also And what this character secretly told me an a little story that every thought he thinks a music is created. Every thought that pass through is an opportunity to create a symphony. So in that case all of us are musicians know we that or not we are music We can play music, and we can be the ocean Circles, circles, spirals, spirals and when on the next round just because we are all related and the same We are like the flowers after just a few moments they never the same. Underneath the masks of characters pretenders there is pain Underneath of every actor that plays the role there is pain And when this bubble of pain recognized it's nice to let it - phhh That's easy to put another mask It's easy to put another and another story I just do a little experiment If there is anybody can see your bubble this bubble some kind of a bubble Try to keep your attention to this bubble and we do whatever time will think maybe fifteen minutes or twenty that the sound, the wave will still Let just those negative bubbles go, let them fly out let them fly out What do you think, Zorba, how many thoughts been passing through tonight here? You think a lot of them? Sure, yeah, I think We think, we think that there is a lot of thoughts been passing through Do you think we need them, do you think are they real? What do you think, Zorba? No? Maybe not real. You think, they are not real, right? Yeah, we think Is this real like ummmhh? Yeah, that looks real, yeah? That feels real Maybe a little bit more than the thoughts, Yes? Yes So maybe we should just do this (takes a deep breath) ummmhh That's kinda a release thing, yeah? this thoughts process I think, yeah, we think No, we are not thinking, we are feeling, yeah? Feeling, thinking is all kind of could be So it's kind of what? We just, we just release Whatever just happened I have no idea and I don't need to have any ideas I can be just grateful for this momentum because this momentum will never come back again and the same scenario Zorba, you are great companion I can talk to you forever I don't need to tell anybody anything to do, right? Because we are having conversation. We don't know anything anyway, yeah? A concert without concept... That's a great concept we could burn the concepts though Concert without concept, that's great! A little birdie flew by and it dropped a little idea that out of time, out of space out of nowhere a sound appeared That sound gave birth to many other sounds In their multiplication they were given birth to trillions of billions of sounds And in each uniqueness they are creating the Every object around us has a sound And our own music changed each time What do you think? What do you feel when we express or not? Incredible musicians we are Knowing we are or not we are creating sound of life Each of us With every thought With every emotion We are creating music And the birdie asked itself: &quot;I wonder if those sounds naturally can create a beautiful symphony? Naturally>> It will never be the same without each of us being present here without each of the emotion we are collectively being experiencing In an unique way I like to give thanks to this beautiful place to Vasiliy and all the crew that hosted us here Like mandala of life being created and destroyed created and destroyed created and destroyed every time again And I want to give thanks to this beautiful manifesting the colors And as a main thanks I would love to remind to look around and to give thanks Because without each of us being here it would not happen the same Thank you very much! Estas Tonne is also known as performer of &quot;Internal Flight&quot;, &quot;The Song of the Golden Dragon&quot;, &quot;The Inside Movie&quot;, &quot;The Song of the Butterfly&quot; and many other amazing compositions played with acoustic guitar. A fusion of classical structure, technique of Flamenco, roots of Gypsy, characteristics of Latin and Electronic Soundscape..