Donald Trump is his next administration, to be doing it the same built that Titanic imploding immediately. REPORTER: Pick in peril. Pete Hegseth back on the secretary in doubt. REPORTER: Will another A growing number of they are not behind nominee, Pete Hegseth. Who is the president-elect Will Pete Hegseth's It's a real question. Wow, this would news for Pete Hegseth if he I mean, if Hegseth this is really going to strategy of giving the most the hardest jobs And honestly, I kind of I mean, he had it made. A cushy job on Fox News. A side hustle on right-wing Instagram. A loving third family. And then Trump comes along and now his life is I mean, who could have than Matt Gaetz, Mike Pence, Cohen and everyone ever come into contact with? Hey, anyone heard from [LAUGHTER] He's dead. Google it. And maybe one of the reasons to extinguish this dumpster is because more garbage into the dumpster. REPORTER: Yesterday, of excessive drinking the decorated combat veteran. NBC News spoke with 10 current who worked with Hegseth on one and say the former in ways that concerned them. Two saying on more they smelled alcohol on OK. Before you judge, yes, his show but he was still drinking So it's not sad. It's awesome. [LAUGHTER] I will say, it's weird about the drinking, because sober, he's a TV host organizations into the ground. He's not qualified to run This is like saying, hey, He has a drinking problem. [LAUGHTER] OK, maybe this cat It's very cute. But you know what? This might be for the best. The first step to sobriety that you have a problem. And, look, we don't have any was drinking before work, but carefully, you up some subtle clues that I've always - Give it a good shake. Look at that. I will not be Possession is - We're sharing. And maybe if I do And a little bit of champagne. There you go. I'm going to get Hold on. Champagne is my problem It just-- it's bad. But it fixes the Because then you have a and then your [LAUGHTER] Again, the show but as Pete Hegseth hey, it's 11:00 AM somewhere. So Hegseth is losing He's losing the senators. He's losing his co-workers. I mean, does he have This just in, Pete sitting down for an interview. He's very smart. He loves his country. He's a good dad. He's an amazing son and father. I wouldn't be sitting he's the man for the job. What kind of are we watching right now? [LAUGHTER] Because the future needs his mom to come I thought you were against And besides, I never saw I have a warning Mom, you tell them. [LAUGHTER] Now, the reason Pete's is because a few years ago, his mom sent him an email his own-- her own son, a liar, and abuser of women. But now she's saying, Let's go back seven years, years, we would see not the people we are today. I want people to look him for who he is today, That was seven years ago. And most of it is What? Misinformation? You wrote the email. You're the one who told [LAUGHTER] And by the way, seven years We still have the Like, overall, things don't But the good news is he Because then you have a and then your OK, but, thank on to a story that doesn't Yesterday, out of nowhere, the of South Korea and then a few hours later, he was like, you That was a stupid idea. How about how about [KOREAN SINGING] To me, the craziest thing is what happened in South of martial law. REPORTER: The massive protests in Seoul. This woman's confrontation with as she screams &quot;aren't Holy shit. She knows that's a gun, right? She's-- she's grabbing that doesn't shoot bullets. She's like, is this What's this button do? I want to see it. This wasn't the only stood up to the Check out this tries to take his phone. [PROTESTERS SHOUTING] [LAUGHTER] [CHEERS, APPLAUSE] OK. I know everyone thinks all [LAUGHTER] And let me be clear, But did you see that shit? That dude the soldier into surrendering. I mean, that uncle is either or very concerned are going to see on his phone. By the way, Trump, if can we get that guy as I mean, his defense He just did that. For more on the let's go live outside parliament with Josh Johnson. [CHEERS, APPLAUSE] Josh. Josh, Josh, what's Yeah, look, you I-- I feel like you might Why? Come on, Ronny. You know why. Because I'm the host? No. [LAUGHTER] Because I'm more That's not it. Because I'm better-looking? No. Because it's a Korea Oh, yeah? --from around there. Yo, what the [BLEEP], man. I'm not Korean, OK? I'm Malaysian. That's a totally Calm down. Malaysian has [LAUGHTER] It's closer than me. I'm clearly out of my the language, even the food. They offered me some of their candied yam or collard greens. Josh, I don't know what's going on there. We sent you there So just do your And what do you I found an Asian person, and Yo, that's racist, What-- you're Black. So I'm supposed to going on in Zimbabwe? Oh, Zimbabwe going through [LAUGHTER] They just had to raise to keep the currency crisis, which could Mnangagwa's government. OK, well, that's a lucky-- that's a lucky guess, OK? Economy's collapsing in Africa? That's all of them. That's racist. No, you're racist. Look, just give me your going on in Korea right now. All right. Well, frankly, I'm We've all known for years Of course he's going to Josh, that's North Korea, OK? You're in South Korea. It's a different country. Damn, Ronny. The Asian guy seems to [LAUGHTER] [CHEERS, APPLAUSE] I guess I'm racist and right. Uh-- god damn it. Forget it. Josh Johnson, everybody. [CHEERS, APPLAUSE]