welcome to a new video of permaculture naturalia For those who don't know me, my name is Diego, on the other side of the camera is Ani and together we create content on this channel where we spread permaculture, bioconstruction, construction with earth, ancient masonry and a lot of construction methods that have to do with sustainability and for those who wanted those who wanted a new video of the lime saga, you have most likely gone through the situation in which you have to paint your house both outside and inside and You asked yourself what would be the best alternative and you are probably tired that your paint blackens, peels, stains and even sweats today I bring you an alternative to that problem today I bring you the whitest paint in the world an ancestral formulation today we bring you jabelga la jabelga It is a tremendously old paint and I would dare to say perhaps that it has been used. Since lime began to be applied in construction, the presence of lime prevents the proliferation of fungi and is antibacterial, which is why it has been responsible for the creation of these beautiful landscapes. throughout Europe where walls have traditionally been whitewashed to prevent the proliferation of pests and diseases, for example during the Middle Ages, on the other hand, it is a paint that will allow the perfect white because the lime crystals generate a double refraction of light, this generates two different waves that give the eye a sensation of greater luminosity and greater whiteness, which is why we come to tell you that from now on white is equal to jabelga, which will let you breathe, the wall will allow you to breathe. breathability and behaves very well against the arrival of ultraviolet rays when exposed to the sun Well, I'm here with all the materials that I am going to be using to prepare this painting. On the one hand, we are of course going to be using paste lime, otherwise If you saw this video, it is essential that you watch it so that you understand how to prepare a good lime paste. Here we have marble, which is nothing more than marble dust. It is the aggregate that we are going to incorporate into the lime paste and here we have some additives that I'm going to be telling you so that you can use, of course, protective elements and a thick brush. How I like to use it to paint, let's go with the formulation and then I'll show you how to paint because it has its secrets, it has its tips. Well, the first thing I do It is to put the part corresponding to the lime paste, which I have already separated here for more than six months, of course, here I leave you the video where I teach you how to extinguish the quicklime so that the lime remains paste Well, look how it turned out, how it is Yes I just put three parts of lime in paste Yes, it's already here, of course it had a little humidity because you remember that you always heat the paste it has to be submerged under a little water it will always be in that milky creamy state Well I'm going Now with three parts of impalpable marble it is taken to a very finite level in its granulometry well I already have here one part of lime paste For an equal part of marble the marble is going to be the aggregate of this mixture and the lime of course is going to be I beat the base with this beater first so that no lumps are generated and then I add the water [Music] Well, notice that I have already finished beating eh. This way, since it is thicker, there are no lumps left and it is much easier for it to be mixed later. integrate what follows now what I am going to add as I am going to do it on an exterior wall is going to be an additive that will allow me to give a certain impermeability to the mixture for which I am going to use what was traditionally used many years ago many years even centuries Well I already have the pork fat, the function of the pork fat is going to give it a certain impermeability but at the same time it will improve the integration of the marble with the lime and in addition to this paint we are going to be adding water So you may be wondering Diego, how are you going to add fat if you are also going to have water? How is that going to come together? Well, lime is a natural emulsifier, this means that it helps integrate those two heterogeneities that exist between water and fat, lime. It will be the integrator of these two elements. Don't worry if you don't have pork fat, it could be coil fat. It could be linseed oil. It could even be used cooking oil. I'm going to use 10% of the volume I used of paste lime. So I used three T of these. I'm going to use about a third of this measure. Well, look what I've just finished. of adding the fat and I added it at this moment [Music] This is the unit of measurement that I have been working on until now. I have six volumes between what is the and what is the marmolina, now I am going to put about three times that volume. In other words, I'm going to put about 18 of these cans of water. That's for a jabelga that runs well that has a certain liquidity. It can be made much thicker. I like to work it this way. Then we'll see how that density turns out [ Music] I just finished mixing the paint it already has the humidity it already has the lime it already has the marble and it already has the fat now I'm going to add one last ingredient which in this case is common table salt what it's going to do is Consolidating those unions that occur between the different components will give it greater hardness when drying and at the same time, of course, as it has fat or some organic element such as oil and so on, it will help it to stick together. Less easily, what I am going to add is a third. Also the same amount of fat, that is, a third of this volume. Now we have the complete formulation of our ancient jabelga. This is how it was made centuries ago in many parts of the world. It is a good time Now for you to subscribe to our channel by touching the little button over here and I also want to tell you that we already have the members function activated down here you will find a button through which you can join our community to help us continue creating this type of content, support us and at the same time receive some benefits that some of our members already have. I am going to remove the whisk and let it rest for a day in this way so that it finishes hydrating, is very homogeneous and tomorrow we can paint our Well, a day has passed. This is the wall that we are going to be working on here. We did some painting tests a little while ago and it is the one on which I am going to paint now with the completely clean Ja Velga and it is totally free of dust and coarse granulometry. What I'm going to do is start to wet and start to apply and I'm going to tell you the tip to be able to paint, yes because the jabelga has a way of applying to the wall. Well, I just finished moistening the wall. Note that it means wetting it, not overdoing it. water is so that it generates better adhesion between what would be the paint and the pre-existing wall Well ready I'm going to start applying the first coat it is applied at what is called the level that has to do with a horizontal application well I just finished apply the first coat, leave the hand level or horizontal, I'm going to let it dry. Until tomorrow to give it the second coat, in this case it will be a vertical or plumb application. Look at how the paint creates body. How it dries, little by little, and covers And notice that it practically doesn't stain, it doesn't peel off. Yes, well, it's been a day since the first coat, look at how white it is. The covering power that this paint has is impressive. Well, I'm going to now apply the second coat in the sense of what is called lead, which It would be vertically what I am going to do, make all the cuts first of the windows, all the cuts above and below and then I am going to paint what would be the rest of the wall. Notice that when you are applying the second coat it tends to look like you took paint or it's not going to cover But wait for it because look here where I gave the first coat the second coat Now look how it started to cover there is a whole moment between when you apply and this starts to dry and starts to whiten So be patient don't spend two or three times in the same place, if you are sure, you have already applied the second coat, do not go back to that but continue moving forward . I just finished applying the second coat of jabelga on our wall, although it still needs a little bit of drying time, it is already can notice and perceive the perfect white that you have achieved, it is very important that you give the last coat vertically and plumb. This way you will ensure that in case of rain it will favor drainage. of the water and as in all our videos I am going to leave you a key phrase for you to comment below this video and in this case in honor of our followers from Spain the phrase is very cool the Belgian Ja if you leave those comments I will I am going to anticipate all the videos that are coming in the cal saga Don't forget to comment Don't forget to share Like it activate the bell subscribe see you in the next video