For the first time ever has Danish TV been For three months will the 150 men and women on board For the Danish soldiers it will be 3 months of And we are along at the frontline Pirate Hunt At the Danish Navy's closed facilities at The families to the Danish soldiers have - to their men, fathers, girlfriends, The 150 Danish soldiers are going - where they are going to play a central part in NATO's Daddy's just going sailing a trip. -Take good care of mom. Merry Christmas. For Ensign Rudi it's a tough farewell As you step onboard and know you will -And good luck with your birthday. The worst is when they say &quot;No papa, you're not going, &quot;We don't want want you to leave&quot;. -Are you sad papa? See you. For Rudi and the rest of the crew on Absalon it will be An experience that is far away from And one thing's sure. Fire! One man is appointed as chief responsible Carsten Fjord-Larsen comes from the fishing village And is now Commander Captain We're going to be a part of the NATO forces And that can be translated into three words in Danish; That's our task. Also have to keep in mind that we are set to solve And we will at all times try to plan our operations - because it's not a goal in itself to fight pirates. But of course if that means killed pirates, We will of course solve the task, In the first month Carsten and his crew will patrol - where more than 35,000 The massive presence of warships has made it much So hard in fact that it's now been 1,5 years since the The treatment actually works because the number of attacks Yes it' symptom treatment, but it works. Suez channel. Months of planning and preparations Absalon has heightened its readiness. Absalon has now a mission area outside Commander Captain Carsten Fjord-Larsen and his 150 man crew - when they suddenly receive an emergency call. What are they saying? It turns out to be the captain on the gas tanker Pirates are apparently boarding his ship, - the captain's only options is to send out an It's a pirate attack. Right now I don't know the details. They have probably laid still in the Gulf of Aden Then they have boarded with If the pirates succeed in hijacking the gas tanker The innocent sailors can expect month's imprisonment, - can come to an agreement with the pirates For radio operator - takes a dramatic turn as the call from The distances on the ocean are enormous. But with direct contact to a human Your neck hair raises a bit. Because you know it's not a drill. I only heard the one call, then it Fortunately Absalon is not the only Closer by lies the American They will also prepare to handle the situation so NATO One tries as fast as possible to get the And do everything we can to establish - to find out if they are all in the As a result of the widespread piracy most The so-called Citadel. In case of pirate attack the - and from there steer the ship towards Where is the interpreter? Need you here. If anything comes in Somali. Or Arabic. There are pirates onboard so we are interested in if Do you hear what language that is? The fact that they don't have physical control over the crew It means we can do something without If they aren't in the safe room or have any armed 100% taken by the pirates. The only thing Carsten and his - for the message that Liquid Velvet's The wait is interrupted by a It's another ship nearby. A civilian merchant ship close to Liquid Velvet But there's no response. &quot;Come out to scene of action&quot; We'll continue with high speed There are pirates onboard. Your neck hair raises a bit. Because you know it's not a drill. They have control over the ship. Pirate Hunt Liquid Velvet and the Is that Liquid Velvet? Carsten has tasked his crew with finding all Yes it's exactly the kind Picture of the pirate's ship is of They can show what situation the Special Forces Frogmen Suddenly there's news from Liquid Velvet. He's now at 2-6-4, Liquid Velvet. -They still have control over the Citadel. -At the moment they still retain control. As long as Liquid Velvet's captain still has There's hope for the ship and its crew. While Carsten Fjord-Larsen controls Absalon, the Danish NATO's force chief for operation Ocean Shield - and it's he who decides what role Right now the American destroyer - but it's Absalon that got the Special Forces Therefore it's about reaching and storming the ship - and thus take the crew hostage. But against all expectations Absalon receives a message We'll await now and see It's not something that suits the Danish - because he knows that Absalon's Frogman Corps Klaus, notify me when we know more about Carsten continues towards Djibouti, - - but slows the speed so that Absalon still Meanwhile he calls his Danish contact to They said we should head on to Djibouti At the same time he tells the Helicopter and We still have six hours to We can of course do the most basic So we can at least be prepared. Without setting all the men at full swing. The most important weapon against the pirates The members of the Frogman Corps Equipped with the most high tech weapon arsenal Here's my pistol mags. USP 9mm. My C8. Emergency flares. Helmet mounted Night Vision. While the Frogman Corps is - can rescue operations like Liquid Velvet - and it's one of the things the Frogmen As the Frogmen also participate in secret missions One of the dilemmas can be a hostage But with skill and competence, It shouldn't happen, But it's not only dangerous The job as frontline frogman Of course you put your life on the line. You of course think But the training, What you learn... Even with all weapons at disposal to fight the pirates Carsten Chief to operations room. But finally there's news. NATO has suddenly changed its mind. Absalon has just received This is the chief, we have been requested by our We'll continue now high speed A fight against the clock has started. Can Absalon reach the gas tanker before You should know, It's been mined and we Danish Carsten Fjord-Larsen and his crew on Absalon The pirates have seemingly blown their way Their lives now lie in the hands of - who might kill them if they do not receive So its been confirmed. But there was a crew of 23. Ok, if it's a hostage situation we'll For us the situation changed completely 180 degrees. It's turned on its head, We can't move in and board a ship where The risk for the hostages on the merchant ship This is the chief. We have unfortunately received - that the pirates have broken into It's of course the worst feeling So close but not close enough. The damned feeling over not being precisely close But unfortunately for the crew on Liquid Velvet And there's nothing 10 out of 10 times they So... I feel sorry for them but This just stresses the fact, high readiness, focus on the task. The pirates are now sailing Liquid Velvet to Here they and their crew lie for months and Many of the negotiations have broken down because Among the hijacked ships there are They have been held hostage for more than a year According to the shipping company the pirates are The crew on Liquid Velvet and their relatives can The crew on Absalon have come to a The area where the pirates operate have become Formerly the area was limited to a couple - but now the pirates operate up to This makes the area Absalon is And finding a small fast boat with pirates is To lighten the colossal task the fleet forces - that every day fly the enormous sea areas. If they see anything suspicious they report The crew on Absalon have already indirectly - come to terms with the risks involved with being out For family father and helicopter observer It's of course if we are injured That's of course the price you pay for this, - stop thinking that I have a family Special Forces soldier T is a But even for frogmen that are - there lies heavy consideration And for both the frogmen and soldiers it gets really close I've written a goodbye letter to all And I have written how I shall be buried. How my So it's simpler for the bereaved, The last will is something all soldiers You write where you would like to... Where you It's hard to write a letter like that. Especially with two children at home. That's probably the worst. When I had to write... When I had to write. The last farewell, the last memory. To two small girls. It's tough as a 21 year old to say; Ok! - who should carry my chest in the church and... It's tough to decide. It's the middle of the day in the Gulf of Aden. The temperature is high and on the bridge As a principle nothing is taken for granted in Carsten and his closest advisor decides Lower the boats and send them in. He asks if there are weapons left over. Even if it looks like just a normal fishing boat at distance Typically pirates are disguised as ordinary fishers, We have contact with someone, You are cleared to go in. Understood. Out. Please show my team your engine. We have sent one man into the hull. We have one talking English, Copy that. It doesn't take long to determine that this is Then the task is suddenly completely We're returning Little Sister with a filter The fishing boat from Yemen has troubles with its engine and If they hadn't encountered us or someone else This isn't something they Otherwise they would be fucked. Meanwhile the boarding party uses their interpreter - that could make the Danes a bit The captain from Yemen has understood that - and tells a surprising story. They were attacked by international forces 2 years ago - which was not the case, they were fishers leaving Somalia - and injured the captain and killed two, I can't understand reacting like that, It's a police task using military means. And in that frame it's necessary that we - and in appropriate size Not against fishers like these that don't Five days ago a Sambuk was captured by pirates And the name of it is Naharashisalipeninsulanepilla The captain's saying there is a Sambuk Dhow (large Arab ship) And it's white like this Dhow here. Copy that. That's a good payback -TA to Bo. Since they first are willing to share info We have already started, standing in the Copy that, confirm it's a Sambut that's been Will do. Did you know anyone onboard? -No. His brother. His brother called and said &quot;Hey Pirates&quot;. Yeah yeah sure, just the Back on Absalon they have found And now everyone's fingers are crossed They can certainly change it themselves, While the oil filter is being changed tries - on Absalon to find the ship That must be it. No matter what we have to take this intelligence very seriously, With some white signs It's an incredibly good deal from that visit, And it's something we can share Come on, come on. The engine starts and the filter works. But before the boarding party leaves the boat, We have a first-aid package for you in case And gloves in here. And some knives. It's yours. I'll call you in three days! -Telling him I'll call in three days. -Did we get the phone back? Another unexpected situation is well over with. And Absalon's boarding team can get their well earned Besides fishers, pirates and merchant ships, - smugglers and refugees cross And soon the crew on Absalon will receive Hi Klaus, we have informed the staff-guard that we have a A Japanese warship asks Absalon to take a closer look The report suggests that a boat is drifting around with Giant tankers sail the corridor at full speed and have no way We received a message from a Japanese warship that There's a UN convention called SOLAS convention that says We're sending the helicopter Brumbass It's not a particularly good situation. Because you never quite know Pirate Hunt We received a message from a Japanese warship that There's a UN convention called SOLAS convention that says And he asked us to take a look at it. He was actually closer by so we But he declined. We're sending the helicopter Brumbass out to take Could we get a threat assessment over there? Does he agree it's a possible human smuggler? If the boat can't sail it's just a question of time before The report from Brumbass confirms So he decides that Absalon must go in. Now we have seen with our helicopter that Now to find out what their distress situation is, if it's just Do they lack water? We don't know So there are several things we need to find out. What we want is basically Usually in distress situations there is risk for human life, But you can also say that if you - then it's just a question of time It's Absalon's boarding party that will solve the task and The young officer Martin has been -Are you going to unlock the weapons after? And it's the first time he'll solve It's not a particularly good situation. Because you never quite know We had a similar situation last year where So... There are children and women out there. - but as we can see on the boat there And if they don't have any water it's just a question of What we at all costs must avoid is going too close so Then we're left with 20 bodies and 20 living. The objective is helping them on their way. And make sure they can get on their way, - because they hope for a better life in Yemen. So we won't stand in the way for that. To help alleviate the life-threatening situation Absalon's Just one at a time so people don't Come up with us on each side so we approach - and Little Sister on Starboard side. Confirmed bearing 3-2-1 Bearing 3-2-1, 1,4 miles, copy that. The last meters before Martin and his It's now that everything could go wrong. Can you hear me? We have come to help you. Bo, we've got low threat so we When we came to them they were calm. Which means we rather swiftly got our boats Tell them to remain calm, The refugees on the little boat are physically weakened. They have been drifting for two days without The explanation is that they're on the way to Yemen Absalon's machine crew goes to work The Gulf is passed every year by a large amount of refugees This trip became critical as it turns out The crew on Absalon therefore decides to give them Is it fixed in position? If they hadn't received help from us It's a nice feeling having helped them, the So it really gave purpose today. -Now they're good. Become so fucking proud An eventful day in the Gulf of Aden The 40 Somali boat refugees are still fragile, and the The hijacked Liquid Velvet that Absalon never got the The shipping firm has been faced with a But the fight against piracy For the next few months continue Commander Captain And if necessary, follow up with warning shots. Yes we're both locked and loaded. It's not the scenarion we've prepared for back home.