With a new Half-Life game right around the be right... Hmm, I guess it is. With Half-Life: Alyx right around the corner, be a good time to take a look back at the the Half-Life Universe. This includes the Half-Life games, their various games and their various surrounding media. Do note that for the events covered in the them using the recently completed fan-remake simply because, well... selfishly, I just Now, without further ado, this is what you Our story begins in the 1950s with the establishment well as their rivalry with the unorthodox Aperture Science over various government contracts. Decades later, in the 1980s, the companies the two developing similar, but separate "portal" Aperture then begins development on their or GLaDOS: an artificial intelligence which the portal technology. Sometime in the 2000s, GLaDOS is turned on, and takes control of the Aperture Science neurotoxin to kill her creators. Some scientists survive, however, and install from using the gas again. They then start her on a permanent cycle of Aperture Science employees in hopes to perfect On the morning of May 16th, the Black Mesa Spectrometer", a machine designed to study borderworld: Xen, which Black Mesa scientists portals. Due to Dr. Gordon Freeman's tardiness, the C decide to use the extra time for further This includes increasing the power of the buffer. One researcher, Dr. Rosenberg, protests this but Keller explains that the directive came Breen. Doctors Gina Cross and Colette Green are then to bring to the Anti-Mass Spectrometer's work. As Gordon rides a tram to Sector C, he is This man, known only as the G-Man by others, other Black Mesa employees. Also on his way, Freeman encounters Doctors Vance expresses his own concern about the power is already causing havoc and breaking Gordon dons a Hazardous Environment, or HEV Around this time, security guard and friend the facility to begin his work on the "Blue Meanwhile, Dr Cross delivers the crystal to into the device. At this moment, Eli Vance is contacted by unforeseen consequences". Despite this warning, he allows Gordon to a Resonance Cascade occurs, causing a rift alien creatures to teleport into the facility. Gordon is then forcefully teleported to various to the test chamber and losing consciousness. Elsewhere, Barney Calhoun is traveling in surge in the facility, causing him to lose Gordon soon awakens and leaves the chamber to the surface to find help. He heads off, finding a crowbar on his way Xen forces. Meanwhile, Doctors Cross, Green, and Rosenberg a communication room where Rosenberg sends send in the Hazardous Environment Combat Unit, alien threat, but also any and all facility Among these soldiers sent to the facility whose heliplane is shot down by a Xen aircraft, Dr. Rosenberg is quickly captured by the arriving reaches the surface, finding and freeing Rosenberg. He then assists the doctor with finding the a prototype teleportation device to escape Meanwhile, Gordon discovers the HECU's presence, to help him and his fellow scientists. He then fights through their forces and reaches has begun airstrikes on Black Mesa, forcing the facility. Doctors Green and Cross then work with Dr. a satellite delivery rocket for launch, which can reduce the effects of the Resonance Cascade They are able to disable the rocket's lockdown, to trigger it themselves, as the HECU arrives Meanwhile, Barney and Rosenberg are able to but not before Barney is trapped in a temporal Xen and Black Mesa, much like Gordon did earlier. However, he luckily ends up outside the facility, Walter Bennet and Simmons, and they all escape Afterwards, Gordon spends the rest of the Xen and the HECU to restore power to the Black the rocket prepared by Green and Cross. He clears out the HECU forces and launches to activate the displacement beacon, successfully Green and Cross are caught in their own harmonic Weller, where they rest and wait out the aftermath. Elsewhere, the US Government realize the HECU's deploy a Black Ops strike team to detonate the entire facility and any evidence. After the Black Ops' arrival, two Vortigaunts to Black Mesa and fight their way through a collection of Xen crystals. Soon after, Gordon is ambushed and captured and thrown into a trash compactor to die. He escapes this fate, however, and reaches Research Lab, where he finds the various Xen revealing that Black Mesa was aware of Xen cascade. Meanwhile, Corporal Adrian Shephard awakens was taken by friendly Black Mesa employees He makes his way to the surface, where he from the facility in order to escape before As he makes his way to an evac helicopter, a door in front of him, causing the nearby Shepard then makes his way back to the facility fellow squadmates who help him proceed through the Lambda Complex around the same time Gordon Freeman learns that the Lambda Complex was the teleportation technology that first took Scientists holding themselves up in the complex couldn't fully close the rift between the the other side keeping it open. Shepard then enters the complex just as Gordon controlling the portal. As he does, Alien Controllers teleport in with. He then enters a temporary portal and teleports Cannon which he uses to teleport around Xen called Race X. On Xen, Freeman fights his way through the remains of the HEV suit clad scientists who him. He eventually comes upon an Alien Grunt cloning friendly Vortigaunts. Gordon fights his way through the Alien Controllers which he enters to find the creature responsible of the Xen forces and enslavor of the Vortigaunts: Upon noticing Freeman's arrival, the powerful in battle. Meanwhile at Black Mesa, Shepard learns of through the Black Ops forces to find and disable However, his efforts are for naught, as he as he goes to leave. Unable to return to stop him, Shepard is forced attempting to enter a portal into Black Mesa. Shephard is able to destroy the creature to to explode and knock him out. When he awakens, Shephard finds himself on at Black Mesa in. The G-Man greets him just as the nuclear bomb The G-Man then teleports them to an unknown imprisoned in an isolated location at his of the events that transpired. The G-Man then escapes through a portal, and Meanwhile, Gordon battles and kills the Nihilanth. In its Death, Gordon is teleported out of which freezes time. Emerging from the frozen blast is the G-Man He reveals that thanks to Freeman, he and He then extends a job offer from his employers, Gordon then accepts the job, and enters a decision, stating that he will see him up After the events at Black Mesa, Portal Storms interdimensional rifts to open across the forms from Xen. While the various Governments on Earth are The Combine, an extremely powerful inter-dimensional and it's creatures to Xen, arrive in droves The United Nations declare war on the Combine, proves too powerful of a foe. Former Black Mesa administrator Wallace Breen Combine, allowing humanity's survival at Breen is then appointed as a puppet ruler of Earth Administrator. Additionally, the Vortigaunts arrive on Earth, Owing an eternal gratitude to Gordon Freeman, to join Humanity in creating an underground the Combine. Shortly after the Combine invasion, in the is now seemingly "alone" in the facility. One of the last surviving employees, scientist rejected test subject named Chell. Due to her extreme stubbornness and tenacity, list of potential test subjects, hoping she violent and sadistic AI running the facility. He then goes into hiding, finding various takes refuge, slowly slipping into madness GLaDOS then awakens Chell from stasis sleep, the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, of all of the tests. However, Chell soon discovers some of Rattmann's about GLaDOS deceptions and true intentions, GLaDOS also tortures Chell by providing her but forcing her to incinerate it after the Chell completes all of the tests successfully, of fire. Chell is able to escape, however, and begins and halls of the abandoned facility. Eventually, she reaches the Central AI Chamber, hanging from the ceiling. Chell is then able to outsmart the AI, using at GLaDOS, removing and destroying her personality After GLaDOS's hardware is destroyed, a remains of the chassis outside to the facility's However, shortly after, a "Party Escort facility, immediately placing her in a stasis Shortly after, Doug Rattmann finally escapes dragged by the Party Escort Bot. Feeling responsible for Chell's fate, Rattmann relaxation room, where she is in stasis sleep. He is soon met with opposition, however, and Knowing his only chance to save Chell would he crawls to a local workstation and redirects reserve grid. This ensures her survival, but puts no end-date asleep indefinitely. He then crawls into a Relaxation Vault and Years later, around twenty years after the by the G-Man on a train car inbound to City At the trainstation, Gordon is captured by by an undercover Barney Calhoun, who has infiltrated Barney leads Gordon to safety, and sends him As he heads out, however, he gets caught in He is almost captured, but is soon saved by Eli Vance's daughter. Alyx leads Gordon to Kleiner's lab, and built to quickly transport members of the They decide to use it to send Gordon and Alyx research facility where Eli Vance is leading Kleiner gives Gordon a new and improved version to send Alyx to Black Mesa East. After a successful teleportation, Gordon enters However, Kleiner's defanged pet head crab Lamarr, leaps onto the machine, causing it Gordon is then teleported to various locations, Combine's monolithic central building called Breen sees Gordon and immediately recognizes of his return. Gordon is finally teleported outside Kleiner's to leave him there. Barney meets with him and gives him the crowbar instructs him to use the canal system to reach Gordon then fights his way through the Combine the G-Man once again observing his progress, Hunter Chopper. Using an airboat provided to him by the resistance, reach Black Mesa East. There, Gordon meets Dr. Judith Mossman, another he is reunited with Eli Vance, who fills him Black Mesa incident. Alyx then takes Gordon outside to demonstrate the Gravity Gun: a handheld device with the She also introduces her giant mechanical pet: Gordon plays with Dog using the Gravity Gun, arrives and launches a raid on Black Mesa As they re-enter the facility, a ceiling collapses, Alyx instructs Dog to take Gordon to the path Gordon makes his way to Ravenholm, and finds several humans turned by parasitic Headcrabs He also finds the town to be filled with various zombies. Shortly after, he meets the town's sole Father Grigori, who helps Gordon fend off to find a mine that will take him back to Refusing to leave his town, Grigori continues crypt, leaving his fate unknown as Gordon Afterwards, Gordon learns that Eli was captured detainment facility. He then begins to travel along Highway 17 along the way, who equips him with an RPG Eventually, Gordon fights and defeats an alien Afterwards, a Vortigaunt extracts a pheropod allowing him to control Antlion forces to Gordon reaches Nova Prospekt, and meets up There, they find a recording of Mossman talking spy working with him in some capacity. Alyx and Gordon track down Mossman and confront protect Eli and their work. Alyx refuses to listen, retrieving her father a teleporter the Combine built based on the all back to Kleiner's lab. However, Mossman is able to take Eli and teleport behind to fight off Combine forces as they lab. However, when they use it, the teleporter Once they arrive in Kleiner's Lab, Gordon teleportation wasn't instant, and the two Kleiner reveals that in that time, the resistance of Nova Prospekt as the signal to strike. Gordon then takes Dog and the pair leave Alyx head out to aid in the battle. Dog is separated from Freeman and carried able to meet up with Alyx, who is later captured Gordon then finds Barney, and the two fight for Alyx. Dog is able to open a passageway for Gordon Alyx and Eli. Inside, Gordon uses a transport pod designed are transformed into lifeless husks by the Eventually, Gordon comes across a weapon confiscation the Gravity Gun, which causes the field to Gun and Gordon's suit with the "dark energy" After he fights his way through the facility by Breen, who transports the pod to his office. There, he is met by Mossman, who apologizes with Eli. Breen tries to convince Eli to join him, but Breen then brings in Alyx to use as a bargaining through a Combine Portal to their Overworld. However, Mossman intervenes and releases Eli, Breen then takes the Gravity Gun and Flees to escape. Alyx and Gordon leave Eli and Mossman (who pods) and the pair give chase, witnessing he runs off again, leaving the Gravity Gun He then makes his way to the Dark Energy reactor Gordon is able to destroy the reactor, causing The G-Man arrives and freezes time, congratulating that he has received other "interesting Sometime after these events, a group of Vortigaunts Gordon from the G-Man. The pair are then brought out of stasis by of the Citadel. They reunite with Dog and contact Eli and is about to explode, threatening to destroy Alyx and Gordon then head back into the Citadel explosion. There, they find a recording of Breen's that they interrupted, in which it is revealed using some kind of "host body". Afterwards, they see an image of a Combine effect before an Advisor Pod is sent through They are able to reach the Citadel Core, and explosion. Afterwards, Alyx finds intel that the Combine off-world Combine forces of the current crisis They then find another recent recording, this by the Combine). She claims to have found the location of a team are attacked by the Combine and a yet-unseen The transmission then cuts suddenly. Alyx takes a copy of the transmission, and the facility once again. While the train crashes, the two are able through City 17, eventually meeting up with to a train station to escape the city. After fighting through very strong Combine Barney and the Survivors to safety before City. Just as they escape, the Citadel explodes, The shockwave also causes Alyx and Gordon's again knocked out. Alyx is able to recover and use the gravity train. They look out to the ruins of City 17 and Citadel. Suddenly, a portal storm occurs, and Alyx mine shaft. They reach a communication building, where stationed at the White Forest resistance base. When Alyx mentions the recording from Mossman, the call and demands they bring them the recording Afterwards, they are found by the Combine, wounding her. A Vortigaunt arrives just in time to keep Resistance outpost nearby. There, Gordon and two other fighters, Griggs brethren while they heal Alyx. Unfortunately, they are unable to fully restore and Gordon and the Vortigaunt that saved Alyx back to them. While the Vortigaunts are distracted healing explaining that he had saved Alyx from the in his plans, despite Breen's objections. He then instructs Gordon to get her to White to Eli: "prepare for unforeseen consequences". Alyx awakens, fully healed, and the Vortigaunt where they witness a militia of Combine forces Gordon then retrieves a car while being covered back to them. Alyx and Gordon then leave in the car, separating to hunt the Combine Advisors escaping in their On their way to White Forest, Alyx and Gordon base to warn them about the approaching Combine which Gordon is able to defeat. Afterwards, they notice that their transmission They continue on, but soon find a crashed Upon finding it, they start to again encounter they witnessed the Advisor inside the Citadel. They enter a nearby barn and find an Advisor Gordon and Alyx attempt to destroy it's cocoon-like structure and telekinetically and almost killing Gordon before an explosion Alyx and Gordon then fight their way through with Dog and reaching White Forest. There, they reunite with Kleiner and Eli, Magnusson reveals that they plan to launch the Citadel, along with the satellites Gordon Mesa incident, which they hope will close After fending off another attack, Gordon and message. In it, she reveals that the mysterious project Science ship carrying an unknown powerful disappeared from it's dry dock. Kleiner and Eli then get into a disagreement with Kleiner seeing value in using the technology of its power would only lead to another incident Kleiner leaves to assist Magnusson with the appears on a screen behind Alyx for a moment. When he disappears, Alyx delivers his message This takes Eli off guard, and in confidence, friend", and tells Gordon that he had delivered also reveals that the Xen crystal sample that by the G-Man himself. Magnusson then enters and interrupts the conversation Strider forces are advancing on the base, Device", a sticky bomb that he can launch He then heads out and successfully uses them Back inside the base, the team regroups, and warning to be in regards to the Borealis, promising to explain more later. He then expresses his pride and gratitude The group are then able to successfully launch and preventing the Combine from calling in Alyx then leads Gordon to a helicopter hangar the Borealis, while Eli follows. At the hangar, however, they are ambushed Alyx to the wall. They then capture Eli, who gives one final what it takes. He then tells Alyx he loves her, and to look probing his mind and instantly killing the An Advisor then moves to grab Alyx, but Dog them to flee which frees Alyx and Gordon. Alyx then rushes to her lifeless father, and This is the last we see of Gordon and Alyx's more to tell... More than 50,000 years in the future, Chell Wheatley, a bumbling personality core who Aperture Science facility after it's reserve Wheatley leads Chell to a chamber containing remains of GLaDOS's lifeless chassis. Wheatley attempts to route power to the elevator, Upon awakening, she immediately recognizes She then crushes Wheatley, tossing him aside Dual-Portal handheld device. GLaDOS then forces Chell to go through test repair the broken-down facility. During her testing, Wheatley appears to Chell, his encounter with her. A few test chambers later, Wheatley and Chell make their way through the back halls of the On their way, Chell discovers a science project to Work Day" when GLaDOS began killing Aperture Interestingly, one of the "potato power" indicating a potentially deeper tie between Chell and Wheatley then decide to sabotage assembly line to produce defective turrets, Chell and Wheatley return to GLaDOS's chamber, due to their meddling. Due to GLaDOS's corruption and Wheatley's body is initiated. While GLaDOS tries to stop this, Chell is complete the transfer. Afterwards, Wheatley sends Chell on the elevator seemingly corrupted by his new power. He then puts GLaDOS into one of the Potato She then reveals that Wheatley was designed installed onto her to potentially diminish able to outsmart and kill her creators. This pushes Wheatley over the edge, and he to begin a deep, deep fall into the depths At the bottom, Chell watches GLaDOS get snatched way through the bowels of the facility, finding Inside, she hears various recordings of Aperture history of the company and its facilities various "gels" with physics altering effects. One investment was $70 million worth of moon They proved to be great conductors for the prolonged exposure caused Cave to fall deathly Chell finds GLaDOS and saves her from the to take on the common goal of stopping Wheatley As GLaDOS begins to hear the records of Cave voice, despite having never heard it before. She then begins to mimic Cave's assistant, the two. When Chell finds a portrait of Cave and Caroline, In order to regroup, she turns herself off Chell also finds another startling discovery Borealis, with the ship nowhere to be found. Chell then hears another recording of Cave engineers to research artificial intelligence to preserve it. He then proclaims that should he die before over the facility, even if she disagrees, an AI as well. GLaDOS then develops a plan to present Wheatley his logic processors to fail and disable him. However, when they reach him and present the to deliberately not think. Wheatley then succumbs to the scientist's he sends Chell and GLaDOS through tests of However, as he discovers an increasing tolerance testing, he reveals that he found a new subject before leading Chell into a spike-filled trap. Chell is easily able to avoid this trap and There, GLaDOS sends in corrupted personality raising his corruption level and triggering When Chell goes to press the button to complete foresaw this outcome and sabotaged the button, Chell survives the explosion, and notices She grabs the portal device and shoots a portal everything else in the room to get sucked Chell grabs on to Wheatley, still connected and pulls Chell back through the portal, closing Chell awakens later to see the two robots P-body. GLaDOS, now back in her body and in control her re-discover Caroline deep inside of her She then deletes Caroline, seemingly returning However, she decides that despite her best and likely will never be able to. She decides that if she can't kill Chell, of her. She then finally grants Chell her freedom, serenaded by an opera of Turrets. Outside, Chell steps into a bright cornfield. Behind her, GLaDOS sends out her incinerated door shut, leaving Chell outside for good. Meanwhile, in space, Wheatley admits his regret go back so he can apologize. Afterwards, GLaDOS tests on Atlas and P-Body, deep within the facility, which is revealed subjects, whom she kills within a week of This is where we leave the Half-Life and Portal the Half-Life and Half-Life 2 with Half-Life And while Half-Life writer Marc Laidlaw has I'll link in the description) maybe one to Gordon Freeman's story. Hey guys, thanks so much for watching this If you enjoyed, make sure you leave a like, subscribe and ring the bell to see these when Also consider supporting on Patreon or becoming with a huge thanks to those folks on screen