Today, we're going to resurrect a Aspire Easystore H340 Home Server that Carbon dating indicates that I purchased it in it in storage about seven years ago, after the What I plan to do is not only boot into but install four 5 TB disks giving To use the server today, the problems are numerous. means that it doesn't have any monitor output - so the server remotely using these CDs on another four SATA hard drives, it requires the operating which means that you share your storage with the entire system goes down. Finally, the operating the old Windows Server 2003 R2. Unfortunately, to 2 TB in size, so the entire server But remember: that number isn't a hardware limitation - To overcome these problems, I'm going to install entire space of all four disks to use as storage, operating system. I plan to install a low profile eBay for around $11. Eventually, I'll remote into the BIOS and installing Windows 10 Professional, this particular video card, it has a DMS-59 adapter. but you can see that it's much more dense than an old Dell server, and it has a DMS-59 connector you're following along in this video to retrofit a phillips head screwdriver, an ESD wrist strap connects two pins together on the motherboard. You I have here, to help install the jumper. You'll also need a Before we dismantle the unit, let's hardware. As I mentioned before, it's powered concerned, all I care about is whether it has the using it to feed my Plex Media Server. Scoring a than fast enough for my purposes - and as a bonus, TDP of only 4 W. it comes with 2 GB we have a gigabit Ethernet port along with four USB 2 have another USB 2 port, along with a What you'll want to do first is We can then remove the cover. In order to access the BIOS, you'll need Let's rotate the case to the side that has the small PCIe and connect it to the metal part of the case. As we peer some tweezers, I'll grab a jumper and carefully... gracefully... delicately place it on the two pins. Next, in the PCIe slot. After turning the case a little bit, I'll first and swivel the cover from the opening, then remove the and take a look at the ATI FireMV 2250 graphics card. We'll motherboard. The main thing to look for is this angled It'll be a tight fit, so you'll need to adjust some of the Once it's sitting firmly in the PCIe swivel the cover back on, and secure and then we're done. While unclipping face the rear, where we can then return the I'll also take the DMS-59-to-DVI adapter card, so we can be ready to hook it up to a The next step is to create a bootable You'll want to create it on another computer You'll then want to launch your favorite spelled r-u-f-u-s. After opening the first link a bit until you reach the Download section, then after which we'll open the folder location and By default, the device will be set to your USB Windows 10 ISO file that you want to install on already prepared a couple ISO files to show two official and legitimate ISO files downloaded which are for builds 1809 and 2004. There's a bug - which causes blue screen crashes when In fact, if I choose the 1809 ISO by selecting the Windows To Go image option, and Rufus will give me a warning about the bug. build BUT 1809, such as 1803, 1903 or 2004, which the Windows To Go option is selected as the image and the target system as BIOS or UEFI, accept In this particular image, I'm prompted to choose so I'll choose Windows 10 Professional. Notice but it does warn me that any data that exists on have anything important on it, I'll click OK and will take some time, so I'll throw a turkey pot OK, I'm back. Now that Rufus is done of it. Let's go ahead and eject the USB and selecting Eject. We can now physically remove server, where I'll insert it into a USB port the cables we need to power it up, including a mouse and keyboard, where I'll plug the USB receiver which then plugs into a USB port, and finally, a network Without any hard drives in any of the four drive bays, let's power up the system. If you're curious about the power cord to a Kill A Watt meter, which shows When the POST screen appears on the monitor, Note that if we hadn't inserted the jumper on the this screen at all. Moving to the main menu, you navigating to the boot screen shows the boot order, Curiously, you'll also see another USB entry: This is actually a small storage space that's which holds the installation files for Windows been able to install Windows 10 onto it and booted to install FreeNAS in this small space. What you'll we never want Windows Home Server to start its on the right side, we need to hit Shift-1 to mark in front of it. Make sure that our USB thumb we can move to the Exit screen and save our and after an agonizing few seconds, you should Windows To Go installation is starting. Eventually, Now it's just a matter of going through the slow Atom processor, including the acceptance of I'll throw a whole turkey in the toaster OK, we're now in a freshly installed Windows 10 hard drives. Each drive bay is hot-swappable The bays correspond to disks 0, 1, 2, and 3. I'm the disks in them. Let's start with the bottom want to do is align the pins of the tray with the and then bend the flexible right side to insert We can now return the tray to its drive bay, and trays, we can insert the others. Afterwards, let's meter with all four disks installed, we see it to a steady state of about 51 or 52. After booting for remote access, after which i'll configure the which should return a link to &quot;Allow remote access launch the settings app, taking us directly to the feature of Windows 10 Professional, and you won't Under that section, hit the Show Setting link next box where we can select &quot;Allow remote connections use the hostname to remote into the server, but I Let's right click the network icon in the Settings.&quot; There's more than one way to assign a Network and Sharing Center, after which I click my select TCP/IP v4, and hit Properties - where I can in my DHCP pool - let's say .99... then fill out all default gateway, and DNS server. We can now click OK, close Now let's go back to the laptop, which Hit the Start menu and type &quot;remote&quot;, which should choice. Type the computer's name or the IP address it's a static IP of 192.168.1.99. After hitting and waiting a few moments for the you should now be able to see the server's desktop here I'll configure the hard drives. We can either Disk Management - where you can see the four hard Disks zero through three... or we can take advantage For instance, if I wanted to have two Storage I could hit the search bar and then type where you can then create a new Storage Pool Since a mirror requires two disks, let's choose creates the pool, I can name the Storage Space - disks will be assigned the letter F. I'll select Three-way mirror where you need at least three 5 or 6. We'll keep the size at its maximum of that's only one Storage Pool. To make another set clicking the link on the left, where I'll keep the then we'll call this mirrored Storage Space DATA02, we'll want to share the F and G drives so that After closing out Storage Spaces, I'll launch File we just created, each one having a capacity of actually the USB flash drive, which includes the E onboard USB device. By right-clicking F, enable and define the name of the share, limit users who can access the share. After closing I'll do the same thing for the G drive by again tab, where I'll just leave everything on default of this video. Remember, all this time we've been I'll now minimize the remote desktop session to on the laptop, where I'll try to access the \\192.168.1.99, which brings up the shared I just had some final notes on some minor The blue lights that indicate the didn't light up. In addition, I found that kept blinking, but i'm keeping it in a closet in Also note that because of the Atom CPU, things experienced no slowness in file transfers, with a gigabit connection. I now use the server without time in case something goes wrong with remote access. I hope you enjoyed - thanks for watching!