Greetings from Kosiv region! Today we visited Mrs. Paraska from Yavoriv. If you like our videos, you can help promote this channel. Just subscribe to it, like the new episode and leave any comment. Ms. Paraska has lived in the mountains since birth, and she feels comfortable here. The older woman is used to physical work, so digging a garden is not difficult for her. Singing and art help her. However, during the war she cannot sing, so she writes poetry. Ms. Paraska knows the local traditions and peculiarities of Hutsul life very well. And now she is showing us a unique way of storing vegetables for the winter. In the past, not every house had a beer cellar for storage. That's why Hutsuls used to store seasonal vegetables in the ground, but always covered them with spruce branches. This way, the vegetables did not rot or freeze, and in the spring they could be used as sowing material. Various traditions and such secrets are passed down from generation to generation here. The main thing is to remember where the potatoes are buried. Spruce branches are used as additional thermal insulation so that the vegetables do not freeze and spoil. Such caches have been made since ancient times. This method is still used today. Ms. Paraska can tell us a lot of interesting things about local traditions and customs. Here, in the Hutsul region, people live in harmony with nature, actively using various natural materials in everyday life. And now it's time to milk the goat. Ms. Paraska knows how to do this too. Almost every household in the mountain village keeps cattle. Goat's milk is very healthy. It is also used to make cheese and various fermented milk products. Yavoriv is the center of quilting in Ukraine. From time immemorial, sheep's wool has been processed here and various products made from it. Of course, Ms. Paraska also knows how to spin. She processes the wool herself, creates yarn from it, and knits socks, slippers, and other items. In the past, bedspreads and other sheep's wool products were made from local material. Nowadays, there are not so many sheep in Yavoriv. Therefore, raw materials are ordered from abroad. But the traditions remain alive. Ms. Paraska knits socks with a crochet hook. It's a fairly simple technology, but the wool products are very warm and comfortable. Ms. Paraska's pension is small, so she has to earn money in this way. She knits socks, slippers, and blankets and sells them at the Kosiv market. But first, she has to dry each product well so that ants do not get inside. So Paraska lays out the finished socks on the street and leaves them in the sun. The woman makes wool threads herself using a spinning wheel. But Ms. Paraska still has a lot to do today. She has to feed the cattle. To do this, she grows pumpkins in her garden. She dilutes the pumpkin porridge with water and brings it to the cows. "Pumpkins are a great vegetable that you can eat yourself and feed the animals. They are stored outside, but these supplies will not last long. And Ms. Paraska goes back to spinning. Sheep's wool is a unique material with high thermal insulation properties. It is used to make outerwear and warm blankets and bedspreads. To make them, you need a loom. And socks or slippers can be knitted with a special large hook. Wool retains heat, but it is highly breathable and moisture permeable. That's why your feet will be warm and dry in such socks. Ms. Paraska uses mostly untreated, undyed wool. But her assortment also includes colored products. Autumn is the perfect time to clean the raspberry bushes from excess branches. Ms. Paraska is skillful with a large pruner. She does the same with grapes. This kind of sanitary pruning should be done every year. Then the next year's harvest will be good because the plants will have enough nutrients. Ms. Paraska knows how to prune grapes properly to make them grow even better. Ahead of her, Paraska has a walk in the forest. This is a significant advantage of living in a mountain village - the forest is always nearby. And you can find a lot of delicious things there. In the fall, the locals go mushroom picking. So now Paraska is picking mushrooms. Very quickly she collected a whole basket of mushrooms. But such walks provoke an appetite. She needs to make lunch quickly. Mrs. Paraska cooks banosh with milk. It is a traditional Hutsul dish. The woman prepares simple and nutritious dishes that do not require much effort and time, but are still delicious. Banosh is always seasoned with Hutsul cheese. There is also goulash and jelly on the table. In the afternoon, you can process the mushrooms you have picked. They must be thoroughly washed, peeled and boiled. A few minutes and the mushrooms are already cleaned and cut. In fact, mushrooms are a dish that every Hutsul has on the table in season. There are a lot of mushroom dishes here: they are fried, stewed, dried, and boiled. There is no centralized gas supply in the mountain villages, so they cook on the stove. That is why firewood is needed here all year round. It's good that there is a lot of wood in the forest. Ms. Paraska collects dry branches that trees drop. She can easily work with an ax because the branches need to be cut into small pieces. Now she has to collect it all and take it back to the house. Ms. Paraska makes a delicious snack out of mushrooms. She boils them, cools them, and adds salt. Then she dresses the salted mushrooms with oil, vinegar, and chopped onions. The aroma in the house is so good that you immediately get a crazy appetite. This is the kind of quick lunch you can make with mushrooms freshly picked in the forest. You can eat them with bread or any side dish. We thank you for spending this day with Ms. Paraska.