In today's video, we'll be discussing cast of characters: a Finnish officer who Beret who led dangerous covert missions from to be buried at the Arlington military cemetery What is truly unique, though, is that all person: a natural-born soldier who often ended exiled -- but never defeated. He would rise from the ashes of war to continue This is the story of Lauri Torni, aka Larry Son of Finland [Note: this quote should appear on screen, aloud] eyes upright" Lauri Torni was born on May 25, 1919, in Viipuri, of Petrograd. Lauri completed his studies, excelling mainly As he came of age, Lauri joined the national Following the partitioning of Poland by Germany Soviet Union hoped to push its borders farther securing Leningrad, formerly Petrograd, from The Soviets had also set their sights on several Hanko naval base. When Finland refused to grant such an annexation, Thus, a few months after Lauri's 20th Birthday, Finland. It was the beginning of the Russo-Finnish The Finnish armed forces were led by Marshall officer. Severely outnumbered and outgunned, the Finns the Red Army - a huge opponent, but one Stalin had executed dozens of his top Generals The Finnish Army, by contrast, was a small, winter warfare and defensive tactics, exacting At the beginning of the war, young Lauri was Lauri couldn't have felt at ease with this supply of nourishment was vital for the morale capable of much more than supply line management. One night, as the temperature plummeted to of his camp. Completely unseen and unheard by his own sentinels, captured a Russian soldier, and marched him The effects on his soldiers' morale were Lauri's superiors realised that this 20-year and assigned him his first special task. Lauri was put in command of an anti-tank patrol: or on skis, whose mission was to attack Soviet Yeah, that sounds easy! But against any logical bet, Lauri and his and still lived to tell the story. Lauri and his Fins distinguished themselves pocket, in late February, 1940. Here, the Finns encircled and wiped out a 206 trucks, and 12 armoured cars. Lauri was put on a special officer's course, As a first assignment, he was put in charge They did not speak Finnish; he did not speak But with the use of clear hand gestures and the invaders,' the young officer and his On a broader stage, though, the war was not Despite having bloodied the nose of the Soviet artillery, and tanks was starting to take Already by February, the Soviets had breached end of the front, the Mannerheim line. Once they broke through, they were able to Viipuri. From the 3rd through the 11th of March 1940, capital, while a Finnish delegation in Moscow The Moscow Peace Treaty was eventually signed Finland had to cede 10% of its territory and including Karelia and Viipuri. It had been a pyrrhic victory for the Red vs 26,000 on the Finnish side. But it had been a victory nonetheless, one forgive. Soviet Enemy Number One the Medals of Independence, 1st and 2nd Class, decorations. But such accolades could not compensate for country to the invaders - including his hometown! Lauri was described both by friends and army He was a well-liked young man with whom it But this mostly mild-mannered man had found stronger opponent -- either in direct, or That is why, in the late Spring of 1941, when background of WWII, Lauri Torni decided to back to battle. This need for retribution drove him to travel Waffen-SS Battalion, the Freiwilligen Nordost. It was not uncommon for citizens of neutral, for SS formations, either out of sympathy or both. As part of the Freiwilligen Nordost, Torni natural skill set -- performing special operations On June 22, 1941, Axis forces invaded the This was the start of Operation Barbarossa. Finland joined the invasion, not as a formal country. The Finnish objective was simply to recapture rather than expand their living space eastward This conflict became known as The Continuation Mannerheim. The commander asked for Berlin to return the Waffen-SS to replenish the Army ranks, with At the start of 1942, second Lieutenant Torni patrol deployed in Karelia - it was payback His unit was part of the forces that drove the main garrison of Petrozavodsk. From there, Torni continued to push northward called 'Stalin Canal'. [Note: see this map for the locations mentioned Lauri's advance was halted on March 23, While on a ski reconnaissance mission, Lauri While recovering in the hospital, Torni received stay put for several weeks... which he totally With fragments of shrapnel still embedded hospital to re-join his old unit. Throughout 1943, Lauri led and trained several missions deep behind enemy lines. An exceptionally fit man, he expected his stamina, resilience, and skill in close quarters traditional Finnish knife. His company became known as the Osasto Torni, Its symbol was a capital 'T' set against Some of Torni's best-documented exploits Red Army launched a counterattack to retake On June 9 -- three days after D-Day, a couple risk of once again being engulfed by the Soviets. Lieutenant Torni and his unit managed to break heavy casualties on the enemy. Two weeks later, Lauri personally performed he acquired vital intelligence on the Soviet commanders hold off the counterattack in Karelia. On the 5th and 6th of July, the Torni detachment crossroads at all costs. They were reduced to less than 100 men after they were about to face two regiments of the Against all military logic, Lauri split his Sure, they may have been weaker, but they By shuttling back and forth between them, attacks against the incoming Soviets, which force. Torni's company inflicted hundreds of losses allowing for the bulk of the Finnish forces It was a tactical masterpiece that achieved But Lauri did not have time to celebrate, While convalescing, Lauri learned that he the highest military decoration in the Finnish It is estimated that a total of 600,000 Finns of them received such high military honour. The following month, he was promoted to Captain. At the same time, the Soviets had bestowed Propaganda radio broadcasts had issued a bounty The Soviets were willing to pay three million half a million US dollars in today's money. It's a small fortune, especially during reward. Lauri and his men continued the fight in Karelia, now-President Mannerheim, was coming to terms The fight could not go on forever against and its allies were losing ground. On August 25, 1944, the Finnish government led to the signing of an armistice on September The conditions, while ensuring the survival had to cede back 10 percent of its territory, Helsinki also had to pay war reparations to billion US dollars in today's money. As if that wasn't enough, Mannerheim was to expel any remaining Wehrmacht units from This became known as the Lapland War ... one been demobilized. Once again, Lauri Torni wasn't prepared defeat. Like the mythical phoenix rising from its against the Soviets, whose peace treaty he Alongside other demobbed troops, Lauri fled training in a Waffen-SS facility in Mecklenburg, Here, Lauri perfected his approach to asymmetric handling, and deep reconnaissance tactics. Unfortunately for Torni, the programme was the Red Army was making its way towards Berlin. The Wehrmacht was in desperate need of combat-ready he was tasked with leading a Naval Infantry Facing once more the invader of his Homeland, enemies. But once again, his tactical victories could superiority. Facing inevitable capture by the Soviets - which instead sought to turn himself in as prisoner airfield. His bet paid off, and the Brits did not kill He was sent instead to a PoW camp in Belgium, Life as a British prisoner was surely better started spreading that the Western Allies Soviets. Torni was not going to risk that. He partnered with a fellow Finn, Solmu Korpela, The circumstances of how they did it are not posed as former prisoners of the Wehrmacht Eventually they reached Copenhagen and secured Lauri Torni had emerged from the ruins of But what he received was not A Wanted Man When Lauri returned to Finland in August of for treason by the Valpo, the Finnish State Technically, they were not wrong. Torni had escaped to Hamburg and joined the words, he had defected to the enemy! The situation was complicated by Finland's and the start of the Cold War. While the Red Army could have invaded yet Europe - Stalin actually preferred a less He demanded instead that Finland remain a influence. It was a shrewd strategic move, as it would along the Soviet-Finnish frontier, one of borders. Moscow's influence extended to the appointment Communist Party - and one of them was the Anyway, in August of 1945, Torni had been train headed to a high security prison. Lauri did not wait for the term to begin; For the next few months, Lauri reunited with who had been forcibly relocated from Viipuri Here, he worked at an electrical supply firm the simple pleasures of life as a free, innocent However, after a co-worker reported him to once more. A trial in October of 1946 sentenced him to Once again, the only way out of that sticky Torni certainly was no stranger to evasions, out of jail, thanks to a false ID card smuggled His life as a fugitive did not last long, The police spread the false rumour that he reputation that Torni could not tolerate. Willing to clear his record, Lauri handed bars at Turku State Prison. But it wasn't long before the restless Captain While generally a quiet man, Lauri could make He made friends with the organist in service While serving as his assistant, he identified which he believed he could escape with a classic an iron hook. But on the night of the escape, a guard discovered end this indomitable soldier's career. Luckily, the gun malfunctioned, and Torni By the end of the decade, the Soviet's grip for President Paasikivi to issue a pardon Unfortunately, the pardon involved his being His name was removed from official war records, This was October 6, 1950. Lauri felt betrayed. He wasn't sure he had anything else to offer to emigrate, crossing the border into Sweden. Here, he started a new life ... as a lumberjack! [Note to Simon: the following two lines are by Monty Python, also linked below. Feel free to remove!] Yes, he'd be a lumberjack, and be okay. He'd sleep all night and work all day, He started dating a girl from Stockholm, Marja life. The two got engaged on January 1, 1950 and The two had agreed that Lauri would wear his shoot, so the girl travelled to Finland to But fate threw a spanner in the works. Lauri had previously applied for a visa to Mbrsky. His intention was to join a community of Finnish After months of waiting, the visa had finally Unfortunately, this offered only a very limited Torni ... was torn. Okay, that was lame, but Lauri was, indeed, to start a new life away from Europe. In the end, he opted to leave, before Marja Lauri got in touch and promised her he would years. Eventually, Marja moved to Las Palmas to marry Down in South America, Lauri landed in Caracas the local Finnish community to make ends meet. Among these jobs, Lauri would work as a babysitter And that's comedy gold, right there, Hollywood! A former Waffen-SS Captain and Special Forces Send that screenplay to all the major executives. Beyond babysitting, a job more suited to Lauri to the US. The Finn had since long set his sights on visa did not allow him to step off the boat But a man like Torni would not let a little By now an escape artist on par with the Great the coast of Louisiana and swam safely to From there, Lauri made his way to New York, of odd jobs. By 1951, Lauri had been apprehended by FBI all, and it was only a matter of time before Luckily, in New York, Torni had become friends This gentleman was the President of an association and he had immediately recognised the great Armed Forces. Fleming had brought Lauri's case to the Bill' Donovan, a key figure within the OSS Now an attorney, Donovan agreed to represent to remain in the US. Not only that, but he interceded for him to This is when Lauri Torni reemerged as Larry All the Wars He Came Across In January of 1954, former Captain Torni started Private Thorne. He must have felt like a real Finn out of the soldiers there was 19; he had the inclination low-ranking soldier; his English was not really at least in part with a blend of hand gestures After completing basic training, he attended First, there was the Mountain and Arid Cold like any other Tuesday to him. There was also the paratrooper course at Fort certificate. [Caption: HALO = High Altitude Low Opening] In 1957, Larry was serving in Bavaria, as He had performed well in the US Military, However, following several months of relative In December of 1958, Thorne was involved in which ended in his throwing several Bavarian Larry was arrested and court-martialled. He seriously risked his own dismissal from found that some of the Germans involved in two of them were wanted by the police. At Thorne's court-martial in October 1959, Thorne could return to his duties, but he the 10th Group of the Special Forces - the It was with this team that in July 1962, Lauri His unit was tasked with retrieving the wreckage The aircraft had crashed over the Zagros mountains intel on Larry Thorne's old nemesis, the Two previous crews of German mountaineer troops information too sensitive to be left unattended Under the leadership of Captain Schandler, the unforgiving terrain of the Zagros range They retrieved all the classified intel, as in the crash. Along the way, Larry and friends even found on the mountains. In early 1963, Lieutenant Thorne was assigned As a military advisor, his job was to work which he led in several airborne missions. On one such assignment, Thorne, his Sergeant, by 120 Viet Congs. Larry's 'Dirty Dozen' soundly defeated Bronze Star. After this first tour in Vietnam, the now-Captain training, after which he was ordered to a and summer 1965. Thorne was working at the 5th Special Forces officer. It was mainly a quiet job, but surprisingly, leader of Nha Trang's intelligence operations. In late June, the base came under attack from the intended surprise and were swiftly repelled. This was thanks to Thorne's intelligence "the prompt response of defence elements", after action report. It was also thanks to this success that Larry in September. This was a secret infiltration of reconnaissance On October 18, 1965, Larry Thorne boarded A photo taken that day depicts him as he gets This was the last photo ever taken of Captain Larry Thorne. The objective of the mission was to pinpoint From that perspective, Larry had scored another and the US dropped 95 tons of bombs on it However, during the flight itself, mission and he and his comrades were declared Missing Exactly one year later, on October 19, 1966, neither their bodies, nor the helicopter, of the Vietnam conflict. . Had he been captured by the Vietcong, or by Had he resurfaced again, in another country, war? It took more than 30 years to solve the mystery. In 1999, Thorne's remains were found 25 Task Force. He was repatriated to America. [Note: Location of Da Nang at this link] Formally identified in 2003, his remains were Cemetery, section 60, tombstone 8136. He was buried alongside the remaining South mission. Remembering Lauri Torni In his 47 years of life, Lauri Torni had fought completely different countries, all of which He could proudly wear 17 military decorations, Cross, a Distinguished Flying Cross, and a To this day, US Special Forces have an award A former comrade from the Vietnam War, Robin character of Sven Kornie in his book 'The This was later turned into a movie, where by 'The Duke' himself, John Wayne. And in 2014, Lauri was celebrated by metal Three Armies.' If you want to know more about the crazy life 'Born a Soldier' by Mike Cleverley and Gill. Of course, not everybody agrees on his hero Oula Silvennoinen in their book 'Unknown WWII, the Finn had joined a Nazi resistance a National Socialist coup in Finland. The book is available only in Finnish, but below, in case you speak the language. Controversy aside, I hope you enjoyed today's As a follow up, let me ask you, which protagonist