I think it's safe to say most of us wouldn't trust a stranger into our homes. Unless it was Tom Hanks. I trust Tom Hanks with my life. I mean, it's obvious that man wouldn't hurt a fly. Anyways, I think we've obviously grown wary of each other as strangers. And a few months ago when we sat around trying to think about what the hardest thing to do in China with strangers would be, someone said it. Throwing a party at a Chinese stranger's house. Although we honestly originally thought this idea was utterly impossible. Literally every person we've spoken to has said not possible. After recent success in meeting and talking to strangers here, we decided that for the official launch of the Yes Theory book out today, that we had to go after the Goliath. The impossible, the unconquerable challenge. And we did. Shanghai. Wow, there are so many people out right now. We have randomly found ourselves in the middle of this freaking parade. Before even finding the stranger's house, we thought we'd start by finding some guests to come to the party. Why did we do it in that order, you ask? Well, I'm honestly not sure. All right, this is craziness. I had no idea that Shanghai celebrates Halloween, but apparently they do. I have a feeling that mass gathering of like a million people here is a good place to start. We are going to host a party. You're very welcome to our party if you want to come. - Me? Where is your... We don't have the place yet, but we're going to find somebody. Oh. Get a contact? Yeah. Do you want to come? You're very welcome to the party. Do you understand? Maybe. Yes, yes. Welcome to the party. Hopefully we can all be friends and we get your WeChat. Funny because once we start talking and we start filming, people think there's something happening around us. It's very nice to be here. Very friendly people. Welcome to Shanghai! Thank you. We want strangers to become friends. I'll give my WeChat. And you can scan it. And I will send you an invitation, so do you want to come to our party? Staffan is in the middle of this gathered crowd who didn't know what was going on. This is my WeChat. My WeChat is like Brad Pitt right now. Oh, wow. Where is your party? We don't know yet. Wow. Oh, how do you say &quot;hello&quot; in Swedish? Swedish. &quot;Hej&quot;. Hey. Oh, hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. The next day. So what's happening right now? I'm super blocked on my WeChat and all the contacts we have in there, we can't reach them now. Wait, what? Not literally all the contacts. Literally everyone in my mobile. Violations such as harassment, malicious marketing or fraud. - That's not good. Dude, that was like a hundred and fifty people. Wait, you can't do anything in China without WeChat. You use it to pay, you use it to message people. It's the social network here that people use. You guys are going to have to start over. Sorry. Today, Cory got blocked. - Yeah, I got blocked. Yeah. Well, mine's been blocked since I got here. Yours has been blocked since you've gotten here? Yeah, I haven't been able to use it. Not even once. What have you been using? You guys. The next day (again). With Yan and Cory leaving in just a few days, This meant that we only had 72 hours to find a stranger's house to throw a party in and to find somewhere between 15 and 30 strangers to attend the party. Okay, Yan, what's happening? So, boss, our design is finished. Our designer is... I hope that this becomes a running gag that you call him boss. So, basically, block letters. I love it. Plain, simple, and then behind the sign... Oh oooh... The greatest designer always has the simplest design. Party? At my house? It would be an honor to have them as guests at the party if they choose to. They'd like to ask if you'd like to come to our party? Oh, ha. I can't make it. -You don't know what day it is? - Friday. Okay. Good start. Good start. Given the time crunch and God knows how long it would take to find a house, we split up into teams. Darren, Yan, and Cory on one end, and then Staffan, Matt, and myself on the other, to find both guests and a house. Good idea. That's a good idea. I'm the translator, right, for our group? Yes. Hello. How are you? Very good. Are you hungry? What?.. I'm full. I don't understand... hungry? Full full. Are you hungry? *exasperated sounds*. Bye-bye. I love her. She was so nice. Hello. And trying to see if anybody would allow us to host a gathering in their home. My house is too small. - It's too small. -This is going to be a problem. The size thing. What we hadn't anticipated is that most apartments in shanghai are very small, housing for the most part just a person or two they're also tightly connected to each other which also means that noise is going to be a problem and could lead to police being called and i think we're all on the same page with not wanting that to happen in China. Do you want to come to our party? - I think we should go I wonder how Derin, and Yan and Corey are doing. - I think it's a good idea. My home is a little far. I would enjoy this party very much. Either as a host or as a guest. - Keep in touch. So if you have a house... She said your... kind of handsome. Can we ask you some quick questions? About what? We are... So we actually created a challenge and have like a social gathering in someone's house, someone's home. So you just want to go to my home is that right? Yes. I love this idea. And I think my wife will love this idea. How many friends you are talking about? We're thinking about 15 people. - 15 people? There might be a little bit too much. Otherwise, if you can find other people who can host this party, we are more than glad to join. Wow, okay. So let's weChat. - Sure! Xie xie I don't have a home. What? Having a party at my home? - Yes. - No. Find somebody where we can throw a house... oh sorry, a house we could throw a party. - But I live with my parents My home no no large. We would love to throw a party at your house. I have no room at home. There's no way to do it. At my house... My house is far, far away... Very tempting, if my house was bigger it would be okay. A party! Oh, no time. No time. After a full day of asking filled with &quot;maybe&quot;s, &quot;no&quot;s, and &quot;I can't&quot;, our energy and morale started to plummet. As the sun was setting, we wondered, should we keep asking into the night, or should we regroup and try again tomorrow? I am so tired. *Stranger yells*. Hey! What happened? I don't know. I'm wondering, you guys just need a place or what? Yeah, we just need a place. Yeah, you can come to my home. We're looking to basically invite some strangers that we trust, basically, for Friday. Yeah, it's small like 45 square meters. If you think that's big enough, sure, later on you can make it. Man, thank you. What made you say yes? That was so quick. You know, why not? As long as one of you guys can clean it up. Yeah, of course. Is it close to here? Around the corner. Around the corner. Yeah, if you guys want, I can show you. If you can wait for me for five or ten minutes, because I need to pick up my son. Okay. Okay. - See you. Welcome to my home! So it's like, hey, I got one. It's like, wait, what? There he is. Woo! Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go. This is the best of me. Yeah, by the way, Alan. Yeah, Corey. Corey. Walk, walk. Go. The lady has just moved out. Oh, okay. 10 days ago. Okay. Whoa. Whoa. Yeah. We can just flip this up? Yeah. Exactly. What are you guys doing? So we have a YouTube channel. You get out of your comfort zone and then do things that you haven't done before to grow as a person as well, but also talking to strangers and connecting with people that you normally would not. I love this because I used to hitchhike a lot. I hitchhiked a lot. I traveled across the country for like maybe two or three circles. Wow. So they're actually doing... That's the next video that we're doing is hitchhiking. We are literally hitchhiking next to a freaking police station in China. You know, strangers always help me a lot. You have the same philosophy as us in terms of like... Yeah, it's just time to give it back, right? I love that. That's so cool. The only concern is that I'm not sure if this is big enough. If your guests are okay to step here like this, it's okay. We will just take care of everything, you know, the food, beverage and clean up. Yeah, yeah. I trust you guys. I mean, you're perfect for this, honestly. It's like, yeah. Bring back the old memories. Exactly, throwback. Time to meet Alan. Look at the little area. Wow, look at this. What's your name, Alan? I'm Matt. Matt. Nice to meet you, I'm Thomas. Hey, Thomas. Nice to have you. Wow, this is perfect. Yeah, dude. Well done. Magic is going to happen here. Yeah. The main thing we just got to figure out is... The noise. Derin's going to be doing that dance he does. Oh, God. Yeah, Derin, if you can just keep it down. Bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, that's my dance. Insane. Thank you so much for being here. When I was doing my master degree, when I get some days off, I would go out hitchhiking. Like, was it to get to specific places or just because you loved hitchhiking? No, no specific places. Some places, I don't even know the name, even if it's Chinese. Because, okay, I will do this tonight. Wow. Thats also, how... When I met my wife, she was traveling. Me and my dude, we were hitchhiking, and then we go to the hostel. And then, there I met my wife. Wow, amazing. It opens your way about looking at the different people. How did we find you out here? I mean, the funny thing about the timing of this and this question is that Matt wrote a book about all of that. Yeah, I mean, the book is actually out today. So when this video comes out, I've worked on it for three years. So this is the video to celebrate. Wow. It's an official launching ceremony. I mean, I literally can't think of anybody better to host this with us and to celebrate with us. You know, you are literally the embodiment of everything we do. How do you feel about us having strangers in here? For me, it's really not that strange. Not strange strangers. It's not scary as what you think it is. - Wow. Yeah, he's literally the perfect dude for us. Tomorrow, we might potentially come in and out with, like, decorations. Would it be possible to have, like... any kind of access? I'm gonna give you guys the password. Oh, okay, guys. Let me try. He's giving his password to us at a party. We did it. I mean, we did one part. Yeah, that's one part. Many more to go. David is setting up the easel for the painting. A lot of plants. Stefan is inviting the flower lady. We've got a new guest to the party. We've got some plants now. It looks nice. Finally, we've got this colorful one. Yes! I don't even know my own house. Okay, the party's in three hours, and we're missing a few guests because of the hundreds that said yes initially. We've got, what, three? My payment app here in China didn't work, and the guy at the coffee shop just gave me this coffee. It's super nice. Wanna ask him? Yeah, 100%. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Okay, well, we're gonna have dumplings and some drinks and good vibes. Okay, okay. Flower lady, the coffee shop guy. Yeah, the whole neighborhood. We've got some fans. Yeah, but we got... Hey, stop it, bro! Oh, no, that's crazy! What's up? Dude! What you got tonight? We're having a party right down here. You guys can come and join us. It's a bunch of strangers. Is it a yes or no? No, it's a yes. Let's go! Yeah! I keep forgetting that we're in a complete stranger's house. Hanging out with his kid. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do you know how to say peanut in English? No, I don't. Peanut. Peanut. Daddy taught me. - Peanut, you learned it, right? I like the salty ones. I don't like the unsalty ones. It's a party over here, huh? Wow, welcome. Hey! Yeah, we're here. Hey, say hello. Hello. Hello, hello. Thanks for babysitting for us. Be super careful. Hey. You want to turn around? How about Thomas? Hello. Hello. Derin, what were you guys doing earlier? I am delirious right now. What were we doing? How are you feeling, Captain? Broken. I feel broken. My back is completely wrecked, but it's going to be worth it. I'm excited to hang with everybody. Yeah. Everything has been harder than we thought it would be. Our apps keep getting blocked, and you need the apps to do any kind of purchase. Our guests are arriving in about an hour and 20 minutes, but we'll be good. No, that meme with the fire. This is fine. That's kind of what's happening right now. Okay. I'm just going to speak directly to the community. I wanted to take this moment before we go into the party and before everything begins to just thank you guys. This is a pretty big moment for me. It's one of the last times that I'm doing this. I knew I would cry. I just want to say thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you. When I started this channel with Thomas, Amar, and Darren eight years ago, I never knew that it would involve building this incredible community, and these amazing friendships with strangers. So, again, I just want to express my gratitude. And for every stranger who said yes, including the ones tonight, there's so much that you guys don't see on camera. There's so much joy, and there's also so much struggle and heartbreak behind the scenes. My goal in writing this book was to show that. It was to show what's not on the camera and to give you, the community, a glimpse of what it's like to build something like this with your best friends. And then, ultimately, to leave it. One of our mentors, who's a big part of the book, after he read it, said that it's a love story. And he's right. All of this is one big, beautiful love story. And no love story is perfect. And I'm so grateful that I got to live it. The book is right here. It is officially out now. For those of you that are willing to support it, it's at YesTheoryBook.com. My dream is for this book to end up in the hands of friends. A full stadium of people. On YesTheoryBook.com, there's this tracker for that goal. You get to see where we're at in terms of the goal. If we reach it by the end of the year, that would be a dream come true. Thank you for the support. Thank you for the love. And now, I think it's time to celebrate. Our first guest has arrived. It's the flower lady we bought flowers from. No way. She's here with her two kids. Hello. Ni hao. High five. High five. Welcome to Paris. Welcome. We already have guests. Three hours ago, we were getting flowers. Best flowers. Plants from this amazing woman. It's strange to welcome someone to a party when it's someone else's home. Alan? Alan? Alan? Alan? Alan! Alan! Maybe you can help us translate that we love her flowers and we're so happy that she came. Thank you so much for the flowers. No problem. No problem This is hilarious. This was the biggest leap that people told us. It was the most impossible thing to do in China. And we're standing in it slowly becoming a reality right now. Only one guest has technically come and we've invited 20. And the room is full. Yeah, we're almost filling the whole room. Just so that we understand how packed this is going to be. Yeah, yeah. Hello. Hello. Ni hao. Nice to meet you. We have like a sport game over here. You can have conversation starters. You can create a canvas. Just painting over here. Talk to strangers. Everyone, we welcome Maya to the house as well. Hi Maya! Are you from the Halloween party? Yes. Nice to have you here. So welcome. Welcome. Welcome. - Halloween party as well. I'm very glad to see you again. You are my first foreign friend. Wow. So nice to meet you. I've prepared a gift for you. Wow, thank you. This is for you, sister. Wow. Thank you. It's a Chinese jade. That's so thoughtful and kind of you. Nice. Hey, come on in. Yeah, we met on the street. Yeah. Welcome to the party. My father opened tea shop for a long, long time. So it's like the tea I drink. Thanks so much. Look who we have here. It's Richard and his wife. Don't worry, Richard. Hi. Thomas. How are you? Nice to see you. Thomas. I can't believe what's happening. I should be used to it. I'm used to this by now, but I never get used to it. How do you feel about all these strangers coming to your house? You know, no longer strangers. Like old friends, you know, welcoming some new friends. I'm grateful that you could come. So I feel really lucky to have you guys. Even for this kid, maybe years later, this kind of feeling, that part of the memory, I think it will not fit. Look at this guy. Just hanging out, stuff on his legs. Alan's wife and the florist that you guys invited are making dumplings from some of the ingredients that we bought. That's the first one. In the first split second, I thought, that is a scam. And I look at their face again, all the three gentlemen. I think they're very sincere. How do you know what kind of party it is? What if it's an orgy party? She said that, not me. Yeah, we didn't specify what kind of party. This literally became the most wholesome party we've ever thrown. It's going to be the best party ever! Hello! Hi! Can I go to your home to throw a party? I said &quot;Yes&quot;! She wants to take picture. Yes! Everybody! Hello everyone! One second! Welcome! This has been a crazy week for us. We started the week with the goal of throwing a party at a local Chinese person's house. We didn't think we would pull it off. Honestly, most people told us it's not possible. And somehow we're here. That's thanks to these guys who ended up meeting Alan. Who is standing right behind me. Again, do you want to translate maybe for those who don't understand? And then a big thank you to our Host, Allen! Our mission is to build bridges. That's ultimately what we're trying to do. We love traveling to places, befriending people and leaving a place, feeling like we have new friends there. And we're just so grateful because today is also the launch of Matt's book, which is Talk to Strangers. I'm part of the team! What a place to do it. To launch this book in literally an apartment full of strangers. Yeah. This book is all about trusting the stranger. Saying yes to something that you may not understand. In the belief that something incredible can happen that you can't even predict. Magic is... completely in the unknown. And this is proof. Everybody showed up. Pretty much everybody who was invited is here tonight. So this is the theme. It's like strangers will surprise you. Life will surprise you. And I'm literally here because I said yes to complete stranger and to complete strangers. And now we have amazing friends who were once strangers as well who have been with us on this journey today. We have a bit of a surprise for everybody here, which is what's happening in the other room. And we've booked a magician. Everyone ready? Put it in my mouth. Are you sure about this? Yeah, I'm sure. I'm sure. Come on. Oh! Oh! I'd like to have one too. Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! What did we book? This is Sorcery! No way! No way! Oh my god! Now we actually have another two guests. They hosted me and Matt on our challenge in Abandoned in China. Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! I'm happy to see you again. Ah, so good to see you. Amazing. Yes. Well, Jasmine and myself, who are getting married, definitely will welcome you to our wedding. Yes! Yeah! Let's go! Next time you come back, you don't need to bother Emma again. You can stay at our place. Oh! No, No, No, No! Do you want to tell anything to the people looking around the world. Can I say in chinese? Yes. I hope you have the courage to say hello to strangers And explore a different world. Every day is a surprise. We're from apart but close in hearts. Yeah! I'm not sure many words need to be spoken at this point as we are once again shocked by how quickly one can go from stranger to friend. Amazing job. We're shocked because out of all the places we thought China would be the hardest, but it turned out to be the opposite. Allan, who didn't even look up our channel or knew its name until days after the event, showed us what a true spontaneous and open person embodies. It's such a amazing night. On Friday. I'd never know on Monday about this, right? And through that, we know that we have a new friend for life. Talking to strangers is truly what defined Yes Theory and what will soon be a decade on the platform. And Matt's book is meant to be the ultimate celebration of that. The link in our description, yestheorybook.com, takes you to a website where you'll find several links you can find it, either through seekdiscomfort.com or even through your local Amazon, whatever works best for you. I hope you will celebrate Matt's great finale alongside us and show up as a community behind him. I'll see you in two weeks for the last episode of our series.