Master Manipulators, Planetary Conquerors, Soul Deal-Making Demons... welcome to Today we're ranking every single Dreamworks Starting as we usually do with the latter who canonically learned their lesson, and changed At the bottom of our list we have a classic Chunky from The Croods. Chunky of many creatures who attack the main ensemble they're down, and takes pursuit of his prey Next, we have one-half of the villainous duo from standpoint, Veneer is just as guilty as his kidnapping, torture, and fraud on a pretty major it simply, he actually has a moral compass-which plain to see that Veneer is manipulated by Velvet example of this was the scene where Floyd tried to go, only for Velvet to coincidentally decide to be time in the movie! Wow, what a nice and sincere verbally abusing him after this. Veneer is the a performance, which must've taken some serious a smile on his face, happy to get the chance to nice enough to visit him in prison...though Up next is the literal loan-shark, Don Lino. protagonists in Dreamworks's roster, so the least evil of the bunch. To the Don's generally treating them and other allies with most of the credit he'd get for this is methods-he's willing to literally torture and doesn't accept Lenny's choice to be a more defenseless creatures. We can't really take but...come on, man, that poor shrimp just wanted some redemption when Oscar talks some sense into with his son and making peace with the Reef, It's one thing to eat small, defenseless creatures is even worse. Enter Creek from the the village and Poppy's crush, Creek was a victim the Bergens, Creek happened to be the unlucky to bust out of his mouth, Creek comes up with Village in exchange for his life being spared. him doing this-being literally eaten alive would But for him to try and frame his decision as would have to live with the guilt of it, takes that's not to mention the smug smile on his The only reason he isn't much, MUCH lower The Beat Goes On series, where he apologizes they're ever in that scenario again. How it only this guy is beyond me, but...I mean, good for him, couple apology videos for anyone to trust this guy Another Trolls villain, Queen Barb is next. If elitist-someone who just straight-up refuses enjoy-then Queen Barb will will probably simple, but brutal-she wanted to unite all of destroying all other genres of music and their what could go wrong with attempting a singular genre and culture? As severely did ultimately show remorse for her actions and the fact. It's maybe one of the less satisfying Perhaps a more impressive one Dumpty from the first Puss in Boots Humpty cherished his bond with fellow fairytale when Puss became a hero and-in Humpty's let's just say it wasn't over easy for him. ol' huevo here decided to get him roped into a ruining his reputation and having him driven out to be mad at PUSS for leaving him behind to face THAT, he later betrays Puss AGAIN! He's saved in which he helps Puss save the town from the be able to pull the Golden Goose up. And wouldn't ... ...This is a man's corpse. Rounding out this category is perhaps the least Captain Smek. His deeds definitely aren't but he makes up for that with his ego and his insists on constantly running away from his understandable, it's also worth noting that exact reason their archenemies are constantly Smek is a jerk-using his position as "leader" and it turns out that the "rock" was an meaning that Smek was unknowingly carrying unborn panicked parents. Yeah...at that point, becoming a Moving on, we now move on to the characters arc-but the SYMPATHETIC ANTAGONISTS per se. At the very least, they have By far the most pitiable of the bunch has to be the antagonist of Bee Movie? I mean, he really his crimes include...um...getting kinda angry. that's a bee. Not only does Ken have a right but he's literally allergic to bee stings-and his being sO HeArTlESs as to kill this poor, innocent done dirty on so many levels. Imagine getting your girlfriend, and finding out that they open Next is another "average Joe" villain(but not Underpants movie. Melvin is the stereotypical to get that sweet, sweet extra credit. We'd for Professor Poopypants's brain scan on him. It the part of the brain that makes you experience from Melvin's brain. This explains why, Melvin never understands what the kids around cannot find joy in normal kid stuff like pranks, to any extra credit and external validation he can Nerd emoji embodiment aside, it must be tough Next is another guy with a tough life situation: Mr. Tweedy. While he's by far the less Mr. Tweedy isn't perfect by any means. He and contributes to the hostile environment his abused by Mrs. Tweedy, so you can't help but Another guy who's rough with animals is he takes an uncomfortable amount even having a giant effigy of himself it's worth noting that he's...you know, an being on this list, but given that he's more they die if they tick him off, he's still The Madagascar-native Fossa are a similar note. the Fossa are simply...well, carnivores. I as enjoyment of attacking and eating small as them just enjoying being alive. Still, as providing a service to his community-whereas the It's understandable, sure, but you really Speaking of hairs that have split, next up Elementary. Whether you read the books or watched of how basically every elementary-school kid and he takes an unnatural amount of pleasure in being the alter-ego of Captain Underpants, there That said, the movie actually does paint Krupp in Harold realize just how lonely and empty Krupp's even helping set him up on a date with the Without even knowing they did this, Krupp responds he confiscated from them, even admitting they were if you cracked this egg-shaped bad guy open, ...Don't do that, though. That's a homicide. An antagonist with less sympathetic traits she has the look and general vibe of an unpleasant personality for just a minute, as an antagonist? I mean, yeah, asking an as cruel as possible is a step too far-as is destruction to ensure victory-but when you to protect her property. She's still a though-so even if she didn't TOTALLY deserve Rounding out this category is the one thing is a pretty terrifying concept to think about, most unsettling renditions yet. After losing comes face-to-face with the grim reaper, who's around. Now, on one hand, we're talking about the literally no amount of moral mental gymnastics That said, he's also a villain who's simply doing dies eventually, and Death doesn't control how off of the fear people place in him-so we aren't But moving past death, it's time from Dreamworks's filmography-the ones with And, no, not those Bad Guys...definitely We DO start this tier off with another furry Fu Panda. Now, in his defense, I think there's a in the previous category. He does genuinely have him to be the future Dragon Warrior-only to have with Shifu silently going along with it. His by trying to attack Oogway-which got him a he plotted to attack the Valley of Peace willing to hurt innocent people who So, like...if we've got any anime fans in the crowd, Lung got something adjacent to a redemption-when he was one of the many masters whose for herself-and after Po saves him, Tai Lung acknowledging him as a worthy Dragon start of a pretty sweet redemption arc for Tai we'll just call him the least evil of Hailing from Over The Hedge is the brutal get food-he is a wild raccoon living near his fellow animals proves fatal when he attacks his food, but ends up getting it completely either RJ gives him every last bit of food that food by the end of the week. No matter your view eaten alive as punishment for theft has got right? Still, a bear's gotta eat-so we can at Sticking in the forest for now, we have the Wild Robot. While she does directly call I'm not entirely sure I buy that. Even if she's her friendly demeanor suggesting otherwise-we to go as far as she does. This girl literally single robot-all for the sake of a company that, the world for her. I guess in her defense, she's willing to consider plenty of stuff as not exactly evil, but I wouldn't trust this weird Pick numbuh whatever-number-this-is, be. Thelonius is Farquaad's right-hand man, a willing to perform whatever dirty work his lord especially given how he apparently doesn't "three"...giving him the Darwin Sinner Medal. Still, any points he'd gain for his that for some unfathomable reason, latter is dead. Fiona and Shrek invited and this is how you thank him? For shame, Case worker Miss Grunion is up next. We've at WickedBinge, but a species-ist villain is a opinion that a dog cannot raise a human boy, than that. But that doesn't excuse the fact that as a jumping-off point to her quest to get she doesn't care about the kids she "helps", but against others. Not to mention she's one of those a bully to be just as bad as being a bully, which Madagascar 2's main antagonist, Makunga, is up Gaston from Beauty and the Beast in a blender, the jungle. Makunga wants to be the Alpha do-and that's a sentiment he doesn't exactly however, is his utter incompetence. He resorts tricking Alex into fighting a much stronger lion, as Alpha Lion for not banishing his boy, Makunga pretty crummy leader. He failed to come up with fighting or bossing people around, and ended up must qualify as the Alpha Lion now, right? Following him is another Really, she's similar in moral code to the DuBois's occupation is more than just a of animals she takes out and mounts them on her target. When Alex and the gang end up stranded a perfect opportunity-and she uses everything ion down, abusing her employees along the way. psychological issues on animals instead of humans, Though not quite as inhumane as some others, characters in the Shrek franchise. Look, I'll Godmother to defeat the dragon and save indirectly stole his life's purpose must justify his attempts to rally other misfit essentially staging a coup against Far Far Away. but...honestly? This may be a hot take, but I kinda cool-like, at all-but you have to remember this only for the great rewards he was just a few days later, so was his mother. but he's at least one of the last villains She may be much less of a threat than the Don, but list. Right off the bat...I think Lola deserves was invented for Lola-she literally only showed strike it rich, and when she doesn't get what she more than money: revenge. Being involved with Don of already being a gold digger-she's not a villain motives, but rather for a lack of any sympathetic Closing out this section is the true villain corrupt-it reveals. For example, what happens You get Titan, the superpowered form of Hal was one of his biggest motivations to become a This leads to Titan not only abandoning Roxanne powers to cause meaningless destruction all Hal the Lust Sinner Medal. He's basically throwing a tantrum because he didn't get the toy be TOTALLY evil...so we'll give him some leeway We're starting to venture into the their very core--they are the First up in this category is Victor Curse of the Were-Rabbit. Oddly enough, he bears he wants to get with a woman desperately...but like ignores Lady Tottington's desire for the rabbits and constantly harasses her and the animals finding out that the Were-Rabbit is Wallace, he's definitely makes him a worse gold digger than Lola Now we're cooking-next up is Chef Bergen from the as sympathetic as we can with these villains. community for an honest mistake that I had no on good terms with them, too. But, while I don't try and manipulate my friends and neighbors into is by eating small, defenseless creatures-and proven wrong. Still, the fact that the chef-themed is some beautiful irony...especially since she was also a double-crosser, I'm not even sure Next is another chef, but this one is more They say that hurting or killing animals is one of with that being the case, I think you can probably a death camp has more than a few red flags. especially since it's all for the sake quite this high up. What DOES, however, is verbally, and emotionally hurts him than a manservant for her evil schemes. even consider him a full-on antagonist-and while that doesn't erase everything she put at the center of ANOTHER explosion taught her Up next is the villain of Flushed Away, The Toad. being sympathetic, The Toad's origin story is down the toilet and replaced Prince Charles's altogether-but despite his grudge, he still tried pet Roddy. That is, until Roddy single-handedly his hatred of Roddy's kind. But even if this Toad's ruthlessness-he not only keeps his enemies Ratropolis, effectively mass-murdering the entire He's not the only one who let hatred of other his hatred spread even wider...and was executed in the penguins when they showed up at the Central attention that used to belong to Dave, he gained cuddly animals in the world. That earns him the invent the Medusa serum to make them so ugly that help Dave regain the love of the public, you don't know the answer. All I know is that anyone The calculating villain of Shrek 2, Fairy falsely advertising her services...she's just making "happiness is just a teardrop away," what she son's entire life for him-striking a deal with exchange for her marrying Prince Charming. It's but one that came remarkably close to success-and leaving their happiness basically hanging she was kind enough to give us that cover of Just shy of our bottom 20(yes, really) we have priests are bad enough on their own, but when they they reach an entirely new level people are less like people and more like He's undoubtedly killed countless people in and won't even hesitate to throw away his Po's least intimidating villain, The Chameleon, you might want to click off this video now-because Even the dead aren't safe from her, given that masters past and present-including Shen, Tai thing we can point out as a good characteristic Zhen as a young girl-and even then, it was help fulfill her dreams of kung-fu greatness. is the fact that the remaining baddies have more Like, for instance, let's move on from a the talent of famous celebrities to one whose famous celebrities. It's Velvet from Trolls Band Velvet ranks this low for being the mastermind Floyd as a means of harvesting his talent to take by doing so, she also plans to lure the rest from her standpoint, a replacement of batteries. the Trolls to do this, having none of the Ultimately, her desperation to perform on as which earns her the Pride Sinner Medal One of the smartest villains on the entire list, fool you-Poopypants is no joke. In fact, if he had was to destroy all laughter in the world so nobody that warrants such a low spot on our list, let me lobotomize the world, particularly children, to I get the embarrassment, dude, but you somehow man in his tighty-whities. All those smarts, and Dr. Zara is one of our coldest considering her origin movie. While Burnish he's a puppy in a field of butterflies next to or protect endangered animals or anything-Zara When Burnish is revealed to be...you know, NOT a interested in being employed by him-and starts She doesn't even think twice about pushing Yi-who which could've led to a gruesome death if Dr. Zara...unlike you, at the ...Nah, just right. We're REALLY starting to get into the ruthless Der Zee. I'll admit that Ruby Gillman is but one area it did NOT slack in was in the "Chelsea" is actually Nerissa undercover, the Ruby's mother 15 years prior. This mermaid manipulate her enemy's daughter into krakens and take over the ocean. While being dragging a kid into it via psychological makes her worthy of the Wrath Sinner Medal. that point just find another teenager to And it's only gonna get worse the point of no return-these are And who better to start this category King Rameses II from the Prince of Egypt. The Rameses contributed greatly to the Egyptians' build their monuments...or whatever he felt like finger to stop other Egyptians from abusing them, messed-up guy, and I feel like I could finish is a pretty simple concept for most people. The the fact that he did genuinely seem to care for son. But even so, if he'd just freed the Jews he could've spared his people all that Ramses got what was coming to him-it's just Continuing the age-old archetype of slave-owning guinea pig. It's ironic that the "wolf in by double-crossing a literal wolf who turned out painted himself as a charitable and altruistic themselves-but through some seriously elaborate into stealing the meteorite for him, allowing him work. Seriously-Marmalade, a guinea pig, is using servants. Everything he does keeps his own hands keeping the money he "donates" to charity, he has it stolen at the very last moment. He's a greedy, you'd expect to say about a little hamster-looking One of the strangest villains in today's Okay, seriously-a lactose intolerant surely. I wouldn't blame Franklin for being in this twisted world of imagination, but the I mean, like...I get it-he's one of so he's an adult in a baby's body. It makes "coworkers" who got him booted out of steps further by plotting to make a puppy so love for babies for itself. It's all done out babies who-he believes, at least-will The first How To Train Your Dragon villain, Red since he's, like, 85% gray, but whatever color straight-up absent. Red Death forces the other acting as a king waiting for his servants to cater but Dragons in this universe have demonstrated and his legendary artistic talent. So it's not what he's doing...but it IS still an assumption, Speaking of "lower," let's move on man-we won't make your entry too short. for now. Farquaad may be short, but that doesn't is the fact that he's an elitist dictator who creatures in exchange for money-planning He's also willing to torture them for information, threatening to take Gingy's gumdrop button. creatures meant he at LEAST might care disappointed. Farquaad makes a show out battling for the "privilege" of going of them may die, but it's a sacrifice he should spend less time working on that He may be tiny, but General Mandible has a pretty to his own people, believing that the strong ants an anime movie villain level of diabolical, and he's willing to go in order to enforce his "eat Princess Bala, force her into marriage to create drown the entire colony of worker ants-all Farquaad almost seems kind of It's all downhill from here. We've reached any redeeming qualities, starting off more dangerous version of the Fairy Godmother of Shrek's frustration with mundane family was born. This resulted in Fiona never being in Rumple and his contract-loving, wig-wearing iron fist, regularly threatening the witches of water...and he even has the nerve to take credit murdered. Rumple is pretty ruthless, and I'm that keep him from falling lower-it's just With that, let's talk about Lord Shen from Kung Fu amount of villains on today's list, is guilty of his end would come from a "warrior of black and of killing every panda he could find. When he not-was still alive, he devoted all his resources tyrannical reign. Shen's actions might have which could count as self-defense-albeit an took great pleasure in killing innocent to get in his way. Even being offered mercy it didn't change Shen's mind-showing that Next we have the third How To Train Your Dragon reflection of Hiccup, having similarly found befriending it, he killed it. This led to a plot for the dragons he enslaved for the sole purpose pretty screwed up. In his plan of dragon genocide, but the entirety of Berk's lives if they don't he technically did get Berk to surrender their from mankind, which means that Grimmel utterly failed at the same time. Up next, and just outside of our bottom five, "villain who laughs in the face of mercy," we have training dragons, prefers to enslave them and use grubby paws on. War criminals are surprisingly but what sets Drago apart is just how blunt fully intends to rule the world as the true through sheer force and intimidation. He attempting to kill Hiccup-but instead killing is ruthlessly and unapologetically evil-but even One of our contenders for the Gold Medal, is next. Pitch might initially seem like a pure the man's goal is to destroy all children's on a larger scale, to plunge the world into bottom of the list if this guy's goal is to make simply put...there's the chance that Pitch Black is that he was ostracized from the Guardians, and straight and narrow-was corrupted by nightmares. much less his attempt to bring Jack Frost wonder if Pitch Black would've at least been Whoa, whoa, what took us so long to mention monster-and like Drago, he doesn't try to hide lower than Drago, of all villains, considering comic relief aside, this guy is one of the most list. Anyone who'd casually shoot a puppy in the worst kinds of people on the planet-and that's a monopoly on magic, becoming supreme ruler of but Jack gets today's Gluttony Sinner magic in the universe for himself...which even your conscience gives up on you, you've Taking our Bronze Medal of Evil, we have the final widely considered the most evil Kung Fu Panda we WERE leaning towards that conclusion...but here's the pair discovered a village of pandas who the revelation of this power corrupted Kai-and stealing all the pandas' Chi for himself. Oogway and Kai was banished to the Spirit World-at legacy as revenge, then finishing his whole to take all the magical power in the universe for godlike power isn't exactly manageable if...you Spirit World was therefore upgraded to a lifetime Speaking of the afterlife, the Silver Medal of Legend of the Seven Seas. As her name implies, bro Proteus, she's basically the best part but chaos itself, taking great pleasure in from framing Sinbad for her own thefts to At first glance, it might seem like she has a to Sinbad-but that's only because, by her that temper tantrum near the end of the movie she would NOT be letting Sinbad sail any more she straight-up SAYS the only reason she to screw around with. Honestly, that level And you guys can say hi to our Silver Medalist Most of the villains we've talked about so they had a reason for doing what they did. Even so, like..what else is she gonna do? Now, on the in a broad sense-he wants to destroy all life himself. But why exactly does he want to do that Gallaxhar is an absolute psychopath An even BETTER question is why he destroyed movie-for which the absolute best reason he can kids. You probably don't need us to tell you exactly why he takes our Gold Medal of Evil. Dad and Invader Zim in a blender, then removed any really)--your result would be a man with a planet-sized ego, and a complete lack something most villains couldn't even dream of, Gallaxhar should honestly be proud that