I've had my new iPad Pro and Apple Pencil and I'm still as excited about the new tried it out. In this video, I'm going and all the tips and tricks you need to know At first glance, the Apple Pencil Pro doesn't except that it says Apple Pencil support for new and exciting additional First, you will need to make sure that you've get started with this and open up the settings on thing you'll notice when you bring up the menu are additional sections now specifically set We've got an action section here which supports set up your Apple Pencil to perform different showing the tool palette as a default, but One feature that is super handy is that you can find that you're invoking squeeze too frequently, got the double tap feature. This already existed and I've set this to switch between the try out different features to see which one you accidentally, you can also turn it off. Just it will also not work if you're using A nice new addition here is that you can allow double tap will only work if your screen. You might find this helpful Next, we've got this new effects section and off. I've got hover tool preview and off. Haptics is another new feature that has and it's actually a feature I really enjoy. the actions you choose, and I think it the Apple Pencil Pro. I very much recommend draw with Apple Pencil.&quot; It's really helpful At the bottom, we've got different pencil quite helpful, especially when I want to take a and you'll see the new features are also to the calligraphy brush right now, so let's try tap on the back button to undo, and you'll Now, I want to show you the difference it to turn this on now. You see now the Apple and it kind of knows how you're I don't think this adds much to the These are all the Apple Pencil settings that Procreate and how Procreate has implemented the Procreate has now been updated too, and First, let's look at how you can set up the new button, then go to preferences. Your Procreate but of course, they will only work in the make sure that you've got your brush cursor turned Next, go into gesture controls, and I'll show you from the bottom up with the general settings. and then there's a new setting that lets you this is quite a nice feature because it provides Next, go to hover and make sure that This lets you change the opacity which is super helpful. This feature is also so you don't necessarily need to Next up is layer select and copy and some new menu options here. Layer and copy and paste supports Apple you can't set up copy and paste for squeeze, and So I've set up layer select with the squeeze Let me show you how this works. I've got an For example, if I wanted to add another to figure out which layer these flowers are highlight all the elements on the screen. Now and if I want to add more, it's easy to Next, we have copy and paste. I've set this up this feature a lot, so I've set it up with the which I've set up with the default scrub gesture. Now, let's get to the most exciting update in you update your brushes to react when you rotate brush set to show you exactly how this works. You if you want to try it out for yourself. When you you can see a little preview of the direction turn your brush cursor on. You can fine-tune to only show the brush cursor while hovering or For brush outline style, I have it set different. It can sometimes be annoying to see to make them work for you. Now, let's open can apply the new barrel roll settings. source. There is now a new input style section two options we've had before, but now there's You'll see how the shape source gets rotated There's also an option to make ensuring the brush always starts with the the Apple Pencil. You want to have this turned negates the barrel roll setting. Let me brush. You can see how the brush doesn't you want to have the setting turned Now, let's look at other settings where this might barrel roll, which is super cool, but the starting to start with your original color, so you ensuring the stroke always starts with your Apple Pencil, it always has the orange color You can combine barrel roll settings for this in the Apple Pencil settings, where size but also opacity and bleed. Now, we easily. The same thing works for stamp to turn off relative to stroke for all your For the last brush, I wanted to show you what pressure, and barrel roll simultaneously and also streaky brush, you'll see how the bleed changes Lastly, I wanted to give you a sneak preview of quite finished yet, but I wanted to show you a Pencil Pro with its barrel roll feature allows. petals simply by rotating the pencil. The shape you to create beautiful floral pieces quickly and I hope you found this video useful. Give it my channel for more. Thank you so much for