Holy Communion, along with water baptism, are two What does it mean to take communion in an unworthy supposed to be taken every single service, every people have, that we will answer in this video. that humanity committed, it happened and then their eyes were opened in Genesis, after His resurrection with two disciples walking and then the Bible says in Luke 24:31 that their and they saw who Jesus really was - it Holy Communion is really that time of work of Jesus Christ. Now communion is pretty to have - this thing called Passover meal - through God's miraculous power and intervention much later on commemorated and became a And Jesus came and during a Passover meal it was their Passover, Jesus takes this meal and more than just celebrating Exodus from Egypt, a shadow of the Exodus that humanity is about Lamb of God. And Jesus says I want you to keep on keep on doing this so that you can remember not curses and the kingdom of darkness. it says, &quot;Then He took bread and gave thanks 'This is My body which is given for you. Do this this, to continuously do this. This is not just a pastors. This is actually Jesus's commandment to the early church celebrated. They continued to do &quot;And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' and in prayers.&quot; Now, during communion, there are one, is that we look back. We remember what Jesus became our lamb that took our sin upon Himself. says in 1 Corinthians 11:28, and we'll it says that to examine yourself when you are we look behind us, and we also look around us, 11:33 that we should honor the body, we should be communion that Jesus had with His disciples right there was a lot of envy, there was a lot of &quot;who's settle those things and bring them into unity instead of their own ego and their own ambitions. about Jesus, it's not about our pride, it's to look around, make sure that we treat our we also look forward. Apostle Paul says in eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim going to be also a marriage supper of the Lamb Now, what does it mean to take communion in these verses, and then I want you to pay close is a source of frustration, and because of not lot of times, and pastors bring unnecessary guilt In the book of Acts 2:46, we see that in the temple, breaking bread from house to house, heart.&quot; So, communion wasn't like what we have was actually a meal. In fact, they call them &quot;love bring food and they ate like full-blown meals, not they had full-blown meals. They broke bread, and that it says that &quot;love feasts&quot; - they would would eat and break bread as love feasts. &quot;For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy not discerning the Lord's body.&quot; So, from the communion in an unworthy manner, it's in the way want you to notice that Paul is not saying that an meaning an unworthy way, a method in Now, what was the unworthy manner that Apostle So, if we go a little bit earlier, I want you to &quot;Therefore, when you come together in one place, each one takes his own supper ahead of others, you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise would gather together, and it was like a potluck to the table, and as they would break bread in they would celebrate in this love feast setting. Christians, or the ones who had more than enough, or the church gathering, and they would bring so that when the poor Christians would come on the table because they were poor, and so they felt And rich Christians would even go as far as finish eating all their food, they would actually they would bring wine, and they would bring like get stuffed and drunk. And so, Paul is not in here people taking communion; he was just saying that that did not discern the body, who is the body? believers, it's the believers who couldn't bring that felt ashamed and felt marginalized; And so, rich people would eat the Lord's when Paul then would correct the proper eating of he pretty much realigns the same focus again Corinthians 11:33 and 34, he says the following. was the wrong way to do it, and if you guys are this is bad.&quot; It's not actually the whole idea other believers, you shaming them. And then he what's the right way to take communion, and 1 Corinthians 11:33 and 34, &quot;Therefore, my for one another.&quot; Have you noticed that. He's not Paul is not touching on that in other portions of issue of unworthy manner, that rich came earlier, &quot;The way we fix that is that you wait for one at home, lest you come together for judgment, So, he's saying, &quot;Don't come starved, that you're during this communion.&quot; He says, &quot;If you're believers so you can, like, go stuff yourself.&quot; together and really enjoy the community, enjoy to eat as well, as you partake of communion. the one that you and I are used to, like and a small little wafer, and you know, a practices drinking wine. But in here, it was a believers eating before other believers, stuffing Now, when it comes to communion, few Does bread and wine become literal blood and they believe that if you are taking communion, the actual body and blood of Jesus Christ. In and that's about 31% of Catholics believe in that, Now, I'm from Protestants, and so we don't believe the wine is literally the blood and the flesh of presents during Passover in Luke chapter 22, does Jesus mention that it's symbolic. Nor &quot;Eat My flesh and drink My blood,&quot; is He saying drinking someone's blood was prohibited; it was committing sin by asking people to literally blood and ate His physical flesh. So Jesus is &quot;Hey, this is My flesh and My blood&quot; in the way when Jesus says, &quot;I am the door&quot; or &quot;I am the And so today, as Christians, when we we believe that we're taking symbolically the body we're celebrating His work on the cross. we take communion? Now, we see that in and then Jesus; we see three references in the both of Paul's story and the synoptic gospels, we see that the cup was passed around, and would betray Him, and then He promised that He is this Holy Communion should be celebrated. Passover once a year, but Christians can continue every time they gathered. So, we don't have they do it once a year; some churches, they do it believers to do it every single day. But there is point here is to remember; the point here is to in your attitude toward other believers, and to not necessarily on the details of when and how. This is also a debated topic in so many churches. the first one is, I call it the open welcome to take communion. And then there's by closed communion, where only the members with the local church can take Holy Communion. everybody take communion, believers perspective is that communion should be open to to be limited to that local church, because not my church's table, not your church's table, belongs to the Lord, who is ready, is able but you have to be in communion with the Lord. like, it's not in the Canon, it's not in the the Apostolic Church, they taught that baptism you can take Holy Communion, you have to be water that Justin Martyr, he laid the three requirements church's teachings, you have to be baptized, and Now, the majority of Christians, and I join with not be allowed to take communion: unregenerate unregenerate and unrepentant, meaning you you're not willing to repent of it, you're not Lord. Because otherwise, if you live in sin as we have to heed the warnings of Apostle Paul to bring harm to your physical body. Some people, because of the way they're taking communion. referring to the way Christians were taking when we live with the known sin and we go to confessed and brought into the light, as well as again, you're not in communion with Christ, you for a circle of people that are connected and in I want to encourage you to take communion to encourage you to take communion without guilt, your heart judges you, your heart condemns you, bring your sin to the cross. Let the blood &quot;When we walk in the light, His blood believe for healing in your body, believe Why? Because you're connecting with the His body into your body. And the Bible says So, God bless you. I hope that this teaching teaching also brought encouragement for you to who were healed by taking Holy Communion. and I've had a few members of our church that take them out; they had every underlying issue &quot;Deliver communion to their house and let And they've recovered by the grace of God, and And so, maybe that's where you're at - you're you to take hold of communion. And taking Jesus's suffering, and remember about the Thank you for watching this video. don't forget to hit thumbs up, subscribe to that we upload new videos, and share this with