NARRATOR: In the red corner, we have Don't bother throwing flowers at They'd rather hand one to you. And taking on this titanium-ish Titan, Uh-oh, the Warden. Why did I bet my entire life's savings There are plenty of iron golems They're very tough. NARRATOR: Oh, isn't the warden Doesn't anything in this game make sense? No, no, no. It doesn't feel quite right. It's okay. (LAUGHS) NARRATOR: Good. And there's nothing suspicious about Many centuries ago, approximately, there was a time when iron golems There was a point in time and they were NARRATOR: What a coincidence. I was also originally called Testificates BRANDON: They were roaming around which were actually quite empty They didn't have NARRATOR: They also had no way It was pretty depressing only to discover that skeletons Players wanted the villagers to be able I really didn't want that, some kind of guardian to protect them. NARRATOR: We interviewed but soon realized we needed We had lots of ideas Ideas like... Sturdy, mossy, and friendly. NARRATOR: But also... Reliable, reliable, and reliable. A mob you can trust. NARRATOR: Trr...ust? I'm not familiar with the concept. JENS: I worked together We both had but I wanted it to have because of course, the villagers But a bit bigger, a bit heavier, NARRATOR: And we couldn't undermine with a silly voice. (IN HIGH PITCH) Like this! NARRATOR: No, no, no. Something that makes golems unique is that they don't have The golems are just the material That's what you hear We use something called which is basically an echo NARRATOR: How about we show an example Like, say, this goat (GOAT BLEATING) NARRATOR: The impulse the response is the sound and the reverb is the echo And that's essentially Can we please stop playing this now? So you record an echo and then you put other sounds and then you have NARRATOR: As someone that I regularly discover new types of moss I was delighted when they finally added JENS: The vegetation, is to give it a little bit more variation but also add age to it, as it's been It's been here for a while It has seen some things... I think the iron golem is one of I don't think they're thinking too much. NARRATOR: Oh, also relatable. I don't think it's the point or it's only doing but it does feel a a little bit more like it has this sort of core drive, They take their job very seriously, when I've accidentally smacked NARRATOR: Uh-huh, accidentally. Sure. You do know Uh, sorry. One part that I really like it flings things up in the air There was actually a point where and as a result, iron golems always won. NARRATOR: Whee! Whee-hee! When I saw that, as a developer, The Warden can't be so easily defeated So I specifically nerfed the iron golem by making it NARRATOR: There is one hostile mob Me! I mean, the creeper. The iron golem attacks me JENS: We want players to be in control If there is a random event the player needs to be involved So even if a creeper can explode but then it was technically They should have paid more attention (CHUCKLES). But if you have two mobs that interact then the players are unable NARRATOR: Still, they defend villages What higher purpose could there be than protecting (GASPS) You would not. NARRATOR: An iron farm that gives them unlimited iron At the risk of sounding hyperbolic, this is the worst thing in the entire history of time. Don't they think about NARRATOR: I'm going to take JENS: I think at this time, Game designers versus players, We want to keep the iron farms, from the player's perspective. NARRATOR: How could anyone want They're a fundamental part of I definitely think the main legacy It's almost like crafting a mob. You know, the game is built around and the fact that you can assemble blocks and then a creature comes out, like, that, to me, is very indicative When you are in a village and you hear maybe it's late in the night There's something extremely comforting You can sense that you are protected. It's okay to go to sleep here. NARRATOR: What a lovely sentiment. Anyone else got something nice You're doing a good job. Great job. (WHISPERS) The best. NARRATOR: He never says that about me. Thank you for joining us for And if you're one of who only watched I'm afraid this sentence See you next time!