This video is sponsored by Nebula, support of Original series, early releases, Gunfire rings out over Port-au-Prince, Haiti's gangs battle relentlessly for control of the city. The Haitian President is dead. The acting Prime Gangs now control 80% of the capital. Each up by young men wielding American military grade One of the most powerful gang leaders is onslaught of murder and kidnappings and seized the Palais de Justice, the highest seat of the they raided the building stealing evidence, media following and even got a silver play button The most formidable leader in Haiti an ex-special police forces officer who isn't just criminal gang violence. Haiti's united gangs that once fought each other unelected Prime Minister Ariel Henry who has &quot;If Ariel Henry doesn't step down and to support him, they will lead us directly Gangs have seized the port, burned shops, attacked launched a coordinated attack that assaulted jailbreak that freed 4,700 inmates from 2 prisons. Henry from reentering the country. He finally Haiti hasn't had an election since 2016 in the country. There's No President. lot of extremely armed men in the Haiti, a small nation of almost 12 million 5,000 homicides in 2023 twice as many as the 6.7 per 100,000, just above the global average, In 2021 about 700 people were kidnapped, kidnapping victims have skyrocketed people live on less than $2 a Children cannot go to schools, and entire neighbourhoods have been transformed 362,000 Haitians, half of them children have the brink of starvation" and an outbreak of off water treatment services. Hundreds fled to the country and sought refuge tens of thousands are braving the dangerous gangs in the hopes of reaching the United Haiti is on the edge of collapse, grappling These catastrophes are not random. They are foreign interventions, an apocalyptic 2010 a vicious 29 year father son dictatorship, and a 122 year long debt forced on the Haiti is collapsing, gangs might seize control long story of why. This is the island of Hispaniola, shared After Columbus' 1492 arrival, the Spanish native Taino population. By the 1600s, the French which became France's most lucrative colony fed harvested sugar, coffee, and timber. Here At the end of the eighteenth century half was produced here by enslaved Africans working Rebellious slaves were flayed, and burned at the stake. Slave women would abort slavery. If anywhere on Earth could be In 1791 the slaves led a rebellion against French they had done the impossible, killed their and freed themselves from slavery and established the world's first Black republic, They called their state &quot;Haiti&quot; the name for France refused to recognise the country as in international trade. The United States, the refused to recognise Haiti until 1862. own country to have an example of a Twenty-one years after Haiti's independence The French issued an ultimatum: your former slave masters for stealing their or face another war and be put France would recognise their independence. and eager for trade and international The debt amount was 300% of Haiti's GDP. The wealth Haitians created through sugar, coffee, like Credit Industriel et Commercial and its The first instalment of this Independence an impossible payment. But that was the plan. Part 1: Lock Haiti into massive debt Part 2: Force them to take out a This financial noose became Haiti's "double out of every $3 of coffee taxes, directly into the pockets of French debt nothing to invest in businesses, Over 122 years of debt payments Haiti lost between 21 and 121 billion dollars. Both sums On December 17th 1914 American Marines stormed walked out with $13,526,578 in Haitian gold piled President Woodrow Wilson then ordered a would be under American occupation for which later became Citigroup, took control of Haiti's total revenue went to paying National City The Americans crushed any resistance. fire like at the Cayes Massacre. Haitian brutally put down. A cacos leader Charlemagne the Americans until a friend betrayed who pinned his corpse to a door, and then The Americans introduced forced labour, press allow foreigners to buy Haitian land. When the dissolved Haiti's parliament at gunpoint. Haiti's Haiti's earnings went to bankers in New York After 19 years the US withdrew its troops 5,000 dead in labour camps and countless more control of Haiti's finances until 1947 which The U.S. withdrawal was followed by the 1957 establishment of a dictatorship under Fearing a coup Papa Doc sidelined the VOICE OVER: Dr Francois Duvalier. Two years proclaimed himself reelected in an election situation that demanded the training and A 10,000-strong private army that answered Tonton Macoute acted as his secret and killed any Haitian that critiqued the of the Caribbean&quot; led the Tontons Macoute. blood plasma monthly to laboratories in the VOICE OVER, OVERLY BRITISH: THE TONTON SNATCH MEN AWAY AND BRING THEM TO A KIND OF Duvalier and the Tonton Macoutes' Duvalier's brutal rule was supported and was anti-communist. The US propped him up as a Papa Doc died in 1971, his son Baby making him probably the world's youngest dictator. The Duvaliers amassed millions, VOICE OVER: Haiti's poor people, just miles from the luxurious presidential of thousands in shacks surrounded by raw no food. Under the duvalier's millions private bank accounts while the average income 80 percent of college graduates fled Haiti during year, life expectancy was 53 years. While between Doc hundreds of millions of dollars. During state and economy to the United States Agency for Bank. This led to consequences for Haitians. 30% export focused plantations which impoverished a specific race of low-maintenance pig suited to the Dominican Republic scared USAID who then in of the entire race of pigs". Haitians couldn't couldn't survive Haiti's climate, Haiti's pork went extinct, 800,000 former pig owners were began to shrink, Haitians who were producers Throughout the 70s and 80s Baby Doc worked with tariffs, keep wages low, ban labour unions, to the USA tax free. By the late 80s there were advantage of a $2.65 a day wage, the lowest in team at the time wore Haitian made uniforms and Cabbage Patch doll was made in Haiti. As Baby Haiti from the USA, International Monetary, and almost all the profit flowed out of Haiti. More 6 days a week, had the lowest life expectancy, Most Haitians were eating less than 80% of the a year sent home by the 600,000 Haitians Voice over: we cannot have this with abject poverty. Things have got to change Another voice over: they are protesting the dictatorship. Haitians are talking Voice over: President Jean Claude Duvalier last night to go into exile. On the darkened Voice over: people dance in the streets Another voice over: the hurt, the anger, repressed In 1986, massive civilian protests and then a The United States flew him and about $1 billion Eventually on the 7th of February 1991 elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, nation's poor majority and rode into office a month salary. He attacked tax evasion by the for once. Failing state owned businesses were 1991 for the first time in a long time Haiti Aristide tried to raise the minimum business opposition made him eventually funding business leaders and members He lasted seven months in office before A military junta replaced Aristide and ruled for supporters were killed. The United States and heavy sanctions on this military regime. Food, extremely rare. Haiti's crop production Tens of millions of dollars in coffee, cocoa, and 30% and in 1993 the New York Times reported 1000 Aristide, exiled in the US, had urged American for years to bring him back to power. the thousands of Haitian refugees fleeing to the huge win for Clinton. By 1994, 50,000 Haitian Clinton sent in 20,000 US Marines to palace. The military junta fled Voice over: On the streets of Haiti president After coming back to power he had before. Afraid of another Voice over: to prevent them against Haiti's democratically elected president Former soldiers flooded into the ranks of gangs essentially a gang under his streets to fight opponents. From the the political-gang alliance was now a Clinton made sure Aristide knew his return downsize the government, freeze low companies. Haiti's state owned businesses Haiti had tariffs on food imports as high as made up nearly 70% of the population. But by 1995 tariff to 3 per cent. In the United States provide billions to farmers to make American rice be sold 30-50% cheaper than rice grown in Haiti. the IMF said that was anti free market. American the rice eaten in Haiti is American, 50% self-sufficient in the 80s, now it has the Devastated Haitian farmers who lost their lands badly constructed and overcrowded slumshoping to There weren't enough jobs so the lowest paying positions, keeping wages low. Aristide was reelected in 2001 at the same disliked Aristide's miniscule pushback aid to Haiti massively, but not all a group of business leaders, many of just 10 years earlier were sanctioned for their Corruption and ineffective rule clouded Aristide's his acceptance of IMF orders alienated were fighting across the country, capital was in danger of being conquered. noticed weapons flowing into the hands of markings of a US operation...All indications Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs...was behind February 2004 Aristide was put on an American Aristide claims that he was kidnapped. He had been coup'd a second time, France's Ambassador to Haiti at the time later the 2004 coup against Aristide. France might sue France for $21 billion dollars to reclaim threat, no...but Aristide had stepped on too many Haitian living in retirement in Florida, made him against France and was tasked with wiping out A wage increase in 2009 from 31c an hour to 62c tooth and nail by Fruit of the Loom and Levi's but it passed and today sweatshops in Haitians need about $26 a day to adequately Only international aid and remittances keep millions of Haitian families afloat Drained of revenue and facing prices Haiti's government was about to crumble. ...... epic proportions. The caribbean island earthquake in 200 years. The 7.0 quake hit Voice over: buildings toppled flattened. Even the presidential At 4:53pm on the 12th of January 2010 It was apocalyptic. Over 220,000 Haitians died. 1.5 million were soared to $8 billion, about 67% of the country's employee. The National Palace caved in along with servants died. Decades of economic policy drove the capital's overcrowded shoddily constructed The massive scale of the earthquake's a tsunami of aid to flow into the country. Rather than this money going to Haitians on the going into the local economy. 99% of aid went to Over the 90s and 2000s, thousands of foreign by 2010 they ran 80% of education and health About 67 cents of every dollar of aid sent to 30 mile radius in Washington D.C. Leaked documents for Haiti and promised to build thousands of new Woman speaking: You in Haiti to help If you not if you not doing anything Woman: They've been here 3 months and Haitians went without basic medicine while year. When it came to rebuilding Haiti foreign workers. Shelim Dorval, a Haitian they were having high salaries, staying in a to their countries. A lot of money was who had nothing to do with Haiti. The money The international teams called Port-au-Prince's enter. Millions were spent on international from the rubble in wealthier and tourist responders were Haitians themselves who pulled the capital rural homes opened their doors to Remittances sent directly from dollars into the hands of regular Haitians reported feeling an extreme sense of For many the earthquake looked like it destroyed that they wanted a new state that was accountable aid to invest in agriculture, schools, Man talking: Surveys show the people they want shelter but they also want local food move ahead. They don't want charity. They're not hand them a lot of money.They are ready to "We saw the national palace destroyed I would But decisions about how to rebuild Haiti were made Commission, chaired...by Bill Clinton. The billions and supporting the recovery of Haitians. plan to distribute 130 tons of genetically The destruction was mostly confined to the had seeds, harvest season had just finished sell. For just $80 million dollars a year, which USAID could have purchased every grain of rice economy. Farmers not only needed that money, but their homes who they could have hired, rehoming in the first 2 months alone USAID handed out USA. Haitian farmers watched their stocks rot, 90 percent of eggs and poultry consumed in the sanctions in the 90s killed Haiti's of jobs associated with them. 90 percent sugar is imported! In what used to be a sugar those fundamental industries. Which would By 2010 only 12 percent of the population Thousands of Haitian jobs could have been treatment plants, water supply and earthquake-resistant infrastructure. funding and then what actually got funded. 510% higher than what was requested. While strong and more democratic state, reconstruction, Instead of investing in critical job-creating the Haitian government to "lift restrictions rid of higher pay for night shifts and offering companies could operate in Haiti tax-free. The shining jewel of the aid effort would be the $300 million dollar, 600-acre Caracol tax free sweatshop where Haitians would But Caracol Industrial Park was built in the impacted by the earthquake. The north was people in Port-au-Prince but because "hundreds way for the park who "were far less resistant The construction of the park evicted 366 families to farm our land, we would be doing well. Now Bill Clinton offered them minimum wage jobs When Bill and Hillary Clinton flew in the project had created just 1,500 of Billions of aid dollars were spent, there is no new infrastructure, and After the 2004 coup against Aristide's the UN the Earthquake this force was strengthened. revealed that over 100 members were ring. It was also revealed peacekeepers were favours. Leaving behind hundreds if not thousands treated Haitians aggressively for example in one UN peacekeepers on an anti-gang raid fired 22,000 including children. To make matters worse in drained directly into the local water supply a disease unknown in Haiti. It infected well With hundreds of millions of dollars in aid in pennies. Doctors Without Borders and the Cuban handled the overwhelming majority of cases. so was bottled water. When doctors requested vaccines they would get too comfortable to build sewage facilities cholera Almost no aid money went to preparing for wrecked the country costing 13% of GDP. In But Haiti crawled along. The election by fraud allegations. Moise faced constant who blamed him for the economic crisis, and rising gang violence. In 2020, the and no elections were held to replace Assassination At approximately 1:00 a.m. on July 7, 2021, a group of mercenaries stormed the home of his room and fired 12 bullets into the Haitian Moise's term technically ended in February protests and made him unpopular. He was also business people involved in Haiti's drug Under the Duvaliers Haiti emerged as a transit little single-engine planes from Pablo Escobar's Haiti before finishing the trip to the US all business elites. Due to its incredibly weak vital route for cocaine heading to the United Today traffickers operate from airstrips planes frequently pass through carrying metric Between May and June 2021, one airstrip in Savane Diane saw at least a dozen planes of kilos of cocaine. Moise found outand A week later, Moise was gunned down in his home. Just 36 hours before his death, President Moise the second highest position in the government, and tasked him with preparing the country It has been 7 years since the Haitian elections. elections. It also seems like Henry was in and right after the assassination, which hasn't On August 14, 2021 one month an earthquake twice as strong as the 2010 one, of Haiti. It killed 2,200 and injured well in damages or 11% of GDP which put more Under Henry's rule poverty, hunger, and stopped functioning as millions protested But the United States gave full support to Henry Under Moise &amp; Henry, Haiti's gangs evolved from sophisticated and heavily armed organisations Port-au-Prince has grown from roughly 40 in 2004 professional, and violent operations that had 50 or 100 members 15 years Recently gangs have mainly grouped into two weakness of Henry's regime the gangs have work together to attack the government. G9 led political dissidents who've joined together always been political as well as criminal actors, armed groups rather than gangs. Since the Tonton gangs to attack opposition, intimidate voters, For example, Cherizier's G9 got half 30% from kidnappings and 20% from political funding fell 30% which might his conquest of fuel and resource depots, Those that wanted to exploit Haiti have always found willing collaborators in Wealthy Haitians call the common Haitian they often go barefoot. For generations by elites have maintained a system that drains wealth return. They pay no taxes while the Haitian people tuition, and healthcare costs. They make up barely wealth. They collude with gangs while they live hills of Port-au-Prince surrounded by slums The richest man in Haiti is billionaire Gilbert coup Aristide in 91, is linked to assassination of Epstein a $132,000 Mercedes Maybach, in a nation The Bigio family owns a private have been using the port to import heavy the Bigios imported Uzi submachine guns Today the links to the elites remain but and wield significant power over Haiti's cash through drug trafficking and extortion, paying protection fees ranging from $5,000 to Cherizier's G9 has seized control of including the ports, oil terminals, and markets, and corporate headquarters. Which all by far the most to lose if the UN intervenes, Kidnappings generate conservatively The massive surge in violence has been fuelled Ten years ago a handgun would be shared between networks based in Floridaare funnelling an AR-15, and Galil assault rifles, .50 calibre Ex-soldiers and policemen have been recruited and a few years ago, allowing them to assault The armed groups can now administer conduct military-type operations, Life in gang-controlled areas, with lack of basic services is like living in a prison. "I personally lost friends, killed just because Sometimes I can't go to school; my mother can't we risk death in one way or another. We Gangs face no opposition since the Haitian police have less than 9,000 officers for Henry promised to step down on the 7th Instead on February 28th 2024 he promised was in Kenya trying to seal a UN military officers to Haiti. This was the last undemocratic foreign puppet now he wanted to The gangs unleashed an onslaught against police stations, and prisons where they besieged Toussaint Louverture airport A panicked Henry flew directly from he tried to convince his Americans support. It seems the Americans finally On March 5th he tried to fly to the told he could not land in the country. The Stranded in Puerto Rico, Prime Minister have to wait and see how or if a new Kenya and the UN are now With painful memories of past occupations, mission many Haitians are hesitant to For intervention to work it would need Life right now in Haiti is desperate. gangs are rampaging through Port-Au-Prince force and neighbourhood brigades set up by We have seen over the last half of other people extracting wealth and stealing aid has left a nation "Please let us live. That's all We want to be respected. And we want Haiti is not the only country France has January of 2013, rebel factions in Mali overran decided to militarily intervene with more than in this episode of Modern Conflicts exclusively service owned by creators like me and it is Nebula offers you videos by professionals like engineer Brian from Real Engineering who provide videos. But it also offers you well-crafted Nebula for Nebula by Wendover Productions which explains millions of pilgrims going on Hajj or how the documentaries on World War 2 are a visual point of view. Modern Conflicts will help you Real Science can teach you how something as and City Beatiful's Great Cities original series a city like Shanghai functions and those are exclusive content produced just for Nebula Nebula doesn't only offer Originals though. their Youtube content available on Nebula Nebula days and sometimes weeks in advance. like Extra History and Jet Lag videos are on And recently we've launched a bunch of about is Nebula News, which curates creators headlines we're bombarded with in an upcoming Original series Boomers by Tom ageing world leaders or the War Room by Real ongoing world conflicts. The Nebula News who have years of experience informing millions to find more videos and creators to keep you So if you want to watch some of want to watch videos ad-free, or you simply Nebula Originals, the best way possible while go.nebula.tv/cogito . Using that link you'll which makes it just $2.50 per month, a sites for the best educational content But wait there's more! For just a one-time payment This year Nebula is investing in big concept, Broey Deschanel, China, Actually from PolyMatter, and those are just some of what's coming in access to the hours upon hours of current memberships are a way for us to raise capital Use my link go.nebula.tv/cogito to support independent original creators. Thank you so much for watching. I really hope you enjoyed this video. It took me a long time to put and simplify things. It's impossible to cover an enjoyed this brief introduction to the Bengalis. me to cover next. If you are Bengali please out or if you want to make fun of my cooking or also down below if you want to help support the join a Discord server with me and other Patrons.