Welcome to this. English master class. You are going to learn phrasal verbs, idioms You'll learn how to speak fast and pronounce And this will help you understand Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer Nell. Let's get started. Here's how this master class will work. You'll listen to a sentence three times, and And after you'll learn how to use Let's get started. With the. First listening exercise. Claire, let's get a move on. Claire, let's get a move on. Claire, let's get a move on. So how did you do with that clip? Did it sound fast? He said Claire. Let's. Get a move on 1st. Let's talk about. Let's this is a contraction of let us let's. Let's native speakers always say let's and this Orders or instructions? So this is given as an instruction. Let's get ah now native speakers. It sounds like we speak fast. Because we take individual words. We don't add pauses and we Get ah, sounds like get a, get a, get a move on. You have the on move. Now on is a vowel. So we can transfer that sound and we von move on, move on, move on. Now what does this mean? Let's get a move on. This is an idiom, and it means to It's the same as saying. Hurry. Or. Hurry up, you could say to your friend. The Movie. Starts in less than one hour. Let's get a move on. Let's hurry. Let's move faster. Or you can say if we're going to finish the So now you know how to combine your And you know what this expression means. So it's your turn to practice. I want you to imitate my Say it out. Loud and I'll say it three times. Let's get a move on. Let's get a move on. Let's get a move on. Claire, let's get a move on. Let's. Let's get a move. On Let's Try This Again, I'll Just give me a shot when you're done. Just give me a shot when you're done. Just give me a shout when you're done. How'd you do it? This one just give. Me. When you're done, let's talk about Give me Do you know what a native speaker says? Gimme, Gimme, Gimme. Now we can also take that article off and add it Speakers also. Reduce. Sounds so we say them very. Unstressed. So instead of saying. Your which is very stressed. I need to open my mouth wide your. I can just. Say your your and the sound is unstressed. It's more my throat your. Now let's talk about what this means. Give me a shout. What does this mean? Maybe you know what the verb. To. Shout, which means ah. To. Shout. But what about, ah, shout as a noun? Well, this simply means call me So give me a shout is the same as saying call me. So if I'm leaving the house or the office, I If you need anything I'm leaving, but call This is commonly used with a when clause. Give me a shout when you land. So notice when plus present. Simple. When you land, give me a shout. When you land, call me when you land. In this case it was give me a shout. When you're done, you are done. So to be done. This means to be finished. So this means the task is complete. I could text you or give you a shout I'm finished with the report, I could also say I'm done working on the report. So notice you need your gerund verb. I'm done working on the report. Or I could simply say I'm done. So now it's your turn to practice. I'll say it three times and I Just give me a shout when you're done. Just give me a shout when you're done. Just give me a shout when you're done. Just give me a shout when you're done. If he pops out, give me a shout. I'll give you a shout when we're done. Let's try this again. I'll play the clip three times. Sorry, give me a SEC. Sorry, give me a SEC. Sorry, give me a SEC. How'd you do it? This one? I'm sorry. Give me a SEC. This should have been easy Learned Give me Gimme and What does suck? Mean, give me a suck. What's a suck? It is. Short. For second, we take the word Notice that K sounds suck. Give me a SEC. Give me a SEC. We use this to say give me a short period of time. So that might be a few seconds or I could say give me a SEC to find your file. And then I take hopefully just three to five, maybe 10 seconds to find Give me a SEC to find your file. This is commonly used to get someone's attention So you could knock on my door and So you're asking me, do you have a few minutes? Do you have a few seconds? Do you have a SEC? Or maybe you could text. Your colleague and say where are you? The meeting started 5 minutes ago. And then you reply back and I'll be there in a short period of time. Now it's your turn to practice this one. I'll say it three times. I'm sorry, give me a SEC. I'm sorry, Give me a SEC. I'm sorry, give me a SEC. Sorry, give me a SEC do. You have a SEC. I'll be there in a SEC. Let's try this one more time. I'll play the clip three times. And I still haven't figured it out. And I still haven't figured it out. And I still haven't figured it out. Did this one sound fast to you? It was. Pretty fast, he said. And I still haven't figured it out. Again, it sounds fast because we're taking Figured it out. Sounds like figured it out. So you need to take. The end sound from one word figured it out and then it has to sound like one. Word Figured it out. Figured it out. Figured it out. Figured it out to figure. Something out. Most students know what this means. It means to understand. Or solve. Something as a question I could ask you. Have you figured it out now? I can also add yet. Have you? Figured it out. Yet. This is in the present perfect. Verb tense. So if you use he or she as the have to has, has he, has she figured it out yet? To reply positively, you can You can add already. I have already figured it out. And then for. He or she, he or she has already figured This is a completed pass action, but there's a So now the client won't fire I've solved the issue or the problem, I haven't figured it out. And then you can add yet at the end for he or He hasn't figured it out yet. This shows that it's an ongoing process. You're still trying to figure it out, but did you notice that the speaker So the speaker didn't use yet. They used still and notice that placement. It's subject. I still and then haven't or if it's he using still instead of yet. It emphasizes that it's ongoing. And it also. Emphasizes the difficulty of He's. We've been working on this bug for It out. So it really emphasizes the struggle. I could reply back and say, OK, give me a shout when you figure it out Simple. After that when statement give me a shout when. You figure it out. Or I could be less patient and put pressure on The client will be here in an hour. Now it's your turn to practice. I'll say it three times and I still haven't figured it out. I still haven't figured it out. I still haven't figured it out. And I still haven't figured it out. If you haven't figured it out yet. No one's figured it out yet. Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where the movies, YouTube and the news. So you can improve your listening vocabulary with natural expressions, Plus. You'll have me. As your personal coach, you can look in Or you can go to my. Website and click on Finally Fluent Academy. Now let's continue with our lesson. Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. It was a cakewalk. It was a cakewalk. It was a cakewalk. Did you get this one? I said it was a cakewalk. Let's talk about was, ah, you can combine So notice I'm linking the Was, but it's a voiced. Sound. So I'm going to transfer that SA was a, was a. It was a. Cakewalk. It was a cakewalk. This thing was a cakewalk. Right. What does this mean to be a cakewalk? This means that something is simple or effortless. You might be familiar with the When you describe something as a piece This is the same idiom, it's just Piece of cake. Hopefully you would. Say learning English becomes a If you agree, then put cakewalk, cakewalk. Put cakewalk in the comments. Remember that you have to conjugate your verb This was a cakewalk in the past, simple. This is a cakewalk in the present simple. This will be a cakewalk in which this has been a cakewalk which And also remember the article, This was a cakewalk. Let's try this again, a little more advanced. I'll say it three. Times. It's a Band-Aid fix. It's a Band-Aid fix. It's a Band-Aid fix. Did you hear this one? I said it's a Band-Aid fix. Of course it's is our contraction of But to pronounce them like one, I'll Band-Aid, Band-Aid, Band-Aid, Band-Aid fix. A Band-Aid fix is a temporary Understand this expression. You need to know what a Band-Aid is. This is a Band-Aid. This is the. Brand name for bandage, but and native speakers just refer I put. Band aids on it, but. Remember this means a temporary You could say filling the This entire Rd. needs to be repaved. But it's just a Band-Aid fix. Now, there are many temporary solutions but not all of them are permanent. For example, relying on ChatGPT to Remember the article our noun is ah fix, and And although a Band-Aid fix means a temporary You must always say a Band-Aid fix, because Let's try this again, a little more difficult. I'll say it three times. You can't rest on your laurels. You can't rest on your laurels. You can't rest on your laurels. Did you get this one? I said you can't rest on your laurels. Native speakers often pronounce T as a flap T, which means we don't push out that puff of You can't. So I don't say you can't. I say you can't. You can't Reston. So here you hear that T because I'm I'm transferring the T sound onto Your is pronounced in spoken Your you can't rest on your your laurels. This could be a hard word to native language because we have So divide the sounds until you're comfortable with each sound lore OLS and then Laurels, Laurels. The expression is to rest on your laurels. We use this to say that you shouldn't become too Past successes. You should set new goals. You should push yourself further. You shouldn't rest on your laurels. For example, the author wrote an international So she had a past accomplishment, past success But because she rested on her laurels, She didn't push herself further, so she didn't write anything after She just remained successful based on her past Let's think about. This in a language learning context. Maybe you have a past success It's amazing that you got a but you can't just rest on your laurels. So this sounds like after your you stopped trying to improve, you You just rested on your laurels. You had that past success and language learning, which of course isn't the case. So to help motivate this friend you can say subscribe to J for his English and Don't rest on your laurels. Let's let's write this one more time, I'll say it three times. I'm going out for a bit. I'm going out for a bit. I'm going out for a bit. Did you get this one? I said I'm going out for a bit. Of course I'm is our contraction of We have that flap T because I'm going out. I'm going out now. Many Native speakers will combine all three more of an unstressed fur, fur a fur a bit, Because I'm not saying bit for a bit for a bit. You can still link them A Native speaker commonly Now, sometimes native speakers because it's at the end of a So we have to take a pause I'm going out for a bit. To go out, this means to temporarily most commonly your home, for a bit. Is a time reference and it means Sorry guys, I have to go out for a bit. This is a common way that I'm going out for a bit now. Where are they going? Well, remember it's more of a So perhaps they're going to run errands, go grocery shopping, meet a friend, or go We also commonly use this as a suggestion to say, let's leave the house and do We've been watching Netflix. All day, let's go out. Let's. Go out for a bit. Let's go out tonight. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you can practice these pronunciation So I'll say each sentence again three times, and after each sentence, I want you Here we go. It was a cakewalk. It was a cakewalk. It was a cakewalk. It's a Band-Aid fix. It's a Band-Aid fix. It's a Band-Aid fix. You can't rest on your laurels. You can't rest on your laurels. You can't rest on your laurels. I'm going out for a bit. I'm going out for a bit. I'm going out for a bit. Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. It's not a big deal at all. It's not a big deal at all. It's not a big deal at all. Did you get this one? I said it's not a big deal at all. It's it's a contraction of it is not a. We can combine these together, but So a native speaker is going to pronounce It's nada. It's nada, big deal. And then we can do the same with put them together and then I'll And it sounds like at all, at all, at all, at all. It's not a big deal at all. Let's talk about what this means to. Be a big deal. This describes something that's We use this in both positive For example, when you do something and getting caught plagiarizing is a big deal You. Could be. Expelled. So here the consequences are You could be expelled, which means School. Is that that big of a deal? Yes, it's a big deal. But we also use this in a positive way. Getting a promotion is a big deal. You can finally buy a house. So here the promotion is important and It's a. Big deal. No big deal. It's a huge deal. Now remember, our example was in the negative. It's not a big deal at all. So we can use this in two ways. First, to say that something isn't For example, missing the party isn't a big deal. Your friend will understand. So the consequence of that action? Missing the party isn't very It's really not a big deal. It's not a big deal now. We also use this as a reply when someone offers Your friend could say thanks for I really. Appreciate. It and you can reply back and I'm happy to help. Now, if you want to sound you can reduce that entire sentence to two words. No biggie, no biggie. So no biggie represents, it's not It's really common with native So I could show my appreciation to you and say thank you so much for liking Don't forget to do those two things and no biggie, it's not a big deal at all. I'm happy to. So put that in the comments. No biggie, no biggie, no biggie. Put that in the comments. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. So what are you into? So what are you into? So what are you into? I said. So what are you into? What? Are can combine together and What are what are what are so in what are what are spoken English, although this does not exist as So what are you can become more of an unstressed. Ya or ya ya ya? Almost identical in pronunciation. What are ya inta? So you can take into and change it to inta. I didn't do that personally, but many native So what are you into? What are you into? This is a casual way to ask someone about their To your vocabulary. It will help you sound like So what exactly are you into, Jesse? To reply, you can say I'm to be into, I am. I'm into plus a noun. I'm into music, art, yoga, photography, that you're into is also very common A verb of. Preference and simply say I like music, I Your. Interest or preference is. So what are you into? What about you, sleeveless? What are you into? Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. Can we play it by ear? Can we play it by ear? Can we play it by ear? Did you get this one? I said. Can we play it by ear? Ken is an auxiliary verb. It's there to ask the question, We pronounce it as kin. Kin unstressed because the main verb Can you play? We can combine play and it together. I'll take that. Y and I'll use it to connect. Play it yet? Play it. Play it. But you say it as one word. Can we play it by ear? Do you know what this means it means that you make decisions as they If your friend or spouse asks you And you don't want to make plans, you So you wait until dinner to. Decide. What you're going to have for dinner, rather you can say, let's just play it by ear. Let's just play it by ear, You're Or someone asks what are you going to do on vacation because they know You can reply back and say we have a few The rest being the rest of your vacation. We'll play the rest by ear. We'll decide what we want to do in based on where we are, based on the What about you? When you're planning a vacation, do which means every day all the activities you're That's a full itinerary. Or do you prefer to play it by ear? No plans, you're just going to decide Or perhaps #3 a little bit of both. So put in the comments. Your preference, 1-2 or three? As for me, I would probably I like being more spontaneous. But my husband, Kevin, he is which I learned the first time So now we do #3 we do a little bit of both. So we both are more satisfied. What about you? Share yours in the comments. I don't know, play it by ear? Why? Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. Turns out I bought a knockoff. Turns out I bought a knockoff. Turns out I bought a knockoff. Did you get this one? Maybe a little more challenging, I said. Turns out I bought a knockoff. Turns out I can combine those Turns out. So I'm using that S to glide to the Turns out turns out I bought a so bot is Boda boda just like got a native Well, you can do the same thing with. Bought a boda? Boda knock the K is silent and Knock off it's one word. I'm going to use that knock off cough. So I'm going to pronounce the final K on knock, and I'm going to pronounce it Let's. Talk about. What this means Turns out to turn out. This is an extremely common phrasal verb and so definitely add it to your vocabulary. In this context, turns out is used to say so I did not expect this situation. Turns out it was spam. So let's say you were supposed to work late You've planned your your entire. Week. To work late today, you've but then your boss says, oh, actually, We finished the project. So you can say, oh, turns out I don't have It's surprising. It's not what you thought turns out It turns out I don't have to work late tonight, Where the subject? It doesn't actually represent anything, Because it's a dummy subject in spoken English, we often drop it and just say turns But in written English, a subject Let's talk about a knockoff. What is this? Because turns out I bought a knockoff. What's a knockoff? A knockoff is a copy or an imitation of of Knockoffs are very common with Louis. Vuitton handbag, which has a very distinct They're fake. They're fake Louis Vuittons and from a but when you examine the quality O in this situation, maybe it's my friend. Bought a Louis. Vuitton, but turns out it was a knockoff. At least designer or knockoff. It's just buy another knockoff. That's actually a cubic zirconia knockoff. Now let's do an imitation all of these pronunciation changes I'll say each sentence again three I want you to repeat the sentence out Here we go. It's not a big deal at all. It's not a big deal at all. It's not a big deal at all. So what are you into? So what are you into? So what are you into? Can we play it by ear? Can we play it by ear? Can we play it by ear? Turns out I bought a knockoff. Turns out I bought a knockoff. Turns out I bought a knockoff. Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. Our first listening exercise, I'll. Say it three times. Thanks for your help, you rock. Thanks for your help. You rock. Thanks for your help. You rock. Did you get this one? I said thanks for your help. You rock very easy, right At a reduce sound so for becomes Fer Thanks for your thanks for your help your help. Thanks for your help. Now let's review a common. Mistake that I hear. Beginner students make and You can say thank you or thanks. You cannot say thanks you or thank and notice. In our example we have. Thanks for your help. Thanks for your help. What is your help? This is a noun, so we have Thanks. For plus. Noun. You can also use Thanks for plus So what? Would thanks for your help be Thanks for helping me. Thanks for your help. Thanks for helping me and you. Rock. This is a. Very natural. Way to say you're great. You're awesome. I use this in the comments section to But don't say you are rock. It is not to be rock, it is to Rock You. Rock You. Rock, you're awesome. You're really great. You. Rock put that. In the comments. You Rock, You rock. Thanks for your help. Thanks for helping me. Thanks, Billy. You rock. You rock. Thanks honey. Let's try this again, a little more difficult. I'll say it three times. She's starting to rub off on you. She's starting to rub off on you. She's starting to rub off on you. Did you get this one? I said. She's starting to rub off on you. She's is our contraction. She is she's she's starting. Tuh. So instead of two. You can use an unstressed tuh. She's starting to rub. Off because. Rub off is a phrasal verb. They go together. I can take that B. Sound and connect it to the next word. But I have to combine them together. I have to say them as one word. Rub off, off, rub off, rub off. I can also take that on and add it together. So I'm saying those 3 words as one rub off fawn. So here I'm taking the F from Rub off fawn, rub off on, rub off on you. What does this mean? To rub off on someone is when someone's Let's. Take Janice and let's say Janice Now let's say Fernando spends a week working with Janice and now Fernando You could say Janice rubbed off on Fernando. Here we have it. In the past, simple rubbed, rubbed, rubbed Now you could also take the specific in this case, Janice's helpfulness, because the helpfulness belongs Janice's helpfulness rubbed off on Fernando. So that specific character trait of Janice. Transferred to Fernando because Marcus is really rubbing off on you. Finally, I'm rubbing off on you. My deviousness has finally rubbed off on you. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. He rubs me the wrong way. He rubs me the wrong way. He rubs me the wrong way. Did you get this one? I said he rubs me the wrong way. Notice this expression uses the verb to rub, Rub. But they have completely different meanings and that's why this is a more Because maybe you understood the words, but you don't know what this means This is to annoy someone but with out intending to remember Janice from our last But maybe for some reason she She annoys you but there's nothing Just maybe your personalities clash. They don't go together. So if you're planning a social gathering you She rubs me the wrong way. An entire person. Like poor Janice can rub you the wrong way, but it also could be something Did and overall. You like Janice, but just that one thing For example, your comment So maybe she said something in a but you know she did not intend to annoy you. Hear your comment. This is a noun. Your comment rubbed the past. Simple. Of the verb to. Rub and notice that soft D. Rubbed Rubbed me. Rubbed me the wrong way is. It me but do I rub you the wrong way? Not J guy rubs me the wrong way. She rubs everyone the wrong way but pop. Our final listening exercise and the I had a hunch he'd quit. I had a hunch he'd quit. I had a hunch he'd quit. Did you get this one? I said I had a hunch he'd quit. Notice for pronunciation. I had a. I had a had a so I combine I had a hunch. He'd quit. Now, did you hear that? The. He'd he'd. Quit. Well, that D represents what He'd quit. He'd quit very. Difficult. based on context and based It would sound awkward without it. So we know it's there even though When you have a hunch, a hunch is the noun So to have a hunch, this is when you going to happen, but it isn't based on facts, So you could say I have a hunch. She'll. Accept our invitation. Now if someone replies back and says. Why? All you would say is. Because I have a hunch, I have a feeling I I have a hunch this is the present simple and then she'll accept she I have a hunch she'll accept our invitation The future, but you could use this. In the past, like our listening exercise. I had a hunch last week in the past. So that's the past. Simple. Last week I had a hunch that he would quit so. Would is the. Past simple of the verb will, I had a hunch You don't need it. You could simply say I had a hunch he'd quit. I had a hunch. Just a hunch I. Had a hunch, but I wasn't certain. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you can I'll say each sentence again You to repeat each. Sentence out loud. Here we go. Thanks for your help. You rock. Thanks for your help. You rock. Thanks for your help, you rock. She's starting to rub off on you. She's starting to rub off on you. She's starting to rub off on you. He rubs me the wrong way. He rubs me the wrong way. He rubs me the wrong way. I had a hunch he'd quit. I had a hunch he'd quit. I had a hunch he'd quit. Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. Are you all set? Are you all set? Are you all set? I said, are you all set? Notice that EU becomes more So it's a very subtle difference. Uh, ah ya ya. Native speakers will use. Both are ya are ya are ya all set? And notice I don't push out that T. So set all set. Now what does this mean to be all set? This simply means to be ready. So you can use this all the So I could ask you, Are you ready And you can reply back with those The full form would be I am all set. And then you can just reduce that I'm ready for my presentation tomorrow. We commonly use this to To. Leave a house, leave a Are you ready to go? And you can reply back with those two All set. All set. Let's try this again, a little more challenging. I'll say it three times. My weeks off to a rocky start. My weeks off to a rocky start. My weeks off to a rocky start. Did you get this one? I said my. Weeks off to a rocky start. Notice that contraction weeks that weeks off and instead of saying to AH, I So I use that. To glide to to my weeks off to a rocky start. The reason why this is more difficult is The expression is to be off and in this example my adjective is Rocky means difficult or uncertain. He and I got off to a rocky start. All right, sure, Tonight got off to. A weird rocky start. We often use this adjective It could be a romantic relationship, or a relationship with your. Boss or Co worker your. Friend might come to you upset little rocky right now and she wants your advice. But. Remember, you can use any adjective with this Off to an. Amazing. Start and notice because my my article becomes and an amazing start off to. A great start. So we're off to a good start. And you can use this expression as So why don't you practice this right now? How's your week going? And I want you to put in the comments my the adjective, put that in the comments Let's try this again, I'll. Say it three times. What do you have on the go today? What do you have on the go today? What do you have on the go today? Did you get this one? I said. What do you have on the go today? Have you heard that native speakers pronounce? What do you as Wadia? Wadia. We combine all those sounds together, Wadia. An alternative? Is whatcha, whatcha? And I use both of them equally. So it's important that you And this question is how a native speaker So the expression is have on the go. What do you have on the go today? What are you doing today? Now instead of have on the go. Native speakers will also say what? Do you have going on? So on the go is one option. Going on is another option. What do you have going on today? Hey girl, What? Do you got going on today? So to answer, maybe you could say today I'm. Studying J4's English lessons, Going on today, let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. Did you nod off in the presentation to did you nod off in the presentation to Did you nod off I said did you nod off in the presentation to Native speakers will combine You. So you hear a just sound, did you? Or we can reduce that to did So all three options are common. Nod off. Is a phrasal verb, so we'll. Pronounce it as one word. Nod off. So notice I'll take that D. Sound and I'll connect it on the off, Nod off, nod off, nod off to nod. Off. This means that you. Fall asleep accidentally when you're not So hopefully you're not nodding Or maybe you nodded off on the bus. I nodded off on the bus and missed my stop. Has that ever happened to you? Or maybe you see one of I think. Sarah nodded off. Someone should wake her up You just nod off and knock it off. So I nodded off a little. Nodded off Ross, you were snoring. Now let's do an imitation exercise so I'm going to say each sentence again, and I want you to repeat the sentence Are you all set? Are you all set? Are you all set? My weeks off to a rocky start. My weeks off to a rocky start. My weeks off to a rocky start. What do you have on the go today? What do you have on the go today? What do you have on the go today? Did you nod off in the presentation too? Did you nod off in the presentation too? Did you nod off in the presentation too? Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. Let's get started. I'll say it three times. I got a lot on my plate. I got a lot on my plate. I got a lot on my plate. Did you get this one? I said I got a lot on my plate now got a native I got a lot on my plate. The expression is to have a lot on one's plate. Have you heard this? It's very common. When you have a lot on your You have many different tasks to complete. Now notice in my spoken expression I used got. I got a lot on my plate. I got a lot on my plate because native got in spoken English in a casual informal way. But in written English or more formal So let's see some examples. I could say give the project to Isabel. Amar already has a lot on his plate. Now of course, our verb is have, so you need to In this case, Amar, third person And notice Amar has a lot on his plate because We also use this expression to talk So you have to conjugate that verb. We had a lot on our plate So now I need our plate. And then you can use a past simple time I got a lot of my plate right now. We just got a lot of my plate. I got a lot on my plate. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. I'm thinking of taking up sewing. I'm thinking of taking up sewing. I'm thinking of taking up sewing. How'd you do? I said. I'm thinking of taking up sewing. Take up is our phrasal verb, and taking up, taking up because the Native speakers may drop that taking that G but then you have to connect the I'm thinking of taking up sewing. You may hear that. And did you get sewing? Because of course the pronunciation is the same So sewing is the activity, but the So let's talk about this phrasal verb. When you take up an activity or And this is one of the reasons that students you don't understand native speakers Filled with phrasal verbs. Idioms and expressions like this one. So remember our last expression? I have a lot on my plate. Let's combine these together. I'd love to take up sewing, but I Of course, take is a verb, I could say Max took up guitar What about you? Are you thinking of taking up notice? You need that gerund thinking of taking up? Are you thinking of taking Share that in the comments below We'll. Take up yoga or jogging or, you know, Yeah, I am. Well, Missus B and I did take Let's try a more advanced. Test. I'll say it three times. Have you nailed down the dates yet? Have you nailed down the dates yet? Have you nailed down the dates yet? I said have you nailed down the dates yet? And the reason why this is I'm using an expression you may not be familiar. With. For pronunciation, I said have you, but a lot of native speakers reduce you to So you might hear that now nailed. Notice in the past simple that Ed is a very So because I have AD sound on I'll pronounce it as one and you'll Nailed down. So it's pronounced exactly the same as nail down. But if you say it to. The other that. D is used for both, same with dates yet notice And it sounds like one word, dates yet dates. Yet the phrasal verb here and that's when you firmly So just think of it as 100% confirmed. I could say I'm not signing the Once the terms are nailed So you can think of them as official. So then I'm comfortable signing the you might say let's nail down our And once your plans are nailed down, they're 100% confirmed so you can Now notice my question. Have you nailed down the dates yet? What verb tense is that? It's the present perfect and I'm using the present If the person says no, it's still dates to confirm the dates To reply, you can say no, not yet because No, I haven't nailed down the dates yet. Or you could say. Yes, I nailed down the dates Pass Or you could say yes I have nailed down the dates. This is the present perfect. It's a completed pass action Once we nail down our mission. I'm just nailing down the specifics. I'll nail it down this week. Let's do one more, even more advanced. I'll say it three times. You can't dodge his calls forever. You can't dodge his calls forever. You can't dodge his calls forever. Did you get this one? I said you can't dodge his calls forever. Now notice can in spoken English. I'm not going to pronounce that hard. Can't with the. T. You can, can. Can't dodge. Notice here the D is silent, the middle Now what does dodge mean to dodge? This is when you purposely avoid or ignore. So he's calling but I'm not I'm dodging his call. So to you I might say you can't You can't purposely avoid it or ignore the Now notice I use dodge speaking his call, or you can dodge doing something. So the verb in ING Dodge speaking. We sometimes use this. In a more positive way, I might say So maybe you were asked an inappropriate but then you strategically So I might say great job dodging that question. She's dodging calls. Why have you been dodging my calls? She's dodging my phone calls. Now. I'm going to say each sentence again three for you to repeat the sentence out Let's do that now. I got a lot on my plate. I got a lot on my plate. I got a lot on my plate. I'm thinking of taking up sewing. I'm thinking of taking up sewing. I'm thinking of taking up sewing. Have you nailed down the dates yet? Have you nailed down the dates yet? Have you nailed down the dates yet? You can't dodge his calls forever. You can't dodge his calls forever. You can't dodge his calls forever. Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. Looks like we're back to square 1. Looks like we're back to square one. Looks like we're back to square one. I said looks like we're back to square one. Did you get that one? Let's talk about the pronunciation changes. Notice the contraction were were. This is we are as a contraction were Now It sounds like were not we're were. This is how native speakers We're back, we're back. We're back. We're back to. This sounds like TA in real English. TA. We're back to. We're back to square one. We're back to square one. Now what? Does this mean to be back to square one? Well, square one on a board game So when you're back to square one, it And you're back to the beginning. The start because you tried so you had a failed attempt Looks like we're back to square one. It looks like we have to start again from the Our next listening exercise, I don't know if we can trust I don't know if we can trust her. She's pretty wishy washy. I don't know if we can trust her. She's pretty wishy washy. I said. I don't know if we can trust her. She's pretty wishy washy. First, let's talk about This sounds like don't know. I don't know. I don't know, don't know. I don't know. I don't know if we can notice here we So it's not the main verb. We reduce this to can, can and I don't know if we can, if we can trust, if because it's the main verb and can, Can can trust, can trust. I don't know if we can trust. Her. Now here we can get rid of that H sound But then you combine it to the word I don't know if we can trust her. She's this is a contraction for she is. She's pretty wishy washy. What does wishy washy mean? To be wishy washy, This is when you have We generally use this as an adjective to changes the decision that they make frequently. So that's why you don't know if you can trust her because she says she's going to But because she's wishy washy tomorrow, actually, I'm not coming to the party But then maybe the next day. She changes her mind again and She's wishy washy. I don't know if I can trust her. She's pretty wishy washy. Our next listening exercise, You got to give him props. He's a real trooper. You got to give him props. He's a real trooper. You got to give him props. He's a real trooper. I said you got to give him props. He's a real trooper. You got to got to sounds like Same thing we saw with her. Get rid of the age and it will sound the word before give em, give em He's this is a contraction. He is. He's a real trooper. Now what does this mean to give someone prompts? This is when you give someone So let's say a Co worker of Well, if you want to give your you could say, oh, we got to give them. Props. And then you can celebrate his big achievement. Let's talk about he's a real trooper. When you describe someone as this is someone who perseveres So they persevere, they keep going. They don't give up, they And This is why you've got to give even though it was difficult, Our next listening exercise, Our successes and failures were writ large. Our successes and failures were writ large. Our successes and failures were writ large. I said our successes and failures were writ large. Notice our I did not pronounce this as Are our successes, our successes, And when and comes between we reduce it to our successes Coffee and tea successes and failures. Our successes and failures were writ. Did you spell this starting with? AR. Or with AW, the West is silent, just like in the word right, the West In pronunciation it isn't writ large. What does writ large mean? This is an adjective that So our successes and failures were very obvious. Why is that? Perhaps we work for a public company, and when But also, when we succeed, the because our successes and failures are writ large. They're very obvious. Are you ready for your last listening exercise? I'll say it three times. With a few tweaks, it'll be good to go. With a few tweaks, it'll be good to go. With a few tweaks, it'll be good to go. I said with a few tweaks, it'll be good to go. Did you hear that contraction? It'll it will sounds like it'll it'll. It's a very soft sound. It's easy to miss that will, But without it, the sentence If I said it be, That isn't correct. It will be, it'll be, it'll it'll, it'll be. Good to go. Just like we saw before, to is a reduced. Sound an unstressed sound. To good to go, to to go, to What does this mean with a few tweaks? Tweaks are changes, small changes. So let's say you're writing a report to remove this section and add this information. That would be a tweak. A tweak you need to make, a small change. A tweak with a few tweaks, with a When something is good to go, And we use this in two contexts, ready to So let's say you and your Your friend could text you and say good to go. Are you ready to leave? And in this. Case it could be Are you ready to movies Good to go, good to go We use this a. Lot as native. Speakers in this context, Something can also be good to go in the For example, the new website which means the new website will be ready ready visitors ready to be available to the public. The new website will be good to go on Monday. Now the new website as a subject is Talking. About the website, you can Now let's do an imitation exercise natural pronunciation changes and I'll say each sentence again three times in a Try to say it just like me. Get all those pronunciation changes. And I want. You to say this out loud so you can do Looks like we're back to square one. It looks like we're back to square 1. Looks like we're back to square one. I don't know if we can trust her. She's pretty wishy washy. I don't know if we can trust her. She's pretty wishy washy. I don't know if we can trust her. She's pretty wishy washy. You got to give him prompts. He's a real trooper. You got to give him prompts. He's a real trooper. You got to give him prompts. He's a real trooper. Our successes and failures were writ large. Our successes and failures were writ large. Our successes and failures were writ large. With a few twinks, it'll be good to go. With a few twinks, it'll be good to go. With a few twinks, it'll be good to go. Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. We need to nip this in the bud. We need to nip this in the bud. We need to nip this in the bud. Did you get this one? I said We need to nip this in the bud. Now let's talk about need. Notice that I didn't pronounce it forces me to take a pause, which slows me down. So if you don't pronounce that D at the We need. TA TA. Notice how to becomes more of an unstressed TA. We need to nip to nip to nip this sin. So notice here we have this in and again take that S sound and I can add it to the this sin, and it sounds like one You need to nip this in the bud. Now, what does this mean? When you nip something in the bud, it becomes serious or permanent, to stop is a negative behavior or I use this expression with my little Kitty Sasha. When she was just a kitten, she Now obviously this is a negative And if I let her keep scratching, then it will So I needed to nip her scratching in the bud. I needed to nip it in the bud. So maybe there's an issue or a problem For my students, I would say you need to which means you need to stop Because if you let it grow it's going to be a lot more difficult to overcome. So you need to nip your fear So if you're with me, put that in the comments, Put that in the comments. And I certainly hope that my Help you do that? I just want to nip any problems in the bud. I nip this thing in the bud going Need to nip this in the bud. Let's try this again with I'll say it. Three times. Don't blow as common out of proportion. Don't blow as common out of proportion. Don't blow as common out of proportion. Did you hear what I said? I said don't blow his comment out of proportion. Don't is a contraction of do not don't. It'll help you speak faster and again, Don't. Blow. Blow is. Blow is. So notice on his I drop that H Don't blow. Is. Comment out of you can reduce those into one You're blowing this way out of proportion. Now let's talk about the meaning here. When you blow something out of proportion, you make an event or a problem seem So let's say you have a job interview But remember, you nipped fear in the bud, so But imagine that you didn't nip fear in anxious and you're nervous, but the English and you make it seem like So you could say don't blow it out of proportion. Or if you're telling a friend how your friend could say to you, you're Now notice here I added way out of proportion. It's very common to add way So to emphasize it, you're blowing Blow it way out of proportion. But you're blowing this way out of proportion. Let's try this. This again. I'll say it three times. My client really chewed me out. My client really chewed me out. My client really chewed me out. How'd you do it? This one, I said. My client really chewed me out. Now let's talk about. Chewed. Notice this is an Ed verb, a past simple Chewed the the. Now again, we can drop that sound when we're connecting it to other words My client really chewed me out and notice how Now I use. A soft ya. Sound to combine two vowels me out yaout but I combine it with me so it So you don't hear it when But if you slowed it down you would My client really chewed me out. Your boss just chewed me out. The expression is to chew. Someone out and this is when you tell someone So this is not a positive thing. Now notice the difference between these sentences. I chewed my assistant out. The client chewed me out. So notice the difference. In the first one, I chewed my assistant The second one, my client chewed me out. I'm receiving the angry comments now. Sometimes my students, maybe even you, sometimes They tell me angrily that I've done something Put that in the comments. I won't chew you out. I won't chew you out. Please don't chew me out. It's not very pleasant to read Chew me out about something. Morock chewed out. I've been chewed out before. Wanted me to chew. Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three. Times we're not laying anyone off. We're not laying anyone off. We're not laying anyone off. Did you get this one? I said We're not laying anyone off. Now notice. Where? This is a contraction. We. Are and notice how unstressed it is? Where were, where where not where not. Now as a contraction, you So both of those contractions are common. I just chose to use where we're not. We're not laying anyone off. Now notice how I can combine anyone off. Off starts with a vowel and So I can take that N and just add noff anyone off and it sounds more This is when a company stops company doesn't have the money or Any so your manager or your boss could say to you, off, which means that they don't have the money to Talking about laying people off. First I had to lay them off. I had to lay off 27 robots. To lay someone off is the active form. It's the subject doing the action. But it's also very common to use the sentence And this is when you are receiving the action. So this is when you lose your job because your And remember we use get for the transition So the transition from employed to Now to be laid off, that's simply So now you are unemployed. I wasn't fired from my job. I was laid off. I got laid off. Wait, we're going to *** **** off? Now let's do an imitation exercise so changes and you can practice speaking So I'll say each sentence again three times, and I want you to repeat the sentence Here we go. We need to nip this in the bud. We need to nip this in the bud. We need to nip this in the bud. Don't blow as common out of proportion. Don't blow as common out of proportion. Don't blow as common out of proportion. My client really chewed me out. My client really chewed me out. My client really chewed me out. We're not laying anyone off. We're not laying anyone off. We're not laying anyone off. Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. Did you get this one? I said. They've been bickering all day. Let's talk about the pronunciation changes. Notice I have they've This They've, they've, they've. Native speakers use contractions in so you need to be very, very comfortable hearing the contraction because it affects the They have been bickering and the grammar is the present perfect continuous. So if you didn't have that, it They've been bickering all day. Now notice I said been been This is how we pronounce the past participle I don't speak British English, but pronounce it more stressed being, but We just say bin, bin. They've been. They've been bickering all day. Now, to understand fast English outside individual words, but you also have to So let's talk about the verb to. Bicker. This is when you argue about The concept of bickering is extremely And we usually do it with people Our family, our spouses, husbands Our. Close friends, our Co workers Anytime you spend a lot of time with But it's different from fighting because usually there's a strong emotion involved. But when you bicker, you don't It's less serious because the things you're arguing about, fighting about, Like I said, this can be very you spend a lot of time with your coworkers. So maybe you're in a meeting and you've been discussing an issue for hours with your They start arguing about You could say we. Didn't. Get anything done today because we bickered Yeah, we bicker. Either. Yeah, well, we were bickering Your kids are bickering. Let's try this again with I'll say it three times. That street's pretty sketchy. That street's pretty sketchy. That street's pretty sketchy. How'd you do with this one? I said that. Streets pretty sketchy. Did you hear that streets the S? Well, that is the verb to The street is the streets. The streets pretty sketchy. Again, it's extremely important for grammar because we need The sentence would sound very awkward if you didn't have it because it That street's. Pretty sketchy Sketchy, sketchy sketchy. Sketchy. Let's talk about to be sketchy. That street is our verb to be, to be sketchy. This is used to. Say that something is not completely safe. So by saying that street is pretty sketchy, I'm I don't think that street is safe. So I'm saying we shouldn't go down that street. We should avoid that street. Now, why would I say this street is sketchy? This is an adjective that If I say a street's sketchy, it's most There aren't a lot of people around, there's broken glass or broken windows, or there It could be all of those reasons, or it could be just one of those reasons for me to That street, it's. Pretty sketchy I could say. Let's. Take another St. This one looks sketchy, so I Sketchy, but I have to conjugate it. This street looks sketchy. Or let's say your friend or your husband I heard this amazing business proposal today. All we need to do is invest $1000 And you could say that. Sounds sketchy, so notice here the verb is. To sound sketchy and you're business proposal doesn't sound completely safe. We also use this to describe people. He's a sketchy guy or he's sketchy. She's sketchy in this case. You're saying the person isn't? Safe, which means you can't trust the person. So with people, it's a way of saying She's sketchy, he's sketchy. Seems a little sketchy. You're kind of sketchy laundry Let's try another listening exercise. I'll. Times. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. Did you get this one? You must have seen it. But notice I didn't actually say. Have I reduced that entirely to uh, I could also reduce it to more of an of sound, You must of, you must of. You must have seen it. Notice. For seen it, I use that that N sound Seen it, seen it, seen it. So you hear it in front of it. It sounds like NIT, but if you say those Seen it, seen it. You must have seen it. Now let's talk about the. Grammar of this must is a modal verb, and grammatically you need must plus So grammatically you need must have. In written English you must use must have But in spoken English it will But in written English, if you wrote you must So just remember what I'm. Explaining is first spoken English. You must have seen it 200 times. You must have seen it two you. Must have seen them here. Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA? I said. What's the ETA? Of course we have once. That's a contraction of. What is? What's? What's the? Now, because ETA, it begins with a vowel sound EI. Could say either. The OR the because we do a more stressed But this isn't a rule that native But if I did a more. Stressed E in the IT would really blend together with ETAVTA and it would almost The TA because I wouldn't The TA I believe in my example when The first. Time I did it more of the ETA, and the second time I did it more of Let's listen to that again and see what I did. What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA now? Ultimately, either way that you. Pronounce it the ETA or the ETA is. Fine, now you're probably This stands for. Estimated time of arrival. So your ETA, the ETA, or someone time of arrival for that someone or So let's say we're talking about a. Project and your boss wants to know Inbox or on his desk? He could say. What's the? ETA and he could just say the if it's obvious. You're talking about the project, Because you're the one submitting the project. Or he could say. What's the project's ETA? So the ETA belongs to the project. So you need that possessive And they all have the same This with friends or coworkers, family members So let's say you were supposed to O'clock for dinner, but you're. Running late. You could send them a text Google says my ETA is 642 Says because when you put something in a GPS. Google will tell you, or whatever you use. Google will tell you when That's your ETA. What's their ETA? ETA ETA 11 minutes. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you So I'm going to say each You to repeat. The sentence out loud and try to imitate and I'll say each sentence three times. Let's do that right now. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. They've been bickering all day. That's St's, pretty sketchy. That's St's pretty sketchy. That's St's. Pretty sketchy. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. You must have seen it. What's the ETA? What's the ETA? What's the ETA? Amazing job. Now let's complete another listening exercise. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Did you get this one? I said. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Of course I'm is a contraction. I am, I'm. And notice how in awe sounds like one word. Inna inna, I'm in a rut. In a rut. The expression here is to be in a rut. Now, you can also say to be stuck in a rut. Stuck is optional. When you're in a rut, it means you've been doing You've been doing it too long and Why are you in a rut? Same thing every day, knowing That's our breath. So let's say every day you but then at night, every night you watch Netflix. That could be. Your rut. We watch Netflix every night. We're stuck in a rut. We're in a rut. Are we in a rut? So to help you get. Out of that rut, you just need So you might say, let's go. To the park. Tonight, so instead of watching You enjoy the beautiful day to help you get. Out of your rut? You're a rider, ruts are normal. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. My boss is stuck in his ways. My boss is stuck in his ways. My boss is stuck in his ways. How'd you do with? This one I said my boss is stuck in his ways. Notice how boss is. We see it as one word, bosses. Bosses. It's the exact same pronunciation as I have two bosses, but here with the It's the exact same pronunciation. The expression to be stuck in Plural. And it's one possessive. My boss is stuck in his. Ways. This is when someone is unwilling to change how Kind of stuck in his ways. For example, my boss won't let me work remotely. He's stuck in his ways. Because he's too stuck in his ways. Gloria, this is good for him. So he has a specific way of thinking and he's unwilling to change his thinking. Now, the same expression can also use in one's ways, and it has the exact same meaning. Oh, you're young me. I'm set in my ways. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. Need a hand. Need a hand, Need a hand. This one was easy, right? I said need a hand and notice need. Ah, sounded like one word. Need a need a hand. Need a hand? Grammatically, this is missing the auxiliary But native speakers commonly drop And this is the same as saying need any help? Do you need any help? Exactly the same meaning now to You could say sure I could use a hand and this Hey tomorrow I could really use a hand in here. And if you want to request the assistance Can you give? Me a hand, can you give me a hand and Can you help me? Hey, Rach, can you give me a hand with this box? And you can give me a hand Video. Subscribing to my channel and That would really give me a hand. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. How can I get my foot in the door? How can I get my foot in the door? How can I get my foot in the door? Did you get this one? I said how can I get my foot in the door? Do you know this expression to This is. Used when you join an organization, a company. You take a specific. Job that's at a low level, but you're level will turn into a higher position You've already got a foot in the door. For example, I'm a journalist, but I took a job I was. But you have to be careful. With this strategy because you. Don't want to say I took this job five years ago to get my That would mean that you're still So you haven't moved up. So your strategy of taking a lower position to get Now let's do an imitation exercise so I'll say each sentence again and I want Let's do that now. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Maybe I'm just in a rut. Maybe I'm just in a rut. My boss is stuck in his ways. My boss is stuck in his ways. My boss is stuck in his ways. Need a hand? Need a hand? Need a hand how can I get my foot in the door? How can I get my foot in the door? How can I get my foot in the door? Did you enjoy this lesson? Do you want me to make more lessons? Just like this. If you do, then put foot in the door. Put foot in the door in the comments. So I know you enjoyed this lesson and remember you with your friends and of course, subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And expanding your vocabulary is such an But I have this video where you can learn lots more natural expressions to So I recommend you watch this lesson right now.