Chips are in everything, and they've been in short supply since just a few everything from cars to PS5s. Turns out one company makes 24% of all the fastest chips used in today's iPhones, supercomputers and automotive AI. Heck, we even have product that's landed on the last Mars launch that are Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, is not a household jets, the highest-end processors, you name it. And now it's investing $100 The combined output of what we're doing is in excess of 12 million wafers a But the world's massive reliance on TSMC may also leave the global chip China. It's become almost a monopoly at the leading edge and all of those That becomes a matter of national importance for the United States. But not TSMC almost always keeps its production sites closed to U.S. video crews. The total floor space for this fab is around a 2.3 million square feet. The U.S. was the birthplace of advanced silicon. But for decades now, it's TSMC is now bringing the world's most advanced chipmaking back to the U.S. desert. It's going to be, when it gets introduced to production in 2024, the most We got an exclusive tour of the fab site in northern Phoenix to get the contract chipmaker is bringing bleeding edge chip manufacturing back to When Morris Chang first proposed the idea for TSMC in the mid 80s, Stanford. Chang moved to Taiwan after 25 years at Texas Instruments. There, would become a world leader. His idea: focus only on manufacturing, what's When you're just focused on one thing, you do one thing really well. Rick Cassidy is TSMC's top executive in the U.S. He's been with the company The slice we spun out was foundry. And that's what we do. And we put all of Chang bet big on a need that didn't exist in the 80s. When he founded TSMC and making their own chips. A legendary saying in the industry back then When Morris went out to get funding, he went to many named companies, and off the ground, it can't scale.&quot; But as chips got more complex, making them became an enormous undertaking. nearly impossible for even the biggest chip companies - Intel, NVIDIA, tech. Intel, for example, still designs and makes its own chips. But it's make some of its chips. So if you were a smart designer, you didn't have to have billions of Now each major step of chipmaking is often handled by a separate company. building blocks to design chips. Then there's electronic design automation, design chips. Only one company, ASML makes the $180 million extreme chips. And then of course there are the wildly successful fabless companies fabulous companies took off, TSMC found itself on a flywheel making more And this has allowed TSM to not only catch up but, in my opinon, surpass planet, and responsible for becoming one of the top 10 most valuable TSMC was first listed on the Taiwan stock exchange in 1994. In 1997, it the 2000s, it had caught up with the 20 or so other companies making the fell behind until today, only two manufacturers remain that can make the relying on TSMC to make its A-series chips for the iPhone as it moved awa there's a TSMC chip inside every iPhone on the market. And Apple has mo But they remain sort of in the background. So you know, Apple gets all the We let our products speak for themselves. Their success brings all the As to why TSMC hasn't allowed U.S. media into its sights before now? Is part of the secrecy have to do with IP? Sure because the IP protection is very important for this industry, not In 2018 at age 86, Chang retired as chairman of TSMC. His radical pure-play next year, TSMC is in a race with Samsung to make the world's first cutting edge three- and five-nanometer TSMC also makes far larger chips for chips and why nanometers matter, let's look at how they're made. Silicon, then sliced into circular wafers. These wafers are the surface on which hundreds of tiny layers, each made up of transistors and electrical printed on each layer using lithography, extremely precise rays of light. nanometers, the more processing power can fit in a given space with less than a human hair. Most of the chips are probably about the size, a large one, of my transistors, and they all have to work. These are parts that are going to in smartphones. Bigger chips are used in most household devices, things like a TV remote or chips. And all types of chips have been impacted by the shortage. Car is cutting its 2021 production targets for the iPhone 13, with orders for can make five-nanometer chips, but TSMC is changing that. The F-35 Strike Fighter to these consumer products, their customer base is as a byproduct of that we knew they were going to need to be in the United Chris Camacho of the Greater Phoenix Economic Council got to visit TSMC's brought the project to Arizona. The robotics, the automation, the mechanization occurring before your eyes they're also their output is so significant. TSMC is six months into building this massive five-nanometer fab outside chips from the wafers will end up in iPhones, high-end processors and much projects in his 23 years with TSMC. Actually this project is designed for five-nanometers fab. It's a copy from Just down the road Intel is in the midst of building two new fabs, spending brought some of the world's largest equipment to Arizona. This is the biggest crane that Manitowoc makes. There's only two of them in contractors moved over 3,731,000 cubic yards of dirt. We've also used over Indeed, building a fab and making chips takes an incredible amount of Arizona's biggest water source is groundwater. But deep wells at big farms We do need around 4.7 million galllons per day of water to support the TSMC is no stranger to water shortages. Taiwan is facing its worst drought Arizona, TSMC says an onsite water treatment center will recycle up to 90% And ultimately that water will be reinjected into the aquifer in technology solutions are provided. Another challenge of producing the most advanced chips stateside: the TSM's best engineers right now are in Taiwan. They're likely going to stay To solve this, recruiter Roxanna Vega says TSMC is bringing over some of They're seen as subject matter experts in what they do in our fabs over TSMC has already sent some 300 new U.S. hires to Taiwan for 12 to 18 months And the opportunity to train in our five-nanometer gigafab in Taiwan is tools, machinery and everything is going to be here in Arizona. Taiwan is not very good when it comes to analog semiconductor design. And number of analog designers. This diversification is a key reason for TSMC to bring advanced customers based in the U.S. like Apple, Nvidia and Qualcomm. If you want more capacity, you have to build more fabs. And that's one of U.S., the U.S. government wants us here. Over 60% of their customer base is still U.S. companies. So some of these to home, just in case TSMC has 12 fabs, almost all of them in Taiwan and China. They account for in Taiwan leaves the world vulnerable to potential slowdowns from swirling around the U.S., China and Taiwan. But some refer to TSMC as The silicon shield is: TSMC is extremely, extremely important. And I think The media paints a very bleak picture of this situation. But I'm actually shield. China, as of right now, needs them for their leading edge The U.S. also depends heavily on the chips coming out of Taiwan, a key We're not going to have to worry about geopolitical conflict. We're not of manufacturing capacities on U.S. soil. Today, only 12% of the world's semiconductors are made in the U.S. That's Back in the days of Bell Labs and the early days of Silicon Valley, we were both state and federal officials are eager to entice TSMC to bring advanced The State of Arizona has a number of programs including the Qualified incentive to help lower the cost of operations. In addition to that, the helps TSMC access water and additional infrastructure needed. The Biden administration has proposed $52 billion in subsidies for chip CHIPS act. This is infrastructure. So look: we need to build the infrastructure of And things like the CHIPS Act are absolutely critical for the success of operate in the U.S. Otherwise we're going to be importing chips for the Over the last 20, 30, 40 years, we've slowly slipped in that manufacturing countries. It's somewhere between 20 to 25%. cheaper for American firms to TSMC's Rick Cassidy took part in discussions that led to the CHIPS Act. We don't want anything more than to create a level playing field so that it locations. Industry reports estimate a $50 billion investment from the U.S. government years, more than doubling domestic chip manufacturing capability. As the Industry association SEMI projects 72 new fabs or major expansions will I heard more announcements of investments in last two, three years than my announced roughly $150 billion investments. And based on that we feel that shortage. But until then, as demand continues to soar, TSMC is raising chip prices as electronics. TSMC has always been able to charge a premium if it was necessary. And most reason they're willing to pay for it. Meanwhile, TSMC will certainly continue investing in ramping up production certainly has room for a second phase and more. So we've got a lot of land. And we have the ability to do more ther., It will take time. But it's not just the chip and the foundries. It's going companies that produce the chemicals and the gases required that go into semiconductor sector for the United States. As you can see, we can get into a lot of trouble when everything is in one United States reverse the declines that we've had over the last few