Hola! Bienvenidos! Welcome to beautiful Lake Atitlan! Buenos dias. Good morning country collectors! Antigua but we are heading 90 kilometers While we're there we're gonna explore a few villages around the lake and just yeah see what it's like. I love that idea. subscribe button and ring the bell so you don't things first though we gotta get there. And there get there but we chose to go with the shared costs a hundred Quetzales and it's gonna take You can also get a private transport or take the level of comfortability. It looks like our chariot it took about three hours to get here from when pretty cool spot. There's a pizza/steakhouse across We're gonna head over to our hotel right now so many villages surrounding the lake. You can see We're staying right here in Panajachel and we then we're just gonna take boats to go to the is because this is the main Transportation Hub. Market which is one of the biggest next week for that video. All right I think our some tight little alleyways here definitely not a bad sign when you have barking dogs close to Home sweet home! Let's see what we got. It's If the key fits. Okay! Nice. Yeah. The bed looks there's a terrace out here with a seat. Got So I think we're just gonna hang out for a and see what's going on in town so stick tuned... that there's a terrace on the roof. There's some mountain. Oh my gosh all right let's go ahead to row. Adam did you bring your bike? Yeah I did this store right here down our alley. It's called If you forget your pants or your bra and your dipped in chocolate. I love that. And you can get or a Polo shirt. Amy is fancy! We are back on that called Calle Santander and here you can find a ton just showed you the parapente, the paragliders so if you you want to do that you can pop in. We we think could be an amazing thing. I mean just Maybe we'll do that. There is People are just walking around having a good don't prefer a place like this because it is so going on. So the best part is here you have options quieter villages. Whatever you need they got. Let's items here seems very affordable. The most that Like this beautiful hoodie up here is less than are a bunch of tour operators down here that can it's definitely a main tourist hub here. They're In front of us is I believe the Embarcadero where a little market that we're gonna walk through so and a lot of the shops are closing up but you Check this out they still have up little Christmas to leave it up and I love that Christmas The lake is right in front of us it looks it down here. Lago de Atitlan in all its glory. Wow It's a Sunday so families are out just enjoying flanked by three volcanoes, so picturesque. And lake in Central America, 341 meters deep. 18 meters which means we're almost a mile high. So is why but wow what a scene! As we've been walking go on a launch, if we want a tour. So I just asked wanted to go to San Juan and back it would be 50Q. But then they also do private tours where they can take you to three of the villages like a half hour to an hour in each. They said them and kind of make a plan with them. It just But yeah definitely come down here talk to the know do whatever you want to do. And right boats coming in. For 25Q they will take around the lake. So you can just get a nice view, if you're not looking to actually go to a town You know I don't normally work out but we can I view like this it's kind of hard to resist! He's fool you! I'm not a worker outer. And along the you got a lot of possibilities to buy some of your have these in my size? Those are so cute! I need like one past the boats and the town there it's just like go get something to eat because I'm getting a would be a great place to watch the sunset. I mean right now there's so many restaurants to choose couple steps back from the water and pick up some They are stuffed with Pollo, there's some guacamole to take them down and sit on the water and watch found the perfect spot. We just made it in time how was that Empanada you just had a bite? It is so Picante on it and my tongue is kind of tingling home yeah we get like homemade food but it's not was only 8Q so you're looking at about a And when I look at it I can just see the work that wait to jump into this. Well we are just gonna enjoy you in the morning. We're gonna have a big day out then. Buenos dias and welcome back to beautiful this view. We have the best weather today we're we showed you the boats left from yesterday but just north of us. That's right so leaving from here to the towns that you want to go to. If you go to will take you to all of them and just make stops from if you're coming from Antigua and going to where you end up. And I think these boats go to here. But yes we're gonna take this direct boat over come join us. Behind me here is the booth where go both ways or 30Q just to go one way. o'clock so we gotta make sure to be back by then I think we made it! Mucho gusto! We met this beautiful family on the way over. The right? Yes! And they come to visit here every Aww. Yeah our house is yours. We can go to the French Quarter we'll get like a giant beer or a frozen drink. Beignets! Oh we can stay in his house you guys are the sweetest! See you in New Orleans! Have fun! Okay. We have made it to San Juan La Laguna and behind us dock just welcoming us in. It's got a really cool and apparently our direct boat made stops. Yeah. We else in the boat was like are we supposed to half an hour total from Panajachel to here and the ride houses going up the mountains on the other. And places, those other villages on the lake was really to plan like it works out even better. Make those place out. Let's get this party started! Come along! hike up to this mirador. I heard it's one it's a great way to start out so we can get a nice called the Indian Nose hike. I believe from there hours but can you imagine the views from up there. try that but for today we're just gonna do this babe. You almost picked the Indian nose. And as you up so if you're looking for some souvenirs this is off the dock we met Carlos here. He was asking us all over San Juan. If you come here and you see can he can make sure you have a wonderful day! appreciate it for you. Oh thank you. And as make your immediate right that'll take you up to you don't want to walk what have we seen plenty of? there as well. But this is just gorgeous. You doing some construction here it's definitely Central America you know like everything is everyday life. Yeah. You know there's banana trees the distance with a view this place is sweet. And this stuff out to you guys like look at what they dug up the Earth and then they use the roots and Very resourceful. And since we've been in Guatemala as coffee tours. Imagine coming here, immersing environment and learning some really good Spanish. Hi cutie pies! Hey! Sorry! No you're great. Time for a swim to the lake. Enjoy! I know why they're excited! Have fun! Guate is this little treasure right here? Just next to where we mentioned the coffee there are actual seeds on them. It's so awesome here just keeps this? This is cool too! And right as we were gonna left here this park caught our eye. It's bathroom attendant, there are public bathrooms one month old. But make sure to stop and check Quetzal right here. So stunning! And I also the group here they are known as Tzutujil. It's the lake there's gonna be different Maya groups dialects they're completely different languages try to absorb as much as you can of that and get to the point in the road where you see the me right here, I love that little guy. You're gonna take you up to the mirador, let's go! And you Hola Senor! Adios. Just a few steps away we have come to the entrance here. It's called Mirador Kiaqaiswaian and it costs 30 Q for foreigners. It's a bit cheaper for little nervous especially after Acatenango I have together right? All right let's go! Of course if them on the way up. I guess on the way down too. at night as well because they have lights all Oh almost there, just a little Gracias. We did it! We did it and it was totally worth the have a little side stitch. It was a little hard? And the day but man this view is like no other. We got know what's up. I might be laying down with you call it a boardwalk? A walkway. There are a lot a snack and just enjoy the views. But in front of Cerro De La Cruz, or the Hill of the Cross so let's The artwork that you're walking on is so beautiful. down that you can have another great view from got to do and I forgot to mention the mountains Indian Head just over here. I mean you feel like you have a couple more hours of hiking in you? You of hiking in me but you could definitely spend a it's magical. Like Adam just said the artwork is this view again this is a San Juan and over here hop over there today as well we'll see how far this lake wow! My mouth is so dry because we were They actually wanted to get photos with us and four wives now and it was just a really fun you here, just laughing. aAnd that's one thing when connect with people a little more so we recommend so you can just have a good time with them. That incredible view we would love to give a shout out and Natalia thank you so so much for all of your those steps that I didn't have breath for on the a lot. That's saying a lot. I do, from the bottom of my If you would like to join our Patreon community I think we're just gonna to enjoy this for a bit We'll see you there! Whoa. That was quite a leap. like there's hats floating all over my head. Well Calle de los Sombreros so there are a lot of hats a walk together. We're just starting up the street coffee. It looks like this lady right here is I need a little pick me up I'm gonna head into Yeah. That's a big one for you. Hello gorgeous! He knows me obviously. Wow that's like a nice Guatemalan medium roast. That it's as big as your head. Yeah it's close. It was it with us. Let's head up the street see what how you could walk down this road and not be rainbows everywhere you look. So much beautiful art, you can hear the echoes maybe of the kids laughing. in there so it looks like a little bit of a artisans as well like places where you can go textiles which we hope to do in a little just incredible! It was really hard peeling saw the back of the church so we came just around San Juan. It's really unique the architecture. behind it the mountains in the back it's just very they had a very unique nativity scene that has a the most important industries here. So why don't cooperative and learn some more about it. Let's go! This is such a beautiful place it was founded in order to empower women. Everything you see hand woven, hand-dyed from natural dyes. It's really picture of the lady who made it. Behind me here seen anything like this like. I've seen the hand this. It's impressive. Very incredible work. you know all those natural dyes. Yeah it's very we're just going to take a walk through because different products so come along. Like this right it has a picture of the women who made it. Dominga says all of the materials as well as the dyes And it took a month to make. I mean how incredible could come here and purchase this and have it Even if you don't wear you could frame it and hang great idea actually. I could definitely see that It's beautiful. And in the back here is where they said it costs 20 Q but if you purchase have all the cotton and then up over here you to make the dye. And also like they have these which makes them this color which is really everything. And then over here they have the women heart swell so much knowing that every purchase their families. So it's definitely something we come down here and just yeah feel the magic! It's to bring it home with you. Check it out! I got like it's gonna be really nice to help me shade travels. And look check this out. And I just love actually just got a demonstration, a small one but actually see a woman you know weaving. It's called and wow we just blown away amazing amazing! Well been to the chocolate shop yet?&quot; And we were like corner supposedly there's a chocolate workshop. is the Chocolate Factory, restaurant and hotel. demonstrations. If you saw our Antigua video we learned about Bean to Bar, the whole process. So are interested in something like that this is the fountains and trees. There's a beautiful restaurant too full to go home you can actually stay here head down to town and see what else we can find. had to head inside and get some treats. We got a this beautiful piece of pineapple dipped in dark it is. Oh wow the pineapple it was in the freezer. perfection. All right now it's time to go. Alright And check this one out there's another special go take a walk down. We could use a little shade. down I saw this sign and it said medicinal plants here. This is another collective that is run by and they grow over 40 plants, right? And they make you come in here? Do you want to be in with her? And in the back they do a demonstration This place just keeps getting better and women. It's just so nice to see women creating culture into the future. Especially after the here for so long and just ended not so long ago. is healing. It does my heart good to know that and that we are sharing with you. And we're so of it. Wow! So much art here. And does this run all the way down back to the muelle (dock)? It actually does. Normally you would get off where the boat drops you off and to the viewpoint we missed it. But I'm so glad you'd be missing out if you weren't here. This like Mexico this would definitely be one of them. Unfortunately our day has come to an end. Man time you didn't know we had so much fun exploring here. time we turned a corner it was something else I mean our Guatemalan friends are going to be here. I can totally see why they'd spend so much we were hoping to have enough time to go over It's where the nightlife is. But unfortunately or enjoying our time here and just soaking it all are 11 villages around the lake. Some are you more traditional. So when you come here go out friends your family, us. Let us know how they are. thank you so much for joining us. It would have able to share it with you so thank you for us a big thumbs up, comment, subscribe and don't DLING, DLING, DLING, DLING the bell! We'll see you, next time. Adios!