Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. The printed word. but never naked. words and letters are printed, clothing of a typeface. A font family. you cannot type without using a typeface. Even right now, here on YouTube, you are communicating your own words, but through the visual styling of someone else - the creator up Arial. Jake, Kevin, myself and others use Alsina, because it most closely resembles the handwritingof Nik Guinta, the creator of the Vsauce logo. Now, thinking of typefaces as fashion for letters is not a new idea. Adrian Frutiger famously said is just like the work of dressmaker. as Alan Fletcher put it, a typeface is an alphabet in in a straitjacket. and some don't. while others are silly or ugly. But one typeface is so silly and so ugly and so popular that it has arguably become the most hated font of all time. Comic Sans. discerning designers scoff at its ubiquity, usually wielded by amatures who don't know better. on Twitter, the only thing complained but less frequently than airlines, is Comic Sans. a Kill Comic Sans game. Ban Comic Sans provides a gigantic list of hand-written looking fonts instead. it's almost pulled a 360 and is cool again, ironically. But irony isn't the only thing Comic Sans has going for it. Comic Sans a particularly good font for children of its easily distinguishable characters, like the letter A. books and signs had to be hand written, often meticulously and expensively copied by hand. If you wanted a book, someone had to literally write by hand the whole book for you. But Gutenberg changed that by popularizing interchangeable type. handwriting of scribes at the time, the very first font ever textura. Later on, typesetters in Italy realized slanted and remain legible and readable, but take up less vertical space, page. italics means slanted or oblique, but because of where it was invented - Italy. pieces had to be cast from molten metal in foundries, which get their name from the French fondue, which means something that has been melted. And so it's because of the word fondue that within a typeface a font. typesetters kept their type pieces in cases. The most commonly used pieces were kept whereas capitals were kept just a little above in the upper case. to Comic Sans. by Vincent Connare. Melinda Gates herself asked Connare to design a font for the cartoon dog in Microsoft Bob to speak in. Connare had designed Comic Sans, from comic books. Microsoft Bob, but was subsequently released as a font that it became what it is today. which seemed simple and cute and became cards, but also in less appropriate situations. For instance, on an official Canadian coin or on a gravestone. Because of things like that, Comic Sans has amassed a lot of haters. so often or in such inappropriate situations. And so in reality, the fault may lie with us, the typers. Comic Sans doesn't disappoint people. People disappoint people. Another way to think of it is this. may recognize Comic Sans so quickly because it is a threat. is a specialized discipline, but now anybody with a computer can take a stab at it without your approval. you. isn't really that well designed design. David Kadavy has a brilliant &quot;Why You Hate Comic Sans.&quot; unbalanced and not very well kerned. Comic Sans is certainly not a calculated, precise font liked Trajan. real handwriting. the uncanny valley. The more human something gets, the more we like it, but not quite. creepy, almost scary. exists in that same area, typographically speaking. But that said, the screens that Comic Sans on, were typically aliased, and as Kadavy Garamond, Comic Sans does really well here. That is how we should think about Comic Sans. A pragmatic font, a font that worked era and exists today as one of the most relics of one of the most important in history. hand. but the final look really just came down to what a few typesetters could do. almost anyone can dabble in typography and that is an amazing thing. it means that Comic Sans will be used. A lot. is proof the design works. &quot;type means more than words.&quot; And David Kadavy argues that just as led to a spread of literacy, Comic Sans, and the personal publishing it comes along with, should lead us toward a spread of design literacy. Sure. ugly. of 'Smoke on the Water' are ugly, as played by almost every beginning guitarist, who picks up a guitar at almost every instrument store. annoying and a little bit fumbly, but it tools to move toward mastery. Adrian Frutiger said that type thought legible, simply by rearranging the same letters over and over again. overused by the untrained majority may seem unsavory to some people, it most loudly represents something phenomenal. Today it is possible for the whole world of thought to be made legible and be shared by the whole world. And as always, thanks for watching.