Bo: Hey guys. Billy: Hey, Bo. Bobby: Hi, Bo. (lyrics) Flipping Physics Mr. P: Ladies and gentlepeople, the bell has rung, therefore you should ready and excited to analyze Billy: Cool. Bobby: Which moon? Our moon? Bo: Yeah, our moon. Mr. P: Yep. In order to show that the is independent of mass, astronaut David Scott holding a feather and a hammer at the same height and dropping them at the same time. Let's enjoy the video. David: I wanna watch this. A good picture there. I've got ... Operations: Beautiful picture, Dave. David: In my left hand I have a feather. In my right hand a hammer. I guess one of the was because of a gentlemen named Galileo a long time ago who made discovery about falling And we thought that, where to confirm his findings than on the moon? And so we thought we'd The feather happens to be, appropriately, a falcon feather for our Falcon, and I'll drop the two of they'll hit the ground at the same time. How about that? Operations: How about that? David: I think that was correct in his findings. Mr. P: So now what we're gonna do, is we're gonna take a look at the video and figure out variables that we know and see what we can calculate from there. So, Bobby, taking a look at the video, which I have now looped to just show the dropping of the objects, tell me a variable that we know. Bobby: It looks like ... Is their initial velocity zero? Mr. P: Yes, the initial is equal to zero because and the feather. Bo, what else? Bo: We know from the last lecture that the acceleration due is about 1/6th of what it Mr. P: Correct, however more specifically it's the acceleration due that is 1.62 meters per second, squared. And, therefore, the which is equal to -g, is equal to -1.62 meters per seconds, squared. Uh, Billy, what else do you see? Billy: Isn't the frame rate of standard definition video 29.97 frames per second? So, can't we just figure to determine how long it fell for? Mr. P: Absolutely right. Very nice, Billy. The National Television System Committee, or NTSC, standardized the color television broadcast signal in the to have a frame rate of And this is clearly after the 1950's and is before high definition video. I wasn't even born in 1971. So let's go through and count the frames. David: Well, in my left In mt right hand, a hammer. And I guess one of the was because of a gentleman named Galileo a long time ago, who made a rather significant discovery. Mr. P.: So there you go, 36 frames. We need to convert the change in time from frames into seconds. Billy pointed out that there are 29.97 frames per second in this video, therefore we're gonna by the reciprocal of the frame rate. And what do we get for our change in time? Bobby: It's 1.201201 seconds. Mr. P: And given that information we can figure out the initial from which Mr. Scott droped Bo, how can we figure Bo: Well, the acceleration is constant, so we can use our uniformly accelerated motion equations, we just Let's use the displacement initial, times the change times the acceleration, times We have all the numbers is zero and anything so the displacement times 1.201201 squared, which gives us ... -1.16874 and using two sig figs because our frame rate so that rounds to -1.2 meters. Mr. P: Very nice, Bo. One thing to notice that I did, that we identify that this Oh, for those of you who are because there are 3.281 feet per meter, we can do this. Which means that Mr. and the feather from an initial height above the ground of or 3.8 feet, which is which looks pretty close to me. Yes, Bobby, you have a question? Bobby: Mr. P, where did the negative go? Mr. P: Oh, right, okay, so the delta Y, or displacement, has both magnitude and direction and because the hammer and feather were going down this means that the displacements were negative. However, I asked for the heights initial above the ground, which Any other questions? Billy: No. Bobby: Cool video. Mr. P: In that case, a video that was filmed which has almost no the hammer and the feather We counted the frames they were in free-fall to figure out the height initial for the hammer and I think that's pretty cool. Thank you very much for I enjoyed learning with you.