In Berlin, the CIA and the KGB The Secret Service War was A clash almost hot, just Peter Wolter, agent bought by the Soviet bloc. Between 1978 and 1988, it performs almost 100 times From West Germany, to East Berlin, At the time, the subway crossed We were going through stations in slow motion. They were more or less We saw that the exits and the entrances And in each of these stations, the police That's what we saw. We were crossing It was a very concrete picture For nearly 50 years serving thousands of agents like of the greatest war It begins on May 2, 1945. The German enemy has just capitulated, before the allied armies Two worlds now face each other. Two clearly demarcated blocks, and in the heart of East Germany, a city that will become Berlin cut in two. A new war is brewing there. But this will not be frontal. It's a new kind of war lies and intoxication. CIA, KGB, for each, the objective to impose its ideology. For the ruins of Berlin, Forget the smiles the winners are not Peace is signed. Americans and Soviets, no longer have the strength then everyone places their pawns. We observe each other. This is how it begins We stand here on one Tempelhof airport. West Berlin was not located but in the heart of the sector It was a thorn A time bomb that Berlin, was it going to be absorbed by remained a free city? That was the line of conflict between the services since the end of World War II. In the United States, we realize The Soviets are one step ahead. They created their services America is 30 years behind. A man is dispatched to Berlin to mount Peter Sichel sets foot on the tarmac October 1, 1945. We arrived with very little At that time, we had just won the we drank too much, we lived And then slowly we realized The Russians had always been They arrived in Germany with who spoke the language. They knew the context and above all, We had to learn And we needed a America, until then, had never The Soviets will wear and it will be brutal. On June 24, 1948, in the early morning, railway tracks, It's the blockade. This is the foreground The information brought up were the following: West Germany had that she was a burden Stalin, when the two camps saw a chance to put From there we would have but it would have triggered We could also accept what part of the government Finally we could continue My work during was to know what the Russians At that time we became to ensure that they were not We were sure of that and it's Peter Sichel's agents know and the US government They then trigger the most For nearly a year, the ballet 280,000 flights make it possible to transport to the 2 million Berliners. The city will never be the CIA wins its first victory. Yes, Berlin is still alive! The airlift is on! The part however From Moscow in the early 1950s, Stalin leads a fight in Korea and Vietnam, China, The KGB is still there, hidden away. Berlin is the limit New agents are loaded I said &quot;yes&quot; right away I have never regretted it. We couldn't lose the R.D.A. Because she was the bulwark of She had to be carefully protected. That's why we planted It was our army. As long as she was based there, nothing could happen to us. Georgy Sannikov, pure product of the KGB. His career ? He will end He is 29 years old The KGB headquarters at the time Karlshorst, south of Berlin. The place was known. It is the Saint Antoine Institute, an old monastery. A few meters from the building where the The intelligence war was It was who could penetrate the farthest. the deepest He's the one who wins, vital information For this we were ready In Karlshorst, no one suspects The danger will come from underground. The CIA prepares in the most which could overturn It became very clear how much he knew The Soviets had a lot It was easy to get them. There were telephone directories with the names of those responsible None of this existed on the Russian side. It was then that the Americans in order to wiretap telephone lines It was a way to collect We were asked to locate We finally got there in the East German postal service. He was in charge of the lines. I thought that was a great plan. The tunnel is dug, 450 meters under the iron curtain, to the lines From there, the CIA will occupy half a million phone calls. For eleven months, she imagines But she may peel nothing interesting. What Americans don't know His name is George Blake. A double agent actually. He works for the KGB gonna make him a legend Blake was an agent He was present at a meeting in London in December 1954. It was there that he learned that to connect to the lines This operation had a code name. Operation Gold. Blake immediately understood A month later, all information and documentation were on a desk in Moscow. At that time, the KGB had to take Did he prevent risking compromising his agent, or on the contrary, does he to protect his spy? Eventually the Soviets decided So they left that tunnel Eleven long months during which Then when the time the KGB revealed the existence of the tunnel. Journalists the spy tunnel The tunnel will serve KGB men open and denounce the dirty methods George Blake will finally be unmasked, He will spend the rest of his life, to ridicule his elders The mission that had been assigned to me, was to infiltrate me I think I can say today In 1961 Germany The duel between the KGB and the CIA A scar in the heart of the city. With the Berlin Wall, All contacts are broken, to have men on the other side. This time again, of a weapon the CIA will never have. A local anchor. The Stasi. intelligence services As early as 1958, Moscow placed a He will become a myth, a legend. We nicknamed him: the man without a face. He is the least known spy They will take 20 years to give him Markus Wolf. Was Wolf's nomination There is no hesitation to have. Yes. It was even the biggest success He became a legend thanks to the I asked him one day: &quot;How many agents do you have? He answered me... I remember perfectly &quot;My agents, have been everywhere.&quot; Markus Wolf, here he is in 1981, on this exceptional document he addresses an audience of spies. He placed 5,000 throughout Europe. For us who honor and respect, the great tradition we must take example from these men. Together, let's start by making the founder of the KGB the mate With Marcus Wolf, the seat soon to do too From this office, for 30 years, the intelligence boss will 90,000 employees and 180,000 informants, 3% of the East German population. In the cellars of the building, the Stasi archives. thousands of meters Inside, names, places, faces, lives scrutinized and spied on. Almost one in three East Germans Under the control of the KGB and the Stasi, espionage in the East has become Wolf was an intellectual, one of his spymasters The further his career progressed, to spy on the West, snatch secrets from the west, He had very high placed spies For example, a source in services provided him on the organization's policy, the military strategy of the allies and even, top secret CIA documents. Marcus Wolf orchestrates this gigantic in the early 70s, The Soviet Union and the United States Between them, they already matter more Thanks to the report of these spies, the KGB will always be one step ahead. He will always know the state of NATO troops, the real threat posed Peter Wolter was 24 when he Its role is crucial. In West Germany, he is responsible for protecting, the men of the Wolf system. A distant relative led of the counterintelligence agency It gave me access outside the perimeter My visits were not I could see all his documents I could browse them very interesting lines, which he They were politicians who were suspected These are the names of these people and that thanks to this, several people We were stronger because What was not the case She dictated everyone's actions And I assure you that, These are our ideals That's probably why We knew clearly what were The battle between the CIA and the KGB And at that time, communist ideals in the youth of the West. Peter Wolter is convinced False papers allow him to carry out without arousing suspicion. His contact with the Stasi, lives here, a little Moscow. Here in this building was It was rented to a lady, I had his phone number i couldn't call counterintelligence So I called Aunt Gertrude's. I guess she She wrote down what I had to say. For example : Aunt Emma is sick. She won't be able Which meant that my meeting with We made a list then she passed it on through a secure telephone line. Marcus Wolf's Machine What interests him it is the deployment of missiles pointed at the U.S.S.R. To obtain this information, he invents an incredible He recruits agents of a kind A romantic name, for a demolition company Gabrielle Klim fled Germany. What she can't escape, On July 7, 1977, she is sitting on the terrace of a cafe, when a man approaches her. It was really... He was the man of my dreams. I had always and suddenly, I didn't even believe that My first instinct but I stayed. We met several times He told me fairly quickly that he It went so fast that we had Gabrielle is 32 years old. She is a translator at the embassy This meeting takes for her The love of his Romeo yet, This love is monetized. And the price to pay it's the confidential documents, that pass through the fingers I brought him documents, I wasn't even paying attention and he kept telling me And then the Romeo becomes more pressing. It flies away then reappears. romance gives way to blackmail. Gabrielle always takes more risks The documents which we did not have we put them in bags, bags which were then burned. I took the documents from these bags. I was mostly trying to take Then I slipped them and then I went out. The embassy never checked me. Then at home then, I threw them away or I brought them back These were documents like Pershing missiles. Yes, I remember that well. It is a technique of compromise. It's about compromising someone when wet, that he or she has provided information It was a specialty of espionage. We tried the Romeos too, and it never worked. We never found the right girl! Or the good Romeos! The Soviets fared much better! For the Stasi I was not I was 32 years old. I had my life ahead of me. And there, this force Fully aware of her actions, and she decided to put Sometimes it gets better. And sometimes it just doesn't work. The Romeos will have claimed more than 80 victims. young women information came of all embassies. There is no moral. There is no moral it's not a game Neither does the CIA. In the mid 70's, is increasingly criticized. The police state It's these men infiltrated behind enemy lines, they blend in with the decor. They remain invisible. Eberhard Fatkenheuer, 71 years old today. In East Berlin he worked He was responsible for observing That was the first. How to say... And this is Carly. In fact, it was him Carly, who died I met him on a train Totally by chance. Seven years later, in 75. He recruited me for the US Secret Service. I did not feel in I dreamed of living elsewhere, I also had a picture For me they were It was easy to recruit agents. It was much more difficult Most wanted to prove but that didn't interest us. What interested us, Many of them got arrested What happened to those Some have been executed. Others ended up in Siberia. It wasn't all pretty. I started to think I was always asked for more. To go to places For example, one day... They wanted me to go watch the most After a moment, And then there was my wife She helped me decipher She was begging me to stop Of course, I was more and more afraid. Today I can't understand how i got to work in my work as an engineer. While I lived permanently, in danger. It happened on June 28, 79. I was driving down a street, when a brown colored Wolga She double crossed me, then put on Three men jumped out of the vehicle. And one of them asked me if I nodded and the man said: &quot;Please follow us, During the trip, I said to myself: &quot;Look closely at these trees, because you will never see them again And that's what happened. Eberhard Fatkenheuer just fell, the CIA lost an agent. He will be transferred to the most sinister Hohenschoenhausen, Here he will be questioned by the officers Judged expeditiously, then condemned for having Soviet military installations. In all, Eberhard Fatkenheuer in a cell like this. New casualty of war CIA and KGB surrender blow for blow. In each camp, we try In 1974, Western Services, gonna knock a head off, who will shake to the highest peak in the state. The Man Who Whispered one of the closest was actually a Stasi agent. He is the cause of the biggest scandal Gunter Guillaume, that's his name, moved west at age 29. With his wife he moved to Frankfurt, and joins the Social Democratic Party. officially living this exceptional spy of what will become Stasi agents, were sent to West Germany. There they fell They had nothing They cut off contact. Soviet intelligence services They had to do it themselves Until you reach success. Several succeeded and among them, there was Agent Guillaume. Gunter Guillaume took 20 years to 20 years of delivering documents, on policy direction When he was unmasked on April 24, 1974, Chancellor Willy Brandt Gunter Guillaume is arrested. It was very early in the morning. Apparently, the police and the services What woke me up was the noise. Voices. And there, in the frame He was in a dressing gown and doing This image, And then, as in a sort then my grandmother and we could say goodbye. My father didn't say a word. He took me in his arms My mother was visibly upset. She said: &quot;My poor little one, Everything will be fine.&quot; My grandmother, she It only lasted a few minutes. Then my parents and my grandmother and I was left alone He was then sixteen years old. All he has left are snapshots of this He will never have How himself was my father what was he really thinking I am of the opinion that during this he was certainly an agent, and was influenced by the West. I believe that this double life, for me and others. I think this He talked about it much later. He said he was On the one hand, he wanted the head of espionage in the G.D.R. The other man was Willy Brandt, I'm sure it's been hard to know, to analyze This two-faced man will be judged In 1981, Gunter Guillaume was released He will be welcomed there by the one who of the history of the Cold War. Marcus Wolf. - Gunter! Welcome. I thank you for everything. It is we who thank you. I wish you the best It is good that this long period For me, a process That lasted a long time, that lasts long after my parents died. This process may not have because I live in a permanent quest Know who my mother was In the early 1980s, the Guillaume affair between the CIA and the KGB. The cold war knows It is then that a In November 1983, that the third war A man will play a key role Klaus Eichner, 76 years old today. He was a colonel in the Stasi. His job was to process the information In 1983, NATO started The tension was such at that time, that the Soviets feared be drawn at any time. In East Germany, pilots Armed with nuclear missiles, the turbines Fortunately, and there, we had a source within We lived in complete paranoia. military leaders They are the ones who feared and we tried to do by giving them the facts. In Moscow, the authorities let themselves that NATO does not prepare The specter of conflict There, our agent, who we called Topaz, played a decisive role. And nobody at that time knew that Thanks to the secret services, many critical situations In general, governments lie, To know it is necessary to have a to control each other. The Secret Service contributed They allowed that be identified early enough. Subsequently, these problems were In the mid-1980s, the war between the CIA and the KGB To respond to Soviet power, a huge missile shield project. This is the last phase In Moscow, these photographs on the service desk The Americans are which could be fatal to the U.S.S.R. Infiltrate agents inside the block of The United States has not been very good at mainly due to the ability So they had to find ways There were aerial images, then satellite technology. The Americans then decided to on Berlin's highest peak. It was the perfect place was surrounded In each direction was The United States then even beyond East Germany. So far inside This was crucial in collecting The Teufelsberg, the devil's mountain. Like a conspicuous mark is taking over the KGB. The economy of the USSR is moribund. Moscow is unable to finance to follow the United States. At the Teufelsberg, hundreds of American agents are doing 30 years later, he remains We are in one of the places 150 meters above Today the place It used to be a fascinating place From here, we listened to thousands to Eastern Europe. This is where we recorded them, Everything Washington knew came from From up there, CIA agents watch His empire is crumbling. The relaxation begins. The KGB and the CIA have established contact. The exchange has just taken place... For the first 1985, June 11. It's noon on the Glienicke bridge, This is where the most will take place On the east side, There was this journey with The pressure at that time was so What is happening ? We are no longer completely in control It's reached the limits of what a On the Glienicke bridge, a ballet American Richard Burt, glasses He comes to greet Wolfgang Fogel, the man who negotiated this exchange Smiles and handshakes Never in history the CIA and the KGB On one side, four Soviet spies find theirs. On the other hand, 23 agents recruited by On board this bus, The man who looked after relations between I believe there was also They told us : &quot;Don't worry, And to guarantee it, we go up When I crossed that line I remember it I felt something incredible. It's finish. They no longer have Each corps took back its men. The cold war is coming to an end, and in 1989, its symbol I think the fall of the wall A very big victory. It proved that the system they He couldn't last. that can't be cut intelligence services On January 15, 1990, Berliners The people reclaim their history. You think you played A very small role. Just a small stone The KGB lost this war. In Moscow, the Soviet system Elsewhere, later, the CIA and the KGB But Berlin remains so far the place, where they indulged the most to the nearest, almost hand to hand.