Hey, everybody, Don Georgevich here with Job Today, I want to give you my best last-minute So, if you have a job interview coming up, to ace it, go ahead and let me know by liking the bell and we'll dive right in. So, you got a job interview coming up today ready. Well, there's nothing you can do about that So, let me see if I can help you get through So, for starters, get a copy of the job description up and look for all the areas that you think Look for repeating patterns, look for where words. These are all repeating patterns of what they're This shows what they're most interested in. So, if they talk about leadership, coaching, to management and leadership. So, you definitely want to focus on those and examples ready to talk about, so you can I mean, this job description that you have, for. Don't just glance at it and look at the title I think I'd like that. Like I said, it's a blueprint. It's exactly what they are looking for in So, spend a good deal of time of your 60 Minutes, focusing on all their key areas that are important Because that's why they're interviewing somebody I mean, they've got a problem. They're looking for somebody to solve it. Their problems are identified and just laid And they're just hoping someone like you is know, I think I can do all this stuff. Just saying you can do all that stuff, that's You have to show them that you can do this. I mean, anybody can go in there and say, Oh, I can do that. That doesn't fly. You have to come up with real stories and that give them the feeling, the sense that and you have to be able to talk intelligently Now, speaking of talking intelligent; like Highlight key words that they use and then them. So, when you're in the interview and you're the technologies, the keywords, the buzzwords, And that's going to make you sound more relevant job description. And they're going to say, like, Wow, you person we're looking for. He looks like us. He sounds like us. He talks like us. He must be one of us. Very, very important. So, many people ignore that step. So, next thing; demonstrate that you understand important thing. Like I said, they need to solve problems. That's why they're hiring somebody. So, you want to go in there and show them Now, maybe they don't put all the detail in in stopping their problems. So, during the interview, ask them questions problems that you guys see with this this competitors that are stealing away your business Ask them some questions, to discover their And then when you know what the problems are, I got an idea for you. Have you tried this or Have you tried I mean, if you think about it, you're in there like a consultant. Don't even think of yourself as a candidate Think of yourself as a consultant going in whatever it is that's troubling them and be They'll love you for it. Trust me, it works really. When you're talking about your skills and up over the head with how awesome you are. Just go in there and just talk about some You don't want to keep saying, Oh, I can bam. Let it easy; just take it easy on them and of your skills and your accomplishments in because you are; just don't beat them up over Now, keep this in mind. Employers are selfish and they're only concerned I mean, they're all capitalists. They're in it for themselves. They don't care that maybe you don't have that you're desperate for it. Or you've been out of work for six months. They don't care. I mean, maybe they care, but they don't care you're not qualified for the job. They're looking for somebody who could come So, you don't want to go in there and tell I don't have any money or I'm not going it is; whatever your story is. We've all had them. I've had them. I've probably been unemployed more than anybody. I've been out of work so many times up and payments. It's tough. I know your pain. But you know what? Employers don't care. They don't care. So, when they ask you, you know, why you want don't tell them, I need the money. I need a job. I need to work. Connect your reasons for being there with Like if you are in accounting and this is working with the numbers, you love making you love making predictions and estimations. And it just makes you feel so good at the whatever it is. Whatever it is you do that connects you to Don't go in there and say, Oh, I'd like nice place. I mean, now, granted, not every people. So, you're going to have to find something you like and why you want to do it. All right? Because they don't care about your needs. Sadly, they don't care. They're in it for themselves. So, to really stand out, tell them what your Now, this is this is a better tip for like So, let's say you had a first interview, you about the job. So, now you're going back for a second interview, Say, Well, you know what? I've really thought about this job and I thought that's facing this department. And I've got some ideas for you. Here's some of my own thoughts and plans for efficiency or improve customer service. So, like I said, that works better. It works better for a second interview because about it and now you're going in there saying, we can do it. Be a solution. Tell them what your plans are for the job. Another thing, let them know that you're not Meaning that you don't mind switching from this job. Let them know that you're comfortable doing don't need to just be doing one thing all Let them know that you're comfortable maybe area and that you're comfortable helping your Share that with them, that you are a great Employers love to hear that. I can't tell you; I see job descriptions all You can't believe how many of them mention Because they want knowledge within the organization They don't want just one person sitting back and keeping it to themselves. They want it dispersed and shared and they That's how that company can grow. So, I encourage you to share how you love Let them know that you know how to get things Meaning that you're not the type of person from your manager. And that you can't so much as pick up a pen I pick? Let them know that you don't mind being managed. You don't need to be micromanaged, but once of going out and completing it and getting Let them know that you're very independent Next, let them know that you're a team player, up with real examples from your past about And I can tell you right now, without even this, but you have been all of these things Maybe not to the extent of others, but in been a teacher; you really have. We all have we've all helped other people We've all led things no matter how small or We've all been a leader. So, share with them your experiences. I mean, even if you're just fresh college got out of college. I'm not a leader. I bet somewhere in college group or whatever. You led something. You took charge somewhere. Or you got voted to a level to take over. Or even if it was just a mock training exercise the leader of the group. Somewhere, that has happened to you. So, bring those experiences out, because employers They love people who can take charge and get Now, more than anything, keep your answers Don't babble on. If you're talking for more than 45 seconds, The interviewer has checked out. You want to keep your answers short and on Now, maybe you're trying to tell a story and Compress it down to this big, so that it is And if they want to know more, they'll ask But if you just sit there and prattle on endlessly to get bored. They're going to become disconnected. I mean, are human minds just aren't capable, capable of listening so intently to one person It's really hard to do. And the longer they listen to you, the more So, you want to get the meat of your answer want to satisfy their answer because they Youve got to give them an answer. So, short, on-point answers. So, if they want to know more, they will ask Now, if this is a phone interview that you You be like, Don, what are you talking It's a phone interview. How are they going to see me? They can hear you. They can hear you smile. So, if you're talking on the phone, put a the tone of your voice to where they can hear Trust me, it happens. It works. And it's just going to give your message, into what you're saying. Trust me on that one, really. And to remember even to remind yourself to in front of yourself. Draw a little happy face on your notes. And then when you look down at your notes, Hey, Don told me to write that there and So, if this is a face-to-face interview, definitely It releases so much tension in you and in Smiles are just wonderful. They just kind of cut it all out and it's bit smoother, a little bit nicer, a little All right. So, one of the biggest things you're going You're going to have to show them that you And you do this by examples. You don't just go in there and say, I am or I am a web developer or I am a You're going to have to back it up. You're going to want to give them real examples so they can get a feeling for that. One of the most important things you can do. And then lastly, enthusiasm. And I can't speak highly enough of that. You have to go in there and interview with I mean, put your body into everything that So, it's not just your lips that are moving. It's your whole body. It's the way you talk. It's the way you look. It's the way you compose yourself. I mean, when I'm talking to you here, I am Well, maybe I'm a little hunch, but I am sitting full intensity because I'm trying to get through So, as I make this video here for you, I mean, my chair and trying to tell you how you should interview, do you? I wouldn't be selling you on the idea, there. Would I? No. And when you're in the interview, you are So, you have to show them that you are the So, full enthusiasm means tone of voice, it proper breathing, sitting up straight. Look the part, when you're in the interview. Use your voice. And you know, maybe have a soft voice. Maybe you're just really very soft spoken, Everybody can. You can raise your voice, enunciate your words, Because it's been proven that only seven percent the actual content of your words; seven percent. 33 percent is body language or 38 percent. So, the way I compose myself and the way is It adds 38 percent to your message. And then 55 percent is all in the tone of So, seven percent of your message is content part of it all. So, it's not so much what you say, but it's All right, my friend, good luck on your interview Now, hopefully, you don't have it in an hour. Hopefully you have a little bit more time. So, I want to give you a little free gift Since you spent so much time watching me helping you the top 10 interview questions. This is my free e-book. It's only about 20 or 30 pages. This has the top 10 interview questions in Why do you want to work here? Tell about this job? What are your weaknesses? we hire you? It's going to give you multiple answers for You can download this from jobinterviewtools.com/top10 Just put your email address in there. Tell me where to send it. And you can download this and go over this ready for your interview. Now, if you want to go a little bit farther time than an hour, I would strongly suggest Now, this one is not free. This is like 50 bucks. But this one is available in e-book, physical video. So, if you like to learn to answer questions to your phone, this is the one that you want. And it's the only one in the world like that. Believe it or not, this is the only book that I'm the only one on the planet that has all I cannot believe. At least, I think I am. I haven't found anybody else yet. But this guide has over 140 different questions And it's got behavioral questions, because questions too. That's where you use the STAR method. We talk about situation and action and result. It's a whole another video. But this book here has about 40 different to get you ready for those. So, if you have a behavioral interview coming 55 minutes or maybe 45, because I already it. You can get this from jobinterviewtools.com. Like I said, it's about 50 bucks. The hard copy and the video and stuff is a All right, my friend, that's all I got for Good luck on your interview and I'll see you Bye now.