This is Willis, aka "Blue Scuti" of NES Tetris by getting the first ever level 157. "Oh...oh...oh...oh my god" a game crash, reaching the "True" Killscreen year old history of the pro classic tetris scene. record like this ever be broken? we need to go back and start with the In NES Tetris, released for the the goal is to assemble falling For every 10 lines cleared, you move up a level The fastest speed is reached at level no longer reliably get to the sides by For decades, this was considered the end of the because it always killed your run. in the traditional sense. normally refers to when it's impossible to get For example, in Pac-Man, the killscreen is reached right side of the screen and you aren't able NES Tetris doesn't actually The level is clearable if you can somehow And in 2011, Thor Aackerlund became the first his fingers to mash the controller a technique known as hypertapping. speed in the game, all the levels it was theoretically possible to go even higher. until a teenage hypertapping prodigy becoming the first player to reach level 31. tetris world championship titles in 2018 and 2019 upwards all the way to level 35 EricICX came along and became the Now this was light years ahead of what anyone but overall progress on the record only barely made level 29 speed possible. good luck with the pieces and near perfect In order to truly push things a lot further, But then a new technique came In 2020, a tetris player named cheez watched and had the epiphany to combine a multi-finger and another technique that used a finger it into another finger on the top. and it allowed him to easily over twice as fast as the quickest hypertappers. and although a hypertapper named Alex he would be the last tapper ever to do so. of new records as most of the top players in the culminating in EricICX, now a roller, making it all the way to level 95. now fully mastered, it seemed like the sky But as it turns out, an even bigger NES Tetris was originally designed with 10 9 that were bright, colorful, and easily visible. then loops around back to the first color scheme. everything is written to try and so the line of code that's supposed out starting at level 138 and starts resulting in a bunch of random bizarre If you're into code and wondering HydrantDude has made a great 2 subject that I'll link in the description. when the game first came out because making but now players were actually Technically the first player to reach but he opted to go for it on the lesser played than the much more common NTSC version that of the main leaderboards, including this one. glitched colors on the NTSC version in an actual tournament match and making it all level caused him to top out. world championships a few months later. visibility and sheer endurance were starting as Eric's world record game It took over a year before anyone was able to and when a player named PixelAndy finally an even more difficult level featuring "Where are the colors? I can't see it! Nooooo I couldn't see it on my screen. So what was the future of the record? increasingly difficult to see levels? achievement yet was closer than anyone thought. a Tetris playing AI called game far beyond what was possible for a human. was able to fly past the most difficult glitched names for each of the color schemes as they passed Eric "Dusk", and the black level Stackrabbit would continue to play through even such as level 235 which lasts for But eventually, the game "And there's the long bar, and it's gonna Its final score is 102 million" In the simplest possible on code which is instructions on what to do next things and keeps track of what it's doing. inefficient on very high levels, because and eventually a glitch happens where the the code to reading the RAM as if it were code. it completely breaks the game, leading If you want the full technical breakdown, again I'll link in the description. The game crash doesn't always happen can get triggered by very specific things you have or how many lines you clear at once. version of the game that has 7 digits in the score crash points as an unmodified version. into researching the mechanics of the tallying up every possible situation that Yeah, I know, the same guy again, this And it turns out that the earliest unmodified original version of the game was That actually wasn't too far A human might actually be able to do that - In 2023, after Fractal won the world championships player in the scene, he decided to start But on the very first night of his grind, scene by being the first player to ever beat Not only did this set a new level world it was only 18 lines away from the first crash. recently been on a meteoric rise, finish in the 2023 world championships. Fractal and start grinding for the game crash "You know, I just thought if I was so close beat him to the crash." he could be getting it any moment. he had a game early on that went all the way "Are you ready? Hahaha! Ahahaha!" night he succeeded in getting to the glitched "Oh my god. No I got completely blindsided." this game would actually end up taking back On day 3, Fractal started up again, But just 20 minutes into the that blue scuti was currently on a big run. Hooooo my god" having reached the glitched colors and Next up was charcoal. but managed to clutch a line piece to the left Now it was just a matter of carrying He slowly kept downing levels, passing This was it - he just needed a single But then, 4 lines in, he misdropped. his stack for survival instead of singles. fill a long bar dependency but oh no! He'd accidentally passed by the crash trigger Scuti marched onward, unsure of "Oh my god. Just please crash." where every one line clear would have But as Scuti entered the level, he Nothing was clearing any lines. But in a last ditch effort with a "Oh...oh...oh...oh my god" in from the rest of the community. "Wait! He got it! Oh my god! Let's go!' is that NES tetris had always been No matter how good you played, eventually and the game would be over. where instead of the game beating the And this really feels like a turning At the time cheez invented he expressed concern that it was too OP But instead, it's caused the scene Concerns about tournament games going too long due rom patches adding a new, faster speed at level line clears that are worth more points. once thought to be getting stale as they had suddenly given us the most exciting with the world records changing hands And now that the game crash there's a ton of possibilities of where Players could go for speedrunning highest possible score before it. interested in going for an efficient game coming back for the world record." game crash then I might as well too." a representation of the very best of what the a cheerful and gracious competitor. can pay off, as he's said that he "Do you have anything to say to the young to play because of this historic game?" you put work into it, most likely you His first place finish at the Kansas month was his first live tournament victory his next appearance will be at the Heart of But one final question remains - after milestone left to achieve in the game? What if, instead of intentionally trying you instead try to avoid it? In order to push the game further beyond what in the community have constructed tool assisted in real time, every move is manually entered in. like if a player was able to avoid all the This would become almost a fundamentally previous one in the game. the player and the game would be working together can to ease the burden of the game's ancient If both the player and the game survived every 255, with a glitched color scheme of pure red. in the game's memory. that 5 of the 7 pieces in the game could so the player basically has to push So what happens when the level clears? The game officially resets back to the beginning. beating the player, and the true killscreen was level 255 is the rebirth screen, with both the If it can be done someday, it will be the Thanks so much to the patrons on patreon who make with an extra special thanks to channel the creator of Joltzsi. originally conceived of when he thought about what You arrange blocks to clear complete If you block lands on top of another and then you need to make all the numbers But if a number goes above 4, The biggest possible move is a I beta tested the game and got the top score and I can genuinely say it was a really can't even imagine how high a top tetris The game is available for early so if you'd like to play, you can either Anthony on twitter for future updates Thanks to Joltszi for being a sponsor,