Have you ever run across a set of records Take a look at these. This album is across three And on the back is side... six. The fu--? Side two is on the next disc? Alright then back of this one and... yeah. Sure enough, Only this last disc has any semblance of normalcy. It seems like it ought to be but no! This is disc three. Did they just suck Well a few people did, I'm sure, but in is quite logical. You see, this record set automatic record changer. Arranging the sides Now, as someone who lived until the age of player, the idea of a record changer seemed See, I had grown up with one of these things (those shiny things are called compact discs, they held music on them, and this is a compact disc changer, it's pretty neat I did some videos on these things, oh look a card) so when I heard of record changers I envisioned some really giant version of this. But in an ordinary looking phonograph save for two funky spindle, and a weird floating arm thing. These things are certainly not rare by any in homes from the 1940's through to the and Audiophiles HATE them! but in this video that is the automatic record changer. Let's start with a field trip to the 1920's. cylinders were the Betamax of sound formats that the 78 RPM records of the day could only So, having just settled in listening have to get back up and do some good 'ol Well that's no good, is it? So, we humans, work on enabling a more leisurely experience. the first record changer with a design similar Hobart, Australia in 1925. However, his invention in getting records to play upside down. The first record changer to really find a by our friends at the Victor company. This looking arrangement of stacked records held up, grab a disc from the stack, place it gently And then the hoop thing would pick it I mean, it worked. But yikes! To give you an idea how desperate we were the first and most basic model with which is worth about $9,000 in 2019 money. be wrong, as an estimated 12,000 of these We wanted automation and we wanted it yesterday. But let's fast forward a few decades. Throughout development continued at a breakneck pace. into the hands of consumers, as well as plenty into the '70s) we had pretty much settled This Glenburn changer is one of many, many copies of the infamous BSR changer. sixties to mid '70s, odds are it had something both that Glenburns were considered cheap average BSR, so take that as you will. So. How does one use this clever contraption? from Sony with our miraculous Glenburn. The Sony is a no-surprises affair. You put the record on the turntable, and you put the stylus on the disc. That's about it. But this record player.... There's, there's thing. And look at all these selector levers! I don't [in a 1960's instructional demo voice] you'll find a record-listening experience First, lift the record stabilizer arm out of diameter of the disc you'll be playing. set it to 12. Then, double check the speed 33 and a third and how! Now that we have all the settings dialed in, we can Uh-oh! It's all wonky! Not to worry! Reposition the record With our record sitting neat and pretty, simply from Stop to Start, and then to Auto. It will Automatic operation is underway! Now your record automatically drops into place, and the tone arm travels to the outer edge Beautiful! When your record is over, the record player automatically returns the tone arm to the resting position, and even turns itself off! Plus, it secures the What marvels we enjoy today! But... wait. That's just a real Rube Goldbergian What was the point of holding them up in the air like that? I'm glad you asked! The notched spindle actuator moves to the left. This action both allowing the disc to fall, and it also pushes But - and here's the real kicker - thanks to on top! When the bottom record is pushed off prevents the disc above it from falling, too! of discs automatically one-at-a-time! But... last time the record player stopped it from doing that again? Why, the record stabilizer, of course! Notice against a record. This tells the record player the last disc has fallen, the lever drops after this disc is done. It's just like Well it's not really like magic. Ha ha, No. Stop it. We're done with that. This is actually one of the really peaked in performance in the late 1950's more advanced features dwindled away. For determine the diameter of the discs, negating by using the tonearm to deliberately bump play to determine its size. Other methods those machines was that mixed sizes of discs, largest to smallest. Not always, but usually. Can you see now why this record set has the With this record player, it's not weird at all! If you stack the three discs like this, with side one on the bottom, 2 in the middle, and three on in that order. Then, flipping the entire stack so it will play side 4, then 5, and finally Automatic sequencing of records goes back pretty much as far as record changers have been available. These rather delightful Looney and, uh, they're from 1948. But certainly for another set of records, these selections are sequenced as normal. By the way, these like photo albums, but they hold records. group of songs was sold in one of these record Fun fact. The most clever thing about these machines, automatic functions are achieved using the record changer, along with the vast majority arm's movement, along with the dropping itself. In fact, with the record player unplugged, by simply turning it by hand. Thanks to the miracle of precarious rigging, changes a disc. It's all just a bunch of that. This piece here is attached to the tone selector changes where the tone arm will stop. It's really a fascinating bit of engineering cleverness. The designers were aware that any sort of some wow and flutter, so the mechanism is unless some sort of automatic function is impossible to convey this over video, but to spin the turntable as it does its rigamorol, it would be playing a disc, the mechanism rotate. In fact, there's so little drag on of the motor and idler wheel, that it takes as the tone arm makes it to the center, it no longer spins freely. Actually, I suppose Here. It's spinning nice and fine but as soon as it starts a stop without the help of either my hand Of course one of the downsides of this approach by the RPM of the records you're playing is fairly graceful with long play records, ones we saw earlier into the mix and it These discs, by the way, are 10 inch discs so I've put the selector into the 10 position. And of course, if you happen to have a set of spoken-word or other records that play at the rather uncommon 16 and 2/3 RPM speed, the once-graceful movement Finally. And now let's talk about why Audiophiles HATE them! First, let's address the simple truth that some audiophiles apparently are incapable of appreciating. Most humans will happily make sacrifices to quality for convenience. I feel that needs repeating with greater emphasis. Most humans will *quite* happily make sacrifices If you value quality over all else, that is But do not judge your fellow humans for tastes to convince us that our standards are too Also--what is convenient is in the eye of the beholder. That deserves consideration, too. Alright, now that I've checked that off concerns regarding record changers. Notice of the tone-arm changes. This makes the angle optimal, which may impact the quality of the Blasphemy! Let's see how bad it really is, though. resting directly on the turntable. [Music Alright, and now stacked on top of 5 other records. [Music plays again, with Even in person before the digitizing and compression that I and then YouTube did to it these sounded identical. Seriously, I think I have pretty good ears, and these two recordings in their uncompressed nature are indistinguishable in person through some pretty great headphones. But obviously my ears are just not good enough to enjoy music correctly] [Wow I didn't know you could fit that much in one caption] I'll even switch back and forth [A different track plays, with the recording switching It's completely unnoticeable. But then again, I'm no audiophile (I just play one on TV)] Did you see that ludicrous display last night? Yeah, I can't hear it either. OK, then the other, slightly more legitimate is just plain bad for them! I mean, you don't of a vinyl record. Surely letting them rub the rotating one will result in a disaster! Well, not really. I mean, think about this for a second. The sound recording on a record below the surface, between the grooves. Sure, might cause cause some sort of a scratch during to moving, but generally discs rubbing against the only parts that touch, under normal circumstances don't actually contain any of the sound. The one bit of damage that was known to occur chewing up on the label right around the hole, a tall stack. You might potentially have the resting on just this little shelf, and when do some nasty things to the label. But I mean, for the day's popular music, and not a fragile No seriously, now you'd shout bloody murder but back when this was popular... not so much. Nevertheless, the general public did eventually the preservation of their discs. It took a the 1970's a record changer was more-or-less to their demise. First was the fact that the were standardized into these cheaper, ineloquent By the 1970's, record changers had become pretty mediocre. Sure, they worked fine, and honestly this one sounds very nice (aside from the fact that it runs But by the 1970's, changers just weren't And very good record players, almost without exception, weren't changers. Additionally, the market was moving away from fit nicely into, to more compact bookshelf height and bulk of the changer suddenly became this is just me musing about human tendencies, admit this Sony unit is a whole lot sleeker it's quite a bit newer, but without a tall mechanism, it could save quite a bit of space But regardless of who or what killed the changer, a little while longer. I especially like the like a hack. And, one other thing I didn't mention you're willing to stack your records, it's put two on top of it, then three on top of flip the top two to play 5, and flip the whole unwilling to let the vinyl get a little cozy then yeah it's a pain in the ass. Oh, and although we shunned the idea of stacking, Fancier turntables could start a record automatically a little advanced for this guy, he's still And of course, it also uses the movement Thanks for watching, and I hope you enjoyed the fine folks who support the channel on people scrolling down your screen. Your support making sure there's always another video people in supporting the channel, check out and I'll see you next time! sequentially smooth jazz That was real! YES!!! Ha ha ha! On the word No video fakery this time, ha ha! I promise, that was actually real! I'm on my face... uh. YES!! Let's compare this rather standard turntable... Other methods, other... ugh that was a really Then it will play each of those di - [stares Should have thought that through, Jared. That's "You're just coming up with names on the spot!" No I'm not! "Yes Yes I am.