this is how to build a multi-agent system using react prompting they turn a system that can reason and complete tasks. can build up a team of specialist agents in exactly 15 minutes but is this possible with We'll get to that but for now steps and it begins with getting our LLMs ready. All righty guys we have we' got 15 minutes first thing that we need to do is so we're going to be using crewAI it's a systems or build multi-agent systems so going to be importing the crew task and multi-agent system access to some tools import Serper Dev Tool. Now the cool thing is well right so if you wanted to use CSVs or you got the ability to do that as well let me okay then in order to build our LLMs and using watsonx so we need an interface to watsonx going to import watsonx LLM so that's going to we also need OS so this is going to give us the so we're going to do that first so we're going our watsonx_API key value and we're going to set going to grab that API key from over there okay want to set our API key for our Serper Dev tool us to interact with the net so we can set that by Serper_API_key and then we're going to set that to can actually go and register for a free API key issue there so that's because of our quotes. Okay couple of dependencies imported we're now going to be using two LLMs, I'll get back to that in a instance of the watsonx LLM class then we need So the first one is model ID and we're we also need the URL so because of the the ability to run this on a whole bunch got different multi- region availability, US or in Europe or in APAC you've got the Okay so we've got model ID we've got URL we also need to specify the parameters for we actually decode and we also want to So you can actually isolate your machine learning So we're first up going to create a parameters actually go and decode from our model so we're and set that to a blank dictionary how we're doing is going to be decoding method, and we're going to use the greedy algorithm for now and then So this gives you a little bit how many new tokens you're going to be generating. So we're going to grab that parameters and then we also need to specify our going to be using is llama 370b, so we've that you can see that we've got the Feels kind of weird I know I've been using llama Llama and then it's going and we also need to go and set the URL. So we're going to go to over here so URL so I'm just going to grab that uh save that so it should reorganize it okay after the do so we don't need that. Okay so to our project ID so again that's available your watsonx environment so the project ID is I spun up a little bit earlier so I'm going to should be our LLM. So we've gone and specified our URL, our primesm and our project if I run print LLM.invoke and So this could be any prompt, but So I could go and say who is Niels Bohr? you can tell I've been getting into a So if we go and run this now So to run it we can run python agent.py I'm We have exact 10 minutes left, Okay so if this runs, so I'm going becuase that's a little bit out of my control, and let's see if we get a Cross my fingers. Okay, take a look so we've got a response so So we've got a response so &quot;Niels Bohr was a Danish physicist who made to the development of atomic physics and quantum atom which posits that electrons exist in specific Sounds pretty good .Okay so Now I did mention that we're and that's going to handle our function calling. So we're going to go and power on ahead. So we've on ahead create our second LLM and then build alright the time is at 10 minutes. I'm So we're going to need to just copy this LLM over here so we're going to I'm going to speed up just a little bit, not too much. So we're going to create a and for this LLM we're going to use a slightly different model so we're going and we're going to use the Merlinite model, so merlinite dash 7b. Okay cool, so Now we're going to create the agent is going to be a researcher but keep in different agents they could all delegate agent is going to be a researcher and we're there's a ton of keyword parameters The first one is the LLM. base LLM that we use to do all of our generation. We then need a function calling LLM, and that is going to be be our up there. So I'm going to paste and then we also need to specify three three so role, goal, and backstory, so we're going to spin those or We also want to determine whether So eventually, I might do this in another to allow these agents to hand off to and work out which agent is going to be want to specify some tools so we want and then the last thing is whether we want it to be verbose or not. So I'm okay, so roll goal back, sorry, so our this So our agent is going to the goal for that agent is research in the field of quantum Computing, and then the last backstory bit is going to collaboration between AI and Quantum a veteran Quantum Computing researcher Okay so that's our agent we now need This one's pretty straightforward called search and that's going to be I believe inherits from Langchain it We just need to grab that search So that is our first agent now completely set up. Now we actually want to go and fill So we want to give it a task, so create a task, and a task is effectively what we So our task first task so which is going and then the task is going to have a couple of We need the expected output. How we doing on we're sounding all right. We so this is actually going to and then we want the agent that okay so the description, again I've baked these a little bit description search a net and find five going to paste that into description and I'll so you guys can grab it as well, and then the point summary on each of the topics each bullet is useful. Our output file is just file that we want to Output. So we're the agent that we want is not a string So which agent that we want we need to pass through these tasks to the crew. So put it all all together with the crew. So we're actually going to hand it off to So we're going to say crew is equal to crew and and initially we're just going to have one agent and then we also want to specify the tasks that and then we want to specify verbose equal to so we're going to run crew or print crew.kickoff. okay all right. right I'm going to pause So I'm going to clear this for now, and and all things holding equal this should start doing our research. Let's pause it Let's see how we go. if this works we should start this task so search You should see it making calls out so you can see that this has generated some action so search query and then run this command and take a look we've got some So anything in orange is back from the internet so once it's it should generate the bullet point So let's just let that run for a little sec. You can see that we've got a bunch And take a look we've got our response back. So you can see that we've got here are five examples a promising AI research. So it's gone and done all of the it's done so the agent now understood through its thought process it's and it's generated its response. So promising AI research in the So Quantum AI, Quantum machine Quantum RL, Quantum neural networks, The cool thing is that it will output it as a text file if you wanted to go and use it You can go and use that I'll include that in the Okay so that is I'm actually going to save this because we're actually going So far we've gone and created one agent, multi-agent system. It's a single agent system. So what we now need to go in ahead to be able to go and truly convert right we've got 5 minutes 32 left on Let bring bring this home. Second agent, okay zoom out a little bit so you can see that We're actually going to copy this, and I'm So we're now going to create the second agent and we don't need to give our second agent access to So let me zoom in. All right so we can get rid of the tools, and this agent So we want this agent to actually So we're actually going to pass through So I'm going to grab that out of here so So let's say that you're writing speeches and write some speeches so the role the goal is to be right engaging witty I'm going to paste that in, and then the backstory should be tweaked a little bit, looks like I just so you're a veteran Quantum Computing, I'm going to say writer, with but again you can go and tweak this a bunch more, but effectively you could provide a bunch of Okay so that's our backstory. Then task. Tweak this and and let All right so we're going to So our second task is write an engaging I'm going to paste this in the description, and then our expected output is a a body and a conclusion. So we're Perfect. And then our second output file Okay so that is our second agent, so our is to get that keynote speech written. So so the first agent's going to do second agent's going to step in and so we can actually go and which is going to be our writer down here. So this is what gives us the multi-agent feel if we did that in the next be allowed to or be able to do all of the handoff. So our tasks so maybe we convert agents into a series on the channel you let Okay so we've now gone and pass Go and pass through our second agent we go and run this now. We should effectively so if we go and run this and we should also get two outputs now, Right? because our second output file is called task I'm going to pause the timer This all blows up that's how much minutes 42 to to to solve this all right okay so you can see it's triggering the chain. It's doing the research again so so you can see that the working We haven't got to the writer yet. Okay so we're doing research. Okay so you can see we've now I know we're I thought we finished oh Just realized all right I'm going so I just noticed that we So inside of our second task we actually need this to use the second agent because right so we actually want this to be writer okay we're and then let's kick off our timer again. It only took me 10 seconds to resolve. So but we're probably going to speed through okay so we're triggering our first bit once we get to that next debug stage, do we call senior speech writer Okay take a look so we've now successfully gone writer so this is our second agent kick in It might be limited cuz we've only given it 500 tokens to write the speech Fingers cross we now get a keynote Not too bad all right take a Not too bad. Alright. So we should done the research. We've got Bullet point list over here and then we've got our keynote speech over here. Here so we've got our two outputs so task one the next set of output from the second and if we go and take a look at our task two Ladies and gentlemen esteemed guests and with you today, at a revolution, about the as we stand at the threshold of a new era in that we explore the possibilities I don't know how witty this In the realm of artificial intelligence unlock unprecedented capabilities Quantum... I'm going to put this all in the GitHub you can see that we have in fact gone So we could definitely take this to build a multi-agent system with watsonx.AI I'll catch you in the next one for