Transcriber: Anggiasti R W It isn't true what they say, that you can't love anyone Have you heard that? People say you have to learn before you can love anybody else. But it's not true. I loved everybody before I loved myself. Love doesn't care which way you come Love welcomes everyone unconditionally. Oddly, so do focus group moderators - (Laughter) which is how and why I learned to do it. If you've never been you're missing a really special So, in every focus group, There's always a shy one and a chatty one, a grumpy one that doesn't want and a very excited mom with a notebook, who wants to get an A plus (Laughter) There's a student who lied on the intake and a dad full of jokes (Laughter) And usually, there's one ex-military guy who keeps staring (Laughter) It's a situation where a group of people have the chance And it's my job as the moderator Now, it's not quite a classroom. It's not group therapy. And while the community feel probably no one would call it I mean, no one else. Because moderating rooms is what taught me to welcome all the strange No kidding. I start every morning meditation with the same opener "Thanks, everyone, for being here." (Laughter) "Your input is valued." (Laughter) "I'm going to hear from each of you. Just do your best and try to make any requests reasonable." So I don't know about you, in the mind of Karen Faith. I'm not referring to psychiatric but I don't exclude that. (Laughter) My mind has plenty of quirks, but what I have to share Though I admit, it's especially So I noticed some time ago And then I wondered: If I didn't agree with me, who is I, and who is me in that scenario? And it turned out There's a really an intellectual, analytical me. Those two argue a lot. There's a me who loves being on stage. There's another one Some of us - at this time, I include you - some of us regard these And maybe we've done accepting that we can have We can be excited about a new job and also dread going back to work. We can be tired and want to stay up. We can adore someone who also annoys us. We can love someone We know this. And when we're honest and rational, we can see that these But we're not crazy (Laughter) It does me no harm to embrace But what about the thought that I don't belong here? The mistakes I've made are unforgivable, that the bad things that happened Those thoughts are just as real but they're harder to live with. And they send many of us to therapy which more or less describes (Laughter) Because I wanted to silence And let me tell you: I tried. I have done every kind of therapy I have done talk therapy, energy healing, body work, hypnotherapy, soul retrieval, the tapping stuff, I did seven kinds of yoga. I drank the "special tea" (Laughter) I admit I did pass on the acupuncture (Laughter) people do that. (Laughter) Suffice to say, I tried. And still sometimes, when I was alone, or worse to my own mind. In my work as a people researcher, it's my job to practice to receive everything I can in order to understand them Now, it's noteworthy that I found this career at a temp job, when my supervisor noticed that I wasn't just I was recording body language, specific verb choices. What neither of us knew then which made me seem skillful were the symptoms The most reasonable results and a fact I share but to welcome you in here with me. Everyone in this room has walked in order to be here. And I want you to know to get through it is honorable. Whether you never talk about it, whether you make tons or if you just hit the gym like a champ there is truly no wrong way. There are some ways You know the ones. (Laughter) I've done some of those. I still do some of those. And I don't judge those either, because gifts and curses And mine were no exception. My early life gave me heaps of shame hence all the different mes - but it also gave me super antennas This hypervigilance made me but a damn near-wizard-level observer. So I got to work. The last 20 years I've shadowed while they shop and drive, and go on dates. I ask them to be honest and to do this, I practice something which is like a researcher's neutrality, The day I discovered it, I was sitting She was a very unpleasant woman, Feeding french fries to an infant, that she would never have not even to protect them from polio because she didn't know Now never mind that she said this an inch of ash deep (Laughter) I was judging her, I know. I'm not proud of it, (Laughter) I needed to connect with her, I didn't like her. I didn't respect her. I didn't want to spend And the project required And that I used that time what she values, what she believes, Researcher neutrality so I had to get out the big guns. I called up my New Age and I took a deep breath, secondhand smoke and all. And I imagined that my breath filled with unconditional welcome. Not tolerance. Not even compassion. Total welcome as is - And as I inflated the bubble, it became big enough And then hers. And in that moment, I saw a mother feeding her baby I told her that I could see and I asked her And then we had a conversation. And I learned about her. I learned why she was afraid and angry, and how she fought through When I welcomed I saw her more clearly, but I also loved her instantly. We have been told too often It's not. Love is what happens when we stop It's right there when we stop trying to figure out and we welcome someone, anyone, It'll be two more years before I learn But it started just as simply; a part that was afraid and angry, whiny, demanding, unreasonable and relentless. She told me that we were never She wanted out of here. I asked her what I could do. She only told me she wanted to die, I begged her to shut up, and she did not. Finally, after weeks of harassment, whether out of exhaustion or epiphany, instead of shouting back, I became my own moderator. I said out loud in a voice "Thank you for sharing. I'm going to remind you of our agreement And she answered me - that voice. Now, don't get spooked. (Laughter) But the part of me asking did in fact seem like different parts. She told me that she was in a lot of pain. And I promise you But I need you to get on board. I will listen to you, And as clearly as I'm speaking And then we started to talk. As I continue the dialogue with myself, more voices with more points of view, some of them more fun than others. And the imagined landscape of my mind This round table and one moderator with honesty, boundaries, kindness, and most importantly, gratitude. I thank my selves for their contributions. No matter how bonkers because we're all me. I think of my fragmented self and more like a prism. We're full spectrum. Today, there isn't a voice in my head And while some of us we're not mean. Even my whiny, shamey voice But when I ask her to be clear and kind, she tells me exactly what I need to know: what she needs to feel better But just like the scared and angry mother, she only does this when I accept her So while my openings for self-talk the closings are a little different. At the round table, remind everyone to sign for their cash, but when I'm with all of me, I say: "I love you. Thank you for helping me which is why this practice is so useful for all of us here inside and outside of one another. If we can receive one another with the curiosity and welcome perhaps we can do a better job of love. Because it is not true what they say: that you can't love anyone Love is a house you can crawl in If you can't start with yourself, start with the person whether you know them or not. All you have to do is let them be here. It's easy, isn't it? Wherever they've been, whatever talents they have or don't have, whatever mistakes they've made, can you just welcome them here? Can you welcome you? We're here right now, like this. We're beautiful and strange and sometimes kind of horrible. But all of us are worthy of welcome. And everyone that you show may show you a part of yourself to love. You are welcome. Thank you. (Applause)