Hey everyone, I'm I'm really excited for Today our lesson is about learning and remembering new vocabulary. But before we get started, I just want to remind you that if you're interested in right when they come out, you can subscribe below, and then you'll be sure Alright, so let's get started. I have three tips for you today all about learning and My first tip, my first tip is simply to remember to learn new information when that information is actually So that means it's much easier when they're actually So take a moment right now to think about why you originally So maybe you wanted to learn English because you wanted to become So reconnect with your why. After you reconnect with your why, like, oh I remember why, I wanted to become a nanny, then you can imagine So you could imagine that and then you start to think about what kinds of conversations So this is where vocabulary comes in. So you might imagine that So as you do this, take that you will need to learn. Maybe you want to talk to parents about a life-saving technique that you've been trained in, but you realize, oo I Take note of that, and It will be so much easier for you to remember new words this way, because they're actually to your own life. So your brain is more feeling just how useful they could be. Alright, let's move on. Tip number two. So my second tip is a pretty short one. And this tip is all about So, tip number two, don't try to memorize like 100 words a day. This is not a good way It probably won't work. It's a lot better to make a goal that's something like Something that's not a stressful goal. Because if your nervous then your brain will be stressed out, and the parts of your brain that really like to learn will actually shut down. So you want to stay relaxed and make simple goals as far as remembering vocabulary goes. So maybe 10 to 15 words a day. Okay, tip number three. And I think this is my best tip for today. And this tip is to use word associations when learning new vocabulary. So what do I mean by this? Well, this tip is all about stories. So when you can learn it's like you give your brain something to latch onto. It's a lot easier to learn when the information is So let's say that you because you were in love with someone who speaks English. And so you're thinking, what words do I need to learn? And you come across the word cuddle. So the word cuddle means to in an affectionate way, or even to kind of touch And so you want to How can you do this? Well, here is my tip. My tip is, think about the word cuddle, and what does the word cuddle sound like? Hm, well it sounds a lot The word puddle is a lot more common. It's probably a word you already know. So if you can use these two words and create a story around them, it will be so much easier So for example, you two snowmen fell in love. And when they started to cuddle, they melted into a puddle of love. So cuddling is kind of like two people melting together in So that's one way that you So let's try this a couple more times. Let's see another word, agenda, agenda. So if, when you were thinking why did I want to learn Maybe you thought, because where I need to speak English. Well then you probably need An agenda is a list of items that will be talked about at a meeting. So an agenda. So let's say you're trying How can I remember the word agenda? Well the word agenda sounds a lot like the word agent in English. Maybe as a child you wanted So now let's create a Ah, let's see here. The secret agent kept secret until the meeting. So something like that. So this story around a secret not letting anyone else see it. So in that way then you can remember what the word agenda means. Let's do one more. Okay, let's do the word elementary. So elementary means really basic. Kids from ages five to 10 So if you wanted to learn English because you wanted to become a nanny, then you probably would need So let's see how we can more Hm, well the word elementary So let's see if we can The little boy climbed a lemon tree, and he was stuck until of elementary school. Okay so you see what I'm doing here. I'm creating stories that So these two words that sound alike. So the more interesting that the more weird and strange, but also even relevant to your own life, the more likely it is that you'll be able to Stories are such an important part of learning for human beings. That's why we here at Deep English love to use stories in our lessons. We love to use stories that because when you learn through story form, you engage your emotions, and your body is engaged as well, so you're not just you're learning with all of who you are. So the next time that you will have a reaction to them, and you'll probably just really naturally come up with the word or the word meaning. So if you're interested in checking out some of our free lessons, where you can look at some of our stories, I encourage you to subscribe below, or even click below and some of our free lessons Okay, so I hope that this was helpful. I know I really enjoyed this lesson. I hope that you did too. Remember there are three ways, there are many ways, but there are three very good ways to remember vocabulary. And the first is to remember why you wanted to learn and make new vocabulary Number two, don't stress yourself out by trying to learn too many new words. And number three, learn Okay, that does it for today's lesson. Again, if you're interested be sure to click below. Thank you guys, I'll see you next time.