Madagascar, an island where A beautiful day on the coast is a sign the sun will soon give way One country, two seasons. During the six-month rainy season, villages are completely cut off barring a few brave adventurers Here, forget about cars and trucks, only tractors Tieri is one of the few who dares Put this on top of the oil cans. You have to distribute the goods well, If the road is unbalanced, Petrol, rice, flour, and biscuits, a weight that will soon become The Malagasy have one Out of 49,250 kilometers, Without infrastructure, Frequent tropical cyclones are quick and the tracks I'm really fed up with this situation, but we have to finish the damn road. We did it. After all these difficulties, we are not going to stay stuck there. Violent natural disasters Floods, yet at the same time, According to the UN, Madagascar is the first country caused by global warming. The island is paying dearly for the disappearance Life is hard, The masters of recycling know how into something useful. It would cost much more in a shop. Madagascar, an island of fighters. It's hard to believe, but this path is considered With a trailer loaded with food, Tieri and his two assistants that has been cut off They only have to travel 30 kilometers but it will take them up to a week However, as the saying goes, one man's misfortune If the road was in good condition, If you get stuck here, Dig here, I'll go through there. From here, drive on this side. To reach the 3,000 inhabitants the men dedicate Here it is. The trouble begins. We're going to take out I chose Fabien as my assistant He's a real sportsman. He's super muscular that's why I took him. My two co-drivers are serious. First I put the chain through the wheel and tie it around the tyre. Once it's secure, and as it turns it will pull the tractor. The Malagasy invented this system. However, for this to be effective, If the tyre is smooth, it won't work, However, after 15 meters, To get out of the mud, You never get it right the first time. Rarely the second time either. All these people walking by are much faster than the tractor. It's better to walk. Walking at a good pace to reach their village, It's a very difficult fight. No one realizes how much we suffer. Three hours of struggle later, Despite the poor condition of the road, We carry vital goods for the villagers. Without us, they have nothing. Fortunately, some parts of the route At the end of the day, They've traveled 15 kilometers, From now on, the road will get worse. We'll stop and sleep. For the equivalent of EUR1, Tieri can sleep over However, for that price, Tomorrow morning we'll be ready. Poor Tieri doesn't know how much In the middle of the rainy season many question whether it's worth Of course not. However, what other option do they have? At the Anshui bus station, making the final adjustments Without the bush taxis, They are an integral part These taxis enable them and harvests across the country. Olivier observes the other drivers. He's lucky enough to drive a four-by-four and is one of the few who drives a road He crams in 18 people instead When you travel on this bad road, you have to sit in the front, The only cars that are capable There are no others. The minibuses They set off During the dry season, However, at the moment we are in the and the journey It is impossible to say He will struggle I have been doing this job Thanks to my job, and I have also built a house. It's not very big, Olivier is employed by a company However, he manages In Madagascar, you have You can't get by with one job. -The driver does as many Malagasy do. He never misses a good opportunity They cost as much as a passenger As you are a friend, Aren't you taking them for EUR4.50? No, I told you EUR7. Seven Euros for four goats, but the last one is making a run for it. Easy. The chase is over. -You have to tie them up, Make room for the second one. Be careful not to strangle them Olivier must drop off some customers where a big party is going to take place, However, they might be late There aren't enough of us to get it out. Come on, everybody has to help. Olivier takes charge of the rescue. We are passengers. However, if we want to go, In this region, it's always like that. As soon as you travel or want to transport goods, Ten pairs of arms and half an hour later, The driver reaches the first stage but the rest poses more trouble. Until now, the road was good, We will attack the most part Before we start the next 80 kilometers, because on the road, you can only find mangoes Some of his passengers They make a stopover to take part In these mountain villages, It starts with lively music For good reason, the villagers celebrate them Turning the dead is a Malagasy tradition. It is a way for us All the guests gather, and they dance, everyone enjoys themselves A big party Everyone makes a wish to the dead. Like passing an exam or having a child. Their ancestors are dug up In our village, the ancestors They protect us. They are the ones who gave us life. Even after their death, we pay tribute to them Not all the graves are opened. To have this honor, They make their first offering Then they walk their ancestors to music. A dozen of their ancestors The ceremony also aims to unite in order to strengthen their bonds. This is my great uncle's body. It's moving because I'm finding out When I see that, I am convinced to take care of each other. Because in life if you don't have love, I am both moved and very happy. Before moving them into their new home, To be able to keep the body longer, It's normal to do that. In the same way, our children The families usually hold these ceremonies Enough time to save up the money We have just killed a 600-kilogram pig. Thanks to it, and we have also prepared 500 kilograms The ceremony costs a little over EUR1,000, as they usually live on EUR45 a month This is a Malagasy flute. I made it by drilling holes Like this. The families hope to have earned for the year to come. There is one person who missed the party. Tieri is in dire need of a bit of luck where he delivers his goods. At 30 years old, he has no choice In his region, most young people Four years ago, with the help he bought a second-hand tractor. Ten thousand Euros He only earns EUR60 per month. I started driving when I was 11 years old. At that time I was just a school boy. I left school to become a driver. Since then, I have always done this job. The tractor belongs to me rather than entrust it to another driver Above all, I have to make it profitable. Today the road is going I don't think I'll make it He still has 15 kilometers to go Very rarely maintained the tracks are deteriorating Sometimes it seems like a lost cause, especially when the men However, the worst thing for Tieri No one really intends They are already working in large numbers, they don't need me. The ground The only efficient technique to prevent the front wheels which is effective but dangerous. I've never seen it happen to me, but I've seen drivers run over When the tractor turns over, the steering wheel The services that have to maintain They just give us T-shirts. They don't even know because the people We have asked them many times, How can you trade It's a real headache. No matter how far they advance, the men always find We have to clear everything out. It will take us maybe half a day. It just depends on our efforts. If you take your courage in both hands, However, if you get discouraged you won't make it. For six months, the 3,000 inhabitants due to this route. The most serious consequence in case of an accident or illness, so they developed Revisiting the sedan chair like this lady I would like this road to be rebuilt. Especially for people because of the travel time, Thankfully, the woman but it will nevertheless take her Olivier and his men to drive a stake into but Olivier drove over the stake. That sounds serious. There's an oil leak, it has to be plugged. It's the hose that's broken. I should be able However, I don't know if it will hold. In the worst case, I could weld it. I'm not used to feeling sorry for myself Breakdowns are part of the job. There's nothing to complain about. They will have to spend the night here. Faced with constant hardship, In the capital, Antananarivo lies a surreal place. These collectors have taken over They sell anything from the rubbish bins. They give new purpose to broken objects. The smallest piece of metal Nobody can afford a steel-cutting machine, The business allows us Here we all know each other. We are a big family We pass on the know-how These artists make shovels Marcella in the blue t-shirt and Danny, are looking for materials I am looking for metals to make braziers. A brazier is a mini barbecue. The two men make a living from odd jobs, and today a family How much does this one cost? Thirty cents. Will you let me have two metal plates Okay, that's fine. We'll take this one These two panels Now to find the right craftsmen How much does it cost Give me a couple of euros. We'll sell it for two euros. There are many of us on this market However, we manage to make good deals. If I work well, I can make 15 a day. I work with everything made of metal. I make chimneys, mufflers, and gutters. This is my job. It feeds me well. In 20 minutes, the two computer plates Marceline lived in this neighborhood but eventually left when a disease I had a friend who lived here. He got a big lump under his arm. Finally, he died. Here, I would be too afraid In 2017, an unprecedented plague outbreak and killed more than 100 in the country. The disease continues to claim victims Today, Marceline lives and the disease that lurks there. His new neighborhood is just as poor He lives with his sister-in-law, his wife, or rather a room of 15 square meters. We are poor so we live with five people. My flat is so small that I don't have room for a wardrobe. We put the clothes on the bed in a mess. It is small I studied and worked a lot to get there. However, due to how poor I am I didn't manage to get my BEPC. I had to stop my studies and get married so I resigned myself Of the four million unemployed, Like Marcella and his family, they're all It's not unusual for the capital's to go out and scour the roads. Almost all the bridges Olivier, his clients, and the goats The road is getting better, and the driver has used his many years When you're not from the region, However, I'm used to it. I know all the side roads, However, nothing ever goes smoothly Faced with this minefield, Olivier is frustrated Did you find the shovel? I ask you a simple question You are so stupid. His anger mounts when his assistant and when he sees a tractor blocking Come and help me Why do you care about this truck? You are completely off the market today. You're not thinking straight, I don't have the patience Get your tractor out of the way. You don't have to give me orders. This is not an order. I'm asking you to move on. That's all. Two hours later, Olivier manages Now it will be smooth sailing. There are only ten kilometers left and the road is tarred However, once again The engine is heating up. Is there any water? You are such a jerk. I think it's the belt that broke. You never check. You always have to check under The passengers don't grumble. They are patient, and they are used to it. They know that this kind of problem Come on, let's change the belt. If the mechanic doesn't find a solution, the passengers In the distance, Torrential rain He's been on the road for three days now and has only covered 20 of the 30km I like my job. Even if I suffer during the rainy season. When the rain stops, the work starts. The soil now resembles a muddy soup. It's an exhausting job, it's true, but at least I stay close to my family. Due to the lack of job opportunities, many of his friends to try to earn some money in the city. The poor stated the roads mean that they can only work and the region is far from being rich. We're going to eat and wait for the other tractors to arrive. They have no choice. The passage that awaits them We only eat rice and fish broth. We don't have meat. We don't eat meat We only take food that is not perishable. They barely managed to swallow before the drivers arrived. They call this passage To pass it, they have only one technique. These tractors will pull us. That way, we can get The trackers are attached Everyone manages to pass except Tieri and his trailer Working on this road but I've got used to it. Even your body gets used Three days of struggle. It's hard to imagine that they still However, Tieri can count who tirelessly works Once again, his men put him back Tieri pays them EUR18 per month. For a bowl of rice, some Malagasy take Leo has just turned 20 Unemployed, he tries to earn a living. I practice a form My family is very poor Anyway, I don't have much else to do. That's why I'm interested I would like to make a living from it, but at the same time, I have to work. My family needs help I train a lot. I'd like to do this for a living. Malagasy boxing is a form of celebration. The fights take place to music. These are the fighters I'm ready for anything. I've trained to be able I'm really not afraid of anyone. However, Leo's opponents The boxers fight and even headbutting is allowed. The only rule is no biting To win, you must knock your opponent down It's Leo's turn to fight. -No hatred between you. You must set an example for others. Your conduct must be exemplary so that Between us fighters, Once the fight is over After each fight, we earn some money. Leo won the fight. He pockets the winner's bonus EUR10, which is a lot in the countryside. In a big fight, I can earn up to EUR40. My goal is to become a professional boxer. On the island of Madagascar, for a large part of the population. As for Tieri, who is trying to finish to the village before nightfall. However, once again, he's out of luck. He will spend a third night on the track. We're not going to make it tonight. The tractor lights don't work. Anyway, there is a very bad part It's better if we sleep here. We'll sleep with the battery. I'm afraid it will be stolen. The men parked their tractors The city is right behind us. However, the last few meters are terrible. We're really close but I don't know Indeed, the entrance as the track they just faced. It's the fourth day of their journey, their morale is cracking It's really not right especially at the entrance of the city. I'm really fed up with this situation, but we have to finish this damn journey. After all these problems, I'm in a hurry to get it over with However, then I know there's merchandise Three thousand people Without their constant trips the village would have nothing to eat. We'll unload everything, I'm going to have a good shower Tomorrow we'll overhaul the tractor They drove over 30 hours A shocking average speed As for Olivier, but it took him 20 hours Every year, reconstruction works However, these terrible roads severely hinder A loss of income that could easily finance that lead to the villages.