Your hands are up ... Oh! Oh. So that. Was that an elbow? Yeah. Okay. All right. Can you do a fist on it? Yeah. Okay. As your hands are up. I'm gonna. Oh. It does not feel any better in headgear. This is Cliff Odette. A former and now the current head of the mastro I visited his studio in Riverside, some dirty boxing techniques And he showed me some other dirty tricks I would go on to get that piece. oof Cliff did a video with me to avoid the ground. And many people found it Specifically... the jiu jitsu community. Cliff's fight STOP! STOP! MDS emphasizes all the techniques you're trained A lot of people want to know and I'm not going to get into that Instead, subscribe to watch the upcoming We'll be discussing his past that comes with his training methods. Most people like fighting this distance, If you can fight effectively from this because most people have limited weapons But, know what you know? Cliff explained to me that a lot of people and that mastering close range attacks in a self-defense situation. He showed me one of his methods on So what's the scenario set it up for? We're going to cover the moment where you're either hands are up So these are moments when people If someone's doing a push. Scenario one right. Let him do the first push Okay. Seeing what they do. Whoa whoa whoa. Back up. So the moment they go for the second push. okay. Okay. All right, so first push again. Hey, whoa whoa whoa whoa Okay. Yes! All right. So this is like, this kind of a on my foot, and that's, That's Yeah. Because if I hold you here, And then I'm like, yeah. So it allows you to trap their movements It's something You just simply find a foot. Yeah. Okay, so this is interesting. Now, a lot of you stop watching my videos But before you click away, I just want to encourage you because Cliff is going to show you throw the first punch Legally, in quotation marks, of course. Okay, so let's see if I can get And that's what it is. It's we learn from the shuffle. But it's literally just stepping. Yeah. When you want to take a foot, And the moment you anchor that foot, When I was using my back foot, You can. Because being a taller person, Yeah. But you have to remember for everybody What's their capacity. Right. And the easiest way to actually get because I just do this. Take the foot now. Elbow up. Right. Just turn the corner and then. Yeah. Okay. Use your hips. Right. Use your hips. So that makes sense Now when you turn the corner It's actually much easier Yeah. This is the joke I make in my class. When you're here squaring up with someone, Boom! You. Then you just S'UP! so your elbows there, your position's You've cleared the shoulder. You use your core And now I can get back to work. But I use my core to do the work. Yeah. Clif then showed me in doing this technique You can either this way. This way. Okay. Okay. You had mentioned earlier it's So what's closest to you Okay. So one down and scoop. Yeah. Okay. If this one's closer to you scoop going in. Okay. If they happen to be neutral. Where here. You have choices here. Here. Okay. Here. Okay. Here. Okay. When I'm scooping, I'm trapping the wrist Don't lock onto the wrist, because No, you'll stay and fight. Okay. What I want is for this. okay. Think about it this way. I've now got my fist Closer to your face. In your hand? Yeah. Stopping me at Okay. I don't care who you are who's got reaction Yeah. You cannot get your hand around mine. Block your face before I punch you. Okay. You're just not that fast. And I'm initiating the action. So there's no way you can calculate Yeah. The moment you're here, Because punching me now is much. Yeah. The range is much more limited. Right? This is where the trick Because now Okay. Yeah. It's a simple wind down. It's you have control here. But most people will try to get this way Even if you cannot connect. Oh there's nothing there. You're going to get hit. But what you're going to get hit with If I didn't have my hand here and But you have control here. That's there. You can jaw jack him at the same time I have now unfettered access to his face. What you've seen up until now has been So for science, and experience it in fast motion. Your hands are up here. Oh, okay. So that. Was that an elbow? Yeah. Okay. All right. Can you do a fist on it? Yeah. Okay, It does not feel any better in headgear. Like I said, when you're doing this stuff Look, your hands are up. Oh, man. Oh. All right. This is the spot... we aim for. The cheek here. I'll go real real soft here. We're going to leave the headgear on. It's the neck. Yeah. Because there's a bunch of nerves, Oh yeah. It sends a shock to the system. It's kind of a shut off switch. So when you're aiming I'm aiming I'm aiming up into it If I miss I'm going to catch you Yeah. Or catch you in the cheekbone, Okay. So the elbow or you're here. Oh. Oh! Oh, man. I can feel my brain rock Thank God that's everywhere. So for a lot of you, It's very simple. Parry, What I like about what he teaches And speaking of little details, I had to cut a lot out. Rest assured, Going more into depth One little detail I liked, to some folks chagrin, was the importance of grabbing on to your opponent I don't even need to have my eyes open the moment I put a hand here I can find your face, right? Because I'm touching you. This is what grapplers do. This is why we talked about in wrestling. Yeah. The reason why grapplers grab you ...because I'm touching you. And it's a it's a feel. This is a joke Clap your hand. Clap your hand. Oh, look, he's a miracle worker. Yeah. Because you know what? Your hands are in space and time. I know where my hands in space and time. I don't need my eyes open. I can punch my own hand. Your head is just in the way. Punching in the face is a very fine art. You have a lot of bones. Right. Breaking If you don't know how to punch correctly. Right. If you were a novice at this Yeah. Open hand them. Yeah. Hammer fist. You can watch toddlers. Anybody? We all have seen this move. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Because they know this move. Yeah. This is the side of the hand for. It'll save you. I'm gonna hit you in the chest. oof (recovering) Yeah. Now, it's not devastating to the point, Yeah. Yeah. Oh, boy. Okay. Okay. Brief interruption here. I want to let you know that if you would of the Mastro defense system, Fred Mastro, there is going to be a seminar to 6 p.m. in Worchester, Massachusetts. If you'd like to learn more about feel free to click the link One thing, Cliff wanted me to I'm 6'1" and he's 6'2", that this technique will work which is why he put me back in the helmet Just to emphasize this point. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Let's do it again. Just for fun. Oh man. It just rattles. It rattles Now I'm no match for Chris. But Cliff really one of to demonstrate a factor when doing this move. He also wanted to make a caveat... ...caveat If after the first one Don't keep swinging! (Laughter) Please, God! Don't keep swinging. You will not. It is. If you notice, I went boom And you're not going Yeah, and I'm not holding you up. Yeah, You'll notice it's kind of a hollow They kind of space out It's really weird, right? But you'll notice that the body language kind of changes on them. Please don't keep hitting them, okay? Be at least a halfway decent Don't go.. Bang, bang. At that point, you're now doing assault, And you now have to talk to a judge. Right, exactly. Only use as much force is need be. And be aware of your surroundings where you need to exert energy It is not a prize fight Do damage back up. Look. Okay. I'm cool. Okay. Get away. Okay, now let's talk about the super dirty the things that most people probably One of the neat ones we've got here. So we've done all this work. Right. And you get to this position here. Yeah. What this looks like in real life. I'm gonna hit your arm Oh, yeah. Okay. So you see the reaction of the body. So when you got that, Boom. But that was your head. Now you simply. You're not coming in here to chop. You're going to go up at an angle You don't want to crush the larynx, but you're going to go up into the soft and the palate is... because it'll cause everything to move, But this. You got a cup on, by the way? I do... Go like... You're 20% Sounds good. We're So we're going to these are the pieces. one...two... three... oof! okay. Right. Because... we're chasing I'm not forcing my moves. If he never move that much I wouldn't take to get that piece. oooooh man! Oh. Oh, man. that wasn't even that hard! No. Within self-defense. You're not forcing your moves. and a lot of. You'll talk to any great self-defense you're looking for I'm not practicing combinations I'm looking for. I'm You put your hands up, And now hit you. Right? But if you don't go anywhere, Cool. But simply hitting you here. Now, I can do this. But then when this one goes up like this, You just simply. But now this one's ready. So he's now here. You you just see, Yeah. You can hit here, you can do elbows. You can do all kinds of cool stuff. Keep it simple, stupid. Just clap for your bus to your drum. Their balance is gone... run away. Yeah, okay. He calls this appropriately And he wanted me to practice this in boy, I really struggled with this one. Man is boom, boom. You're slow is terrible, by the way. Let me try it again. So I go, well, I'm boom. Sorry. Sorry, dude. I've never been a combo man In fact, when I go to McDonald's, Not the fries of the drink or anything. But eventually would you consider that, like, Yes. Okay. When you are learning, because people Yeah. Have I ever pulled that off? No, I think Fred's pulled it off Yeah, but I'm more of a 3 to 4 hit combo. But everyone wants Like, I want to do a 15 hit combo. I want to be a Ferrari. I'm not a Ferrari. I'm more of a Humvee. Like the H1, like, Realistically, If you're doing all these make them as easy for you as possible. I would say practice a two hit combo, Once you've mastered the two hit, yeah, It's entertainment purposes only. Ask all the big bad people How many uninterrupted strikes Yeah, I've only pulled off two. Okay, that's interesting because before they'll do something else. They'll covert, Yeah. So then I have to do another plan. Yeah, but I've never been good enough And I've talked to a lot of people. The most I've ever heard anybody from And these are professional. These are world champions. Right. Because realistically It's the rule of three right now. That actually made me feel really good even some of the masters struggle And I know there are a lot of monsters in my comment section And for that I commend you folks. But for the people out there who are like some self-defense techniques, I think the key here take it one hit at a time, then three hits at a time So for the folks who've made it this far If you'd like to financially support there's a link down in the description Just click the link. It's a one time donation of a low amount and it just helps the channel I totally understand, Feel free to share it with your friends. That actually helps out immensely. Moving on. As promised, how to legally throw the first punch And this is only to be used This is actually very similar to Icy Mike's approach except this is probably better for states This is like the avocado toast version, It's stupid but funny, right? How could you guarantee that? I would know that I'm When someone's coming up to you... This is has to be practiced, but it's more It's understanding. So angry. yeah. "Calm down. We can talk, we can talk. Right. At this point, Yeah, yeah, this is a good sign? this is again So this was step one I went to here Right. So let's chase this path that you didn't let me talk to you. Right. So from this point, I've established you. Let me talk to you. One time. My voices changes, cracking my elevations, So I'm showing a panic mode. So now you're establishing who's really good and I'm a big guy, Come on, come on, come on, man we can do. Yeah we can, we can, we can talk about. We don't have to do this. Don't manhandle them. Yeah. Because that's going to set off a flag. You simply cover whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa. We can talk Well come on, come on, man, Okay, dude, I can buy your beer. What did I do If you go here, that's going to make you nervous Yeah, because I'm too far back. You never want to get that far back. You want to be in control here. But now look at how many weapons I have. Okay. Yes. And you gave me permission So Cliff repeats this process two times because he's trying to set up the opponent Basically, he's trying to jockey himself where he has more "weapons" And if the second time fails, well, So now he went back So the third time I'm going to try No connection. Yeah. Okay. The neat part about California If he's pursued me and he went in, I went, whoa whoa whoa whoa, calm down, calm down. And I'll try to talk him down three times. I've escalated three times and three times I don't know the exact verbiage, but I've established I've really tried to talk my way I haven't used violence You chose to pursue me and continue You're de-escalating. I'm within my rights to now Which means I've set a pattern. So the first time I connected, Right. Okay. Second time I connected, pulled away. Third time I went to connect you. So. And then I can hit you. It's it's sort of like. Icy Mike talks about how he believes That's, like, 100% your way of doing that. We have to do the California. Yeah, we'll call it the avocado If you've enjoyed this video, feel free It really helps a new channel