I'm trying to build the world's tallest uniquely made for all the different LEGO animals So this is a zookeeper minifigure we're mission to save as many endangered animals The first of which is this baby Koala named in the Australian outback. But before we can get to that story, let's in the first floor of our zoo. His favorite food is eucalyptus leaves, so blue backdrop, and gave him a little bush Also if you're enjoying this video, I would subscribe button, but anyways during his nap, the disaster Steve rescued him from. It was just a normal day for this family of his mom and dad watched and practiced their aim. Suddenly, they felt something blast through The entire outback had turned upside down, Luckily, Steve came prepared with a LEGO commercial. A crocodile has fallen into the sky in Australia! Build the rescue helicopter. HEY! He zoomed in just in time to save Ozzie and were just out of reach--NOOOOOOOOO! He doesn't know if he'll ever see them Besides this crocodile, dingo, spider and a kangaroo with a little pouch to store her egg-laying mammal of action. Sorry wrong color. This is what they're supposed to look like. I used these medium nougat plates to look made this dividing wall with a window built We're just going to pretend that none of them from eating the guests I found a bunch securely inside. I don't think I'll have enough of these walkway space here for visitors to see the enough to give them a safety railing, they'll I printed out these cool little signs for animals are all pretty cramped in here, but to fit in my LEGO city called 24-ville. Whatever is causing all these natural disasters unusable. And this is all we have left to work with, to build upwards. This ladder will help Steve get up to floor disaster. He's gonna need to call an old friend to to the arctic, home to Lucille the little "Arf! Arf!" Oh she's adorable--*freeze* NOOOO! Extreme cold has caused the animals to freeze Steve and Santa rescued as many as they could less cold enclosure using a bunch of white on the wall. We've got another pool of water for this from Elf. "Bye buddy, hope you find your dad." I gave a little slide to these penguins, who and made this brick-built walrus that has for a nose. They were even able to thaw out Lucille, finishing Pun not intended. This is Steve's sister Robin, who's apparently But her pet toucan Sam sensed a disturbance You know what that means... Jungles get a lot of rain, but I think this, Let's grab what we can and get the heck I feel bad now because cats hate getting wet--you Puma is the first of many cats going in the We've also got parrots perched in this canopy chameleon that can change colors, and a lot and a gorilla? I don't think there's room for that one, Are you on Team Julien, or Team Zoboomafoo? There is a right answer. I stretched this bendy vine piece across the bananas. I wanted to add some tiny trees for them to decorating the outside of the zoo as one giant Adding roots, bark, branches, and leaves on and it's even going in the same spot Morgan But we'll leaf that for later. For now, Steve needs to move it (move it) A surprising amount of animals live in caves, strange blast started a massive cave in! Good thing Steve came prepared with this Power When these wheels turn, the drill spins as mechanism to clear away rubble and rescue *crash* I... will fix that later! For now we can create a fitting environment on the ground and stalagmites on the ceiling, This one rock looks kind of like a koala, able to save Ozzie's parents. You know what? He spent his entire month's paycheck ordering but it'll take some time to get here. I also added in 3 different colors of Minecraft lush caves. Actually a little greenery like that would this point I've already run out of fences, jail bar pieces instead. I know it's not a great look, but the animals And I couldn't resist putting some rock Like these guys can swallow an entire stick "Oh thanks bro." I'll quickly feed them dessert while Steve You know this set is pretty neat, I wish LEGO But this time the natural disaster is a sandstorm--dah! It's coarse, rough, and irritating, and from it. Well Steve is going to be finding sand in actually use it to fill up the enclosure with I added some dead bushes and cacti, as you also bring in these LEGO camels, who actually Side note, but has anyone ever tried camel It is the most revolting thing I've ever Literally made me want to stick my head in molded animal you can ride on to avoid the I guess roadrunners and coyotes live in the I might as well add the Tasmanian Devil to out for now. *thump* Wait, did you hear that? A tree fell in the forest, so that's where balloon. The air kept getting hotter though, because now engulfed in flames! It's just like that forest fire scene from *boom* RIP Bambi's mom. But thankfully, Steve was at least able to back home to the sixth floor, which I decorated trees to hopefully give it a different vibe But all these trees are really making me want I used these tall slopes and tentacle pieces connected plates on the side of the wall using It also gives me more places to put some of Like we don't need all of the owls in the on the outside branches instead, making the We've also got an American bald eagle and Plus lots of rodents, for some reason, including skunk. Ok this guy needs his own smell-proof section. Imagine having to give a tomato soup bath But this half of the enclosure seems like 7 Dwarves, or whatever they're calling it But I'm excited for the 7th floor because has to deal with this time. He just asked Garret's dad, Old Farmer Gary, petting zoo enclosure. All he has to do is drive this little tractor Gary's farm dog grew to a gigantic size Steve shifted into second gear and weaved he could from the well-meaning menace. "He's such a good boy though." We'll salvage what we can from the flattened you're actually encouraged to enter as you chickens, this sheep named Shaun, cats, and "Hopefully this one stays the same size." I put one of those dispensers on the wall some corn, and then hand sanitizer to scrub carrying. Steve also hired this guy in a pig costume 10 other animal mascot figures hidden somewhere If someone can find them all, the animals channel, since a lot of these regions were But suddenly Steve received a call on his You can hear the ocean in it, and they're After a quick shelfie, he set sail in this But the water level kept getting lower and Ignoring any global implications this might flopping around like this, so Steve went back for them to breathe in. Obviously this next floor is going to need I actually ordered more of to replace the these big glass windows. Using real water would get way too messy, together for the surface of the fake water. Then all the sea creatures can be suspended it look like they're swimming, like this Once again, I have way more LEGO animals than especially the whale aren't going to fit. I'm so sorry. We can fill the sandy aquarium floor with little turtle I'm naming Squirt. But before we visit the final region, there's The super expensive rescue vehicle he ordered to find a certain couple of Koalas floating Little Ozzie was overjoyed to see them again, new friends he's made, all thanks to Steve. And last but not least: AAAAAAAAAA SAVANNAH save some of the most popular animals ever Kong level. Surprisingly, Steve managed to brave the storm, fit all those animals in his safari rover. Our zoo doesn't have infinite space like that, few bricks taller than the rest. And even then that's still not tall enough I'll just poke a hole in the ceiling for I spent over an hour trying to design this like AAAAAAAAA- that scene from the Lion King even though it's not part of the zoo, I THAT scene. We've got a zebra and a flamingo next to animal, an elephant squeezed in here as well With almost all the animals in place, I finished top, I used a bunch of arched pieces as branches the giraffe can even reach. But now, we can finally place the zoo in our Ok there we go. Now it's all ready to open up to these guests we've rescued in each of their different to sell concessions. He watched Ozzie's family happily reunited kidnapped son. But suddenly the robot who took him returned. "I know what's causing the disasters, Watch this video to see what happens next, with a working elevator.