Turns out this video was actually pretty easy team ran a study where they would have gamers They would agree or disagree with statements like "I enjoy the company of others", "I worry I am not even if it hurts someone else's feelings" to answer quietly to yourself if you like. Dr. game genres they enjoyed the most. And in most had more quiet reserved personalities and often the right decision or done the right thing... in platformers and more fast paced games like Doom themselves, fans of puzzle games like tetris or in their everyday lives and become dissatisfied The same goes for fans of minecraft and other had personalities that lend themselves and admire them. And if you're finding these preferences and personality... quit that, was made up. Including that first line, How does our personality affect what games we one that has been investigated by people much I'd like to make a couple disclaimers and a couple opening thing up just to screw with you, although I did it to point out that personality psych is... yourself believing what I said about personalities which is how psychics and horoscope writers stay of pretty much anyone, when presented specifically true. Pair that with a little bit of confirmation may lead you to believe that you are an incredibly into Persona 5 than your entire undergrad degree. want you to be aware. Watch your footing on Alright enough disclaimers, let's dive into the One more thing tho, sorry, uh, you should know field in psych. There are measures developed to changing of age the changing of culture around us, to be correlational. So what we're talking about think we know, not laws. So again, grain of salt. If I asked you to give me a breakdown you'd probably start by telling me some Ah you put a lot of time into Ghostrunner, titles like that and Mirror's Edge. Oh, you and I respect it. You might enjoy the sensation of just a little too peaceful and you like to go out tell me you like getting absorbed in a story maybe your pants get tighter when you shave when you finally unlock that last support I see. Nomatter your personal syllabus we can measure genre preference, but if I asked you'd probably talk in more circles than your It's hard to... get a true read on personality, but And the one we'll be using today is the Big 5 The big 5 traits are sort of the most accepted, psych today, and each trait essentially works on in the middle... Generally personalities don't sit we're ever changing. We'll dive more deeply of the bigger points of the video, but just as an refers to our willingness and desire to seek openness tend to be very creative, enjoy trying with change. Those with low openness despise room or changing their schedule much, they Conscientiousness sotra deals with how organized strategize or act on a whim? Agreeableness empathetic and helpful or are we self serving emotional stability and how you handle stress, and At our core, we all land somewhere on each on the extraversion scale, but you are highly therefore you might enjoy a good emotional story world human interaction. As an introvert, I can so you love games where you plan ahead and you often get stressed when you have to make that mission or get choice paralysis when This is all my speculation by the way, I'm personality might affect how you approach titles. there has been some remarkable work done In 2015 Yee and his team gathered data from motivation profile, which you can still take now it's really eye opening and fun. Link in the after you finish this. From this data, they found of any of these 12 motivations. You might play to get wrapped up in a story or to feel like you're some do it for the power trip, many of you crave just like to blow shit up. Likely tho, we people are rarely so one dimensional. And motivations when playing games, Yee and called Multidimensional Scaling for the data which if two motivations are more correlated, they are less correlated are placed farther apart... meaning if you are really into gaming for destruction, but less likely to be into it for strategy... When you can get a better idea of what motivations are fall into one of these 3 clusters or maybe even what Yee and his team noticed. There were 3 higher that most motivation correlations fall under: fast-paced gameplay with player interaction, in stories, player expression, and exploration, strategic gameplay, tough challenges, and chasing are tricky... they don't really fit in just one as bridges between the 3 major groups. Meaning if and the Mastery-Achievement cluster, Now keep in mind, this is simply... motivations them. But what's fascinating is that the gamer motivations mapping is and cultures. Which could suggest that are both in some ways universal for all of sort of consistent manner. As I was reading up I realized that all there was left to do was embarked on this noble quest into the sweaty to try and find research that could connect Yee had already broken ground on that research Only a few weeks later, the folks at Quantic their gamer motivation profile AND a big correlations between the participants' offline pretty much what I mentioned in the beginning of kiwis Connor, they actually did this and statistically significant correlations, meaningful did not happen by chance. They stumbled upon to the experiences we love. The Action Social of excitement, competition, and community were Now extraversion is usually characterized by around others, but research supports that it's emotional expressiveness, cravings of excitement, not necessarily by being "good" in them, but competition or attention. Consider this, you don't you may still gain something from being around fighting games because your extraversion makes you action adventures for the constant excitement like the people in your life and get something Another correlation they found was between RPGs, Sandboxes, Open worlds, anything with a deep Most players that enjoyed these games tended discussed earlier is characterized by imagination a broad range of interests, enjoy change, Which may explain why these people can finish I joke, but this 100% me, I'm here for the I'd be willing to bet the undertale fanbase is trait is all about painting outside the lines. to the enjoyment of sandboxes like minecraft and world. Conscientiousness was slightly mapped makes sense. HIghly conscientious folks are followers that likely find challenging to be just the right scritch to their itch. The but it may shine a little light on the type of Again, that highly conscientious detail and to finding some pleasure in unlocking all the Okay... I'm gonna come up for air now, that was The correlations here are significant and they high meaning that this only gives us a glimpse universal truths. After all, you may be the most and yet hate playing strategy games because your as a chore and you have too many of those in relaxing (gris). Like I said earlier, phat grain have taught me anything, it's that there is always But I do think there is a lot of truth in super introverted, you likely would like the stranger and more novel a world is, the your teeth into it. Which by the way, this game trailer drops you may find yourself gets hype and just tosses it on their mountain High openness is great and all, but if everything free time. Or maybe you're the buddy, I'm the For what it's worth, my take on has to do with personality reinforcement. general that reflects our personality. Like Yee games are often stereotyped as escapist fantasies fact play them to better experience who we truly our own identities. A few studies gathered in a television consumption is for often purposes and companionship, especially in younger people. gaming may influence our personality in the same may in fact be the original spark that triggers each other back and forth. Games may serve as a which especially in our earlier years might into the nature vs nurture debate which.... psychology topics. Genetics certainly plays a with twins. In fact based on this study, genetic to be around 50% which means that personality is experiences. So the reason you keep coming back extraverted, but it may also be because your may not be as black and white as your personality A couple stray thoughts before we pull this video research presented in 2003 suggests that as we and agreeableness tends to go up through your 20s of people, you may really find yourself narrowing will be quite as appealing. Which I think kind of and formation in your early years. Though I could are also other models of gaming motivations than Types for example, plots you as one of 4 different interested in the world vs other players and them. Jason Vandenberghe's Domains of Play model extremely difficult to pin down just what exactly our game preferences is. It could be something we gathered for you today only reveals the tip of noise, grasping at the wind, small tendencies than what is actually the case. But what it most you take away anything from this video, know that like there is no right or wrong game preference. Above all, I hope that this research encourages personality, and not try to correct it. It's often from experience that's not such a simple task. I know yourself. Take the time to learn who you are, be ashamed of it. Games have always helped me do affects what you play, I think as long as you're Howdy partner, thank you so much for watching the world, but you're here with me, and I of value out of this and hey if you want more your in game decision making or how quickly by liking the video, sharing it with a friend, And if you'd like to pick that next topic, then who made this video possible and voted for this Lukas Kalbertodt, Daniel King, Gingy, Amro, and Karlan Cruz. If you'd like to pick a or simply have your name appear in the ending friends, go take Dr. Yee's survey, and until