Every Lego Video Game Ranked from Worst to In 1932, Ole Kirk Kristiansen - whose name - founded a toy company called The Lego possible toy to step on in the middle of the something; I don't know. and quickly found an enthusiastic young audience helping children develop artistically, and when they drop the castle they've spent trying to show their parents. It was fun for Lego's success led not only to a number television shows, and feature films, but video hadn't, I'd have absolutely no reason at those video games today - all of them For this particular list, we are ranking the than personal preference. Why? Well, for two ranked Lego games according to personal preference series, such as Star Wars, Batman, and Jurassic leave ourselves room to rank the others in To determine critical reception, we turned and a few sites after which we couldn't histories. We live this nightmare so you don't our opinions in the writeups - seriously, - but we're leaving the overall placement have mercy on us all. We also aren't counting later ports or collections, Star Wars: The Complete Saga." It's a So do just about all collections. We're slope that ends with us ranking multiple versions can unlock different hats. For the sake of Speaking of small differences, you'll see ones in particular - were released across sometimes they are not, and it wasn't always difference to warrant a separate entry. Judgement some of them. You may disagree with all of cold night. Let it all out, my friend. we could find no critical reception whatsoever. and PC games Lego Friends, Lego Bricktopia, Online. I'm sure you'll agree from the it was the critics' loss. I'm Benand I'm Peter from TripleJump, need, and this is Every Lego Video Game Ranked BEN NOTE: VO-wise I don't think we should the title slate edit however. Peter: 72-53 Peter: 36-21 Peter: 10-2 #92: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy DS (2006) the bottom ranking often goes to a game with The lowest-ranked Mario game was called Super game was called Resident Evil 2. And the lowest-ranked Okay, I'm joking; we haven't ranked those we could possibly give to Final Fantasy VII that list. My point is that games that are with games that are, pardon my French, VERY Such is the case with Lego Star Wars II: The to find anyone saying anything truly negative even harder pressed to find anyone saying In addition to watering down the experience and expected - this game was plagued by game breaking. Critics interpreted this as shelves before it was finished. Judging by Lego games that failed to crack a 50% average war. #91: Football Mania - 49% It's interesting that Football Mania - or about this - decided to forgo the Lego branding people would want to play a general football would probably be true, but certainly they like this. Whatever the reason, the GBA version people who enjoy football, but have no interest be confused with Soccer Mania for the non-Advanced disinterested shrugs. silly environments, which you may at some of your eye while you're trying in vain somebody accidentally ate it; calling this will only be understood sarcastically. at bringing the sport to a weak handheld fared bringing the sport to the PS5 almost two full #90: Bionicle - 49.75% It's difficult to imagine today, what with...well, late 1990s, Lego found itself struggling financially. help them stay relevant. Enter Bionicle, short is utterly without meaning. It launched in an American debut the following year. Providing news toys were, allowed Lego to grab a whole was an uncommonly lore-heavy Lego product, With success, of course, comes video games. come further success. This wasn't the first received one. Considering the other Bionicle list, that's quite an achievement. robotic shenanigans of the Bionicle Boys - as of serious issues that held it back. Uninspired designkept reviewers from ever getting invested GameSpot's reviewer even experienced a repeatable version. Maybe that was the luckiest critic #89: Lego Racers 2 - 50.6% A number of games attempted to be "Mario the actual "Mario Kart on the GBA" wasn't pretender was more or less doomed to fail. playing it won't necessarily result in the as far as the compliments can stretch. dull tracks, and collision detection problems. were referring to there, but it also seems issue; it's more a failing of the game's tell when things should collide. There is around a map aimlessly until someone interrupts Additionally, it offers support for up to are unlucky enough to own copies, but it's games get. Considering everything that one this game can think to do little more than #87: Lego My Style: Preschool - 52% Lego My Style: Kindergarten- ?? This is our first tie on the list, but it's this one is a bit of a cheat. We discarded on the grounds that there was not enough information was also the case with Lego My Style: Kindergarten, scored similarly enough to Lego My Style: put both of them here. to as a pair of edutainment titles, and I learn something from them. Such as how to more like activity centers, less interested them too distracted to wander into traffic. adults, but we do end up having to talk about that tragic fact is that we can now tell good these don't have Shrek in them, so therefore with some genuinely fun music, so it's nice here. That's more than we can say for a #86: Galidor: Defenders of the Outer Dimension Game Boy Advance(2002) Bionicle, Lego attached itself to Galidor, been the next big thing. Lego probably should because it lasted only 26 episodes. I'd but typically miracles are positive things. the sort of thing that seems like it should could "The Galidor tie-in sets were massively The GBA game somehow managed to be even less and a soundtrack that sounds like somebody's most-polite outlet was Game Informer, who GBA license cash-in," which is a description that definitely was a run-of-the-mill GBA Usually when we say "critics hated it," time. Cheat Code Central's review doesn't blurb on Metacritic, which says enough, I before release, instantly making believers #85: Bionicle: Matoran Adventures - 54.4% Bionicle: Matoran Adventures is about...well, "The story is set during the Bohrok War Kongu traveling through Le-Wahi to find TuragaMatau he encounters along the way. After finding and TuragaMatau then travel to Po-Wahi. After Po-Wahi, they travel to Ta-Wahi." I know reading that, and I hope you do, too. need to switch between two characters in order to stand apart from most of the GBA's colorful it's competent. length, but frankly the chance to stop playing us. In a few cases, criticswere much more bragging about finishing "an Elmo GBC game proud of you for that - while Planet Gameboy's in German. I assume everything in German is #84: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy Game Boy Advance (2006) II: The Original Trilogy, the GBA version insect. This game does provide a largely stable having? Critics were divided on that front, it - agreeing that it was too basic for It is impressive that we got some playable did we, really? Or did we get an assortment That one. That's the answer. The game ismore tip-to-tail reinvention of the console version. than happy with a cutesy jaunt through familiar handheld game in 2006 didn't measure up corridors can stay engaging for only so long, based on. #83: Bionicle Heroes - 55.25% The winding, confusing, sometimes impenetrable but Bionicle Heroes offers a story that is...well, It is also, however, non-canon, so it doesn't game really happened. Actually, nothing in with my life?! I could have been a doctor, but I'm talking a third-person shooter that sees players switching might switch between guns in other games. to enjoy. Its highest reviews still included "repetitive," and "clunky."GameZone's they had a headache, because writing and publishing easier than taking some paracetamol. on the game's failure by saying that it releases; specifically the launches of Sony's later that week." Yes, we're sure the between a copy of this or a PS3, and not because #82: Lego Island 2: The Brickster's Revenge Game Boy Advance, Game Boy Color (2001) 2. We just hate these very specific versions there, because reviewers made it sound like play them again. That officially means that on fire as at least 55.5%. Sort of puts a it? charm of the game, but were turned off by saw you walking from one NPC to another, in that couldn't be completed by a sleeping The handheld games largely follow the plot differently. This is a good thing, in the far better on these systems than any kind not much reason to play them, unless you are Game Boy Advance version is definitely the looks as though it could have been made entirely in its own way. #81: Lego Creator - 55.6% The appeal of Lego, at least initially, was wanted. You could as easily make a house as was easier, but the point stands. Lego provided and sizes, and your imagination was meant its best to retain that creative spirit. sandbox. Not literally; sand doesn't go the heck will make you happy. Build whatever and smash everything to pieces whenever you that took advantage of the technology, such move around with basic commands. That was you couldn't get with physical bricks. issues held it back, and it was also criticized that this game's sequels did their best for it, as well, which suggests that that #80: Football Mania - 56.13% The better version of Football Mania still but it would probably serve well enough in rather not think about it. Point is, Football get incorrect about this - is a passable It's simplified, which means that die-hard On the bright side, there's no offside rule, how to play. of charm, but there's not much to set it games you might have found on PC at the time, mode eventually takes you to Mars. That's games in the genre. main selling point to be its visuals, which look beyond that, you have an extremely simplistic near enough of them for the gameto stay interesting #79: Island Xtreme Stunts - 57.6% Another poor showing for Lego Island, Island collection. It stars Pepper Roni, Lego Island's about...erm...it's about PS2.50 on eBay. a film director roping you into performing little more than a few text boxes you'll And how are those minigames? Island Xtreme think they are? You spend your time sorting - and sometimes just...pushing blocks around. there, aren't you? You're even stretching the bright side, one of the scenes involves like this will be an excellent and no doubt Your personal enjoyment of any minigame collection minigames are, and Island Xtreme Stunts makes of the games here had any potential to be that potential. Sometimes we think the critics however? I think they were far too polite. #78: The Lego Movie 2 Videogame- 58.5% If any video game adaptation of a film should cynical cash grab, it was any adaptation of point had adapted a huge number of beloved did so with love and warmth for the source for something that was already made of Lego for some degree - any degree - of creativity, even when compared to previous Lego games. bemoaning the removal or streamlining of features many positive assessments. One small benefit for children. Even then, though, there was just as easy. the small number of unlockable characters, which Lego games were known left this one that Lego games had almost never felt like #76: Lego Bionicle - 58.64% Bionicle - 58.64% Two games with nearly identical names released average score? Why, this won't be confusing with the subtitle "Quest for the Toa," title screen, so I'm not sure if bringing Regardless, it's a good thing Lego Bionicle it would be hard to remember that it has anything your character a bit, and that's nice, but through mostly unremarkable environments as it's hard to tell what anything is, so we'll The game simply called Bionicle fares better with critics. This one is faster paced and introduce its own problems, but it sure felt of mashing "attack." is great, so it really just comes down to #75: Lego Battles: Ninjago - 59% The more general Lego Battles for the DS is but it's not because it was notably better only separated by a few points in the critical favorite thing: not Bionicle. More specifically, young Lego ninjas. It's cute, and is honestly The game, however? Well, it's certainly strategy game that unfolds within the show's of multiplayer modes, and it looks great. sense of visual artistry might be tainted very least, looking at it makes me less angry. perform better? That's a valid question. more, its simplicity worked against it. For introduction to RTS games, though, it's #74: Lego Rock Raiders - 59.18% There's a bit of confusion about Lego Rock PC iterations two completely different games was available in two different versions with American fans will have both played Lego Rock experiences. Well, I probably shouldn't The PlayStation versions were similar enough entry, as the difference mainly came down probably end up preferring whichever version that you grew up with either version. in a bit, but here you take control of a single wondering what you're meant to do and how to burrow through walls, an activity no human but it's too late to do anything about that timed missions...all of them sound like they of them will equally make you wish that electricity #73: Lego Alpha Team - 59.6% In many cases, Lego video games are based case of Lego Alpha Team, though...well, the ended up releasing sooner as a result of difficult of Alpha Team was in flux until Lego landed sounds fun. It isn't fun, but it sounds The Game Boy Color version of Lego Alpha Team game, that's for sure. It's a puzzle game your heroes around obstacles towards an exit. think about it; go play it instead. in which you manipulate mindless characters aren't supposed to besuper spies. I'd in that profession, so watching them stop arrow on the floor explicitly telling them it's frightening. #72: Lego Creator: Harry Potter - 60.4% Lego Creator: Harry Potter is often thought Lego games that followed...and that's not wrong, either. Incidentally, most things are so stop being so absolute about things! You Lego Creator was its own endeavor, and the that, hopefully, would dig into the pockets given two bricks for Lego Creator. It worked, video games moving forwards. the word I'm looking for? Good. It was notable so - but in retrospect, it's a relic of The better-known games developed by Traveller's in the cultural memory, and that's a good this game, however? Well, they went on to this abomination, and The Elder Scrolls IV: someone else picked up the reins for Lego #71: Lego Fever - 60.5% I'm pretty sure that our desire to create contracted Lego fever, but it is our solemn as one of a few Lego Premium games purchasable of a presence anymore, but a small amount that old, so we'll be curious to hear from It was a puzzle game with what seems to be be matching colored blocks, keeping a chipper town, or manipulating the environment to solve it's a nice match for the concept of Lego and none of them were particularly brutal, be due to the fact that it didn't do enough. they enjoy it enough to justify a $20 transaction It's a shame, because a full version of console with a touchscreen - could have #70: Lego Creator: Knights' Kingdom - 60.66% The second Lego Creator game is more of an truly unique experience. That's not intended same way. This is the gaming equivalent of theme to preferring the ones in primary colors. a tutorial, which itself contains a few clear it's a similar experience that just takes This gamehas a bit more structure than its Potter game, leaving Knights' Kingdom to of the series' development. they weren't enthusiastic about the others, up your own Lego kingdom just to plant explosives so that's something. Also, "Knights'" my brain. Wouldn't a kingdom that belongs "knights'" is plural as well as possessive, I don't know; you sort it out. I just saw things to worry about. #69: (nice)Drome Racers - 61% Nice? As if Drome Racers weren't bad enough, because it landed at #69? You're not nice, a looming threat. GameCube port scored only 54%, and that would but just about any score feels too high for racer is good, but it's not as though you Drome Racers has you drag racing multiple which is tedious enough to mention verbally, And the controls are awful, with roads feeling any time you're taken off road, simply because Some of the visuals are nice - for 2002 any of them, you're brought face to face yearn for the plastic simplicity of the minifigures to give us humans, Lego. Not like this. We #67: Lego Knights' Kingdom - 62% Lego City Undercover: The Chase Begins - 62% Lego Knights' Kingdom is one of the rare like a Lego game, and indeed its graphics this. It's dreary, uninspired, and seemingly that it's hard to believe it was playtested to defeat many enemies, as they will cast GameZone was the politest outlet, claiming the end," but even that wasn't worth more The Chase Begins should also have been a much on Wii U keeps making reference to hero cop villainous Rex Fury, so this is a natural almost entirely without voice acting, robbing It also takes place in most of the same environments seeing very little new content, and all of game tailored to the handheld could have worked to do things that the hardware can't do #65: Lego The Lord of the Rings - 62.6% Lego Friends - 62.6% Lego The Lord of the Rings for the 3DS, DS, of a console game. It's absolutely fine, an affront to humanity and the rest had never Then there's Lego Friends, which ends up polarized scores. In Lego Friends, you wander dogs, and increasing your friendship level not bad. It's a simple, wholesome experience library, even if it's unlikely to be the A glowing review in the Financial Times of unthreatening fun for young gamers, with the the other end of the spectrum was Nindojo, off socializing in real life." That's Nindojo. Don't rely on any game as a replacement Lego Friends has its issues, but it's only for game reviewers to point and laugh when about them than it does about Lego Friends. #64: Lego Marvel Super Heroes: Universe in 3DS, DS, Vita (2014) platforms with the same name, even if they're was the subtitle given to the handheld version easier to research, find footage for, and were talking about. Do this more often, Lego, a thing anymore, or has the Switch killed out 92 Lego games; don't ask us to sort The game received a wide range of scores, the way down to an appalling 30% at the low no winning formula to the handheld games. the adventure down to a series of frantic, reviewers praised - but the fact that it conclude that it felt unfinished and "butchered". its best to stand out as its own complementary console version. It may not have succeeded, #63: Lego Racers 2 - 63% We'll get to the first Lego Racers game you could probably take a nap and not miss Lego Racers 2 could easily have improved upon More tracks, more customization, more items...more that. Finding more ways to smash and crash doing since the toy was invented. So what Well...how long have you got? Critics took with returning features feeling like downgrades bloat that actively made the experience less criticism for performance issues. The music while it's up for debate whether or not unanimous in their conclusion that it certainly powerful hardware. a selling point, was instead singled out as got in the way of the actual races and spread far too wide a surface. #62: Lego Indiana Jones 2: The Adventure Continues DS, PlayStation Portable (2009) is Raiders of the Lost Ark. Right, you keep hands if your favorite is Temple of Doom. Last Crusade. Well, there's nobody left, of the Crystal Skull. Jones 2: The Adventure Continues for the DS of the Crystal Skull. Whereas the console here you're stuck with literally the only first place. For good measure, they also removed it didn't run off with your partner, just to... "whip this one into shape." Hello? something... whose critic complained that it didn't have Death Star." There are many aspects of the that you couldn't be bothered to read the one of them. #60: Creator: Harry Potter and the Chamber PC (2002) PC (2015) the Chamber of Secrets, which takes a big games we know and - mostly - love. The down to a switch in developer: Qube Software, tell, but one of those games was Coronel Indoor looks like mankind's greatest achievement. in the Lego Harry Potter Collection, despite it's unlikely that anybody on either the on remembering them. had a soft launch in 2014 - more of a widescale release in 2015. Reviewers weren't impressed, a free-to-play MMORPG targeted at children. that, shifting to a more-traditional pay-to-play under that arrangement, and was shuttered I think if a game can only be financially parents' credit cards, it's better off #59: Lego Legends of Chima: Laval's Journey 3DS, Vita (2013) game's title, but something tells me that of Chima seems to be about lion people who animals but enemies with people based on yet it wasn't up anyone's alley. Legends of had begun in 2011. It turned out to be a bad show people hated, however. Who'd have thought? to this day, while Legends of Chima was cancelled games, therefore, are just footnotes to footnotes, by critics. Scores tended to land between and extolling its merits as a fun platformer was far from a hit made it easier for reviewers rather than as a tie-in, and that seems to than the show's reputation would have one It also received a later port to the DS, for #58: Bionicle Heroes - 64.8% The Game Boy Advance version of Bionicle Heroes is being eaten by a horse, so that says very here. Mindless fun, yes. Minutes of fun, yes. we'll take what we can get. History so I won't pretend to understand a little cartoon robot around the screen and to keep playing once you've massacred your but we've seen worse. It's slight, and sitting quietly in the corner more than you competent, and that's a big step forwards. game was intended to be a first-person shooter. it for the DS game, which you won't hear something that people liked. #57: Lego Battles - 65% Lego Battles is a simplified real-time strategy disparate Lego themes such as pirates, knights, distinct stories, making things feel a little sake of a mashup. the strategy elements were simple...which RTS fans, but we're reasonably certain that so that critique is a bit misapplied here. AI, leading to units becoming stuck or stranded as it often meant you'd spend your time larger-scale tactics. ability to play as villains in each of the and the customizable freeplay mode. It was have rarely touched. That's a shame, because steps, and it would be nice to see something #56: Lego Island 2: The Brickster's Revenge PlayStation, PC (2001) the PC is either an impressive way to build its predecessor, or it overcomplicates things 2 promotes Pepper Roni from one of several I'd say that this makes him a breakout character, in this game. From prison. He breaks out from be laughing later, believe me. criminal to justice, because you are a child everybody else in this universe is incompetent. in structure led to the tasks and minigames job of expanding on what we saw in Lego Island, discovering things and more like you're In the first Lego Island, you could more or Being told that you need to play Whack-A-Mole how much you'd rather be doing anything #55: Lego Rock Raiders - 65.29% The PC version of Lego Rock Raiders is often of the same name. That's disappointing for Second, this game is marginally less rubbish! at quite as young an audience as the Lego get rather difficult and time consuming. skirmishes and more about resources and infrastructure. environment as opposed to survive against...hostile but you're in far more danger of asphyxiation. the inability to save during missions makes of developing any true and sustainable strategy hours of progress and require starting from concern with the genre, admittedly, but it's I wish I could say that this game were a hidden pun about mining, but it isn't, robbing #54: Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars - 65.33% A handheld version of a Lego game based on uphill battle. With that in mind, Lego Star the fact that it's not...well, any of the here. For what it is, it's absolutely fine. loved the Lego games and also loved the Clone console and also did have a 3DS, DS, or PSP, they got. to its console counterparts and found it wanting. here, as compared to 115 in the main versions. and battles are omitted. On the bright side, people, means that there was no bright side. that it was far better than it could have bugs, a lack of multiplayer, and mediocre or not, those are all things that Traveller's #53: The Lego Movie Videogame - 66% The Lego Movie: Great. The Lego Movie Videogame on handhelds: Exists. Does that mean it deserves think about it again, yes. the fact that it's a stripped-down and even-more-linear and linear to begin with. In terms of getting that more people would buy it, the 3DS and to do. But anyone who didn't enjoy the console going to find themselves won over by this IGN appreciated the fact that it was a bite-sized reeks of "bug that we swear is actually feels like "a series of mini-games and puzzles and that it's not a "grand LEGO adventure." when "grand Lego adventure" also happens film on which it's based. #52: Lego Island - 66.4% Lego Island was a huge success in its day, generation of fans to Lego in general. It's playable characters. You can build, you can of activities that weren't inherently exciting - and there was enough charm around them interchangeable and forgettable children's There are indeed objectives, but the main its time, it was an impressively large and not as impressive, unfortunately, but if you child, it's easy to see why it would have to this day, and it's an only partially Lego Island received awards and recognition weren't as taken with it, which is reflected okay; children huddled around the family computer what game reviewers were looking for. Lego why we'd call it a success, even if its #51: Legoland - 66.8% If you've never been to Legoland, odds are during which you've asked yourself, "Why have been to Legoland, you'd ask yourself Legoland?" somewhat. Structured like the Tycoon games, amusement park of your dreams. Or nightmares. the little digital Lego people trapped within There's a story but, really, you're just theme parks, which is good, because that's to pleasing patrons with your attractions, the park inspector, Mr. Bimble. And, yes, sounds like the filthiest English phrase imaginable The game received criticism for being too theme park creator should have been, but there's it got a sequel. And not one that, say, just no real connection to the previous game.Ahem... #50: Island Xtreme Stunts - 67% Lego Island was a colorful sandbox full of more-structured, but just as silly, adventure Island installment is just a load of minigames or whatever. The clear next step, obviously. but it's just an excuse to have you participate you've never met can make a movie that you'll agree, are sky high. less than favorable overall, there did seem Informer's critic said "the real meat beef at Old Country Buffet." GameZone referred that's serving up filet mignon and lobster." and sang that "Babybel" jingle. Alright, ProTip: Fill your stomach before you sit down your readers will thank you for actually focusing #49: A Big Pile of Hamburgers #49: Lego Stunt Rally - 67.6% THAT IS QUITE ENOUGH STUNTS, THANK YOU. Actually, And I don't mean traditional in this sense. handles the steering for you in large part, In response to the game's title, it's you can't even feel like you're steering. track creator. That's a nice feature, but you, what's the point? Extremely young fans that's great, but we think the critics were A PlayStation version was in the works as 2020, however, a developer who worked on the obviously, and never made it to shelves, so a nice win for video-game preservation, and #48: Lego Ninjago: Shadow of Ronin - 68.34% The elemental ninjas are back in Lego Ninjago: elemental puzzles. Well, that worked out nicely. of Ronin has a plot focused on amnesia might - the game is definitely not bad. It has sequences broken up nicely by flying and driving. soundtrack fits nicely. down to playing it, things feel a bit unpolished. and fiddlier than it should be, and the combat never a good combination. Puzzles too often the right ability and then using that ability. over the map, really, with scores ranging highly and the simplicity seemed to be poorly Shadow of Ronin gave people more of what they Whether that was a good thing or a bad thing enjoyed that formula in the first place. #47: Lego Chess - 68.4% Good lord; it was hard enough to find something expect me to talk about Lego Chess? It's a roadmap? really "chess" that this game was attempting specifically, which became massively popular a great job of helping kids to visualize what certain interactions between them could play basically, and replaced it with good old-fashioned Lego Chess did...exactly the same thing, though featuring more than 70 long sequences of CGI of Looney Tunes. Did this make the game of Well, both, probably. It's a perfectly decent would likely find it amusing, but that's due to development constraints, it consisted is fine for what it is, but it certainly isn't #46: Lego Worlds - 68.67% Do you know what makes money? Minecraft. Do Me. Everybody. And being as both Minecraft made of blocks" aesthetic, it's no surprise leaned heavily into the appeal of the other. a superficial sense only. You zip around a interact with NPCs, complete quests, and alternately content. Compared to the largely freeform to give Lego Worlds its own identity, though It also doesn't quite manage to balance soon realized, with some worlds feeling dense Reviewers tended to agree that it was grindy feeling unrewarding. Those are all things bettermany years earlier. #44: Lego Stunt Rally - 69% (nice...) Lego Marvel's Avengers - 69%(nice.) Remember a few entries ago, when we said that Rally for the PC? Well, how the heck do you NICE AT ALL, THANKS. Lego Stunt Rally for you should call your doctor about if you accidentally GBC is a bad game. Honestly, I'm still not joke. And if it were, it would be a bad joke. and the construction mode is even more cumbersome and not fun to begin with. average with the handheld iterations of Lego It's not perfect, though. Itonly contains Age of Ultron, rather than the additional long loading times, disappointing draw distances, Still, reviewers were glad that it got as The Vita Lounge calling it "the most ambitious just wish it had done even more. That stands the only other thing we wish that game would #43: Lego The Incredibles - 69.33% As is the case with a few games on this list, from more material than the title lets on. and Easter eggs from other Pixar films, such one worth playing even for those who don't 2 are the two best Pixar movies. You know,wrong We'rejoking. We're not that invested in you argue in the comments, the more popular fight us. Please. familiar beats here, though a few plot points more family friendly. Yes, more family friendly Wave feature is both a great addition to the of superheroes OR SUPERHEROINES. The Incredibles for a Lego game to focus on, but it's one #42: Bionicle: Maze of Shadows - 69.4% The second-best Bionicle game brings me so the word Bionicle from my vocabulary with be more grateful. Bionicle: Maze of Shadows maze-like environments, so that checks out. the backlight, "shadows" is probably appropriate, to me, so "Bionicle" gets a tick as well. There's very little to say about this one, kept rather quiet. The game unfolds over the by puzzles and combat. The puzzles are fine want to keep checking your breath in a mirror Reviewers took issue with its controls, its which was never as intuitive as it should Fun fact: Every one of them who played the game. I'm looking forward to joining them. #41: The Lego Ninjago Movie Video Game - 69.67% There are a lot of things that The Lego Ninjago one of them but, still, other things are good. show as well as the film, which a nice way into. It also includes multiplayer, which do, but this one supports four players. Quite Well... yes. Sorry if that sounded like I just not all good. The camera was less cooperative And, perhaps most disappointingly, the game less notable if it weren't for the fact the new actors dubbing over the original actors. with this, claiming that the performances They also suggested bringing in the talent wouldn't allow for the film cast to reprise a really good idea. Ninjago Movie fans from buying the game, but disappoint them. #40: Lego Ninjago: Nindroids - 69.7% The highest-rated of the Ninjago games - though Nindroids is a game for people who are willing give a review average of 69.67% the time of better than The Lego Ninjago Movie Video Game, when reviewers could only say things like, and "we're getting tired of the lack of and never come back. They said it in French, Digitally Downloaded's reviewer decided who was actually a fan of the source material. happen more often when reviewing children's adults trying to scrape reviews together on Even so, that child ended up making a list game," such as - again - using different other than what they had in the show. It's but to annoy your target audience...well, disappointing in retrospect, does it now? #39: Lego Indiana Jones 2: The Adventure Continues PlayStation 3, Wii, Xbox 360, PC (2009) things that fans enjoyed about the original, fresh enough to warrant attention on its own. this enough - a good idea, therefore, for Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Indiana Jones 2: The Adventure Continues. films that anybody cared about. What Lego a little bit differently. And then makes you that you hate. I'm beginning to see where On the whole, it is still fun. It would honestly just how innately charming the Traveller's the first game, there was precious little the reimagined levels. It was a far lesser experienced. Which, I suppose, is true to a bad game, but since a superior predecessor #38: Lego Loco - 69.8% Based on the prominent train on the game's to be short for "Lego Locomotive," however...well, itself isn't about trains. It isn't really At first glance, you might think, "It's with Lego is an excellent idea and what somebody Instead, though, it's more of a city builder control over the actual operations of the your favorite part of Sim City wasn't plopping to enjoy here. and watching it slowly attractinhabitants. looking down from above, can pick up and drop in doing this, but there's little purpose and non-threatening diversion of a game. Well, that allows you to nuke the city and everyone threatening. Other than that, though? Non-threatening. mail postcards to the Loch Ness Monster and She never writes back to me in real life. #37: Lego Universe - 70% Lego Universe was Lego's first attempt at one. It wasn't exactly bursting with content, kinds of gameplay. There was the campaign, maps and teaming up to fight monsters. Then on property that would only be accessible exactly the right way for Lego to approach that it was underperforming financially. 2012, Lego Universe only really existed for to everyone who hoped that it could turn a interest in the game by adding content relevant Lego sets, but it was shuttered before most Critics felt that it was...well, that it was right. As an MMORPG, it didn't offer much, fans, it was not bad. With more time and a something special. Instead, it's a forgotten #36: The Lego Movie Videogame - 70.83% 360, Xbox One, PC (2014) achievement for what could have been a 90-minute chaotic fun of the toys within the confines delivering a sweet story about creativity did the public; it made around $470 million Chris Pratt's earliest voice-acting role everyone. Including you! by the movie - rightly engendered, I should A 70-ish% average is slightly high for what Lego was, in a sense, adapting itself, it the way other Lego adaptations were able to, Even the positive reviews contain the unmistakable games, we felt critics were a bit too harsh. wanting the game to be more fun and interesting really was that good. #35: Lego Pirates of the Caribbean: The Video 3DS, DS, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, Yes, it's a rare and welcome instance of being discussed in the same entry. They're close, with the differences being more superficial That's good news for us - one fewer entry with our loved ones tonight! - and also Pirates of the Caribbean, fans of Jackanisms The game covers the events of the first four amount of material. There's also the welcome well with the already silly spirit of licensed like a natural fit. The game even worked well Temple's reviewer, for instance, opened that he abhors the Pirates of the Caribbean was positive, and he gave it an Award of Excellence. a formula Traveller's Tales had managed of characters you hate can win you over anyway...that #34: Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4 - 71.5% The handheld versions of Lego Harry Potter: the console versions, meaning that they're usually are. Still, it's worth noting that experience, with the removal of hubs and reworked but it also means that these versions aren't These games performed well with critics, who something more or less inherited from the still get some of the credit for translating time with the characters, even if the experience consoles. praising the amount of content and noting was. It was a licensed title with its heart held back by the hardware didn't prevent in a world that they loved. Really, could 33 games' worth of "more" to cover, #33: Lego The Hobbit - 71.6% 360, Xbox One, PC (2014) for being one short story spread across three what most moviegoers only wish they themselves Lego The Hobbit is a strange game that didn't Tales obviously wanted it to. For starters, the first two films, intending to add the That never happened. Then the entire game 1, 2019, which was mysterious, returning several more mysterious still. Something seemed to a more troubled production than Lego games Critics enjoyed what there was of it, but they knew that one-third of the story wasmissing. insult to injury.Cheat Code Central even advised which would "probably be at or just under out to not be inevitable. It was, in fact, #30: Bionicle Heroes - 72% Lego Batman: The Videogame - 72% Lego Rock Band - 72% Bionicle Heroes for the DS is the best Bionicle marks the last time any of us will ever hear for the DS, is a lesser - but still very games. But the real highlight of this three-way As with Rock Band games in general, players and sing along with a selection of songs, Younger fans could enjoy the stylings of Incubus far closer to the grave could be reminded Did it have much to do with Lego, though? features, but other Rock Band games had those. as a band of minifigures. The Lego branding would remain family friendly, which was a could rock out to "Walking on Sunshine" by "Gee, I Sure Do Love Heroin," by Cannibal thing. #29: Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7 - 73.05% Vita, Wii, Xbox 360, PC (2011) Lego Harry Potter fans - fans of Lego Harry were themselves made of Lego - were either upon how they played the first game. If they now, considering how much closer this one weren't identical, but they were much more If they played it on consoles, however, then Critics understandably cited a lack of improvement It was still glitchy, it was still subject and there was an overall lack of inventiveness. yeah, but do at least try to improve it. not mean "bad," and a number of reviewers that they expected something more from a sequel, who just wanted another Lego Harry Potter they were after. Those who hoped that the were left with a whimper. #28: Lego Marvel's Avengers - 73.23% 360, Xbox One, PC (2016) a city made of Lego, but it helps. And when that city, who are you going to call? Why, them to cause additional, incidental destruction...but Lego Marvel's Avengers adapts two Avengers film, and - a wonderful bonus - that one there's a lot of variety here, and the game should nail: spectacle. The visuals in this Lego titles, and that goes a long way towards engrossing. but praised the variety within the actual over quality" with the roster, asthe superheroes normal humans. With more than 200 characters it's a fair criticism. Still, Lego and superheroes list, we haven't seen the last of them. #27: Lego The Hobbit - 73.4% Did the console version of Lego The Hobbit say no. But does Lego The Hobbit - which it - for handhelds deserve to place even forcefully. system, I think. The console version released those platforms varied between 68% and 76.4%. on only two platforms, and they scored comparably little spread and no chance of the overall port. All of which is to say that Lego The because there were fewer opportunities for IGN called it "disappointing and frustrating," step backwards for the Lego games on handheld." game lower? You are allowed to do that when lower than seven. #26: Lego DC Super-Villains - 74.25% Let me be clear that landing just outsidethe done, Lego DC Super-Villains. Having said due in large part to the fact that the entire own invention. That's true to both the Lego We've all thought about dressing up in a from the top of a skyscraper, callingourselves hope? I get to feel less alone. In many ways, your as more established evildoers enact their of fun to be had while aiding and abetting a lot of chaos on your own, as well...and it. Everything's made of Lego! They can It's a fun time, and there's a lot of running amok in established locations. It's fun while it lasts. #25: Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2 - 74.33% The Lego games do a good job of drawing from in order to provide experiences that are a Typically, though, that's just a matter of movies. That works well, but Lego Marvel right into its narrative. This time, goodies a sprawling city that consists of areas ripped Is that a good story, or is it an excuse to (and when) they should be? Well, it's the well for setting the stage, and that's what's for characters such as Groot and Spider-Man unnecessary, but thoroughly welcome. Critics on offer, not to mention the comedy, which Lego and superheroes really are a great fit game left to cover. Andlet's not forget much more of. #24: Lego Jurassic World - 74.89% U, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC (2015) game with dinosaurs, isn't it? Of course People love dinosaurs. It would have been be full of bees. Despite the title, Lego Jurassic films in the series...that is to say, one all time, and three movies nobody talks about one. Even then, they only do it briefly. Like Licensed Lego games were well established Park - as well as the memorable setting some of the others. It was particularly praised as well praise sugar for being sweet. by this point, with critics understandably hewed closely to an established formula. They Park Game Ranked from Worst to Best, however; formula and they were utter tosh. We're But when experimentation results in a buggy, plastic bricks any day. #23: Lego Star Wars: The Video Game - 75% There's no denying that the GBA version to the console versions. It looks far worse, there's no hub area, there's no multiplayer, through a brochure. We know all of that, and still an impressive game, and a fun one. in this version that aren't available in GBA game is a straight action experience. the console version's puzzles, it's not disappointing. It's just different. and playing as well as it did on such weak and Lego combined was still fresh; reviewers it's a bit easier to find better games combining it was, Lego Star Wars for the GBA deserves since done much better, and that's a good #22: Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham - 75.16% Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC (2014) top 20, and that's a strong showing for We might rank it a bit higher, but critics familiar with the formula, and Lego Batman They praised it for its accessibility and the third outing in this particular subseries. "repetitiveness" was already coming up of the same" can be a damning complaint. the scope of these games just slightly beyond backfired in the case of Lego Batman 3. Critics from figures such as Conan O'Brien, Kevin coming from a different franchise entirely. however, Adam West voices "Classic Batman," We mentioned that in our Every Batman Game worth mentioning again, because Adam West Adam. #21: Drome Racers - 75.42% There was no shortage of great 3D racing games that systemwas terrible. And there was no Game Boy Advance, but Drome Racers for that Racers does always manage to stand out from This one really is an impressive game, especially games in general weren't common on the GBA, racer running this well is worth a look in version of Drome Racers is significantly streamlined, the developers and players to focus on the is challenging, and even though the tracks feel distinct, like they take place in unique It's unfortunate that this game was saddled only the least-engaging title for a racing one of the worst racing games in history. a pleasant surprise. #20: Lego Racers - 75.45% Best known for its later ports to the Nintendo 9 points and 12 points lower, incidentally- it was quite a good one. It combines Lego the title, but neither of them felt like an did a good job of working out what might make wondering what one might look like. vehicles, which...is better in concept than in agreement about how much it mattered. Most but NextGen magazine - in an otherwise unfavorable a major effect" on how the vehicles controlled. its creative approach to the genre, and indeed Interestingly, the game inspired a similar time, at least - at Legoland Windsor. That was later renamed Rocket Racers. It was placed over the course of 11 years, closing for good #19: Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes - 75.73% PC (2012) bit too far when broadening its scope, but incorporating other D.C. assets such as Wonder be real here - could benefit from a few his interactions with Batman are the runaway The acting in general is great, with some in other media, while other roles are filled hitters, such as Troy Baker, Laura Bailey, - so long as you don't want to take the the humor does a great job of keeping you That's good, because the gameplay isn't out for criticism by reviewers, and "repeatedly used as an example of just how dull things but there's no denying the infectious charm darned well how to take what could be disappointing in itself. #18: Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars - 75.75% For what could have been an absolutely disposable Star Wars III: The Clone Wars does a darned material from both the 2008 film and the subsequent who haven't bothered seeking those things Critics enjoyed it quite a lot, praising its sense of humor...practically everything that but here Traveller's Tales, in the words Performance improvements, a head-to-head PvP fights, and more all came together to make the stopgap release it so easily could have Right? Right. So, let's get serious about Star Wars films, all of the prequels, all finally get a Lego Star Trek game? So many So many classic moments to immortalize in the Gorn, Captain Picard enjoying some mariachi, his death...it would be a laugh a minute! even get a Star Trek level pack for... #17: Lego Dimensions - 75.76% 360, Xbox One (2015) - Ghostbusters Games, Jurassic Park Games, that we didn't rank the relevant Lego Dimensions me be clear that it wasn't overlooked or game, rather than games of their own. There's Dimensions content packs each time, we'd experience across as many as 30 different A small number of them added some degree of some characters, but all of them were...look, about different Lego games without repeating the same Lego game more than two dozen times.Nobody As a toys-to-life concept, Lego Dimensions purpose outside of the game, so anything you collect dust and clutter your home without They might be the only example of toys-to-life criticized the similarity of the experience me criticizing that very thing at the beginning and it was supported by many different franchises But there simply isn't enough to say about multiple other lists. Sorry. #16: Lego Batman: The Videogame - 75.83% Portable, Wii, Xbox 360, PC (2008) a revelation as the first Lego Star Wars game by just how brilliantly the two worked in who can strike just about any tone, depending 1960s TV series to the semi-grounded whimsy introspective Christopher Nolan movies, Batman an established character. And that's to which by this point have spanned an even wider Bringing the Caped Crusader into the Lego history as a character, and it pleased both for the first time. Later Lego games - Batman more characters, and more variation in the simplicity of Lego Batman: The Videogame. heroes and villains as little plastic toys not be everyone's favorite game, it's favorite. #15: Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham - 76.6% Yes, the console version of Lego Batman 3: 20, but the 3DS version sits comfortably here game. Indeed, it's just a fraction of a quirk of the review system. Possibly. Probably. It's a stretch to call Lego Batman 3 for to be made that it's more impressive for consoles. It's not the same game, but it provide an experience that isn't "equivalent" Nintendojo was surprised at just how much the transition to a handheld. They said that evident throughout the game," and that it And that's correct; Lego Batman 3 for the version of the main game; it feels as though that would be worth playing on its own. I did, but I can't argue with anybody celebrating #14: Lego Alpha Team - 76.67% Remember Lego Alpha Team for the Game Boy absolutely awful. In fact, forget I said anything. It retains the basic conceit of that game, looking and playing like absolute dog plops." Your job - as Agent Dash, which probably the evil Ogel. You know it's evil because It's why I keep scowling at my neighbor I'm already quite evil, so he must be really You place panels on the floor to help Agent the interface works rather well. Also, you than the GBC version and makes quite a lot puzzles are to solve. the voice acting isn't half bad. Is Lego not great, but it largely achieves what it There's a good few hours' worth of puzzle-box worth solving. #13: Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens - 77.08% 3DS, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC (2016) have one thing in common...actually, wait; was the whole point. Let me start again: The have one unexpected thing in common. They formula, but it was a comforting and welcome what would come next, now that a whole new Then filmgoers got The Last Jedi and The Rise exclusively in profanity ever since. is a comfortable experience that does everything enjoyed its flourishes, such asthe ship combat the film. GamesRadar was one of the few truly "game-breaking glitches." Whether they or just judged it more harshly as a result, it, and looked forward to what would come What ended up coming next was...a Lego Star That was unexpected to say the least. Still, it some slack. It was also very good. So good, you still won't be hearing about it for #12: Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation With Lego Star Wars becoming an unexpected Tales would have looked into adapting George Graffiti got stuck in development hell, Lego how to spell it, and Lego Willow was...well, game ever made, and that wouldn't have been settled on Indiana Jones, a little-known franchise In all seriousness, Indiana Jones is just was, with its memorable characters, adventurous In addition to adapting the narratives and Jones uses some music from the Young Indiana the music is the only thing that should ever TV show. PC Zone UK calling it, "classic, no-nonsense of films ever made." Sounds like somebody POWERS. Point is, people enjoyed it, and it outside the top 10. But wait...this is #12? #10: Lego Star Wars: The Video Game - 77.5% Lego Builder's Journey - 77.5% Yes, it's a tie! There are two games ranked drive you crazy. Granted, we had to go back but it was worth it. content on this list already, so it's worth Journey instead. wistful atmosphere and a strangely moving and we wouldn't dare try to foist one specific to both work out what each level needs you the help of scattered Lego bricks. It's doesn't need to explain it- and it's response as the game progresses. Kids can adults who have "outgrown" toys, and it's left behind. is that "it's more of the same," then Journey. It's a fresh take on a familiar within the franchise, then this is the game #9: Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4 - 79% For Lego Harry Potter fans - again, the never got better than the console version even got an equal helping of quality; in the averages from the critical responsesthat each to give our calculators a break, as all four By this point, fans and critics alike knew that Harry learns as he progresses in his varied while remaining true to the source was the films, as the games hewed closer to Critics cited technical issues with the game They weren't, as we've seen, but in 2010 they just enjoyed exploring Hogwarts, uncovering a silly Lego lens. #8: Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga - 79.4% Series X/S, PC (2022) a collection of their previous Lego Star Wars been perfectly happy. If they were feeling Last Jedi and Rise of Skywalker levels, not the developer gave us an entirely new experience, off, frankly. brimming with content. So much of it, in fact, simply too much of it, with reviewers finding when all they want to do is advance the story. objectives and advance the story. No, no need Is there too much to do? Well, maybe, but of the draw. The Skywalker Saga even goes characters and deep-cut Easter eggs that many Ghost Droid is bae, do you hear me? helpful far too often, but Lego games have or felt better to play. Admittedly, this game hate - and possibly as many as six films is part of the appeal. that outshines it in terms of critical reception or the sequels? The answer is no, but try #4: Lego Chic Boutique - 80% Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures DS (2008) DS (2009) Wii U (2013) already, but what we're really here to talk far above the rest in terms of quality: Lego the same score, but in our hearts, there is exciting of the four to talk about, and the ...right, the fact that you're only seeing footage of this game exists and therefore It scored shockingly well, causing it to tie The Original Adventures and Lego Rock Band, Lego City Undercover. prospect that we can't thank Traveller's is often corny but, hey, so are corn flakes. come so thick and fast - quiet back there disappointed by a joke before you get to the is appropriately chaotic, and the voice acting child-friendly, but it's stuffed to bursting cliches that will keep adults amused for a In our writer's opinion, it's the best the critics here, and they weren't in agreement. is impressive enough. Even if it is tied with #3: Lego Marvel Super Heroes - 80.17% 360, Xbox One, PC (2013) Cinematic Universe, but features a unique matter, because it's just an excuse to pull and give them a chance to punch each other The game puts a strong emphasis on fun first, dealing with such larger-than-life characters. large environments to explore and a massive It was heralded by many, including IGN, as and it's difficult to argue. Previous games but few were as engaging or as memorable. only slightly more powerful than he was in of those superpowers for his heroes? That's that, but I sure don't! best-selling Lego game, and that's impressive. most-loved Lego games overall, so marvelous #2: Lego The Lord of the Rings - 80.85% Traveller's Tales' retelling of Peter retelling of an argument about jewelry is made, according to critics. That means that made it this far; go on, stick with us through Anyway, it's probably not too surprising so cumbersome that you know lawyers were involved But what made Lego The Lord of the Rings stand In all honesty, it seems to have been an inherent Lord of the Rings - and yes, I'll keep - does introduce new ideas, but critics and the opportunity to walk around this particular score of 100...even if their critic's name became an arsonist. Lord of the Rings end up so high on this list. that performed better...but thatone wasn't #1: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy GameCube, PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, Yes, in a TripleJump Ranked List first, the Wars II: The Original Trilogy is both the most embarrassing thing they've ever done. The game was basically guaranteed to be a - loved Lego Star Wars. The only thing they of films upon which it was based. The prequels Wars injected some levity into the experience, that Star Wars fans most wanted to revisit. which had the bright idea of adapting movies a new way to experience comfortable old classics, bash the bricks outof everything and everyone absurd custom character. their critical reception but, in this case, agreement with Lego Star Wars II's place any of the other gameshigher, as Lego Star ask for from either a Lego game or a Star out the best in both of its ingredients. Lego You've earned your place at the very top.