(upbeat 90's music) With the New Labour Government of 1997 Tony Blair, the UK was undergoing a "Cool and The Spice Girls were sparking a renewed pride new millennium and possibly a bright new future. Ford's stewardship, launched its new mid-size forwards, but backwards to Jaguars storied past. had disappeared, replaced by the modern, the retro-modern looks of the S-Type, was it any to make it a competitor with Germany's finest, as (music) Jaguar's competitors had come on in leaps and with compact luxury cars to pull in more and more Jaguar had been propped up by the Government in their great hope was to follow their German rivals BMW had found success with the 5-series, and offering the promise of the "ultimate driving to the senior company rep. Audi and Mercedes but Jaguar's range was sparse - just a Jaguar explored the idea of a compact with the BMW 5-series, but after years of lights on, let alone expand the range, so the Jaguar was uncompetitive, and management spent quality control, shedding thousands of New cars cost a lot of money to develop. Luxurious cost even more, so it was maybe inevitable Motor Company in 1989. After a bidding war with USD, EUR1.9B, $3B AUD). Like Jaguar's management, luxury competitor to take on not just Germany's once they got control of the company, they found improvements had barely scratched the surface. Jaguar than in the entire business of Ford Europe. over 6 times higher than at Ford. Production to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, paint and assemble the car. German and Japanese car makers only 20. In the US, JD Management didn't seem to realise the depth of a favourable US exchange rate in the late 1980s. to be put on hold while Ford poured money into of lightning through the company to get them to when Ford was continuing its struggle to become As Ford discovered the depth of Jaguar's problems, scaled back again. Production output fell, and job bearing fruit. Quality improved. The time it took start looking into new development, but somewhat even though Ford had plenty of V8's stateside that replacement for the XJ's ageing V12, but it could the XK8, plus a BMW 5-series competitor when By 1994 Jaguar's quality was up - it and in just three years productivity had doubled. Jaguar announced they'd decided to make sharing chassis, engines and gearboxes Ford warned the car wouldn't necessarily be built course if the British Government wanted to help With the X200 sharing the Ford Scorpio platform, in the end a specialised version of Ford's popular V8. Ford decided the upcoming Lincoln LS, Ford would share the same platform. This meant Ford and the costs could be amortised returning more profits to Jaguar. nostalgia-fuelled reimagining of the cars of old, from your youth. Nissan had arguably kicked off and Mazda had reimagined the European but this was just the start. MG's version of Chrysler would launch the Plymouth Prowler and the Z8 - an update on the 507 roadster, Volkswagen and BMW the MINI, and the pipe-and-slippers Rover on a reimagining of the Ford Thunderbird, and their new 5-series competitor. After all, Jaguar its worth to outflank its German rivals? head designer, Geoff Lawson, who'd also Jaguar decided the new car would look back to luxury car - the Mark 2, and specifically cues were there, right down to the toothbrush The interior would use as much from Ford's Jaguar knew switchgear from the Ford Fiesta The X200 would get the latest surrounded by acres of leather and wood. PS80M ($111M USD, EUR94M, $150M AUD) package to but the Ford Scorpio wouldn't be built alongside been sagging as customers chose premium brands. could help not only expand Jaguar's market, There was a lot riding on this new car that was Jaguar launched its first new the updated XJ and XK8, and work began planning using the same chassis as the Ford Mondeo. Ford's (music) Jaguar picked October 1998 to launch the new with BMW's decision to bring The United States and Germany were both playing up that looked surprisingly similar. It was hard Despite this, and a hissy fit from BMW's same Government funding as Jaguar, Ford about the prospects for their new car. Jaguar but in just 4 years' time they expected to sell Motoring critics gave the S-Type praise, 5-series". Like the cheaper Rover 75, this was a but reviewers felt it lacked But they didn't doubt it would sell well and hit But it was customers who would decide the fate new mid-size saloon went on sale at the beginning and by the end of the year they'd beaten their those rosy figures hid deeper problems. Sales of to just 22,000. It seems many Jaguar customers which had essentially the same interior space. This wasn't the "sales explosion" Jaguar Existing customers were choosing the new cars, customers, and it wasn't clear this was happening. made the car feel like every car should Its rivals were looking forward, as was the appeal to. Although BMW's MINI and Volkswagen's many other models fell flat, leaving customers Jaguar was keen to show this wasn't just an with squishy American suspension care of gave the entry-level model stunning performance in the showroom door, and on the test drive tuned. But the S-Type R would be Jaguar's halo magnesium and aluminium mechanics. Rather CATS or the Computer Active Technology System. The producing 400hp (298 kW), with a barnstorming 5.3s compare it with BMW's M5 or Mercedes E-Class AMG, make that comparison! Where the BMW and Mercedes the S-Type R didn't behave like a scalded cat. This was a refined, rapid ride, ruined somewhat which made it feel like someone was busy In 1998 Jaguar had boldly proclaimed it 50,000 of them would be S-Types. Although they hit on sale, and despite the S-Type R and a new Jaguar would give the S-Type a small update an optional 6-speed semi-automatic gearbox. The V6 diesel - a much needed addition as it made the range V8, delivering over 40mpg (5.88 l/100km) The engine proved to be quiet and refined, natural choice for many S-Type customers. development between Ford, Peugeot and Citroen, and everything from the Citroen C5 to the Range Rover, Territory. But although the diesel was one of the The S-Type's replacement, the XF ditched that sleek and forward thinking, with a playful merely a lightly revised S-Type. Sales of the XF competition. By 2007 Ford's Jaguar experiment had almost PS500M ($600M USD, EUR530M, $870M AUD) every factory in Coventry, its home since 1951 the after bankruptcy. This wasn't the plan when With Ford losing money in its home market of North selling Aston Martin, and Jaguar and Land Rover corporation Tata. Ford had paid almost PS3 1/2B ($4.9B and that doesn't include the untold extra money keep it in business. They sold both companies But in the end, the deal ended who suddenly became cash rich that sent their long-standing rivals Tata wasn't so lucky. They were forced to get the European Investment Bank to tide Jaguar over The S-Type was a caricature of its past like the United Kingdom pavilion at Walt Disney's but the S-Type, and X-Type did Some retro designs have succeeded, and Jaguar attempts at recreating the E-Type magic. there are several the withered on the vine. The and it dated quickly, but the S-Type shouldn't hard work, and money from Ford and Jaguar to Jaguar has remained a niche player, but in 2015 compact luxury car, the XE, and a slew of the Range Rover chassis. The S-Type's successor, the