THE ART OF MONEY-GETTING By P.T. Barnum Read by Randy Scott Originally published in 1882 by J.S. Olgilvie &amp; Co. As a general disclaimer, the views and opinions and may not always reflect those of Master This recording is a production of Master Key and discussion. In the United States, where we have more land persons in good health to make money. In this comparatively new field there are which are not crowded, that any person of time being, to engage in any respectable occupation Those who really desire to attain an independence, adopt the proper means, as they do in regard and the thing is easily done. But however easy it may be found to make money, it is the most difficult thing in the world The road to wealth is, as Dr. Franklin truly It consists simply in expending less than Mr. Micawber, one of those happy creations strong light when he says that to have an twenty pounds and sixpence, is to be the most of only twenty pounds, and spend but nineteen of mortals. Many of my readers may say, &quot;we understand is wealth; we know we can't eat our cake and Yet I beg to say that perhaps more cases of than almost any other. The fact is, many people think they understand True economy is misapprehended, and people what that principle is. Some say, &quot;I have an income of so much, and every year he gets something ahead and I fall I know all about economy.&quot; He thinks he does, but he does not. There are many who think that economy consists in cutting off two pence from the laundress' Economy is not meanness. The misfortune is, also, that this class of direction. They fancy they are so wonderfully economical spend twopence, that they think they can afford A few years ago, before kerosene oil was discovered almost any farmer's house in the agricultural after supper he might attempt to read in the with the inefficient light of one candle. The hostess, seeing his dilemma, would say: the proverb says 'you must have a ship at at once;' we never have an extra candle except These extra occasions occur, perhaps, twice In this way the good woman saves five, six, which might be derived from having the extra of candles. But the trouble does not end here. Feeling that she is so economical in tallow to the village and spend twenty or thirty which are not necessary. This false economy may frequently be seen it often runs to writing-paper. You find good businessmen who save all the a new sheet of paper, if they could avoid This is all very well; they may in this way so economical (only in note paper), they think parties, and to drive their carriages. This is an illustration of Dr. Franklin's &quot;penny wise and pound foolish.&quot; Punch, in speaking of this &quot;one idea&quot; class bought a penny herring for his family's dinner home.&quot; I never knew a man to succeed by practicing True economy consists in always making the Wear the old clothes a little longer if necessary; the old dress: live on plainer food if need some unforeseen accident occurs, there will A penny here, and a dollar there, placed at way the desired result is attained. It requires some training, perhaps, to accomplish will find there is more satisfaction in rational Here is a recipe which I recommend: I have and especially for mistaken economy: When of the year, and yet have a good income, I form them into a book and mark down every Post it every day or week in two columns, and the other headed &quot;luxuries,&quot; and you will treble, and frequently ten times greater than The real comforts of life cost but a small Dr. Franklin says &quot;it is the eyes of others If all the world were blind except myself It is the fear of what Mrs. Grundy may say to the grindstone. Many persons like to repeat &quot;we are all free senses than one. True economy does not consist in trying to thus rob someone of that which has cost total illustrate the above statement. A church deacon asked Mr. Barnum for a &quot;pass&quot; The veteran showman replied: &quot;Free 'passes' We never issue one to the big show except or to person who render us equivalent service No show can keep out of bankruptcy if it passes Nobody will get inside the 'winter quarters' partners or myself accompanying them. Without such precaution there is danger fro railed off from passers-by, as in our public Besides, strangers disturb the trainers of delay in their work.&quot; &quot;Is that not carrying your restrictions too &quot;Perhaps you may think so,&quot; replied Barnum, for everything, I present you this printed The card read as follows: Free Passes. &quot;In those days there were no passes given&quot; &quot;Thou shalt not pass&quot; - Numbers, chapter 20, &quot;Suffer not a man to pass&quot; - Judge, chapter &quot;The wicked shall no more pass&quot; - Nahum, chapter &quot;None shall pass&quot; - Isaiah, chapter 34, verse &quot;This generation shall not pass&quot; - Mark 14, &quot;Beware that though pass not&quot; - 2nd Kings, &quot;There shall no strangers pass&quot; - Joel, chapter &quot;Neither any son of man pass&quot; - Jeremiah, &quot;No man may pass through because of the beasts&quot; &quot;Though they roar, yet they can not pass&quot; &quot;So he paid the fair thereof and went&quot; - Jonah, That we are born &quot;free and equal&quot; is a glorious equally rich, and we never shall be. One may say; &quot;there is a man who has an income I have but one thousand dollars; I knew that is rich and thinks he is better than I am; I will go and buy a horse and buggy; no, I and ride this afternoon on the same road that good as he is.&quot; My friend, you need not take that trouble; as he is;&quot; you have only to behave as well that you are rich as he is. Besides, if you put on these &quot;airs,&quot; add waste wife will be obliged to scrub her fingers a time, and everything else in proportion, and, after all, deceive nobody. On the other hand, Mrs. Smith may say that his money, and &quot;everybody says so.&quot; She has a nice one-thousand dollar camel's an imitation one, and she will sit in a pew to prove that she is her equal. My good woman, you will not get ahead in the lead. In this country, where we believe the majority regard to fashion, and let a handful of people, a false standard of perfection, and in endeavoring ourselves poor; all the time digging away How much wiser to be a &quot;law unto ourselves&quot; income, and lay up something for a rainy day.&quot; People ought to be as sensible on the subject Like causes produce like effects. You cannot accumulate a fortune by taking It needs no prophet to tell us that those any thought of a reverse in this life, can Men and women accustomed to gratify every to cut down their various unnecessary expenses, in a smaller house than they have been accustomed less costly clothing, fewer servants, a less carriage-ridings, pleasure excursions, cigar-smokings, but, after all, if they will try the plan a small sum of money, at interest or judiciously the pleasure to be derived from constantly from all the economical habits which are engendered The old suit of clothes, and the old bonnet the Croton or spring water taste better than prove more exhilarating than a ride in the reading in the family circle, or an hour's buff&quot; will be far more pleasant than a fifty on the difference in cost is indulged in by Thousands of men are kept poor, and tens of quite sufficient to support them well through of living on too broad a platform. Some families expend twenty thousand dollars know how to live on less, while others secure part of that amount. Prosperity is a more severe ordeal than adversity, &quot;Easy come, easy go,&quot; is an old and true proverb. A spirit of pride and vanity, when permitted which gnaws the very vitals of a man's worldly or millions. Many persons, as they begin to prosper, immediately for luxuries, until in a short time their become ruined in their ridiculous attempts I know a gentleman of fortune who says, that have a new and elegant sofa. &quot;That sofa,&quot; he says, &quot;cost me thirty thousand When the sofa reached the house, it was found carpets and tables &quot;to correspond&quot; with them, when at last it was found that the house itself the furniture, and a new one was built to added my friend, &quot;summing up an outlay of sofa, and saddling on me, in the shape of attendant upon keeping up a fine 'establishment,' and a tight pinch at that: whereas, ten years because with much less care, on as many hundreds. The truth is,&quot; he continued, &quot;that sofa would had not a most unexampled title to prosperity natural desire to 'cut a dash'.&quot; The foundation of success in life is good is also the basis of happiness. A person cannot accumulate a fortune very He has no ambition; no incentive; no force. Of course, there are those who have bad health such persons can accumulate wealth, but there be so. If, then, sound health is the foundation of it is that we should study the laws of health, of nature! The closer we keep to the laws of nature, how many persons there are who pay no attention them, even against their own natural inclination. We ought to know that the &quot;sin of ignorance&quot; of nature's laws; their infraction always A child may thrust its finger into the flames repentance, even, will not stop the smart. Many of our ancestors knew very little about They did not know much about oxygen, whatever with; and consequently they built their houses these good old pious Puritans would lock themselves and go to bed. In the morning they would devoutly return during the night, and nobody had better reason Probably some big crack in the window, or thus saved them. Many persons knowingly violate the laws of the sake of fashion. For instance, there is one thing that nothing and that is tobacco; yet how many persons appetite, and overcome this implanted aversion to love it. They have got hold of a poisonous, filthy them. Here are married men who run about spitting sometimes even upon their wives besides. They do not kick their wives out of doors no doubt, often wish they were outside of Another perilous feature is that this artificial feeds on;&quot; when you love that which is unnatural, thing than the natural desire for what is There is an old proverb which says that &quot;habit is stronger than nature. Take for instance, an old tobacco-chewer; love for any particular kind of food. He can give up roast beef easier than give Young lads regret that they are not men; they and to accomplish this they copy the bad habits Little Tommy and Johnny see their fathers I could only do that, I would be a man too; of tobacco, let us try it.&quot; They take a match and light it, and then puff &quot;We will learn to smoke; do you like it Johnny?&quot; That lad dolefully replies: &quot;Not very much; but he persists and he soon offers up a sacrifice to it and persevere until at last they conquer of acquired tastes. I speak &quot;by the book,&quot; for I have noticed as to smoke ten or fifteen cigars a day; although years, and never shall again. The more a man smokes, the more he craves the desire for another, and so on incessantly. Take the tobacco-chewer. In the morning, when he gets up, he puts a never taking it out except to exchange it oh! yes, at intervals during the day and evening, it in his hand long enough to take a drink, This simply proves that the appetite for rum When the tobacco-chewer goes to your country house, and the beauties of your garden, when say, &quot;My friend, I have got here the most and apricots; I have imported them from Spain, grapes; there is nothing more delicious nor I want to see you delight yourself with these his tongue and answer, &quot;No, I thank you, I His palate has become narcotized by the noxious the delicate and enviable taste for fruits. This shows what expensive, useless and injurious I speak from experience. I have smoked until I trembled like an aspen a palpitation of the heart which I thought with fright. When I consulted my physician, he said &quot;break I was not only injuring my health and spending bad example. I obeyed his counsel. No young man in the world ever looked so beautiful, cigar or a meerschaum! These remarks apply with tenfold force to To make money, requires a clear brain. A man has got to see that two and two make and forethought, and closely examine all the As no man can succeed in business unless he and reason to guide him in their execution, blessed with intelligence, if the brain is drinks, it is impossible for him to carry How many good opportunities have passed, never glass,&quot; with his friend! How many foolish bargains have been made under makes its victim think he is rich. How many important chances have been put off the wine cup has thrown the system into a so essential to success in business. Verily, &quot;wine is a mocker.&quot; The use of intoxicating drinks as a beverage, of opium by the Chinese, and the former is business man as the latter. It is an unmitigated evil, utterly indefensible sense. It is the parent of nearly every other evil DON'T MISTAKE YOUR VOCATION success for the young man starting in life, to his tastes. Parents and guardians are often quite too It is very common for a father to say, for I will make Billy a clergyman; John a lawyer; He then goes into town and looks about to He returns home and says &quot;Sammy, I see watch-making make you a goldsmith.&quot; He does this, regardless of Sam's natural We are all, no doubt, born for a wise purpose. There is as much diversity in our brains as Some are born natural mechanics, while some Let a dozen boys of ten years get together, &quot;whittling&quot; out some ingenious device; working When they were but five years old, their father They are natural mechanics; but the other I belong to the latter class; I never had I have a sort of abhorrence for complicated I never had ingenuity enough to whittle a I never could make a pen that I could write engine. If a man was to take such a boy as I was, boy might, after an apprenticeship of five put together a watch; but all through life excuse for leaving his work and idling away Watchmaking is repulsive to him. Unless a man enters upon the vocation intended peculiar genius, he cannot succeed. I am glad to believe that the majority of Yet we see many who have mistaken their calling, You will see, for instance, that extraordinary to have been a teacher of languages; and you who were better fitted by nature for the anvil SELECT THE RIGHT LOCATION be careful to select the proper location. You may have been cut out for a hotel keeper, how to keep a hotel.&quot; You might conduct a hotel like clock-work, guests every day; yet, if you should locate is no railroad communication or public travel, It is equally important that you do not commence meet all demands in the same occupation. I remember a case which illustrates this subject. When I was in London in 1858, I was passing to the &quot;penny shows.&quot; They had immense cartoons outside, portraying for a penny.&quot; Being a little in the &quot;show line&quot; myself, We soon found ourselves in the presence of be the sharpest man in that line I had ever He told us some extraordinary stories in reference Armadillos, which we could hardly believe, look after the proof'.&quot; He finally begged to call our attention to the dirtiest and filthiest wax figures imaginable. They looked as if they had not seen water &quot;What is there so wonderful about your statuary?&quot; I asked. &quot;I beg you not to speak so satirically,&quot; he wax figures, all covered with gilt and tinsel and photographs. Mine, sir, were taken from life. Whenever you look upon one of those figures, the living individual.&quot; Glancing casually at them, I saw one labeled upon seeing that it looked like Calvin Edson, that 'Henry the Eighth?'&quot; He replied, &quot;Certainly; sir; it was taken of his majesty; on such a day.&quot; He would have given the hour of the day if 'Henry VIII.' was a great stout old king, and that figure &quot;Why,&quot; he replied, &quot;you would be lean and he has.&quot; There was no resisting such arguments. I said to my English friend, &quot;Let us go out; feather; he beats me.&quot; He followed us to the door, and seeing the and gentlemen, I beg to draw your attention pointing to us as we walked away. I called upon him a couple of days afterwards; &quot;My friend, you are an excellent showman, He replied, &quot;This is true, sir; I feel that I do?&quot; &quot;You can go to America,&quot; I replied. &quot;You can give full play to your faculties in America; I will engage you for two years; own account.&quot; He accepted my offer and remained two years He then went to New Orleans and carried on To-day he is worth sixty thousand dollars, and also secured the proper location. The old proverb says, &quot;Three removes are as it matters but little how soon or how often AVOID DEBT into debt. There is scarcely anything that drags a person It is a slavish position to get in, yet we running in debt. He meets a chum and says, &quot;Look at this: I He seems to look upon the clothes as so much if he succeeds in paying and then gets trusted him in poverty through life. Debt robs a man of his self-respect, and makes Grunting and groaning and working for what he is called upon to pay up, he has nothing &quot;working for a dead horse.&quot; I do not speak of merchants buying and selling order to turn the purchase to a profit. The old Quaker said to his farmer son, &quot;John, for anything, let it be for 'manure,' because Mr. Beecher advised young men to get in debt of land, in the country districts. &quot;If a young man,&quot; he says, &quot;will only get these two things will keep him straight, or This may be safe to a limited extent, but and wear is to be avoided. Some families have a foolish habit of getting purchase many things which might have been It is all very well to say; &quot;I have got trusted the creditor will think nothing about it.&quot; There is no class of people in the world, When the sixty days run out, you will have If you do not pay, you will break your promise, You may make some excuse or get in debt elsewhere deeper. A good-looking, lazy young fellow, was the His employer said, &quot;Horatio, did you ever &quot;I--think--I--have,&quot; he drawled out. &quot;You must have met him then, for I am sure Your creditor will meet you or overtake you to pay me; you have not done it, you must You give the note on interest and it commences The creditor goes to bed at night and wakes retired, because his interest has increased you are sleeping, for the interest is accumulating Money is in some respects like fire; it is When you have it mastering you; when interest keep you down in the worst kind of slavery. But let money work for you, and you have the It is no &quot;eye-servant.&quot; There is nothing animate or inanimate that at interest, well secured. It works night and day, and in wet or dry I was born in the blue-law State of Connecticut, it was said, &quot;they fined a man for kissing Yet these rich old Puritans would have thousands would be worth a certain amount; on Sunday duties of a Christian. On waking up on Monday morning, they would Saturday night previous, simply because their for them all day Sunday, according to law! Do not let it work against you; if you do far as money is concerned. John Randolph, the eccentric Virginian, once discovered the philosopher's stone: pay as This is, indeed, nearer to the philosopher's PERSEVERE I speak of this because there are some persons no self-reliance and no perseverance. But they can cultivate these qualities, as &quot;This thing remember, when I am dead: Be sure It is this go-ahead-itiveness, this determination possession of you, so as to make you relax which you must cultivate. How many have almost reached the goal of their have relaxed their energies, and the golden It is, no doubt, often true, as Shakespeare &quot;There is a tide in the affairs of men, Which, If you hesitate, some bolder hand will stretch Remember the proverb of Solomon: &quot;He becometh hand of the diligent maketh rich.&quot; Perseverance is sometimes but another word Many persons naturally look on the dark side They are born so. Then they ask for advice, and they will be and cannot rely upon themselves. Until you can get so that you can rely upon I have known men, personally, who have met suicide, because they thought they could never But I have known others who have met more them over by simple perseverance, aided by and that Providence would &quot;overcome evil with You will see this illustrated in any sphere Take two generals; both understanding military please, both equally gifted; yet one, having lacking it, the former will succeed in his One may hear the cry, &quot;the enemy are coming, &quot;Got cannon?&quot; says the hesitating general. &quot;Yes.&quot; &quot;Then halt every man.&quot; He wants time to reflect; his hesitation is overwhelms him; while on the other hand, the goes into battle with a will, and, amid the shrieks of the wounded, and the moans of the going on, cutting and slashing his way through his soldiers to deeds of fortitude, valor, WHATEVER YOU DO, DO IT WITH ALL YOUR MIGHT in season and out of season, not leaving a single hour that which can be done just as The old proverb is full of truth and meaning, doing well.&quot; Many a man acquires a fortune by doing his poor for life, because he only half does it. Ambition, energy, industry, perseverance, business. Fortune always favors the brave, and never It won't do to spend your time like Mr. Micawber, To such men one of two things usually &quot;turns breeds bad habits, and clothes a man in rags. The poor spendthrift vagabond said to a rich &quot;I have discovered there is money enough in divided; this must be done, and we shall all &quot;But,&quot; was the response, &quot;if everybody was and what would you do then?&quot; &quot;Oh! divide again; keep dividing, of course!&quot; I was recently reading in a London paper an kicked out of a cheap boarding-house because of papers sticking out of his coat pocket, plan for paying off the national debt of England People have got to do as Cromwell said: &quot;not dry.&quot; Do your part of the work, or you cannot succeed. Mahomet, one night, when encamping in the remark: &quot;I will loose my camel, and trust &quot;No, no, not so,&quot; said the prophet, &quot;tie thy Do all you can for yourselves, and then trust to call it, for the rest. DEPEND UPON YOUR OWN PERSONAL EXERTIONS. The eye of the employer is often worth more In the nature of things, an agent cannot be Many who are employers will call to mind instances points which could not have escaped their No man has a right to expect to succeed in nobody can understand his business thoroughly and experience. A man may be a manufacturer: he has got to he will learn something every day, and he day. And these very mistakes are helps to him in He will be like the Yankee tin-peddler, who, of his merchandise, said: &quot;All right, there's I will never be cheated in that way again.&quot; Thus a man buys his experience, and it is a rate. I hold that every man should, like Cuvier, business. So proficient was he in the study of natural or even a section of a bone of an animal which from analogy, he would be able to draw a picture taken. On one occasion his students attempted to They rolled one of their number in a cow skin a new specimen. When the philosopher came into the room, some Suddenly the animal said &quot;I am the devil and It was but natural that Cuvier should desire intently, he said: &quot;Divided hoof; graminivorous! It cannot be done.&quot; He knew that an animal with a split hoof must vegetation, and would not be inclined to eat perfectly safe. The possession of a perfect knowledge of your to insure success. Among the maxims of the elder Rothschild was bold.&quot; This seems to be a contradiction in terms, the maxim. It is, in fact, a condensed statement of what It is to say; &quot;you must exercise your caution them out.&quot; A man who is all caution, will never dare who is all boldness, is merely reckless, and A man may go on &quot;'change&quot; and make fifty, in stocks, at a single operation. But if he has simple boldness without caution, he will lose to-morrow. You must have both the caution and the boldness, The Rothschilds have another maxim: &quot;Never place.&quot; That is to say, never have anything to do because, although a man may appear to be honest thing and always fails, it is on account of able to discover but nevertheless must exist. There is no such thing in the world as luck. There never was a man who could go out in in the street to-day, and another to-morrow, in his life; but so far as mere luck is concerned, &quot;Like causes produce like effects.&quot; If a man adopts the proper methods to be successful, If he does not succeed, there are reasons to see them. USE THE BEST TOOLS to get the best. Understand, you cannot have too good tools be so particular about as the living tools. If you get a good one, it is better to keep He learns something every day; and you are He is worth more to you this year than last, his habits are good, and he continues faithful. If, as he gets more valuable, he demands an that you can't do without him, let him go. Whenever I have such an employee, I always his place may be supplied, and second, because invaluable and cannot be spared. But I would keep him, if possible, in order An important element in an employee is the You can see bills up, &quot;Hands Wanted,&quot; but &quot;heads.&quot; Mr. Beecher illustrates this, in this wise: An employee offers his services by saying, thinks.&quot; &quot;That is very good,&quot; says the employer. Another man comes along, and says &quot;he has &quot;Ah! that is better.&quot; But a third calls in and says that &quot;all his That is better still. Finally another steps in and says, &quot;I have a thinking as well as a working man!&quot; &quot;You are the man I want,&quot; says the delighted Those men who have brains and experience are readily parted with; it is better for them, advances of their salaries from time to time. DON'T GET ABOVE YOUR BUSINESS training, or apprenticeship, instead of pursuing will often lie about doing nothing. They say; &quot;I have learned my business, but object of learning my trade or profession, &quot;Have you capital to start with?&quot; &quot;No, but I am going to have it.&quot; &quot;How are you going to get it?&quot; &quot;I will tell you confidentially; I have a soon; but if she does not, I expect to find to give me a start. If I only get the money to start with I will There is no greater mistake than when a young money. Why? Because every man's experience coincides with difficult for him to accumulate his first millions that made up his colossal fortune.&quot; Money is good for nothing unless you know Give a boy twenty thousand dollars and put he will lose every dollar of it before he Like buying a ticket in the lottery; and drawing He does not know the value of it; nothing Without self-denial and economy; patience which you have not earned, you are not sure Young men, instead of &quot;waiting for dead men's is no class of persons who are so unaccommodating and it is fortunate for the expectant heirs Nine out of ten of the rich men of our country with determined wills, industry, perseverance, They went on gradually, made their own money acquire a fortune. Stephen Girard started life as a poor cabin A.T. Stewart was a poor Irish boy; at the time a half dollars of income, per year. John Jacob Astor was a poor farmer boy, and Cornelius Vanderbilt began life rowing a boat our government with a steamship worth a million &quot;There is no royal road to learning,&quot; says &quot;there is no royal road to wealth.&quot; But I think there is a royal road to both. The road to learning is a royal one; the road and add every day to his stock of knowledge, growth, he is able to solve the most profound atom of the globe, and to measure the firmament road worth traveling. So in regard to wealth. Go on in confidence, study the rules, and &quot;the proper study of mankind is man,&quot; and and the muscles, your enlarged experience and more principal, which will increase itself at a state of independence. You will find, as a general thing, that the For instance, a rich man at his decease, leaves His eldest sons, who have helped him earn of money; and they take their inheritance The separate portions of the young children are patted on the head, and told a dozen times to work, you can always have whatever you in your mouth.&quot; The young heir soon finds out what that means; he is crammed with sugar candies and almost school to school, petted and flattered. He becomes arrogant and self-conceited, abuses a high hand. He knows nothing of the real value of money, about the &quot;golden spoon&quot; business. At college, he invites his poor fellow-students He is cajoled and caressed, and called a glorious money. He gives his game suppers, drives his fast determined to have lots of &quot;good times.&quot; He spends the night in frolics and debauchery, song, &quot;we won't go home till morning.&quot; He gets them to join him in pulling down signs, them into back yards and horse-ponds. If the police arrest them, he knocks them foots the bills. &quot;Ah! my boys,&quot; he cries, &quot;what is the use of being He might more truly say, &quot;if you can't make slow things, and don't see it.&quot; Young men loaded down with other people's and they acquire all sorts of bad habits which, purse and character. In this country, one generation follows another, generation, or the third. Their experience leads them on, and they become children. These children, having been reared in luxury, long experience another generation comes on And thus &quot;history repeats itself,&quot; and happy others avoids the rocks and shoals on which Josh Billings says: &quot;Necessity begat invention, pleasure, pleasure begat luxury, luxury begat and poverty begat necessity again.&quot; &quot;In England, the business makes the man.&quot; If a man in that country is a mechanic or On the occasion of my first appearance before me what sphere in life General Tom Thumb's &quot;His father is a carpenter,&quot; I replied. &quot;Oh! I had heard he was a gentleman,&quot; was the response In this Republican country, the man makes No matter whether he is a blacksmith, a shoemaker, business is legitimate, he may be a gentleman. So any &quot;legitimate&quot; business is a double blessing others. The Farmer supports his own family, but he needs the products of his farm. The tailor not only makes a living by his clergyman and others who cannot make their But all these classes of men may be gentlemen. The great ambition should be to excel all The college-student who was about graduating, &quot;I have not yet decided which profession I Is your profession full?&quot; &quot;The basement is much crowded, but there is truthful reply. No profession, trade, or calling, is overcrowded Wherever you find the most honest and intelligent best doctor, the best clergyman, the best man is most sought for, and has always enough As a nation, Americans are too superficial--they generally do their business as substantially excels all others in his own line, if his cannot fail to secure abundant patronage, Let your motto then always be &quot;Excelsior,&quot; as fail. LEARN SOMETHING USEFUL learn some trade or profession, so that in to-day and poor tomorrow they may have something This provision might save many persons from have lost all their means. LET HOPE PREDOMINATE, BUT BE NOT TOO VISIONARY they are too visionary. Every project looks to them like certain success, business to another, always in hot water, The plan of &quot;counting the chickens before but it does not seem to improve by age. DO NOT SCATTER YOUR POWERS to it faithfully until you succeed, or until abandon it. A constant hammering on one nail will generally When a man's undivided attention is centered suggesting improvements of value, which would dozen different subjects at once. Many a fortune has slipped through a man's occupations at a time. There is good sense in the old caution against BE SYSTEMATIC A person who does business by rule, having his work promptly, will accomplish twice as does it carelessly and slipshod. By introducing system into all your transactions, appointments with punctuality, you find leisure who only half does one thing, and then turns have his business at loose ends, and will Of course, there is a limit to all these rules. We must try to preserve the happy medium, There are men and women, for instance, who find them again. It is too much like the &quot;red tape&quot; formality Office,&quot;--all theory and no result. When the &quot;Astor House&quot; was first started in hotel in the country. The proprietors had learned a good deal in were proud of the rigid system which pervaded When twelve o'clock at night had arrived, one of the proprietors would say, &quot;Touch that with a water-bucket in each hand, would present &quot;This,&quot; said the landlord, addressing his we are quite safe here; we do everything systematically.&quot; This was before the Croton water was introduced But they sometimes carried their system too On one occasion, when the hotel was thronged indisposed, and although there were fifty he must have his full complement, or his &quot;system&quot; Just before dinner-time, he rushed down stairs am one waiter short, what can I do?&quot; He happened to see &quot;Boots,&quot; the Irishman. &quot;Pat,&quot; said he, &quot;wash your hands and face; in five minutes.&quot; Presently Pat appeared as required, and the behind these two chairs, and wait on the gentlemen a waiter?&quot; &quot;I know all about it, sure, but I never did Like the Irish pilot, on one occasion when out of his course, asked, &quot;Are you certain Pat replied, &quot;Sure and I knows every rock That moment, &quot;bang&quot; thumped the vessel against &quot;Ah! be-jabers, and that is one of 'em,&quot; continued But to return to the dining-room. &quot;Pat,&quot; said the landlord, &quot;here we do everything You must first give the gentlemen each a plate what they will have next.&quot; Pat replied, &quot;Ah! an' I understand parfectly Very soon in came the guests. The plates of soup were placed before them. One of Pat's two gentlemen ate his soup; the He said: &quot;Waiter, take this plate away and Pat looked at the untasted plate of soup, in regard to &quot;system,&quot; replied: &quot;Not till Of course that was carrying &quot;system&quot; entirely READ THE NEWSPAPERS keep thoroughly posted in regard to the transactions He who is without a newspaper is cut off from In these days of telegraphs and steam, many branch of trade are being made, and he who himself and his business, &quot;out in the cold&quot;. BEWARE OF &quot;OUTSIDE OPERATIONS&quot; suddenly become poor. In many cases, this arises from intemperance, Frequently it occurs because a man has been When he gets rich in his legitimate business, can make a score of thousands. He is constantly flattered by his friends, he touches turns into gold. Now if he forgets that his economical habits, to a business which he understood, caused siren voices. He says: &quot;I will put in twenty thousand dollars. I have been lucky, and my good luck will soon A few days elapse and it is discovered he after he is told &quot;it is all right,&quot; but certain twenty thousand dollars more, which will bring around to realize, the bubble bursts, he loses what he ought to have known at the first, own business, if he turns from that and engages he is like Samson when shorn of his locks like other men. If a man has plenty of money, he ought to to promise success, and that will probably be moderate in amount, and never let a man earned in a legitimate way, by investing it DON'T INDORSE WITHOUT SECURITY note or become security, for any man, be it than he can afford to lose and care nothing Here is a man that is worth twenty thousand or mercantile trade; you are retired and living &quot;You are aware that I am worth twenty thousand five thousand dollars in cash, I could purchase in a couple of months; will you indorse my You reflect that he is worth twenty thousand his note; you like to accommodate him, and of getting security. Shortly after, he shows you the note with probably truly, &quot;that he made the profit that that you have done a good action, and the By and by, the same thing occurs again and impression in your mind that it is perfectly But the trouble is, this man is getting money He has only to take your note to the bank, He gets money for the time being without effort; Now mark the result. He sees a chance for speculation outside of A temporary investment of only $10,000 is It is sure to come back before a note at the He places a note for that amount before you. You sign it almost mechanically. Being firmly convinced that your friend is notes as a &quot;matter of course.&quot; Unfortunately the speculation does not come another $10,000 note must be discounted to Before this note matures the speculation has is lost. Does the loser tell his friend, the endorser, Not at all. He don't even mention that he has speculated But he has got excited; the spirit of speculation sums in this way (we seldom hear of the losers), his money where he loses it.&quot; He tries again. endorsing notes has become chronic with you, whatever amount he wants. Finally you discover your friend has lost You are overwhelmed with astonishment and friend here has ruined me,&quot; but, you should If you had said in the first place, &quot;I will taking ample security,&quot; he could not have he would never have been tempted away from It is a very dangerous thing, therefore, at money too easily; it tempts them to hazardous Solomon truly said &quot;he that hateth suretiship So with the young man starting in business; it. When he does understand its value, then grease business, but remember, men who get money You must get the first dollars by hard knocks, the value of those dollars. ADVERTISE YOUR BUSINESS for our support. We all trade with the public--lawyers, doctors, opera singers, railroad presidents, and college Those who deal with the public must be careful genuine, and will give satisfaction. When you get an article which you know is they have tried it, they will feel they have be known that you have got it. Be careful to advertise it in some shape or has ever so good an article for sale, and In a country like this, where nearly everybody circulated in editions of five thousand to if this channel was not taken advantage of A newspaper goes into the family, and is read of the house; hence hundreds and thousands you are attending to your routine business. Many, perhaps, read it while you are asleep. The whole philosophy of life is, first &quot;sow,&quot; That is the way the farmer does; he plants and then goes about something else, and the But he never reaps first and sows afterwards. This principle applies to all kinds of business, If a man has a genuine article, there is no than by &quot;sowing&quot; to the public in this way. He must, of course, have a really good article, spurious will not succeed permanently because Men and women are selfish, and we all prefer money and we try to find out where we can You may advertise a spurious article, and but they will denounce you as an impostor die out and leave you poor. This is right. Few people can safely depend upon chance custom. You will need to have your customers return A man said to me, &quot;I have tried advertising I replied, &quot;My friend, there may be exceptions But how do you advertise?&quot; &quot;I put it in a weekly paper three times, and I replied: &quot;Sir, advertising is like learning--'a A French writer says that &quot;The reader of a of an ordinary advertisement; the second insertion he reads; the fourth insertion, he looks at of it to his wife; the sixth insertion, he he purchases.&quot; Your object in advertising is to make the and if you have not the pluck to keep advertising, all the money you have spent is lost. You are like the fellow who told the gentleman him a dollar. &quot;How can I help you so much with so small &quot;I started out this morning (hiccuped the drunk, and I have spent my only dollar to done it. Ten cents worth more of whiskey would just dollar already expended.&quot; So a man who advertises at all must keep it and what his business is, or else the money Some men have a peculiar genius for writing the attention of the reader at first sight. This tact, of course, gives the advertiser Sometimes a man makes himself popular by an recently I observed a swing sign extending which was the inscription in plain letters, &quot;DON'T READ THE OTHER SIDE&quot; and I learned that the man had made an independence in that way, and then using his customers Genin, the hatter, bought the first Jenny twenty-five dollars, because he knew it would &quot;Who is the bidder?&quot; said the auctioneer, &quot;Genin, the hatter,&quot; was the response. Here were thousands of people from the Fifth stations in life. &quot;Who is 'Genin,' the hatter?&quot; they exclaimed. They had never heard of him before. The next morning the newspapers and telegraph and from five to ten millions off people had Jenny Lind's first concert amounted to about ticket was sold at two hundred and twenty-five Men throughout the country involuntarily took hat on their heads. At a town in Iowa it was found that in the man who had a &quot;Genin&quot; hat, and he showed it worth two cents. &quot;Why,&quot; one man exclaimed, &quot;you have a real Another man said, &quot;Hang on to that hat, it Still another man in the crowd who seemed said, &quot;Come, give us all a chance; put it He did so, and it was sold as a keepsake for What was the consequence to Mr. Genin? He sold ten thousand extra hats per annum, Nine-tenths of the purchasers bought of him, finding that he gave them an equivalent for This novel advertisement first struck their they came again. Now, I don't say that everybody should advertise But I say if a man has got goods for sale, chances are that some day the sheriff will Nor do I say that everybody must advertise at all. On the contrary, although that article is the doctors and clergymen, and sometimes lawyers the public in some other manner. But it is obvious, they must be known in some BE POLITE AND KIND TO YOUR CUSTOMERS ever invested in business. Large stores, gilt signs, flaming advertisements, treat your patrons abruptly. The truth is, the more kind and liberal a bestowed upon him. &quot;Like begets like.&quot; The man who gives the greatest amount of goods (still reserving to himself a profit) will This brings us to the golden rule, &quot;As ye to them&quot; and they will do better by you than to get the most you could out of them for Men who drive sharp bargains with their customers, again, will not be mistaken. They never see them again as customers. People don't like to pay and get kicked also. One of the ushers in my Museum once told me as soon as he came out. &quot;What for?&quot; I inquired. &quot;Because he said I was no gentleman,&quot; replied &quot;Never mind,&quot; I replied, &quot;he pays for that, by whipping him. I cannot afford to lose a customer. If you whip him, he will never visit the Museum him to other places of amusement instead of loser.&quot; &quot;But he insulted me,&quot; muttered the usher. &quot;Exactly,&quot; I replied, &quot;and if he owned the of visiting it, and he had then insulted you, it, but in this instance he is the man who put up with his bad manners.&quot; My usher laughingly remarked, that this was that he should not object to an increase of order to promote my interests. BE CHARITABLE it is a duty and a pleasure. But even as a matter of policy, if you possess liberal man will command patronage, while Solomon says: &quot;There is that scattereth and more than meet, but it tendeth to poverty.&quot; Of course the only true charity is that which The best kind of charity is to help those Promiscuous almsgiving, without inquiring in every sense. But to search out and quietly assist those kind that &quot;scattereth and yet increaseth.&quot; But don't fall into the idea that some persons potato, and a benediction instead of bread, It is easier to make Christians with full DON'T BLAB business secrets. If they make money they like to tell their Nothing is gained by this, and ofttimes much Say nothing about your profits, your hopes, And this should apply to letters as well as Goethe makes Mephistophilles say: &quot;Never write Business men must write letters, but they If you are losing money, be specially cautious reputation. PRESERVE YOUR INTEGRITY The old miser said to his sons: &quot;Get money; This advice was not only atrociously wicked, It was as much as to say, &quot;if you find it easily get it dishonestly. Get it in that way.&quot; Poor fool! Not to know that the most difficult thing Not to know that our prisons are full of men understand that no man can be dishonest, without of principle is discovered, nearly every avenue The public very properly shun all whose integrity No matter how polite and pleasant and accommodating him if we suspect &quot;false weights and measures.&quot; Strict honesty, not only lies at the foundation in every other respect. Uncompromising integrity of character is invaluable. It secures to its possessor a peace and joy no amount of money, or houses and lands can A man who is known to be strictly honest, of all the community at his disposal--for he borrows, he will never disappoint them. As a mere matter of selfishness, therefore, all will find that the maxim of Dr. Franklin the best policy.&quot; To get rich, is not always equivalent to being &quot;There are many rich poor men,&quot; while there women, who have never possessed so much money who are nevertheless really richer and happier of the higher laws of his being. The inordinate love of money, no doubt, may itself, when properly used, is not only a the gratification of blessing our race by of human happiness and human influence. The desire for wealth is nearly universal, the possessor of it accepts its responsibilities, The history of money-getting, which is commerce, trade has flourished most, there, too, have In fact, as a general thing, money-getters To them, in a great measure, are we indebted our academies, colleges and churches. It is no argument against the desire for, are sometimes misers who hoard money only aspiration than to grasp everything which As we have sometimes hypocrites in religion, misers among money-getters. These, however, are only exceptions to the But when, in this country, we find such a remember with gratitude that in America we the due course of nature the time will come the benefit of mankind. To all men and women, therefore, do I conscientiously for Shakespeare has truly said, &quot;He that wants good friends.&quot; I hope that you've enjoyed this presentation notifications of upcoming recordings. This recording is a production of the Master The video and audio is Copyright 2023, Master