Welcome to Liesl's Artistic Studio! I don't know painting some Christmas watercolor cards! And started to turn cold and in fact we even got time of this season! This really got me in the I almost did a candy cane painting last year but one on my bucket list for this this year. But part we do need a quick little outline drawing too complicated so feel free to follow along with make this part a little quicker and easier for you not only be a full page size like I have here, 5x7. I'll leave a link to that in the description of you who would rather draw it yourself, let's penciled sketch here of what I want but I'm going way so that it is easy to follow along with. I'll can also see it a little better. So first up you to have this. You can do this in a vertical format the page, but I thought it would be fun to have that I can also have some room to maybe write a going to start by drawing some simple circles If you want you can even draw little highlight make sure that all of these highlights are in Next up let's draw some holly leaves to make a nice little berry/holly spray. as you'd like. I'm going to draw about six [Music] [Music] Now that we have a nice little center canes underneath. I'll start with the curve it up and around, and then down until just draw the top part of the candy [Music] To finish off the rest of the lines through the greenery and have it stem can definitely pull out a ruler to help I didn't do that and some of my lines are Now that this outline shape of the candy is done, well for a bit of extra added fun. Just remember curve these lines a little bit so they look Alright, now you can leave this just as it is if little more simple, or you can step it up a bit is drawn underneath this first one. Again, follow through with the lines so that it looks This is also optional, but I've on the ends of the candy canes to help can go ahead and add in the lines or [Music] To kind of finish this off I leaves along here now that I know and maybe even a little twig or branch [Music] And that's all there is to it! We can call this painting! Now, if you choose to print out the onto your watercolor paper using a light table and in fact, if you drew this yourself and plan I actually recommend that you just retrace your a little bit of time. Alright, I'll go ahead and finish grabbing some of my other art supplies. and then I need some clean water and a paper using some of my Craftamo brushes today. These need to be painted so I'll mostly be using a small round as well. These brushes are currently out of potentially run a second batch. So if you'd like in the description of this video that you can sign of the other products you see me using today. number six round first and get a shadow color them white and red but this shadow color is going that white color stand out from the whiteness of of Payne's Gray for this, and I am actually going just for fun I may add a small hint of cadmium it up a little bit more, but not too much though, Alright, now that my shadow color is ready I'm the edge of this candy cane here. And then after is still a little bit wet, I'm going to wash and of soften this inside edge and make it fade into part will be on the outside edge helping create go ahead and do this to the tops of the candy when both of the candy canes have this gray strip in here and do the other edge as well. I hope if you find you like my painting and teaching already so you don't miss out on any of some great things planned out for this Christmas [Music] [Music] Okay, awesome job! This is a great start to these color to completely dry before moving on, but the holly leaves next. First up I just have some green for an accent or shadow area on the leaf. of cadmium red mixed in. Now not too much though! added too much red you can always add in some more bit more I'll also add in a touch of ivory black. on wet technique to help the color spread and I'll paint the area with water first. To help painting the water clear up to the points of adding in the colors. Then after the water is green and start painting that around the edges area, allowing it to start spreading throughout light and watered down here, I'm wanting to keep of the nice dark areas into the leaf in just a of values here making the leaf look a little more this light base layer of hookers green laid down, of hooker green and add in the shadow accents. color here and there and then wet and dry my brush soften the edges of the color and help blend will spread exactly how I want it on its own, but is my favorite go-to technique to help spread this color to overpower the entire space of the of that lighter hookers green in here as well. ends or the tips and then maybe down the center go ahead and paint in all of the remaining leaves this might take a tiny bit of time, so just enjoy you finish up, I find that it makes the painting if you'd like to speed up the process here then color rather than trying to have the blending of me skipping around from leaf to leaf to allow next to the leaf that might potentially still keep them from blending and bleeding into each [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Alright, well done! That is a good portion of add in some red color now. For my reds I will and then I'll mix up a darker shadow red, sort of as a bit of accent color. This mixture is cadmium I also may throw in here some alizarin crimson as in some vibrancy. The black works great to darken bit too. Okay, now let's paint in the stripes of some pretty small spaces, so if you're choosing to use a smaller brush to really get into some of in the leaves, I'll start with a base layer of light valued color of red so that when I add in color and values going on. Then after that first bit of the dark shadow red color and apply just a of the candy cane lighter in value. This is going just like we did with the leaves, you can help by using a damp brush that has been rinsed and have too much trouble with this happening, but if red color area in the center because the paints brush that has been rinsed and dried to wipe out where you don't want it to be. I may also add a of these candy canes as well. And then at this the red strips on the candy canes until they are a little bit of this part since it is all the With this little stripe of red here, seeing candy cane above, I think I'll just paint [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Alright, well done. This is looking really pretty paint and we can call this finished. So first I'll little twig poking out here, nothing too serious to add in is the red on the berries here in the I'll just take a bit of red paint and paint highlight area on the berry. If you'd like but I found that they were so small it so I ended up just painting the color both the light red and the dark red just kind of skipped around this area as well as in between some of the berries so they didn't [Music] At this point you can call this painting done you'd like to add a touch of dimension in here, damp bristles of the brush onto a small space your paper towel to lift off a tiny bit of that reflected light. This just makes them look a tad add in. Then of course as an optional step, if you you are more than welcome to write something in it's from, maybe a little message or a saying. I'm you really can do whatever you want. And that my candy cane painting. I truly hope you had fun more Christmas tutorials with you in the coming you'll consider subscribing to my channel so I can