(officer whistling) (footsteps tapping) (siren blaring) (gunshots banging) - Universal presents &quot;Gang Busters.&quot; Calling the police. Calling the G-Men. Calling all Americans to &quot;Gang Busters,&quot; with the cooperation of law enforcement officers presents a picture of the endless war of the police on the underworld, illustrating the clever operation of law enforcement officers in the work of protecting our citizens. The all-American crusade against crime. (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) (dramatic music) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) - Call for an ambulance, - Car 39 calling headquarters. Car Three Nine calling headquarters. (dramatic music) (gunshots banging) Bannister calling. Send riot Department store hold-up. That is all. (gunshot banging) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) - Call a squad car, (gunshots banging) - I tell you, as mayor of the I get a hundred messages a day How can you sit there in the face of the reign Can't you do something about it? - Do you think I'd accomplish and yelling the way you're doing? - I suppose not, but I'll pretty tired of your I expected results from this department, and I'm not getting them. - You're not suggesting, by any chance, that my resignation might - You know better than that, Martin. But I do wish you'd pull - Why? - Well, it doesn't look good, his having a brother that was - We've submitted proof The governor's turning him loose. He'll be back tomorrow. - I know, but it still looks - Let them talk. Bill Bannister is better (intercom buzzing) Yeah? - [Woman On Intercom] - Send him in. - Good morning, Mayor Hansen. - Morning. - You sent for me, Chief? - Mayor Hansen is not satisfied with our progress against the crime wave. - Neither are we. - Then why don't you - Because we're up against a - You see, there's no relation between the crimes they commit. First, they rob a bank, - Then they blow up an office harmless citizen without They act like madmen. - That's simple. Probably the work of two - Well, that's the But since then we find that-- (intercom buzzing) - Yeah? - [Woman On Intercom] of the Journal to see you, sir. - Tell them to go away. They bother me. (intercom buzzing) What is it? - This is Vicki Logan speaking. - I'm busy. Besides, I - Oh, you'll like us because we have a hot - Well, what are you Why don't you bring it in here? - Ah, men at work. Morning, all. Morning Mr. Bill. What do you hear from the mob? - That supposed to be funny? - What about that clue? Or was - No, I think we've got something. It was left at the ad desk. - What is it? - Copy for a want ad and a $20 bill to pay for running it in - The boss didn't want to - We may want to check fingerprints. - Attention all citizens, if about the crime wave in this city, tune in your short-wave sets tonight at 9:00. - Well, what does it mean? - Could be some practical joker - As a rule, practical around like that. - Sounds like some harmless crank to me, but we'll check it for - I'm afraid it's been handled too much, but we'll try the other side. Oh, now we've got something. You didn't really expect me to leave my fingerprints on this, did you? Signed, Professor Mortis. - That's not the work of - Professor Mortis. Any - Probably an assumed name. Mortis. That's Latin for death, isn't it? - Professor death. Pleasant thought. - Tell your editor to run the ad. - What's the idea of running the ad? - Be at my office at 9:00 (dramatic music) - What's this all about? - Each marker represents a police car in various parts of the city. Each car determines the from its post and phones it into us. We trace out the lines on and that's the location - Take it up a couple, Pete. - Right. - That's good. Now when the broadcast starts, I'll swing the car around slowly. You stop me at the point where - Well, it's after 9:00, You can waste your evenings but I'm going out. - Fellow citizens, you are A pleasant thought, is it not? I believe you are alarmed at the spread of a reign of terror in your city. I am the cause of that. I and the League of Murdered Men, dead men returned from our graves to take revenge on You can stop us. Oh yes. But only by getting rid of your present city government, the mayor, judges, police department, everyone. Until they are thrown from office, no man's life will be safe in this city. Good night and pleasant dreams. - Let's see that compass. - Car 27? Right. I got ya. Course south, 14 degrees west. (phone ringing) Nolan talking. - For this car, the course of the beam is north, four degrees east. - Right. Car 64, two (phone ringing) Nolan talking. Car 39 north, - 400 block, Front Street. Officer, that's where Scatter a squad around that block and search every room and basement in it. Tim and I will go on ahead. - Well, what are you - It's the next block, - How about turn down this side street? - Good idea. - Isn't that a prowl car ahead? - Yeah, with the lights turned out. - Pull up, Tim. We'll have a look. What are you doing here, Martin? Hey, wake up. - Is he dead? - No, but he seems to - Craig was knocked out too. This note was pinned to his coat. - Thanks for the use of your Hey, I don't get this. - It means he used one of our Tim, you better get these as soon as you can. - Say, Bill, I wonder your brother was mixed up with. - No. He was convicted of a - He was framed, and I've run The governor is turning the kid loose. - Gee, I'm glad. When's he coming back? - Tomorrow morning under police escort. He's got some inside something he picked up - Oh boy, what a story. - Listen, if you print a word I'll have you pinched - Oh, well yeah. But, Bill, we got to have - If this story gets out my brother's life won't be worth a dime. - Okay, but we get first - It's a deal. (dramatic music) - Extra, extra! Professor Extra, extra! Professor Extra, extra, read all about it! Extra! - There's no answer, Mr. - Yes, sir. - Your broadcast from the critics last night. - Why not? It was perfectly Bannister's brother is tomorrow morning under police escort. - What? - He has an appointment with his brother at police headquarters. - Well, that means he'll tell - That's what the police think also. He should arrive there about 8:30. Yes, just about 8:30. (dramatic music) - About time he's getting here, isn't it? - Yes, it's past 8:30. Maybe this is the car now. - Welcome back, Mr. Bannister. How about a statement for the press? - Sorry, I can't say a word - Oh, come on now, you of a statement here after all. (intercom buzzing) - Yes? to see Mr. O'Brien. - Send him in. - Hello, Bill. - Hiya, fella. - Hi, Chief. - Glad to see you, son. - Thanks. - I'll leave you two - Thanks, Chief. - Come on, sit down and - Kind of a dirty trick, but you better take down - Yes, sir. - I better tell you what I found out about this League of Murdered Men. - You mean even the convicts call the gang by that cheap, theatrical name? - It may sound theatrical, - What do you mean on the level? - Practically every - Oh, now wait a minute. Maybe You must be stir crazy. - I'm giving you the facts, - Did you get his name? - Yeah, it was Carlson, George Carlson. - George Carlson. - Oh, it's probably phony. - Yeah, probably, but What else? - He offered to get me out of - How did he expect to spring you? - He gave me a little piece of paper with what he called a - Run-out powder? Now don't tell me you - Oh it would've worked all So he gave me a number I if I change my mind. - You remember the number? - Yeah, he wrote it on the powder paper. It was Waverly four-- (gunshots banging) - The window. (dramatic music) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) (gunshots banging) - We can't do anything afoot. Come on. - Hey, wait for me! (tires screeching) Swing around the corner. I think that coupe in - When I pull up alongside, - Okay, if the mug doesn't - It's trailing us, all right. - Cops? - No, I think it's a press car. - Put up that rod. I'll take care of 'em. (dramatic music) (flash popping) - You all right? - I wonder what happened in here. - Anybody get hurt? - Did you get the picture? - I think so. - Well, let's get down to the (tires screeching) - Hey, the guy in that car - Are you sure? - I was looking right at him. - Then you'll need a real hideout, and I better take your - Yeah? Swell. It's about time I met that - I think you're right. (somber music) - Sorry, Bill. - Sort of look after things - Sure, Bill. - Tim, take this down to the lab. There's a bare chance they the gun that fired it from - Sure. - I'm going down to Emergency. See if the fella the chief - Don't worry, Bill. They - Looks like I'm too late. - He never regained consciousness. - Anybody recognize him? - Well, not much chance. He'd had his face changed - How about fingerprints? - Blair has got them up in - Thanks. (dramatic music) Any luck? - Not yet. - No, not so far. Hm, here it is. - Who is it? - Jake Jordan. - Couldn't be Jordan. He's - You must be mistaken. And fingerprints don't lie. - Randall's right. They're identical. - All right, they're still committed suicide in - You don't suppose there is something to that League of Murdered-- - Oh, how could there be anything to it? - Well, how could Jordan and running around town this - We just heard the bad news - Yeah, sure is tough. - I'd rather not talk - I know, but we have three pictures of the getaway, - Lend us your dark - Sure, go right ahead. (dramatic music) - Hey, what is this? I thought I was going to - You are. We just have time to make And look out for that third rail. (dramatic music) - Hey, I don't like this. - Come on, get down there (train rumbling) - This is sure some hideout. - This way. (bell ringing) Mr. Mortis, this is Mike Taboni. - Glad to meet you, Professor. - I wish I might say the same, Mr. Taboni. I thought I made it of the League of Murdered - It's time Taboni joined. - So you don't mean he failed - Me? I never miss. - He was photographed getting away, and the police have the photographs. - Well, in that case, - Are you kidding? - I understood you wanted - Well sure I want to join, but - Oh come now, dying is not so hard. We've all done it, Mr. We're suicides, all of us. - Suicides? - Yes. - Well, I guess it's all But as for me, I don't want no part of it. So I'll be seeing you. - Wait. I forgot to tell you we bring you back to life. - Yeah? Well, listen, But I know a few answers too. And one of them is when - Well, it's up to you, and are brought back to life - Hey, wait a minute. What's the idea anyhow? - To save you from the police. They're bound to get you sooner or later. But if they find you dead, - If I'm dead, what do - All right, take him to the next room if that's how he wants it. Professor, are you sure you - Well, up to now, I've never failed. - Up to now. Well, all right. If I gotta, I just gotta. But I know I ain't gonna like it. - Keep this until you need it. Take him to his rooms and Leave no trace of him. Wilkerson, you go to to be ready to take a It will be safer for us in some other city. - Anything you say, but I still - Take a look at these wet prints. - Don't say anything. I - Forget it. - Wait a second, I think - Whose gun is it? Taboni. Now we're getting somewhere. Get his mug for me out of the gallery. Taboni, alias Carlson. - By the way, I found Mean anything to you? - What is it? - It must be that run-out Waverly 43752, the number he was to call. Hello, get me the address of Waverly 43752 814 Lago Street? Thanks. Have you a roomer here - No, never been one here by that name as far as I can remember. - Did you ever see this man around here? - Oh, sure, he's been - Which is his room? - He just checked out He's leaving town. - Did he say where he was going? - No, but the man with him said - An airport? - Did he say which one? - Is there one called Maxis? - There sure is. It's on the Harbor Road. - Well, thank you. - You're welcome. (dramatic music) - There's the airport right ahead. - Yeah. And there's a prowl car (engine rumbling) - Tell Halliger to report when he gets here. I'm gonna beat it. (dramatic music) - Put up your gun. I'll stop them. Just be ready to jump (dramatic music) (tires screeching) - Get goin'. Take off. I'll take care of this one. (gunshots banging) (gunshot banging) (engine humming) (explosion booming) (officer whistling) (footsteps tapping) - See &quot;The Death Plunge,&quot; chapter two of &quot;Gang Busters&quot; (gunshots banging)