- Hey, smart people, Joe here. In the early 1800 a German physicist named noticed something strange. He was looking at sunlight as it passed through a prism when he realized part of All throughout the there were dark lines where Fraunhofer couldn't but eventually he cataloged from the rainbow, some They looked a lot like a barcode and in a way that's Deciphering all these would reveal a hidden story that would eventually allow scientists to unlock many secrets of the universe. This is how they did it (bright music) The scientists who were named Gustav Kirchhoff Yes, that Bunsen. And just as you expect, Kirchhoff and Bunsen were fascinated by how different elements when you put them in a flame, like stick some table salt in there and you'll get a bright yellow flame. Try some calcium, now it's orange. Potassium is kind of pinkish. Now to study the light from they came up with an instrument Their spectroscope toward a prism where it got split into all of its individual wavelengths, Then there was another tube to measure the result. When they looked closer at the colorful chemical they saw narrow bands of and no two elements produced This pattern of colors seemed to be a kind of fingerprint for each element. For instance, sodium has lithium creates this bright red line, while strontium is red and more, and we're able to see in green and red, though it shines many other Then in 1859, these two that cracked Fraunhofer's code. Kirchhoff and Bunsen knew about Fraunhofer's missing and one day after sprinkling on Brunson's burner, they realized that the from the sodium filled flame as two of Fraunhofer's missing lines. These lines had to be related, but how? By examining sunlight and a sodium flame at the same were able to show that by burning sodium fit like puzzle pieces with certain dark lines missing They realized that elements If you heat them, they release light at specific frequencies but in front of a full spectrum of light they absorbed those same frequencies. He didn't know exactly why this happened but concluded that Fraunhofer's by elements in the sun And together Kirchhoff that many individual matched those missing lines By decoding these lines, to identify all of the without ever taking a of gas that's 150 million kilometers away, which would be difficult. Correction, impossible. Back in the mid 1800s, no one knew why particular and absorbed these specific wavelengths. But today we know that each element's unique is directly tied to its atomic structure. Every atom has a nucleus of electrons orbiting around but most of the time these electrons sit in their lowest possible energy level, what's known as the ground say by heating things up, and some electrons will start jumping up to higher energy states. These higher energy so electrons quickly and each time one returns it releases a photon of a carrying the exact same amount of energy that it took to bump the The electrons of different elements reside in unique structures of energy levels so you can tell what element on the colors it emits when it's heated. For example, if you heat table salt you'll always see the same two of the spectrum as certain and then return to their This is called an emission spectrum. On the other hand, if of a light source, electrons will absorb any wavelengths that have the exact amount of to jump up to that higher energy level, removing those wavelengths and leaving a shadowed Through a spectroscope, you see what's called This spectrum subtraction is what happens as sunlight interacts with the elements in the sun's atmosphere and As sunlight hits all the bumping electrons up to they absorb part of the spectrum, creating the missing And when you see the sun you can't tell that electrons have been but if you take a closer look you can see that some of it is missing. But rather than keep just it would be easier to actually show you. To make the absorption and emission images I made this little DIY spectroscope that basically works like except mine, you can shine and it's made of stuff They didn't have that. So here I have an opening passing through a tiny little slit which will help make Then instead of a prism, I'm using something called which uses tiny little into all of its individual wavelengths. Just put a camera right Okay, so I wanna check out By the way, if you do this on your own, never ever point your spectroscope or your eyes directly at the sun. I'm just gonna point that has sunlight bouncing off of it. It's very bright. There is my rainbow and you can see there are This is what Fraunhofer And thanks to Kirchhoff and Bunsen, we can actually decode these lines now. So these really dark ones you The sun is mostly hydrogen so we have a lot of absorption the dark line in the yellow. It's actually two lines but we don't have enough resolution to make out both of them. Anyway, there are a lot of lines here, and if we were to look at this through a higher grade spectroscope we'd actually see hundreds They're not all from different are from different energy If we were to sit and we could actually figure that's in the sun. What else you wanna look at? Many light sources through the spectroscope. Fluorescent light bulbs appear white but reveal specific emission lines instead of a continuous spectrum. Sodium vapor street lamps emit the characteristic sodium line. And neon signs give off the of this noble gas. The amazing thing about spectroscopy is that we can use it to look at stuff that's right around us Well, not with our spectroscope, but in principle, it's true. Now that we know the fingerprint and compounds, physics Based on a pattern of lines, we can decode what stuff is and in some cases, that code breaking uncovers For instance, back in 1912, the American astronomer Vesto Slipher was studying the spectrum of a fuzzy little spot in the sky that he called the Andromeda Nebula. It was an absorption of the same dark lines Fraunhofer had seen in our sun's spectrum. But the weird thing was they weren't quite in the right place. They were all shifted toward The only explanation was that whatever he was because if it were moving toward earth as it radiated the light, the and appear bluer than they actually were, like a kind of Doppler effect. Based on how much the lines were shifted, Slipher could even tell how fast Andromeda was moving toward us, and the something like 300 kilometers a second. Now, after that, Slipher to a bunch of other He still didn't know what they were but there was something Compared to our sun, their spectral lines were all shifted to the which seemed to suggest there were a bunch of fuzzy objects in space Slipher didn't realize it at the time but this was our first hint Those fuzzy spots that he was calling Nebulas About a decade after Slipher, Edwin Hubble realized that the faster it was moving away from us and he concluded that the was if the entire universe was expanding. The key to this discovery was encoded in those same missing in the sun's spectrum a Today, this missing rainbow code is even helping us in our As exoplanets cross in we can look at the starlight that filters through the exoplanet's atmosphere. New dark lines will appear as the planet crosses in front and they correspond to the in the planet's atmosphere. Some of those could hold signs of life. So finding an unlikely in an exoplanet's atmospheric could be our first clue that The James Webb Space at the spectra of planetary atmospheres and who knows what it So by decoding bits of we've figured out the makeup of objects all over the universe in places we will never We've discovered bizarre about the fundamental We may soon be able to search for life on planets that All of this is thanks to some electrons swiping Stay curious. I just love the fact that something that we see and we think we know everything about it, it still holds secrets like And we love to bring you to teach you new things about We cannot do that without It helps us make videos the If you would like to join that helps support this channel directly, there's a link down description Another great idea is to go ahead and make sure that you are Hit that bell icon. It's a great way to find out about our videos before anybody else, and it also helps other by telling that magical to show it to lots of people. So thank you. We'll see you in the next video.