(upbeat music) - The car behind me is everything an enthusiast could ever ask for. It has a great throbbing V8. (engine revs) A five speed manual transmission. Rear wheel drive. Hatchback versatility. True motorsport pedigree. (engines buzzing) And supercar styling inside and out. The Rover 3500 is like a dream come true. In other words, a Porsche a manual transmission, And yet if you grew up in America, you probably don't even And that's because sometimes, is actually the stuff of nightmares. (engine sputters) - Start, come on, come on, come on. I (beep) hate this car. Come on, (beep) mother (beep) (beep). (engine roars) (upbeat music) Will you just start already? This video is brought to you which includes a subscription 24/7 flatbed roadside Join or get more info at the link below. First things first, what is this? Well, this is a Rover 3500. It was produced for 10 and was sold in North America. Sold is a strong word. It was offered for sale in North America. Who is Rover, you might ask? Well, think a Land Rover, Rover cars, Land Rover Rover's earliest achievement when it created the Rover Safety Bicycle, which set the pattern two similarly sized wheels In fact, Rover is so that in some languages, the Around the turn of the century, Rover began to manufacture and by the mid 1940s, And then gas turbine one that, by the way, raced and in the 1963 and 1965 24 Hours of Le Mans. Its street cars, however, and very, very prestigious. Well built. Somewhere between a The British Royal Family drove Rovers. The prime minister drove a Rover. And even though Rovers were they weren't powerful enough The US said Rover needs a V8. In 1963, Rover's managing director found himself in Wisconsin, trying to convince Mercury Marine to buy Rover's gas turbine engine, or its diesel, for use And lying on the ground &quot;What on earth is that?&quot; he proclaimed. And yes, that's an actual quote. What on earth that was was a Fireball V8 taken straight out of a Buick Skylark, an engine that GM had just killed off after just three years of production, three storied years of production, because the Buick Fireball the Oldsmobile Rockette, wasn't just the first all aluminum V8 from America, it was the lightest in the world. It formed the basis for the first turbocharged mass production It was also used in the 1966 Brabham Formula One car. In that same time period, and swapped the aluminum for iron, creating the first ever American V6. Produced more than 25 you may know it as the Buick 3800. It was in everything, to the turbocharged Buick Grand National to the supercharged Pontiac Grand Prix. General Motors gave up on its aluminum V8 because it cost it too much to produce, but the thing was just tiny, 26 inches wide, 27 inches tall, and just 28 inches long. In British measurement terms, that's two shoes and a shilling. The point though is it fit and not only was it just an inch longer than the two liter four cylinder, it was only 12 pounds heavier. Rover had to have it. (upbeat music) GM executives initially would be interested in the but in the end, agreed on a licensing deal that allowed the Brits and produce the V8 as they saw fit. GM sent over 40 completed and then Rover would pay three pounds, 10 shillings in royalty That was less than $10 per motor, far less than it would've And by the way, GM tried to buy it back a couple years later, &quot;Sure, we'll build them even though it only cost Rover $400 a piece to build these things. Clearly, they saw the value in this motor and indeed, it stayed in That is a 37 year run. Almost as long as the V6 that it spawned. (upbeat music) Anyway, the now Rover V8 found its way into Rover just as the company was Rover pulled out of the truck market in 1974, and over the course of eventually wound up glooped together with every other failing UK car maker into one big disaster called British Leyland. Rover was thrown into the and told that both of their sedans, which were previously direct competitors, would be replaced with just The name stood for Rover Triumph 1, and then the car was renamed SD1 when the Rover Triumph Group was renamed the Specialist Division. At the time, it wasn't would be sold as a Rover, a But it was decided that it from the Triumph TR7 sports car, struts up front, solid rear axle. Triumph's brand new five speed stick would be bolted to one of two or to the old Rover V8, versus its original 4,750 RPM redline. Very unusually, the SD1 would a body style that had only with the Renault R16 and Austin Maxi. But in styling, it would be, um, uh, rather nondescript, if we're being kind. Ah, but no sense in being kind, because Leyland came and hired Triumph's historical Michelotti, to submit a proposal. This must have lit quite a fire under the buttocks of one David Bache, who was Rover's head of design, because he borrowed a and locked the entire design staff in the studio for a weekend, grafting the supercar swoops and curves onto the Rover's hard points. He designed the turn signals and incorporated that Ferrari's trademark concave scallop all He later took inspiration the Berlinetta Boxer, for the interior and the seats and door panels. And more than anywhere else, in the view from the driver's seat. Hello, Ferrari Momo steering wheel. Everything about the gauges, from the font to the needles to the black bezels surrounding And the rest of the dashboard This is a perfectly symmetrical dashboard. It has two identical glove compartments, and that's so that by making one dash for both The instrument cluster that just sits on top of it and could, in theory, at least, just be swapped from side to side. On that side, where the steering column would be on a right hand On this side of this left hand drive car, that's the steering column, between the tach and the speedometer, allowing you to enjoy fresh air. (wind blowing) The Rover SD1 debuted in 1976 and won just about every even beating the Mercedes W123, BMW E24 6-Series, Audi 100, Porsche 924, and Volkswagen Golf Diesel, to take the European The reviews were outrageous. Embarrassingly positive, if I'm honest, leading Britain's car magazine to write, &quot;So unqualified was the hymn of praise that the proverbial would've gained the impression was indeed the only car Hey, the SD1 was to all people, and it was. (upbeat music) - Ooh! - The rear seats folded down than today's Range Rover Sport. With the longest fifth it used no more fuel than cars It had self-leveling rear suspension with nine inches of suspension travel, so bumps didn't bump. It had a temple bell chime when every other car had a buzzer. (car chiming) Its steering was just as quick as today's Porsches. It looked every bit as exotic as Ferraris, Maseratis, and Mercedes, and it was a Malaise era rocket, quicker to 60 than a base Corvette. Oh, the good old days, when kids didn't wear seat belts, and Rover could make a painful to watch misogynistic video Here's my favorite. (child speaking in foreign language) (mother speaking in foreign language) (mother speaking in - [Narrator] If that little his mom would never have realized that they were traveling - And that unbelted wasn't even in a Vitesse. In French, vitesse means speed, and the SD1 Vitesse had le plenty of it. 190 horsepower, 7.1 to 60. The Vitesse got four It got stiffer suspension, a body kit, and at least 500 of them designed, built, and This was more than just a sport package. It was a homologation race car. (engine buzzing) And the SD1 had one It took Rover's first win since 1907 at the RAC Tourist Trophy. It took first and second in class in the 1981 British It won again in 1982 when it also won the French Saloon Car Championship. It won 11 of 11 rounds in 1983, taking both the overall and before being DQ'd for a rule violation. But it won again in 1986, the the venerable Mercedes to take the overall win in But that all came later. Back in 1976, the SD1 debuted innocently as a do it all family saloon. At home in the UK, the SD1 was with waiting lists and dealer markups. It took four years to come to America, and when it got here, the &quot;Road &amp; Track&quot; called it viceless. &quot;On the basis of its price, performance, handling, styling, comfort, and general standard of appointments, it should do very well in the US. But, and it's a very big but, the car will stand or fall entirely on the standard of quality control.&quot; That but is exactly the reason you've never heard of the Rover SD1. Its unreliability was legendary. Have a listen to what my old coworker at &quot;Automobile Magazine&quot; - [Jamie] &quot;Chief among the was the diabolical build quality that only Britain's centrally cast cadres of uniquely inept managers, ludicrously militant trade unionists, and shoddy suppliers could guarantee.&quot; - And he owned an SD1 when he wrote that. Whereas previously, so many politicians and royals had made a Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher wasn't interested in the SD1. - The new Rover represented all that had gone wrong Mrs. Thatcher wouldn't She made sure that the a dozen P5s in black so ever have to drive a Rover SD1. - &quot;Autocar&quot; in the UK was no kinder. &quot;The finish of the car on delivery was poor by any standards, but by those of a near it was downright disgusting.&quot; (audience gasps) We're not talking Tesla-like We're talking big stuff, like, um, an innovative new electro dip process that used an electrical charge to attract primer to the metal, creating the perfect bond to However, the current was and instead created a pocket of air between the metal and the paint, ensuring corrosion and causing We're talking about a and built in the moistest that was as watertight One British road tester in the most English way possible. He said, &quot;Whenever the fan was used, this expensive douche We had to put up with steamed Funny thing, he turned the fan off, and the douche stopped, and the reason why is the SD1 didn't have a You turn the fan off and Which is incredibly ironic, because one of the SD1's other innovations was a system designed free of rust by forcing to dry any water that had gotten in there. It came in this vent, went down here, through a channel, and back down. And guess what? Didn't work. Everything we've talked the three and a half liter version. That was the reliable one. There were several other versions, not a single one with The only thing they had in The turbocharged, jet-powered, nuclear cost cutting, and labor disputes, so dysfunctional that a good car if it started from scratch and built a factory specifically for it, which is exactly what it did for the SD1. Which just meant that you could add a completely inexperienced labor force to the long list of SD1's troubles. The enormous gaping chasm between what this car should have and what it wound up being is something we've never seen before and hopefully will never see again. Well, we saw it once was replaced by the Rover 800 Series, sold in the US as the Sterling Those cars were literally Acura Legends styled to look like the SD1. And while the Legend sat atop the Rover 800 series was, um, built in the same plant as And as you might guess, it was one of the least But I digress. In fairness, in the the electrics and the trim the former done by Lucas, The engine and drive line which is one of the reasons the SD1 was so popular in the UK as a police car. In fact, reports from police agencies show they were spectacularly and it's probably because they didn't have power windows or door locks to break. And who cares about wind in a cop car that can out-accelerate and out-handle all the bad guys' cars? Its ubiquity as a cop car in the UK is certainly responsible for the Rover SD1 commands They were once everywhere. North America got just 1,254 Rover 3500s. Those Rovers were glued with a force far in excess of that, which bound the paint Which was a shame, because were it not for Leyland's dumpster the SD1 actually was the (engine revving) (engine humming) (engine humming continues) (engine humming continues) (engine humming continues) (engine humming continues) (engine humming continues) (engine humming continues) (engine humming continues)