This is cowboy land of square kilometres. The Lianos, offer little Just a few leads Residents sometimes wait Especially during When it rains here, It's always scary. Sometimes on farms lightning kills Living in the Llanos, uncompromising. the cowboys when the storm passes, Only the brave remain. Rwan David and his assistant Without them, of distribution or even impossible The line is vital, Where are you going? There are better tracks there. They are the only drivers to dare to face the elements We know when we're leaving The giant ruts The machine is always On the inside, it's a bit like between state and the moving bus it turns my stomach The worst in a hole all night We got bogged down, We put that in front. We will put these trunks so that they stick well. Without this, It's an old technique. In the LIanos, every meter gained is a bet. Go over the kilometer These trips would drive you crazy The Colombians, them, After the test, the reward. Once arrived, Every year, the Colombians Of May the rain falls and the mountains Dozens of villages Go ahead, it will pass. Supply them It's pure adrenaline. If you are afraid, Faced with obstacles, the Colombians, Hurry up, guys! know how to be inventive. That's the brake. It works like this, When there is no road, A bad move Occasionally, Mined by and by the ravages of drug trafficking, Colombia is a wounded country. In 2016, Signature to sow seeds of hope. like seeing in areas Colombians like to say it you always have to move forward. What is the right track? Carlos knows it well. In the LIanos, so many different trajectories. Three times a month, he is still looking foodstuffs destined which feed If I don't hurry, and the village will find itself So I have to come A few passengers The journey promises to be chaotic, Transport is scarce in the region. The village of Chaparral, is located near A journey of All four wheels in the mud. Carlos is from the LIanos. Born of farming parents, he quickly left the farm to afford a better future. Look at this, It's like that and I am happy. Without it I would be I would have the sun I should I grew up in the LIanos, to give They managed to get away By dint of work Carlos was able to buy himself this american military truck A mouth from hell, a bit outdated. The driver is never quiet. On this path, As I'm all alone The other drivers so they can help each other. Carlos had a choice He obviously didn't choose the right one. Get down with The shovel first! I undress I don't like being muddy. Like that, before getting dressed. This log is the secret Fortunately, Now Carlos has Approaching the lead truck I will do like my father. I want to become a driver in addition, we get paid. Every school holiday, Juan accompanies his father. The little boy It's already, Step back a bit! Gently, Go for it ! Here we go, my son! Pushes you. The road is good there! In 1 hour, One last detail remains. Well, I'm all clean. I can get dressed. The team leaves in convoy. The safest way to cross the plains I have to say that count less Very few families The earth is so hard Here, for the earth to produce, It is different from other regions Here, without fertilizer, Even when it grows the harvest is not guaranteed. Storms and insects, Look, in some places, They form like spots Where the locusts pass, An invasion of locusts for the rest of the trip. All is not so dark Rahime will not say otherwise. I come from the plains, I cross the meadows, With my verse, of the plains life can be for the one who The first one, each day that begins Smuggler of my land! My homeland is opposite. Your ship has arrived! Be careful, the boat is broken, The second, know how to stay to anticipate Go ahead, before the caimans arrive. What's going on with the Caymans? They eat horses they catch them Go ahead, my horse! I lost on horseback once. the caiman He is dead ? Of course he's dead Tomorrow, the day will be rough They have 200 cattle to muster Cowboys are centaurs. A fusion between man and animal. She is all the more Caught very young and become the accomplices of a lifetime. Horse, We take extremely good care of it. He helps us we protect it. You don't have to It's thanks to him Let's go ! Go ahead ! Put love in your steps. And forget you're hungry. Raised in freedom all year round, the cows quickly find When the cows get angry, She rushes on our horses and if we fall, It happens often in the LIanos. Stay alert for danger Few months ago, Theo forgot to respect Once, On the shore, a calf got caught We took our lassos to pull it Then a colleague took his knife, The calf fell backwards It is always but we, Work on canoes but we are used to In the head not a man, but a woman. She doesn't let herself Catherine is a badass. Let's go, guys! barely born, I was already going barefoot. I was riding I got in the water I was born A woman without fear, After business studies Catherine was destined for a career The death of his grandfather Inherit the farm, it is an honor and an obligation. It would be like if I refused it. It's a very heavy weight to carry, because it's hard especially in I do not have a choice, Today, In the dry season, Catherine points For some years, oil wells basements, contain the most important As soon as the tankers arrive they break the ground So, for us, to access this water. We have to dig to draw it Oil has a terrible impact As we say here, These tankers, Katherine sued them without ever winning. Colombia like emeralds precious metal, keeps merchants alive They are the ones, located in the mountains. The tracks are hard. There is a lot of mud, It's not simple. Trucks don't risk it. Foodstuffs have been distributed Depending on the condition of the track, they can put to cover the 100 kilometers Gustavo and his assistant Inevitably, they stick to it. Here the opening begins. Watch out, we're coming. We will do Go ahead, Gisela, with whom I spent Everyone laughed, She was beautiful, There is also Jessica, Each car has its nickname. Farewell, nervous women. Farewell, my amorous disillusions. To the extent that the track becomes impassable. Gustavo is cautious. By shaking, he has already seen It's okay, nothing has changed. We are very busy. We carry about two hundred tons. That's a freezer after killing him. It is for traders. We bring it back too A water tank, wire, Here there are many people and he cultivates nothing, that is why it is necessary Soon, Where, there are great curves This is where, Yes. What a puzzle! Come help us! There's a quagmire up there. We're going down Dig hard! Pull out the winch! Turn it on This is the anchor pile, we will try to help him get out of here. Still ! Put someone who has strength. Hurry up guys! That's an electric winch. You have to unwind the cable and tie it To the extent that the 4 X 4 moves forward. The cable broke This wizard is a blue! That's what happens, The cable is broken. It is no longer of any use. We will try Stretched like a bow, the cable threatens to break Go ahead, it will pass! I'm going to get ready Gisela will ride she is a woman of character. She's got it under the hood We're going to climb this slope. And so, we succeeded. Gustavo and his colleagues a sum equal to In Colombia, the average salary good pay, Wife and is worried How are you my dear, I'll call you later my love. I love you very much, kisses. She is scared They are very bad my mother too I tell them, suffer on the road, The day I stop It's my whole life. A while ago, an additional hazard The whole mountain a lawless zone didn't dare to patrol. Before, this whole area It was a real small town. The dollars were falling the beer was flowing, there were prostitutes All that there The mafia controlled everything. It was a cocaine route. Then the authorities and that was the end. Only, farmers Coca was their only resource. Despite farmers like Geva, took over the business This variety of coca, Because she can give The authorities said We had to Help has started we did not touch every two or three months. Today, Geva is no longer looking 1 kilo of coca leaves, than a kilo of bananas. The couple, We always plant Because it's harder They are looking for, get discouraged If we planted it would give Drugs do not enslave She made you addicted This is how we make a living Because here, there is nothing else. Colombian drug traffickers supply 70% of the cocaine sold worldwide. For the moment, with the convoy for gold diggers. Gustavo and his assistant For the moment, but his condition can quickly change. The journey is still long In remote areas, Colombian life is a struggle. Every day they fight or to stay connected Carlos traveled He still has some left gasoline antenna I can not wait, lose 1 hour. This telephone antenna, I have already been called three times, With the antenna, But the phone It's their only way in case of serious problems. Before, they had to to notify the medical center before an ambulance arrives. The ill Carlos at great speed, the track is loading it is she who sets the tempo. Around 10 p.m., A truck arriving Carlos is exhausted, but in the middle it's not really a thing to see. I'm not tired. We are used to it here. That's when We wait all the time With four-wheel drive, the driver has the truck Not only the cable is worn. The cable broke. I will see To have a chance another truck two motors, It's a victory. I'm tired ! After nine hours of driving, Carlos stows his steering wheel. It's better to leave his wife Why ? without a hammock, We get stung It's perfect, A good night's rest to complete the trip. In the Andes Cordillera, to break free Farmers have developed Olivo's life is a puzzle. His house and his farm but they are separated As if that weren't enough, the collapsed bridge. It's a landslide And so far we have received To go there is only one solution. This steel cable. He is suspended over a length of 350 meters. It's oil otherwise it overheats What's going on We fall into the void. That's life on cable. That's the brake By pressing Never suddenly Its good ? It's a whole science A bad move It's the brake Everybody 30 seconds, it's the time it takes It's unbeatable. These are good feelings. Once you get used to it, Without the cable, he needs more to get to his farm. This work, They also had animals. They were already going through the cable. They are the ones when I was seven years old. That's to curdle the milk. My brothers left the farm but I stayed. My mother is dead who is too old The cheese is ready in 1 hour. When leaving, The cable becomes very smooth and with lightning, That's why A lightning can electrify The return cable The descent is steeper, The farmer steals We can reach The cable has been installed He will still serve Four kilos, EUR9. Thanks to its cheeses, Olive He wishes he could take her It would be very good, They will never do it for us. No one wants to invest here We no longer believe who promise us the moon. We have to stick together It's like that The means of transport is impressive, but apparently it is safe. In 70 years, These totally potholed roads, are not of the Colombian government. Since the 1960s, control many regions. Thousands between the guerrillas and the army. Right wing state Some took Go on, Like Gustavo of the city of Santa Rosa. Before, She alone could pass. This route, we built it Each community, Everyone contributed we paid for the backhoes Through the road, and we can trade Over there is the river, Gustavo talks about the road, but she looks like That, for us, is normal. Occasionally, We are very busy My love ! Go ahead, Go ahead, Gisela, It would be better. The drivers arrive We will see The bridge has fallen! The bridge is collapsing You need a winch Because the bulldozer, him, The only alternative, It doesn't look like much, though. A fearless man tries his luck and he has an interest in passing. Otherwise his companions will Assistant ! Go ahead ! Drawn ! Hurry up ! The other drivers The bulldozer that maintains I will strengthen the structure You have to move the cars This way, it's better, it'll hold. They pack the soil well It's not going to collapse. A quarter of an hour later, the bridge is judged to get the convoy through. Get well Go ahead ! Gustavo is not calm. His car is the heaviest. With its load, I am well ? Stay on the same tracks! Gently ! The freezer touches behind? No. It's further Hardly had he touched the bridge, that a plank comes off. Boards And the earth begins to crumble. I thought everything was going to fall apart so I went for it. This is where the car pitched up You were scared ? Nope, In this work, he's screwed, It's the adrenaline that gets you going. This river marks with a held area Normally, foreigners are prohibited, but we have This part of the mountain We can not do anything They have been there for a long time. This region has been under control They had split it in two. FARC guerrillas Now these are the ones The ELN, is a guerrilla It is partly financed by taking She has all the power Attention ! As we film an ELN guerrilla Back to the car, We are no longer welcome. What's going on ? We must turn around! More fear than harm. Our journey with Gustavo Thank God, everything is fine. Are we nearly there yet. We're going to go to sleep With the years, the mountain people have learned and to take on bumpy tracks. Carlos also finally reaches the goal. The Waiting Village its mobile phone antenna is not anymore The driver swallowed in a day and a half. This antenna, worship her as a goddess. Thanks to her, It's a region I do not know The village has a primary school, but when college time comes, the children go to boarding school They no longer see their parents only three The phone is essential Before, education passed But today, The young people are getting If there is no fuel it will stop working Without any education, Education, Colombia, Drug trafficking and corruption above all Far from resigning, like these intrepid