Ever since the Fallout TV show came out, one What would Lucy's level be if Well, we here at Film Theory did what We sat down and ran the numbers. And what we found is absolutely game-breaking. Hello, internets! Welcome to Film Theory, the show that knows that the S in Let me tell you, friends, I have been blown It's wild to see a franchise that blow up into this massive cultural phenomenon. It's also one of the only IP that we've covered Wild, huh? And that makes perfect sense. With such a huge world, with deep lore and And one of the biggest conversations how do the systems of the See, Fallout is set in the same world So, that naturally got people asking For example, how powerful would the main See, Fallout is a role-playing game, or RPG. Whenever your character does And after getting enough experience, before starting the whole process all over again. Now, there are tons of ways to earn including killing enemies, finishing being persuasive in conversations, disarming And we actually see Lucy do most of But, unlike the games, there's no helpful or completes a quest, or discovers To find out what level Lucy would be, you'd have to be crazy to sit down To run the numbers, and do the math, all to answer the question, what level would Well, you see where this I saw that challenge, and thought, Okie dokie! And, so I did it. I was the one crazy enough to figure and figure out exactly how everything And let me tell you, what I found Grab your mint hats, and as we head back into the wild wasteland what level would Lucy be at So, let's start out with some basic assumptions. Firstly, we're going to be using Every one of the Fallout games has a but 4 is the latest mainline entry of the series, and the one that the most people It's also the one that the show draws the Next, we're only gonna be treating instead of the other main characters Lucy best fits the mold of the while Maximus and the Ghoul are you can recruit to travel with And finally, Lucy starts the show out at level 1. This is standard in every Fallout game, no matter what you've done with Grew up in a vault like Fallout 3? Fought in the Resource War before being Shot in the head by Matthew Doesn't matter, you're level 1. So, despite Lucy clearly training and shooting while living in Vault 33, this wouldn't impact her level at all. No, what it would impact are So, let's talk about that. In the Fallout franchise, a character's stats where each letter in the word Strength, Perception, Endurance, This is important for us today because the the amount of experience points a getting distracted in the wasteland. Huh, it's like researching a theory. Anyway, in Fallout 4, for every you gain a 3.33% bonus to all of your XP. And over time, that can add up a lot. So, we have to know Lucy's Intelligence score. Now, I'll be honest. I was completely prepared to sit down based on how Lucy acts throughout the show. But thankfully, that's not necessary. We actually have the official Special stats all thanks to the mobile In this game, you design and recruit characters from And to tie into the TV show, Bethesda added Lucy, Maximus, and the each of them with Special stats. Bethesda, thank you for saving me That's probably the first time you've heard Regardless, Lucy has an Intelligence of 6, meaning that she's getting a roughly 17% bonus for all the XP she earns while killing But exactly how much XP is To get to level 2, Lucy's Each subsequent level will require an So she needs a total of 475 to hit level 3, We're also going to be rounding which is basically how it works in the games. All right, with all of that setup out of Well, it's simple enough. We're just gonna run through every Right off the bat, that means we picking locks, and hacking computers, since we don't see Lucy do any of That leaves us with killing discovering new locations, Let's start out with the most obvious So the first enemies we see Lucy during the battle in Vault 33 in episode 1. At level 1, basic Raiders are worth 5 XP, and with Lucy's intelligence But here's the disappointing part. The weapon Lucy grabs during this big Raider and no XP is granted for The base Fallout 4 game doesn't so the three Raiders she don't actually grant Lucy any experience. In fact, Lucy doesn't make a when she takes down a robot named Snipsnip. This character is based on the Mr. which give 12 XP, so 15 to In this same episode, Lucy also making her probably one of the In episode 5, she takes out three Radroaches, a common enemy and worth just 6 XP each. And finally, Lucy also kills the Feral Ghoul that used to be her mother in the season finale. Given how easily she dies, we're earning Lucy an additional 9 XP. All in all, that adds up to a total of just 51 XP, which is not a lot, to be honest. That's just a fourth of the way to level 2. But thankfully, Lucy would be Fallout 4's hardest difficulty, Survival Mode, grants the player two times the Given that Lucy needs to eat, and that she can't reload a save if she dies, she's definitely on Survival Mode, meaning that this doubles her total But wait, there's even more. Yeah, you might have noticed that I left Monty, the raider that she unwittingly Why? Because this one calculation and I didn't want to start with it. See, after a brief fight, Lucy Yeah, we're not gonna be But Monty survives and is later Thankfully, Fallout 4 will reward you XP as long as you've done at least Brutally cutting open Monty's face? Yeah, I'm gonna count that as 25% of the damage, giving Lucy actually her Because he's a named character, we aren't but instead a mini-boss, meaning that he was actually worth 10 But Survival Mode doesn't double the XP so it just stays at 10. But there is an additional wrinkle. Right before the raiders attack, Lucy and Monty do their In Fallout 4, if you sleep in a bed like, say, your husband, you'll get a buff called the Lover's Embrace. This gives you an additional 15% bonus to So that means that Lucy's actually bringing her total to 113. After all that, we are still not even to level 2. Was that too much work to figure out something Probably, but we're here to do it anyways. Of course, as an RPG, violence isn't or resolve conflict in the Fallout franchise. You can also do so through conversation, convincing others to do what you want through In Fallout 4, these are sorted Yellow for Easy Checks, Orange With all of the bonuses, passing these would Now, sadly, since we don't see any dialogue even in the closed captions, we're gonna need to use our what situations in the show and also which ones she would actually pass. Yeah, there are definitely situations where like her first confrontation Now, I acknowledge that I'm but at first glance, your treatment Yep, she dropped the ball there, so no XP. So which ones does she pass? First up, in Episode 1, Lucy convinces that she should be offered This was definitely a tutorial quest and Next, she deceives Chet before Again, we're still in the tutorial, so In Episode 4, Lucy successfully into releasing the ghouls The first time would be a Medium Check for In Episode 7, she convinces Maximus Maximus is hesitant to do so, so I'd count And finally, during the confrontation Lucy convinces her father to give Leading to Cold Fusion powering up the Clearly, this was a very difficult thing to do. Hank is very set in his ways and as evidenced by Lucy failing to intimidate him Regardless, this successfully bringing our total for Speech Checks Adding that up with our XP from Killing and hey, she leveled up! Yeah, we're now Level 2! That usually happens within like we all start the journey somewhere, Our next category is huge in the Fallout games, but could easily be overlooked Throughout the games, the Wasteland and each time you discover In Lucy's case, with her intelligence Now, the nice thing about this TV between these significant areas It's like built-in fast travel. So this leaves us with only the Throughout the series, we see Lucy ranging from big significant vistas like the to smaller ones like the Crashed Oh, and just to be clear, leaving the first so we won't be counting Vault 33 for Lucy either. Regardless, I'm not gonna sit here It's all on screen, and given how quickly your map fills up in Fallout 4. Either way, at 24 experience each, Lucy giving us a running total of 711 XP. And hey, again, we've leveled up here, friends. That's right, between all the killing, Still struggling a bit here, but hey, we still do have the biggest source of As an RPG, Fallout is full of Basically, they're story events and is growing over the course of their adventure. The biggest stories in these games which reward different amounts of experience Given that this is the start of the Fallout we're gonna assume that all of the stuff in meaning that each quest will grant And again, just like with the speech checks, we're gonna have to use our best judgment to as quests. So how does Lucy's story go here? Well, believe it or not, but most would likely count as just a single quest. That includes getting married, killing saving her brother, confronting the In both Fallouts 3 and 4, the first collection which only rewarded experience after So for everything we see in Episode 1, Lucy Additionally, I would see helping Wilzig and fighting the Gulper before meeting up with While the entire confrontation at Griffith So that's another 468 XP for main quests, and But that's not all the quests we I would count her escape from the as well as Lucy discovering Now, side quests give different amounts of Somewhere between 200 and Again, using best judgment here, we're gonna Super Duper Mart rewarded Lucy 234 experience, while the more involved Vault All in all, that leaves Lucy from all of her questing More than double what she earned leaving her with a total of 2,408 experience. This is actually more than enough and she ends Season 1 just But here's the thing, friends. That is shockingly low for the amount and just how far Lucy gets into her story here. Just to get a quick comparison here, I hopped into a new character in and it took me just two hours of And it's not just me. You can see roughly the same time frame The entire runtime of the Fallout and even though all of that isn't focused on Lucy, she does spend days out here in The fact that she accomplishes so much, gets so far into her story, and doesn't die despite being Level 7? That would be inconceivable for the Fallout games. She would have died several times over. And what's worse, she is in so much more danger now See, when you head straight from LA to Las Vegas, that takes you through some locations including Prim, Goodsprings, That area is full of powerful Deathclaw enemies that can decimate characters way more At her current level, Lucy would stand no chance. She would get one shot. So dang, I guess it's a good thing she's Given how old he is and how much he has to be like Level 100 at this point. I guess we'll have to calculate his Level 2 But hey, that's just a theory. A Film Theory! And cut! And if you want another Fallout theory right now, check out our video about how