- Hi guys, welcome back to my channel. In today's video, I'm going my top tips on how to get If you're new here, I post and I would love for you to subscribe if you enjoy those kind of videos. And if you are already a subscriber and you like them, please hit that bell and you will be notified But the funny thing is I make but I don't actually love it, but I do love having a clean house so it's something that I have to do. We are a family of five. There is no getting away from it. I have to do laundry every single day. I make at least 15 meals a day so I have to clean. And once the kids are in bed, it is the last thing that I want to do and I do have to find really good ways to get myself in gear, get motivated to clean the house so these are my top tips that work. My first tip is a really effective one and that is to set a timer. I love to go into a room, and see how much I can and you will be surprised in just 10 minutes. If the house is really bad, there is nothing better so again, just set yourself one hour and you're like right, I'm gonna just see how much I can get done in one hour and again, you will be amazed I think for me, I love the challenge and it definitely speeds me up, but I also like to already I'm like right, it's only 10 minutes. It's just one hour. My next tip is to learn something or get something done I think the main reason is because there are so many and when I clean, I know it's quite quickly with three children. But if I'm learning something or catching up on a podcast or watching a TED Talk on YouTube, then I don't feel like because I'm learning something Or if I have to do a job and I know it's gonna take 10 minutes of being in the queue on the phone, then I will be like right, as I'm on hold, I'm gonna see how much Then I feel like I've because I had to call the bank or 'cause I had to upgrade my My next tip is to reward yourself. I will often allow myself to have a glass of wine or allow myself to have a diet Or if I know my favorite then I will see how much I and then sit down and really enjoy it. Another really effective is to invite someone over. One of my best friends and sometimes I'll say, and I will get so much done in the 10 minutes before she arrives, or I will plan a play-date at and you guarantee the house My next tip is to do exactly and that is to watch cleaning videos or speed-cleaning videos. That is one of the reasons I love making speed-cleaning because I personally find and they really motivate me to clean. There's nothing nicer than and then just moments later, So I will link my if you want to go ahead and watch them, but I also really enjoy and seeing how they clean and seeing how I can My next tip won't apply to everyone but it is such a massive that I had to include it. So that is to Instagram If I ever want to clean my room, I think right, I'm going or I'm going to post a photo and it's really interesting. There's something about that makes you see clutter that you don't always see in real life, so it really motivates Basically, the only way I really get anything done in life anymore is by making a vlog of it. My next tip is to set yourself a goal and you can do this in You might just want your house more clean and more organized by a specific date. Maybe you're having people over to stay. Maybe you're having a kids party. Or you can set yourself a schedule of things that you want to do and by breaking it up, it won't seem like such a massive task. But if you don't even know where to start, there are some amazing cleaning I recently found and I am now following something I found on Pinterest that is how to organize your I'm also vlogging it so I will definitely share but it basically breaks down tasks that you need to do each week to have a very organized house My next tip might seem like a strange one but it really works for me and that is to get yourself or a new cleaning scent. I probably get way too overexcited when there is a new exciting but honestly, it makes me want to clean. Or I recently found a product which was specifically for marble to clean any of our marble surfaces and I could probably use a baby wipe. I could probably use anything but because I have this and it is actually really good, it makes me want to use it. I've said it before in vlogs, but having the right tools to clean and having the right products in place really will help you clean. I think if you actually invest or you treat yourself to it will really make you clean. My next tip to stay motivated is to have good cleaning I have shared my morning, my evening, and my daily cleaning routines so I'll link them down below but by having a routine, We're creatures of habit it's difficult to sway from that. For instance, every single morning, I put on a load of laundry, every afternoon, I dry it, and every evening, I put it away. Similarly with our dishwasher, it's the last thing I do every night is to turn that dishwasher on, and the first thing I do And now that I'm in that routine, if anything throws me off like we have extra people around and I have to do the dishwasher oh my gosh, my routine is ruined so once I'm in my cleaning routine, I tend to stick to it. And my final tip is to get help. So whether that be from your partner and you run around cleaning as a team or you actually hire help in, I've always been that I have a cleaner I will admit I didn't get her until I actually had my third &quot;I just can't do it all.&quot; But when she been, it I can actually focus on minimalizing our house because I know all the are actually clean. But before I had a weekly cleaner, I would sometimes organize or a deep clean by a professional. So you would just pay a one-off and sometimes, it's just If you're feeling like and you don't know where to start, getting professionals and then it kind of Right, so that is it for this video. I really hope you enjoyed it and you're feeling ready and Please give it a big and comment below any other tips you have that get you moving. Thanks so much for watching, Bye, guys.