Hey everyone, welcome back to another Print on Demand video. In today's video, I'm going to get accepted to Amazon Merch on Demand. When it comes to selling print Amazon is the biggest print However, you have to apply With that being said, in this video, I'm going to take you through and give you all of my get accepted to become a seller. So the very first thing print on demand on Amazon's marketplace, you are looking specifically This is what Amazon Merch on Demand's application page looks like. So once you found this page, you know that you are in the right place. Now, this is not to be that you can sell on Amazon, which is with an Amazon If you reach this page and you but you have to pay just know that this is to do Amazon FBA, which is Fulfilled by Amazon. This is a totally different this is not what we are looking for. So I just wanted to make that very clear, that what we are looking for It is 100% free to be a seller to do this. All you have to do is sign up and apply, and get accepted to be a seller. So with that being said, with Amazon Merch on print on demand t-shirts this is what it looks like. You can see that it has that says Amazon Merch on Demand, that's how we know it's And the seller has just to their Merch on Demand account And then whenever and finds this shirt and they can choose what type of in what color, and they And then they can add and purchase it from Amazon. Amazon will go pick out what what size they ordered it this exact design on it and and handle any customer For us as the seller here, we just get a split of So to show you a quick this shirt is for sale and they've sold over If you look at this in US dollars, which is this first line right here, we switch this to 17.95, that is a profit of $3 And if we take that $3 and 38 cents times 400 in the past month, that's going to be $1,352 And if you do that on a yearly basis, it's going to be about That is your split of the profit per year from a single design. Now, that's just one design uploaded, and I will say that that but the whole concept here good designs uploaded to the platform, and Amazon's going to do So now that hopefully as to what Amazon Merch on Demand is, now let's get into the actual application. So this is the page to actually start the application. The way that you get or you can just go to Google and search for Amazon Merch on Demand. Now, once you get here, you if you'd like to, but the sign up button and just click on it. Now, it's going to have you Now, this can be just your You don't have to have any or anything like that. And if you don't have you can just click create It only takes a couple seconds, and you can create a free account. Now, once you click sign in here, it's going to bring you to So this is basically just just making sure that you are aware of what you are allowed to, or not allowed to do on their platform. It's basically just saying you retain the rights to your designs, you're just selling them on And that it is non-exclusive, your designs to other and sell them there as well. And then most importantly, to be infringing on other This is something that I'll talk about a little bit later in this But just know that this and they need you to accept the terms before you can continue. So once you've read through this, just go ahead and click accept. And now, we're getting So as we go through this application, it's actually very simple. There is the first stage, which which is kind of the logistical And then there's the second stage, which is the additional information, where that's where I'm going to have a lot of really good tips for you. So in this first stage, they are looking for contact information, your bank information on how to pay you. And then Social Security so that they can keep so that you can pay tax on that profit. Now, it looks intimidating, the way that they have but as we go through this it's actually very simple to do. So the very first question here is, are you an individual or You can just select that Something that is really good to know is that when you are doing you do not need to have So you do not need to be a corporation. You can simply just be an individual without any extra steps. And then for the full name, just put your first and last name. And then the next question So just click enter a new address, click in on the country box up top, and it'll give you a huge Type in your address. And then type in your phone number next. And then lastly, in this section, just type in your email address. Now, keep in mind, here you you don't need to set A quick pointer here, a lot easier, is to create for all of your print on demand websites. And this can be just a free Gmail email address or something. But what this is going to for print on demand will and they don't get mixed in with all of your other personal emails. Now, just keep in mind, So if you just wanna put your you can totally do that. So once you've got all this information filled out, just scroll down. So in this step, they're just asking you where to pay you your profits. So click in on this bank right here, it's going to give you the Just click on your country, and just fill out the Again, you don't need to for this, your personal one is fine. And two important things to know about the banking information. First is that Amazon will pay so your royalties will just hit your bank account That is super convenient. And second is that if is not supported in this application, you can go to payoneer.com, and use their global payment service. Specifically, you can select What this will allow you to do is have a US based bank account. So if you do need to do this, that is totally free to do on Payoneer. But then you can come through United States as your bank location, and you can fill out all for your Payoneer bank. And then once you've added just keep scrolling down, and now we're on the tax information. In this tax information, that they are keeping track of who they are paying this money to. As a print on demand seller, no, we do not need to have but yes, you do need to pay tax on all the money that you earn. This is just like any or even an in-person business. Now, something that's really is that paying tax on the money you make from print on demand When you are doing your taxes each year, just look back to your bank you were paid from the print and just total that up and add it to your taxes as other income. Now, this is how it's If you are outside of the United States, just know that you only have You don't have to pay and then additionally pay tax locally. Now, I will say as a disclaimer, I'm not giving any legal advice. This is just how I understand and I'm trying to help you So with that being said, just click complete tax information here. And very simply, it's just going to say, are you an individual As we talked about before, you can totally just Are you a United States And then it's just going your full name, your and then your address. Now, something to note here is that your social security number is going to be if you are and you are applying If you are applying as a business, you can use an employee And then if you don't you can use an individual Whichever one of these three that's what you wanna And then another helpful learn which TIN or tax and where to find it, it and just explain exactly where if you don't know off the top of your head where to find them. And then once you've got just click save and preview. And this is simply just that that information is accurate, and it's going to input Now, if you don't know what a W-9 is a very simple form that just says that you are a freelancer or a contractor. And they're just getting to keep track of how You're not committing to anything here, you're just going through these steps and formally giving them the information so that if they are going they have all of the to pay you your profits. So just scroll down to the bottom here and click submit form, and then you'll get a green checkmark and you can just click exit interview. Okay, so once you've gotten this far, you can scroll all the way and this is now going to say that you have filled out You've given them your you've given them your bank and then you've given so they can keep track of Now, we get into the good you click save and continue, into the additional information Now, this is the last this page right here. So once we fill this out that is our application So if you've made it of giving them your you are basically level with The way that you're going to stand out in the rest of the applications is with this section right here, and I'll tell you exactly Okay, so the first thing Just click on this dropdown right here, and it's going to give What I suggest is called In the print on demand space, you will find that myself print on demand sellers, they are labeled as novelty T-shirt business. So I recommend selecting And then your next question is going to be your organization name. For here, you can just put So after this is the famous This is where you have to the person who is that you are a legit and someone that they The very first thing to know about this additional information section is that you only have 512 characters. Now, what that means is each punctuation, so a So you really can't write trying to sell yourself, so you have to be very concise here. Now, to give you a real idea this is an example of one That is 48 characters, so 10 times and that's going to So getting back to this application that I would give you is on any other platforms I would let them know that. This is going to tell how print on demand works, the idea that you know Even if you just started it still gives them the idea compared to someone print on demand before, the odds are that because they think that Now, the second tip is of following, whether that or even offline in a that you have an existing following that you are going to be Amazon is the largest print and it is in their best So if you are bringing to their platform to get more sales, that is going to give who doesn't have any existing traffic. Now, I will say on this without having a following, definitely put it in this application, it's just really valuable The third tip I have for that you have read their and you agree to it. By putting this simple that you actually have you know what to do and what and you're not going to be a This is going to give your knowing that you are not going to be a problem on their platform. And then the fourth tip is to let them know of copyright and trademark infringements. And in your designs, you pay that you are not infringing One of the biggest problems is that when sellers upload or trademark infringements in review them, and then This not only puts Amazon at on their platform, but it's So by you telling them you are not going to do this, again, it's just going to give them peace of mind that you are not going to The fifth tip I have for that you are an artist, you and you take pride in your work. In the most ideal world, Amazon only wants really on their platform, just the and make them and make you money. So if you can give them the idea that you are going to that's going to help And then the sixth tip is a very quick one, is to make sure, double, triple, quadruple check that you have no grammatical If you have typos in your application, it ruins all of your trust to the person that is reviewing your application. There's only 512 characters here, and if you can't read and make sure that there are no typos, how are they going to that you've said in that application? And then that brings us to the final tip that I have for you, which is in this entire application, that you are not begging to Amazon. You do not wanna come across to the person reviewing your application as, please, please, please, I really need to make more But rather you wanna come across as, hey, I'm a legitimate I sell my products elsewhere, them to be available on Amazon as well. So as you are crafting your until you can get it And then once you come you don't need to fill in a website here, just fill in the verification Now, there are a couple really after you've clicked submit request, and that's what I'll get into right now. So the first thing is that if you have been accepted or not. And this can happen as soon as 24 hours, that's the fastest that I've seen, or it can take two or three weeks. A lot of these emails end so make sure that you are or your spam folder on your email. And the best way to just be for merch.amazon.com on your computer. And then every day, just go If it brings you right where you're able to upload designs, that means that the email got but you are accepted to be a seller and you can start right then. The second really important thing to know is that you can reapply as but you just need to use So in the beginning to your Amazon account to just use a different email address. It will allow you to start the You can fill out all of the that's your contact, your and then you can even use the Now, talking to people in this getting in on the second or third try. The highest I've heard of and they got accepted, nothing I think a lot of this just of the application, or who specifically was reviewing your application. Now, with that being said, is once you've crafted your entire additional information section and just paste it and save it So when you're going back if you have to reapply the second time, you have it rewritten, you don't have to come up And then the last really is that once you do get accepted first off, congratulations, that's going to be a really But you are going to be which means you only have 10 design slots that you can upload. Once you get your first 10 sales, you will then be bumped And the name of the game here is just to keep getting more sales, and it'll keep allowing you to When you are in that first your absolute best designs. A really helpful tip for you here is if you're trying to get there's two things you can do. If you're going into any trends that are happening, try geared towards that holiday or that trend. And just know that you can swap these out, so if it hasn't sold, you can a new one in its place. And secondly, as far as all of the terms, you can So if you wanna just expedite this process and get outta that first you can create your listings and then just purchase those yourself, or send them to family And then those are going but also you're going to You're going to get to you're going to see what And just get reassurance a great product, but into the next tier. And then the last big once you start to tier up and you have a lot of slots open where you can upload a bunch of designs, focus on finding the low If that kind of sounds I'm going to link a video which is a full print on demand tutorial that explains how to find these and what kinds of designs to be uploading. So, guys, hopefully this I'll try to put some more helpful links down in the description But if you have any questions, just let me know down in the comments. And if you enjoyed this video, please just give it a thumbs up. All right guys, that's it for this one, and I will see you all in the next video.