- [Narrator] Over the past few years, one Chinese company has thrived in the online fast fashion industry reaching a valuation of 66 and controlling 40% of the U.S. market. It's- - Shein. - I say Shein. - It's Shein. $2 T-shirts and $7 pants with prices even lower Shein made its U.S debut in 2015, and the brand's sales exploded during the pandemic growing The company generated an estimated 23 billion dollars in revenue in 2022. And its filed to go public in the U.S. - Shein takes fast fashion and they're on top of every micro trend. - [Narrator] But there's a larger story behind Shein's low prices. A congressional report a tax exemption to cut costs, and the company released a report that cited cases of involuntary This is the economics of Shein. Scrolling through Shein's - We offer thousands of new items per day. - [Narrator] But Shein 100 to 200 units of each new product. - Shein's designs originate and with our Shein X - [Narrator] As customers Shein has technology that monitors user engagement activity. When a customer shows interest in an item by hovering over it, clicking on it, or adding it to their then it creates new designs based on data from popular items. This way, the retailer can test how popular an item is with its customers. If it does well, Shein - This differs from traditional retail where orders can often to 100,000 copies of a garment and can be placed between three - [Narrator] And while it's it's also quick to go through them. A Boston Consulting group report found that Shein has an inventory That same report found that Shein is twice as fast as other competitor - The small batch model is a and controlling the inventory wastage so that they won't have that are sitting unsold in or in the U.S. or anywhere - [Narrator] The company and to support this on-demand model and lower prices, Shein hires thousands of It took the journal to film in one of its third-party - Our designers will prepare a spec for it, and then they'll put it into which will identify a That contract manufacturer necessary to produce that garment from a network of suppliers - [Narrator] If a design is popular, Shein's ordering platform can automatically place another order with its platform working in real time. - They're able to see as is either waxing or so they can adjust their And this concentration of information allows our suppliers to efficiently structure to be able to meet - [Narrator] By ordering Shein says it can reduce the risk of excess unsold inventory. - It means that we don't when we produce garments. That saves around 30 to on the garments alone. - [Narrator] But while less may lower prices for consumers, environmental activists say it might not lead to lower - [Shen Lu] Critics are saying that because Shein's clothing is so cheap, people are buying a lot of it. And because fashion conscious young people may retire some of their Shein quicker than other more expensive clothing that actually may cost inventory wastage after the consumption happened. - Oh my goodness, there's so much. - [Narrator] A 2023 UBS report found that the average U.S. Shein shopper reported spending $100 per That's about 60% more than the and critics argue that how the brand is able to keep prices low. - Retailer Shein is in - Shein has faced - The brand has recently come under fire. - Shein's on demand business model is not the only reason why It's also benefiting from - Shein has not been fully transparent about its supply chains. In 2022, Shein released the results of its supplier audits, but unlike some other retailers, Shein didn't disclose who its suppliers were or The audits reported some incidents that involve what the company but didn't mention exactly how many or where these incidents occurred. The Wall Street Journal's calculations found that these audits of Shein's contracted manufacturers. The company said in a statement &quot;Shein is committed to providing a safe and fair work environment for all our suppliers employees. We pay manufacturing so they can pay fair Shein says it's committed towards improving supplier and training workers. Congress is investigating and whether the company sources cotton from China's Xinjiang region. The U.S. government has of using forced Muslim Uyghur - Some U.S. lawmakers have pushed Shein to be more transparent - [Narrator] In a statement to WSJ, the company says it has zero does not have contract and doesn't source cotton from China. Fashion Analysts say Shein hasn't provided evidence to back up these statements including a list of its suppliers, which goes against industry standard. And in addition to its on-demand model and low labor costs, Shein also keeps prices low by taking advantage of which allows low-valued packages to enter the U.S. tariff-free. Under the de minimis tax rule, shipments sent to individual aren't subject to tariffs if According to a report from the U.S. House of Representatives, 30% of all packages shipped under the de minimis rule are Between the two companies, that adds up to millions of packages. Shein says that it supports reforming the de minimis exemption. Meanwhile, the valuation has fallen. The company's $100 dropped by a third in a fundraising and Temu, which launched last September, overtook a larger share of Recently, Shein has tried through social media amidst environmental and labor criticisms, but with limited success. Shein brought a group of influencers to tour factories in China. - [Shen Lu] The tour a lot of the criticisms that - [Narrator] The company has from Nanjing China to Singapore. Shein is also trying to outside of China. With this move, Shein is also adding new Although the majority is still in China, the company promised to train 2000 Brazilian manufacturers over the next three years. And Shein has recently and acquired roughly one third of the fashion brand's - Shein has in recent months, been trying to pivot which allows third-party sellers to sell products directly to consumers as Shein expands globally and is trying to capture more and in other countries around the world. (upbeat music)