Translator: Ellen Maloney We're living in a post-tidying society. Everyone, including me, has a story Gathering all of their possessions deciding what brings joy, and then bidding farewell in pursuit of a calmer, happier life. But what if we could gather up tasks, events, obligations relationships - and drop it at the kerb And by doing so, be free to focus our time, on the stuff that really makes us happy? Well, I figured out how to do it. It is great, and I call it, &quot;The life-changing magic (Cheers) (Applause) I hope you'll excuse my language because Before I can teach you we have to talk about what it means 'Giving a fuck' means you care, right? So when I say, &quot;I don't give a fuck I mean, &quot;I don't care (Laughter) Now, let's take the concept Let's define your 'fucks' (Laughter) If you don't care about something, I don't care about 'Game of Thrones' I don't spend energy wondering and I don't spend my money on the books, 'Game of Thrones' (Laughter) Make sense? By making these calculated decisions, you wind up with more time, to spend on the things And I call that &quot;making a fuck budget.&quot; (Laughter) I'll get back to fuck budgets in a minute, about how the life-changing magic Two and a half years ago, I was a senior editor I had spent 15 years I had a roster of best-selling authors, and everything I always thought I wanted But I was really, really unhappy. The kind of unhappy that makes it hard the kind of unhappy that makes it hard and hard to spend eight - ten hours going home, and doing it all over again. So, I quit. And making that decision A lot of red wine, a lot of tears. But what came after I quit Once I removed myself of a job that had been I was free to focus my time and energy including working, and eventually, on moving I stopped giving my fucks to working and taking those long subway commutes. And I started giving my fucks and taking long walks on the beach. I'm telling you, life changing. (Laughter) But none of that change happened It happened because I cleared out my mind. Let me try and explain. Imagine your mind is a barn, and inside it is are all of the things but also, all of the stuff The potential for a happy life is there, but you have to clear out the annoy This is mental de-cluttering, I did it by accident when I quit my job, that I developed a way for you I call it &quot;the not sorry method.&quot; It has two steps. Step one: Decide what Step two: Don't give a fuck (Laughter) Simple, right? But I know what you're thinking: This sounds like a recipe (Laughter) It's okay, I get that a lot. But that's where My method is all about not giving a fuck So in the end, You are on your best behavior, You are quite literally not sorry. You're also not an asshole. So how might the not sorry Well, let's say, you love and you've been invited that interferes with watching You feel bad about but you really love 'Game of Thrones,' and you don't want to record it Well, you only have so much time, energy, So, you need to consult your fuck budget. (Laughter) Decide which activity brings more joy and allocate your fuck bucks accordingly. (Laughter) I'm telling you, if you respond in a timely fashion, &quot;No thanks, can't make it you've done nothing wrong. You were honest, you were polite, And that's just the tip of the fuck-berg. (Laughter) You can apply the &quot;not sorry&quot; tasks, events, obligations, even people. You start by making a list of everything all of the impositions on your time, the fucks you're being asked to give. To keep it manageable, I go by category. So for example, work is one category, and five fucks on your list might be your coworkers charity half-marathon, a going away party for a coworker and doing your actual job. (Laughter) Once you've listed them all out, Step one: Decide what annoys you. Non-essential stuff you don't care about. Step two: Stop giving your fucks to those things. Then cross them off your list It feels good, just go with it. (Laughter) What I'm saying is, yes, you may have to and you may have to attend But you do not have to attend for a colleague you don't even like. But if you are still having trouble I recommend a visualization exercise. Picture how you're going to feel annoyed or full of joy? (Laughter) It's been a long day, your feet hurt, you don't love socializing let alone at a shitty bar. (Laughter) You really don't love pitchers So, what should you do? RSVP 'No' of course. Why would you spend your fuck bucks I'll tell you why. You do it because you feel You are psyching yourself out before you even try it. Most people just don't think They say &quot;Yes&quot; to things then wind up wasting time, on an annoying, unenjoyable night out. You waste even more time and energy And even more, trying to come up with ways then worrying you'll be seen as an asshole And honestly? If you do bail at the last minute, having never intended then you are an asshole. And you should feel bad about it. (Laughter) Instead, pause; visualize; and say a timely, polite, This is how you stop with people you don't like, doing things you don't want to do. You'll be less busy, You'll have so much more time, and you will wonder why you didn't stop (Laughter) But look. You don't have to quit your job and escape You can make massive, just by clearing out your mental barn, and sticking to it. You don't have to organize a yard sale. You just have to say &quot;I don't have time.&quot; &quot;I can't afford it.&quot; You can even say, &quot;I don't want to.&quot; The world will not end. This is you being honest and polite. No fucks given, not sorry. The life-changing magic To be honest, de-cluttering your house Then it lasts one or two. But mental de-cluttering? Learning how to say &quot;No,&quot; set boundaries, That lasts forever. Thank you. (Cheers) (Applause)