And then his mouth opened up and he had these, Next thing I know, a sharp tongue shot out the eye. Can you describe who you saw? Well, he was short, two stubby legs, little Had a cute backpack. Yeah, yeah, sure. We all look like that. What I'm interested in is his color. What color was he? Excuse me. What? His color. What was his color? Um, I do not see the world that way. And I am more than a bit offended that you This is literally a world where we're all Well, some of us like to think that we should not the color of our suits. Maybe one day you'll understand that. Good day, sir. We lost our key witness. Let him go, boys. Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory, where the only sussy button. Whoa. What are we doing here? An among us video?! What is this, like, 2020? Nope. No need to check the date on your watch page Today we're jumping back on to the Skeld with deduction game: Amogus. Why now of all times? Honestly, it's because of the new Netflix There's an Among Us joke in, like, the first Nothing like a shirtless Daniel Craig in a franchise, am I right? And not only is among us front and center, scene actually spoils a lot of the key plot To find out how exactly we actually did a should go check out. Anyway, all that was enough to get me to pick And when I did, I was struck by one huge detail on how to win the game, a detail that is perhaps crucial detail that makes a massive difference the imposter is selected: your color. You see every single emergency meeting you The iconic meme Red is Sus. It has its own Urban Dictionary page. It's got its own T-shirt. Heck, it's even got its own 38 million view In a game that's all about avoiding detection Hearing those words is practically a death So of course it got my theorist cogs a'turnin. Is red indeed sus? While obviously the actions of the player on whether they're suspected or not. There are also a lot of subconscious variables Factors that affect the way that the game chosen. Appearances do matter, and that's going to real world to games of among us. And color is immediately one of the first Which begs the question, is red actually the What color is most likely to draw suspicion And best of all, what color choice is going your name isn't tossed around during the next Strap in theorists, because I'm about to blow Now, I'm sure we're all familiar with the Right? There's just one problem with that. It is fundamentally opposed to our programming We are designed to make snap judgments based It is essentially a leftover survival instinct. If something looks dangerous, it's best to And one of the first factors that we're going Color psychology is the study of how colors For instance, studies have shown that white pain relief, and red pills are associated Other studies have shown that the color red and force. Something as simple as color can even affect When college students were given one of three then asked to take a simple test, those with than those presented with either the green There is a huge difference, all from witnessing on the complete other end of the spectrum. Colors like blue have shown themselves to Some studies have even shown that looking that help you physically calm down. All of these very real effects happening simply So given that science has proven time and reactions to color, how can we use this knowledge Which color is most likely to trigger your Well, believe it or not, but one of the most And this is backed by both science and history. Let's just cover the science first, shall Our eyes use two different types of photoreceptors, The rods are for vision at low levels of light. Cones, meanwhile, are the ones that are dealing In fact, there are actually three different to a different color range. Because two of the three have reasonably high Humans are able to process more shades of are created equally. When you break down our biological sensitivity wavelength of 555 nanometers. That means that under normal lighting conditions, green color. In other words, during an emergency meeting, to be the one that your crewmates eyes are Making matters worse is that throughout human with feelings of deceit and betrayal. Why? Well, to find out, let's just take a trip when post-classical art was beginning to take During this time period, artists were working There was just one problem with that. The Bible isn't very descriptive about what That meant that the artists had to make some And one trend that stuck: they dressed Judas and ultimately caused his crucifixion, in This appeared in so many works of art at the associate the color yellow with traitors and In 16th century Spain, for instance, they in yellow capes to show their betrayal to And the color has lived in infamy ever since. (minion) BANANA Don't you just want to yeet it out of an airlock? But then what about green? I just talked about how green is the color Is that a sussy color too? No. At first glance, it certainly feels like green After all, it's the go-to color used by animation Maleficent in Sleeping Beauty, Rasputin and Ursula in Little Mermaid and Bruno's fortune It's a color that's constantly associated toxicity. That said, any negative connotations of the of calm. (DHMIS) Green is not a creative colouour color. In a 2020 study 39% of people said that green Again, this is one of those primal instinct Our bodies want to be in nature. We are programmed to eat nice green plants It means safety. As such, we're naturally inclined to trust So green is good and yellow is sus. What other colors should we be on the lookout Well, in 2020, some researchers from University a color from a color generation website that Number two came in as black, and number one Let's just start with black. You see black is an interesting color. It's naturally paired with dark emotions like It also feels dark and shadowy, as if you're That said, it might be hiding too well. A study of what car colors tend to get into car to drive is a black car because its darker area. So in an emergency meeting, even though Black if you keep your mouth shut, you should be That said, if someone does bring up your name, Black is actually considered to give impressions Think about black belts in martial arts or Both show a level of mastery and skill. You are one of the elite. It's why villains wear black. Same thing for judges. It puts them into positions of power and authority, their clients do not wear black to court because you're innocent or willing to listen. Instead, it makes you look powerful, aggressive, Something that you're also looking to avoid Which now brings us back to where this whole Red. How sus is red? Well, in addition to being highly associated visible color like yellow, red has a few other First, red is obviously the color of danger Like I mentioned at the top of the episode, Red can also cause heart rates to rise and All of these things are going to be working you're innocent. But what deals red another killing blow is effect. If it wasn't obvious, the recency effect is information they're presented with best. A Harvard University study showed that approximately short term memory at a given time. This is because most information in short meaning that people are going to tend to rely seen when making a decision. How's that at all related to among us? Well, both the emergency meeting button and which immediately gets people thinking about Red is the color on the top of everyone's one that they literally just saw flash across But the final nail in Red's coffin, the psychological Priming is when you expose the brain to something, else. Probably best explained through an example: stew. And then I ask you to complete this word S__P Science shows that you're most likely to see acceptable answer of "soap". Because I've already activated a bunch of Noodle, bowl, stew. Your brain has been primed to think about If I had done the exact opposite and said; Now I'm able to switch your brain's priming thought "soup" first. It could also be something as simple as saying belief that soup is better than stew." By saying the word "subscribe", I've actually the video, when I ask you to subscribe, you're Anyway, how does any of this apply to Among Well, Red is front and center in the game's He's the icon for the game on Twitter. He is the first color that people think of And not only is he the most prominent, he's impostor in all the marketing. Take a look at their holiday merch page. The first thing you see is red as the impostor There are two T-shirts with red having an Heck, the official among us VR page on Steam us to keep our mouths shut. Everything is priming your brain to connect that when the time comes to suggest who to to be the one that people pay attention to So if your goal when you become the imposter clear of red, black and yellow. All of this being said, what color should be called out? Well, there are two routes depending on your If you're an experienced player who wants choose Blue. Not only does the color blue release relaxation It's also the color that science repeatedly trustworthiness. There is, however, one more solution that staying out of the minds of your fellow players. In 2021, the game updated to add six more Maroon, rose, coral, gray, tan and banana. (Minion) BANANA! No, stop it. Now, Based on everything we've talked about Why? Because their strength is the exact opposite While Red is the poster child for all things None of these new colors have really seen less than any of the primary colors. In 2021 Innersloth released their statistics Red, black, white and Rose were the top four, out the bottom. Banana and coral, meanwhile, were mixed into In short, all that means is that these new And because they're not bright primary colors, connotations. Pastels are just softer colors, and as such, They're light and delicate. There are the supports rather than the leads. In meetings you want people to focus on the little old cream colored you staying quietly Tan, for instance, being a lighter version stability and in design is used more as a It's unassuming, which is perfect when you what you've been doing in the game. Meanwhile, Gray is your other best choice. It's also a pale color, but unlike banana really. Gray is just the most blank of blank canvases. Also, have you taken a look at the maps recently? They all lean heavily into the grays as a It's a lot of machinery, spaceships, space Other characters will notice a green character Not so much. And this holds true in real life too. Gray cars are actually the second least likely in with their surroundings. So there you have it. If you want to give yourself the best chance are the newer, lighter colors like gray, tan These are going to be doing the best job of as long as they manage to keep your mouth Blue, meanwhile, is a strong secondary choice, player. But the biggest takeaway of all is that the It is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Top dog of sussiness is in fact the king of Not just because he's popular, but because with warnings, and because InnerSloth has the start with their marketing. It's not just a meme, it's science and psychology. But hey! while it's certainly useful to know every crewmates one by one. Got to admit, it's a little inefficient. Imagine what sort of strategies you could Fortunately, thanks to today's sponsor, you Let me introduce you to Rise of Kingdoms, real world logic in order to win. I know that a lot of people prefer to switch games, but I really enjoy games that push logical part of my theorist brain, things next theory tries to sneak past me like an In Rise of Kingdoms, you get to build an army Viking barbarians, Roman warriors, or, thanks and intelligent Egyptians. Personally, I really love using the Egyptians. Despite their heavy use of yellow, which might reads strategic and undoubtedly sophisticated, and technology. which got to admit right up my alley. The more science, the better. So it seems like the perfect match, right? Plus, you can keep upgrading your armies over This time, the Roman army won't succeed in And that's not all. The level of thought that you put into the army. You also have to think about the civilization You get to design and protect the cities that depth and strategy. So if you're like me and are looking for a head on down to the description and click Or, you know, you could just scan the QR code on both Android and iOS, and now it's also No more being interrupted by your family's Now you can just have endless hours of smooth PC Master race strikes again. The game is also Cross-Play compatible. You can form alliances and strategies with No civilization is safe when team theorist Once again, the link is down in the description. Or you can just use the QR code that you see If you use the code RoKTechPow you'll get That's our RoKTechPow because it's Rise of So head on over there. Tell him Team Theorist sent you. And let's build the biggest alliance that I'll see out on the battlefield. And as always my friends. Remember, it's just a theory A GAME THEORY! Thanks for watching. Also, Thanks for subscribing.