Each year, about 90% of by ship. While grain make up 40% of that containers filled with and couches make up the Maersk, the world's shipping company by transports about 1 in 5 In addition to its fleet Danish-based carrier runs port terminal businesses They are running a bus desperately trying to time along a fixed route. It's basically all that busses are somewhat sea. Maersk logged record in 2022, due in part to and higher freight rates. Its stock price at the company is flagging high ahead, as a shift in has brought revenue in levels. Today, like its range of challenges, vessels in the Red sea, a Canal, as well as the related to a potential We knew that at some point and it did indeed unfold first part of the year. It feels like an uncertainty, an curveballs that the with over the next you look back just five five years, every single two, in some cases, maybe challenges that the To offset some of its beefing up its end to end investing in last mile They're buying up up warehouses, they're and they're buying up That way, their customers they have control over it vessel all the way to center of their client or About 11 billion tons of ship each year, or about CNBC examines the and its rivals looks at how the company for future growth. Ocean shipping is an The global supply chain is volatility. With the war in Gaza Yemen's Houthi movement in the Red sea, including Maersk. Maersk suspended and diverted its assets Africa. Longer sailings additional containers and It is also meant higher carriers. Freight rates have gone up amount of where they were About 12% of the world's generally, passes via the Most of Maersk vessels during the which has helped all the pain around this new In more normal have been disaster. We ships to do this. actually far too many This is what allows the and now move the supply Drought conditions at the sailings to. In January 2024. Maersk informed clients would need to shift to container traffic travels They focused on the trade Australia and New They're dropping the rail, and then it goes rail, and then is vessel to go up through Ocean carriers are also potentially higher in the event of a second well as a possible strike Longshoremen's union for maritime At this stage, our expectation as an hope that after that, to be normal. Of course, don't know 100% no the case. But it could be that has the longest The number of container grow by 18% over the next We have too many ships That problem is solved have to go around Africa. But the moment the Red straight back in to Maersk will face the same in rapidly dropping And it faces other A container vessel carrying the company's Baltimore's Francis Scott Maersk got its start in Arnold Peter Moller, Peter Maersk Moller, Lucrative World War I the business. It built 2009, and it even ran a plantation in Tanzania Following the Second World transporting crude oil. But it was the revolution turning point for the container vessel left Maersk launched its first Jersey in 1975. By the early 1990s, it liner in the world, a than two decades. The 20 foot container, equivalent of 50 to 60 backbone of the supply From 1980 to 2017, worldwide from 102 about 1.8 billion metric In 2023 just the end U.S. were carrying goods than $1 trillion. And if you relate that to it comes out to the person. More containers mean The average size of than doubled since 2000, today carrying about units, or TEUs, a unit of Stacked vertically the taller than the Empire There are roughly 5,500 world today. But it was the spike in with supply chain Maersk's bottom line. In 2021 container freight their pre-pandemic volume increase by just its revenue jumped 56% $61 billion. Ocean carriers posted 2022, totaling more than When it comes to the flow and it has to move. Mergers and acquisitions ocean carrier industry in Today, the top four of capacity. In 2024, enter into an operational Hapag-Lloyd. The new will comprise a fleet of capacity of 3.4 million It's a very innovative to roll out between our In the end, that will reliability at similar emissions. Maersk had 2023 revenue of business had revenue of land-based Logistics and revenue of $13.9 billion. To keep up with the containers going into the its operation in Mexico. They are investing in the They are investing in the their trucking. And so more trade from China States coming into the By using the connection footprint of distribution also provide our to serve their North entry that is no longer US or the East coast of through Mexico. In 2023, Mexico became the partner, with 15% of via Mexico. That same year, there filled with cargo America and 14 million cargo exported from the In reality, you are from North America than Maersk is also making the air. It wants to be a from the factory floor to With the pandemic dollars, buying spree, if you logistical footprint. So in 2022, they billion on three that expanded their In 2022, it bought US provider Pilot Freight American locations for It purchased Hong Kong more than 220 warehouses German logistics firm $644 million. Its largest business is The Red sea now presents time of three weeks. What if we just take water, redirect it to a airplane? And the e-commerce expected to grow almost billion by 2027. But expanding into ground create some headwinds for moving into direct customers. The moment you go out as a logistics end-to-end, it secure space on the other And this is important provider, you are Kuehne Nagel or DSV or an cargo on the ship of any case of Maersk, they can primarily, send it around network. That is a more Maersk is also racing to gas emissions across its Unlike its competitors, liquefied natural gas investing in methanol It plans to receive its which will emit 100 less per day than a Maersk will rely on those ocean business, at least not only the company's indicator of where the next. The global supply chain is perennial set of present themselves at any be agile in mitigating the risks that come with who's able to help you treacherous waters of the