- [Narrator] Thank you to (somber music) - [Pansy] The original Daku Shka Shka, the living energy that stones, earth, plants, stars. Everything has Daku Shka Shka. - [Narrator] Devils Tower, also known as Mato Tipila or Bears Lodge, was formed over 50 million years ago. Rising dramatically the spellbinding monolith is a pillar of Lakota Sioux mythology and an enduring challenge But through thousands of one critical question remains unanswered: How did it get here? (somber music continues) (birds chirping) (bright music) - Bear Lodge or Devils that comes out of the sea It's this very unique rock feature unlike anything else on the earth. It is the first national monument in the United States of America. It was established in 1906, thanks to Theodore Roosevelt, utilizing this thing This rock is 867 feet tall It's about a football of the tower itself. - First of all, people That didn't really hold any water because around this area, there's no pyroclastics, volcanic rock, or anything like that. What we think it is now is The magma that came from and as it pushed up, it which is ductile, or bendable, and it pushed it up into a dome. As it did that, the magma very, very slowly. - It crystallized in to make this columnar - [Robert] Millions of years later, the sedimentary rock got and we're left with Devils Tower with its massive, massive columns. (light music) - There are so many things in our oral histories, in our traditions, but the origin story of Mato Tipila is the one of the bears. There were seven girls playing, and they went a little bit - They ended up close to this mount. It was just a hill there. And that's when they heard the bear. They knew it was too far so they climbed up on that mount. - They asked the great mystery, Wakan Tanka, &quot;Can you help us? Why is this happening?&quot; - And as they were praying, then out of the ground - [Cade] And they on top of it. And the bear's super upset. - [Pansy] By then, there's They come running, and they would grab the top thus, putting their marks on the butte. - [Cade] These rocks and the bears one by one So under us right now in this talus field should be the remains of giant bears. (somber music) - This is preparing a smudging. We take sage or cedar and We take the smoke, and this purifies our Smudging is something we do as a prayer, an acknowledgement of the on a daily basis. (speaking Lakota) People come here for vision quests. People come here just to hang prayer ties. People come here just to pray It's almost like going to Sistine Chapel and going in there knowing to go in there and pray. And you know that when you leave there, you've got some healing passed on to you. That's the sacredness - I grew up going to but I actually never I was going to climb it. It was like seeing a I felt like somebody who had never been to New York before and just looking up at all of the buildings. You just see this huge obelisk of stone, and me knowing I'm gonna I just looked up at it and It's massive. - Rock climbers find this place a world-renowned site for climbing. We have anywhere from that climb it every single year. (light music) The Lakota people call this Of course, this name Devils to these Indigenous names, the original names of this site. So I mean, there's always controversy when we talk about the and how the name came versus Bear Lodge. And we want to have It is a very important part of management as we move forward. - The NPS have historically from land to preserve it in a sense. And that's how I assumed when I came on to work at Devils Tower. But seeing how the NPS and and the strides that we've is really, really heartening. - [Tyler] So hopefully we're gonna continue to and be able to provide a site and find that connection that they've had for thousands of years and support that. (light music) - It's one thing to see or through a computer screen. It's another thing to see the wildlife and see the magnitude of the tower, to smell the ponderosa and the sagebrush, to When you're here, you're and the tower is history. - The best way I can We came home. Spiritually, we came home. (light music continues) - [Narrator] Thank you to Wren is a website where you then offset it by funding protect rainforests, and By answering a few questions you can find out your carbon footprint and how you can reduce it. No one can reduce their so you can offset what you Subscribers receive monthly updates from the tree planting, and carbon removal projects they support. You get to see the tress you planted and what your money is spent on. You can learn more about Wren's (light music continues)