*Upbeat music* Hey guys! It's Wengie welcome back! Oh my gosh, there is 3 million of us now! So now there is 3 million people to hug. If you're new around here you guys will get used to this. So today is a... oo elbow hug! Today's video was literally inspired by my life. In the past week it was that time of the month for me again. So that means that I felt horrible, I was really fatigued. and I was just really, really lazy or maybe I was getting sick? So that pretty much inspired today's video, and as we go throw these hacks you will see that theres like a lazy meter some of them can get pretty lazy. After you're watching this video don't forget to comment below and tell me like how far your lazy meter goes, because mine is like all the way. But hold up! if you guys aren't part of the family yet here already I am encouraging you guys to join! This week is a super exciting announcement for our fam because I'm drawing the 2 macbook air winners Congratulations the winners are: so we have to celebrate our 3 million family members right? Somehow. I decided to do an even bigger giveaway to celebrate and that is 3 macbook airs. you know three, three makes a lot of sense. All you need to do to be part of the giveaway is to one, be part of the family right here which means to subscribe and the other thing is to be part of my vlog squad which is subscribe to my vlog channel and that is literally it oh my gosh, if we can get this video to 120,000 likes that would be amazing I know you guys can do it You wengie-corns rock so without further ado let's get straight to the video, let's go So hungry! But too hungry to cook Wish food would just appear Oh maybe I can just order in ...uh- Phone's too far away Ah Mickey. Maybe I can eat my- No. Eating cats is not good Don't do that *stomach rumbling* [Hallucination] Hey Wengie! You look hungry Could really help you with that [Real Wengie] K first of all Who the hell are you? Second of all What are you doing in my living room? And third of all Your top is really cute! Where'd you get it from? [Hallucination] Aw thanks. Well I'm actually you, but like so much smarter, and I'm here to help you out So, let's get started! [Real Wengie] Yeah, I really think I'm hallucinating now *music* So lazy people gotta eat too. So I have some one minute microwave mug cooking recipes. Which is the epitome of laziness. And not only are they super tasty, take no preparation time and are also vegan friendly They are also very very healthy. The first recipe is a lental pizza in a mug. Simply pour three to four table spoons of canned mixed beans, or however much you like to eat. This is way healthier than the traditional dough. and lower in calories as well. Then add in your choice of toppings. I use capsicum and mushrooms. A pinch of Italian herbs and then spoon in one tablespoon of marinara sauce. Or you can use pasta sauce and then finish off with one tablespoon of mozzarella cheese or vegan cheese. *music* Then pop it in the microwave for one minute and that is literally it. You can put some salt and pepper on top to taste and nom away. *Pop music* Next for dessert we have a chocolate mug cake and it cooks in less than one minute It's also vegan and low-fat. Seriously, best combo ever. You'll need two tablespoons of Wholemeal self raising flour. One tablespoon of caster sugar or natural sweetener. One tablespoon of baking powder, and One tablespoons of unsweetened coca powder. Two tablespoons of almond milk or I tried soy milk as well one teaspoon of coconut oil and a quarter teaspoon of vanilla extract You can also add chocolate chips as well to your liking *music* Next bake in the microwave on high for 40 seconds If its still a little bit raw inside you can throw it in for another 10 If you like you can add some ice cream or mixed berries and that will make it complete. *music* You know when you reach in a chip packet and keep reaching and they like seem to take forever to even find a chip. [Hallucination] Ya, I think you're trying a little bit to hard. We ain't got time for that. *music* Well this hack will turn your packet of chips into a chip bowl so you never have to go digging again. Simply open your chip packet all the way Put 2 hands on the bottom of the packet and start scrunching upwards pushing the middle of the packet all the way up. You'll see the level of chips rise as your doing this. and once your chips are at the top you can just place this down on the table. It's perfectly flat on the bottom and your ready to eat them without reaching much at all. Super lazy *music* Mmmm yogurt! Did I have a spoon *sad music* Ugh! What am I gonna do? [Hallucination] I can help you with that *music* Did you know you can totally make a spoon out of your yogurt lid? Just peel it off, lick off the top *laughs* Then simply fold it in half, and the edges over in the middle on both sides like this. *music* Then do it again and again Until it gets so narrow you have a handle. Now just curve the front and you can actually twist the handle as well to keep it in place, and voila! Spoon! Careful though the edges can be pretty sharp so I literally just lick it off like this to avoid cutting my tongue. But this is so awesome when your super lazy or desprate and you don't have a spoon, plus you can just throw it away afterwards and you don't need to wash anything Bonus! *music* I don't think I've ironed for ages Oh no! My collars wrinkly. I'm late. what if I rub it? Ya, that'll do. [Hallucination] Whoa! Hold up, you literally have the solution in your hand. *music* If your collar needs ironing but you can't be bothered getting an iron Just use your hair straightner and it will iron out any wrinkles. Remember don't do this on delicate fabric with a low melting point like silk and stuff not a good idea but cotton should be just fine. *music* *chipmunk voice* aa ug *chipmunk voice* [Hallucination] Ya, it's not burnt. But you know theres like a much easier way. *music* oven simply just call your phone from onto your oven door with the camera side you can see what your bakey and just while you're watching netflix and you will never burn anything again oh my god i think pretty little liars is on damn it! I swear i left the remote on the couch why does this always happen when I how to build your own shed. i guess il build a shed one day. why not. Or you can use your phone you're welcome *music* know you can download remote apps that remote simply program it for all your look for your my ever again to ask you this is really going to stick on the now it's no good just gonna lie down for hey sleepyhead you know you don't have to wash that alright, come with me lets be real guys, no one enjoys doing dishes and we got to using cling rap on the bottom of your this is so good for food that are super had to wash off because you just don't plus I think it's way better than using once you finish eating just simply peel clean no washing so awesome what are you doing here I think I need think you're good but grab a hoodie and string and step up the back as well for popcorn ball in front of your face now you can enjoy hands-free eating oh my god and amazing i don't use Hat I idea there's whatever they're going to SRLY what RU watching are we even related here take this I think it's time to bring back the did you know you can turn it upside down drink from it through all of them they and yes you can totally keep hydrated so good i want to put it down okay if I I'm not here ok I'll do it hey there- actually after rocky red yeah sometimes you just don't want to vacuum you need to do is find a vacuum and do you wanna meet you halfway is really you're really desperate just print out a place it on top of all your dishes and greatest hack ever write can keep my can can I leave it on this table I give up I'm just gonna sleep don't worry my lazy ones you can easily with a flat surface I'm totally gonna make mine on the side watching is the best mark out where your I'm doing and simply got three wall hooks that are stick them on an alternating pattern you that once it's done just slip your iPad awesome guys I have in love the other day after hit 3 million favoriting and tweeting you guys so that random Twitter followers free so don't recalling like a hundred extra people so yeah fingers crossed if you have to the hashtag OMG Lauren you know i love where I have to say goodbye miss you