Junior brothers , please rush to each faction to inform the leaders of each faction. The leader of my faction was killed and the floating pearl was taken away. Why can't we reach the top of the tower directly? Maybe Xuan Zhenchi suppressed the magic power of Bugui Inkstone, so we can only We're here, but haven't all the artifacts been sealed? The seal of the Xuanzhen Ruler seems to have been unlocked. If you want to get the Xuanzhen Ruler, you have to go up one level at a time. I know a little bit about mechanism skills. I'll take the lead on this level and follow me. It's okay in the East. These paper figures are all made by me. Let them take the lead to keep us safe. It's okay. I can still handle these small mechanisms at the moment. Let's continue going up. The Nine Heavens Tower is divided into three levels: heaven, earth and people. Each level is an important level. There are nine levels in total. Every step is full of dangerous traps. You must be careful. Let me lead the way this time. No, there are many traps in the tower. Although I have only passed one level and there are eight levels left, the real danger has just begun. I am the one who leads the way. Come with me , Bones , use floating piles to deal with them. This place is not suitable for long. Let 's leave this Mercy Sword quickly . Fortunately, we have the Mei Mercy Sword. If you guessed it correctly, this is the legendary Jueqing Formation. This is the real truth in this world. To be ruthless is to destroy yourself first. Let me ask how many people can truly be ruthless and regret themselves. If you are ruthless, regret yourself first. Don't think so much. We have no way back. Let's go. Why is there still no mechanism on the eighth floor except for the third one ? It seems that no one has ever been to this level except the more dangerous level. Could it be that no one has ever passed the third level? No wonder Yin Hongyuan gave up on you so much. There is not even a guard in the Jiuxiao Tower. It seems that the key is whether you can get the Xuan Formation Ruler. We 're on the ninth floor. Without further ado, I'll go up and get the Xuanzhen Ruler. Wait a minute. The Tianshan Sect won't let us get the Xuanzhen Ruler so easily. We don't have time. We can't delay it any longer. Be careful. Yuqing Yuqing, your heart can seal this. Monster Green Qiao, sister, tell me if there is any way to save you. Can I give you my blood? It's too late. It's too late. Let's go quickly. Send Green Qiao back to the pavilion. It's useless . I'm sorry. Every time I see you , I'm either cruel or cold to you. That's because of your destiny. I'm afraid that you will implicate the Pavilion Master. In fact, I liked you very much when I first met you. At that time, you were as small as you are now. I took a radish and green tea. Sister Dongfang, think about it. Think of a way to save Sister Lu Qiao. Sister Lu Qiao, who has thousands of bones and is useless, you can't die. Your Pavilion Master will definitely find a way to save you. Just hold on and everything will be fine . Don't be sad. All of this is being completed by me. It's just a mission. As long as I can stay by the Pavilion Master's side, I will die immediately without regrets. Mr. Dongfang, do you have any unfulfilled wishes? Dad, just give it to me. Brother Chu Lu Qiao Lu Qiao Sister Lu Qiao Lu Qiao Sister Lu Qiao Lu Sister Qiao, Hua Qiangu is so brave. I advise you to quickly put down the artifact and surrender. I can also plead with your master to save you from death . Battalion Changmen, I'm sorry . Where did Hua Qiangu escape ? Qian Mo, why did you come here? Hua Qiangu, it turns out to be you. Instigated Hua Qiangu to steal my Xuanzhen Ruler. Hahaha. She is indeed my good sister who killed Qianmo . Since you are here today, you can never leave . I really don't have time to play with you today. Master, why are you here? What happened just now? I heard from my disciples that Your Majesty fainted, did you ? No, what are you doing here? Didn't I ask you to guard me in the Jueqing Hall? I, Master, Master, Master, Master, what happened to my brother Zihao ? Listen to me and explain to you slowly. Get out of your way and get out of your way. The poison has penetrated deep into your bones. Why didn't you tell me the Viking plan ? Only the three of us can unite and lose our true energy to Zihua. Ah , ah, brother Zihua. Why are you poisoned? It's not important now. There is no cure for the poison of unsatisfied samadhi . Do you think you can easily leave behind everything that has stayed for a long time and walk away? I tell you, no matter heaven or earth, I will definitely find the antidote for you . I wanted to find a place to be quiet. Sitting on fire , but I can't hide it from you anymore. I don't have much time left and I can't save it. The position of the leader of Changliu is going to be handed over to you, Zi Hua. I know it's difficult , but right now you are the only one who is the most suitable for the position of leader. You don't have to. Redeem the fearless energy in me. No matter what, I will definitely find a way to save you. During this period, you can stay in the Jueqing Hall to respect your senior brother. No need to say anything more. I have decided to stay forever. I will be buried as the person in charge of this period of time. Just hand it over. I give it to you You can stay in my pavilion for one night. Tomorrow, I will spread the Immortal Zhe on the top of Bu Garden and get it. Then Bai Zihua will be saved. How do you know that I will take it? When it comes to the artifact , hahaha, is there any secret in this world that my Yisu brother doesn't know As a member of the imperial court, it's inconvenient for me to have contact with Qisha . And this time, I asked Yi Xu Pavilion to help me and Yi Xu. You gave Dongfeng 5 days in exchange for your bones. You have to rely on yourself for the rest of the journey. Shuofeng helps me take care of the bones. The Immortal Folding Umbrella and Buyuan Ding you are looking for are all not at Shaqianmo's place. You know whether he is willing to give it to you. If he doesn't give it to you, you have to outsmart him. You can blow the whistle to find him. If he doesn't accept it, he won't. I'll tell Sister Sha that it's to save lives. He will definitely do it. I understand that your thinking is too simple. Sha Qianmo and the others went to great lengths to collect artifacts just to dominate the world. How could they give it to you so easily? Even if he agreed, other disciples would not. As a holy king, there are many things that he cannot help but do in his position . Also, after meeting them, don't tell them that you have collected so many artifacts. You must remember that no one can tell you. Do you know this? For the safety of the artifact and for your safety, well, I understand. After finding the Buyuan Cauldron and the Immortal Folding Umbrella, will the saltwater waters automatically return to their original positions? Now it's too late. All the sects already know that the artifacts are lost. Yan Shuiyu You can ask Shuofeng when the time comes, right? Shuofeng, by the way, and collect all the artifacts, go and rescue your master right away, and then put other artifacts into your master's virtual ceiling to try to reduce the further expansion of the situation. Okay, I understand Dongfang, I'm leaving first. Well, hurry up and go. If anything happens, try to inform me right away . Well, take care. You don't even go to the Seven Kills Hall just because you want to distance yourself. So what? Can you really distance yourself? Of course , I just want to see how Bai Zihua is doing. Choose what is right in your eyes and what is wrong . You are just getting better. Go back to your house and rest. My time is running out. It's time to say goodbye to this year's obsession . Let it go. Let it go. Can you let it go ? In order to protect Hua Qiangu, he first expelled her from the Jueqing Palace and then sent her back to Shushan. If you hadn't been poisoned and couldn't be saved , if you hadn't known that you were about to die , would you have driven Hua Qiangu away from you? Right, right or wrong It's just wrong . Whenever he does something wrong, I will do this . Do you really think you can deceive others with your words? Then why are you still holding him? He is already dead . Do you know what this is? This is what Hua Qiangu took before his execution. A bottle of poison entrusted me to give you the antidote. Now that you know this, can you still let it go? Can you let it go? Zihua, let's not deceive ourselves, okay? Since I can't persuade you to give up Hua Qiangu, you shouldn't either. Can you please persuade me to give up on you? Zihua, you must hold on. You must hold on . Shengxiaomo, Mo Yan, I are trying to find a way to save you. You must not give up on yourself. You can keep these medicines. I will discuss it with them. The way to save you is that I can no longer take care of you from now on . I just hope that you can grow up in this natural environment. You have to protect yourself. You can only rely on yourself in the wind and rain . You hug. Hello, Hua Qiangu. You're so brave. I sent it to your door automatically. But the Holy Lord is not in the palace, so I'm afraid you won't be so lucky today. I came here today not to cause trouble, but because I have something to ask to see Sister Sha. Please show your respect to the Holy Lord, right? Holy Lord, yes. You can see me if you want. Stop it, Holy Lord. I'm warning you, little one. He can come and go as he pleases in my Palace of Seven Kills. If any of you dare to stop it, Holy Lord Death will spend a thousand bones . Ah, little one, come in. Little one, you're fine. It's too late. Well, last time I went to Tianshan to look for you, you are no longer here. Are the various factions still chasing you? It's okay, sister . I'm here to ask for something. Okay. If you have anything, just tell me. Sister, I'm coming today. There is something urgent that I need to borrow the Immortal Folding Umbrella in your hand and the Buyuan Cauldron in Shan Chunqiu's hand, so of course I'm asking for your help . It's just that this Immortal Folding Umbrella was still in my hand a few days ago . Tian was taken away by Shan Chunqiu and said that it was of great use. I was almost killed by the sun these days. Sister, so you gave it to him. Yeah, what's the matter ? He also said that he would go to the East China Sea to practice. If I want to get back the Immortal Folding Umbrella, I can summon him right away. Baby, why do you want a magical weapon all of a sudden? As far as I know, your master Bai Zihua has a lot of magical weapons in his hands. I really want to grab them all for him in one go and piss him off. They spent so much time killing Qianmo. The scheming purpose of grabbing the artifact is to release the demon god who was born to rule the world . How could he give the artifact to you so easily? My master, your master, what's wrong with him? Is he bullying you again? Look, you've lost weight after not seeing me for more than half a month. There are a lot of things , so you should stay here. Sister, there are a lot of delicious food here. I'll make you a little fat. Sister, put it down. It's plump and round . Sister, put it down . Sister, my life is at stake. Time is limited. I don't have time. I explained to you that I will go to the East China Sea to find Shan Chunqiu first. Okay, then you go find him. Well, little one, everything I want to say to him is in it. If you give it to him , he won't dare not give it to you. Sister , I'll leave first. Well, if you have any difficulties, please remember to ask for your sister. Well, Your Majesty, are you here? Where are you? I have been guarding the door today. Damn it. Brother, it 's such a rare visitor. This morning, I told the little one that I would visit you another day. I didn't expect you. You came here so quickly. Why are you lonely without an opponent? Where is Hua Qiangu in such a hurry to find him? It seems that you are a competent master. Now he has gone to the East China Sea to find Dan Chunqiu to get the Immortal Folding Umbrella and the Buyuan Cauldron. Feed Bai Zi. Hua, I haven't settled the score with you yet. Sha Qianmo and Bai Zihua probably went to the East China Sea to find the little one. Inform the protector that Bai Zihua has rushed to the East China Sea and asked him to make plans and go quickly. He is simply too lawless. This rebellious Hua Qiangu is still here. He colluded with Qian Mo and rushed to the Jiuxiao Pagoda and took away the Xuan Zhen Ruler. I wonder if the artifact in Sun Shang's hand is okay now . If Hua Qiangu gathers all the people in the world, there will be chaos. Master, what's the matter ? Your Majesty is missing. From today on, I will temporarily replace you. Junior Brother Bai Zihua took over as the leader of Changliu. Luo 11 obeyed the order and led all the disciples to attack Huaqiang Valley with all their strength. The wind in the East China Sea today was so strong that it blew both of you. Where are the Immortal Umbrella and Buyuan Cauldron? Is it true that I still have the Zhexian Umbrella in my hand to replenish the Yuan Ding? I let Xia Zixun borrow it a few days ago. Did you know? Then please give me the Zhexian Umbrella. This is a message sent to you by your Holy Lord . I can't give it to you no matter what. I ca n't give you the Zhexian Umbrella. But we have to make a deal . No, I can't do anything. I haven't said it yet. Your rejection is too quick. You want me to exchange other artifacts with you? That is absolutely impossible. What use does the artifact have in your hands? I will give you the Folding Immortal Umbrella and wait until you collect the other nine. Wouldn't it be great if Fang Divine Artifact returned to its place in the salt water area and then give me all the artifacts so that both parties can achieve what they want ? I will never let you let the demon and god cause trouble and harm the common people. What qualifications do you have to come with the Fairy -folding Umbrella in my hand? You 're right to negotiate terms with me. Now that you have a magical weapon in hand, I can't beat you . But don't try to find out the whereabouts of the Immortal Folding Umbrella from me, because you know the soul-stirring technique and I know what else. How did you know that I asked you to be with me in the first place? The poison in Bai Zihua's body is just a little bit close to killing both of you. I can't tell others after having made such great achievements . You tell me how wronged I must be. I didn't expect that things would go so smoothly. Bai Zihua would be so protective. Looking at your little apprentice, haha. Although I don't know what method he used to survive to this day , but what surprises me even more is that you actually stole the artifact from him and ran away. It turns out that you have been spying on me. That's right. I also know that you secretly ran out from Changliu and secretly unlocked the seal of Buguiyan. So you already knew what I was going to do, so you immediately borrowed the Snake Immortal Umbrella from my sister. Hahaha, you are really smart. But I really didn't expect you to be so bold as to go to this extent for Bai Zihua. Since you have already done the deceiving the master and destroying the ancestors and stealing the artifact, you don't have to think of yourself as a righteous person anymore. Hey, I'm afraid Bai Zihua won't do it. I appreciate it . When he wakes up, I still don't know what kind of method he will use to punish you according to Changliu's strict sect rules. Stop talking nonsense. You don't need to worry about these things. Hurry up and hand over Bu Yuanding. Otherwise, you will be buried in the East China Sea. Zhonghua Qiangu, I know what you are thinking now. You want to return the artifact intact and pretend that nothing happened. I tell you it is impossible because Li Qianzhang is dead. You can't go back. The Immortal Staff is You were right to kill him. I also know that you used blinding techniques and soul-catching techniques on him. These are just tricks to me. Haha . Because you paved the way for me, it was easy for me to kill him. No no. Hahahaha. Okay, I won't play with you anymore. Since the Holy Lord ordered that folding fairy umbrella, you can take it. The artifact is real. What on earth are you playing ? You don't want me to exchange it with you for other artifacts. Well, if you really don't want me to, I won't. I will be reluctant. As long as you say a few nice words for me in front of the Holy Lord from now on, I believe you will come back to me again. Now we only have the Bu Yuanding. We will go to Zixun online to get the Bu Yuanding immediately. Hahahahaha Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Why are you here ? We were about to find you. Your master already knew everything and came out to find you. I was worried. He chased him all the way but couldn't find him. Master, master already knew that he stole so many artifacts just to let others know . The salt water fish returns to save you, Master. Yes, are you really not afraid of death? What's the difficulty in death? Zixu is online. There is no time left. We are short of repairing the Yuanding. Shan Chunqiu said that it is in your hands. Have you really thought about it? Now that we have come Don't worry about taking this step . We don't have much time . We really need to break the seal here. Is it safe here ? The salt water jade can finally be returned to its place. Yes , it's not easy . You have collected all the artifacts that you have been fighting for for so long in just a few days. Maybe this is destiny. I don't care whether it is destiny or not . As long as the master lives well for eternity, even if you are a despicable person for the rest of your life. Being misunderstood by everyone, hated by everyone, and suffering inhuman suffering, are you willing to do ? That's it. Bai Zihua, we meet again, Shan Chunqiu, what do you want? Hahahaha Shaofeng , what's going on? Aren't we going to break the seal? You speak, who are you ? Master, stop. Stop immediately. Tell me who you are. I am nothing. I am nothing. In the beginning , I I still don't understand the meaning of my life. Why did I go to Changliu Mountain? Why did I meet you? It was n't until later that you told me that you wanted to collect all the artifacts to detoxify the Lord that I finally understood . It was already destined that my existence is to bring you success, Shuofeng. What are you talking about? I don't understand Qiangu. Do you remember the night of the Ghost Festival when we put water lanterns together? You asked me why I didn't write something. I said I have no relatives. I have no friends, do you remember? I really have no lover , no life , and no one to support me, because I jumped out of a stone. Why is this happening? Why is this happening? The magatama on your neck is salt water jade , and I It's the missing corner, so I'm really just a stone. I don't know when I came into being, and I don't know why I came into existence , but I know that the day when the whole body comes together is when I die as an individual. No, no, no, don't talk nonsense. Just forget it. If you die, we can still use salt water to revive you. Fool, I am a saltwater fish. How can I save myself? Besides, do you think any of my injuries are faster than others? That's good. Then we won't break the seal. Our president is here to stay . Let's go back now. Let's go to the master to apologize . Don't be stupid. We worked so hard to collect all the artifacts. How can we give up halfway? Do you want to watch your Majesty die? I don't want to, but I don't want to watch either. You die, Lu Qiao and Ni Qianzhang have already died because of me . I don't want anyone else to sacrifice for me because I'm looking for Yan Shuiyu. Do you understand, young master , let 's go back to the saltwater fish. I don't want the artifact anymore, and neither do I. Let's go, let's go. The long stream fills the sky and is still waiting for you through the ages. I know you don't want to harm someone just to save someone, but I also know that if your Majesty dies, you will really have nothing to love and I am just a piece of cake . It's just a stone. Even compared to dust, I'm not much bigger. With or without my existence , the world will still be the same. No one will be sad or reluctant to leave because of my departure. But it's different, Your Majesty. His safety is related to the fate of the entire Changliu. And the rise and fall of various factions will not be like this Twin Peaks, I will be sad all over the sky, and everyone will be sad for eternity. I have lived for so long and still have not understood what the relationship between people is. Why would a person die for another unrelated person? It wasn't until I saw how fearless you were for your Majesty that I finally understood it. So when I said I wanted to collect artifacts with you, I made up my mind to forget it. Even if the clouds dissipate, I will definitely help you bring Yan Shuiyu back to detoxify Your Majesty, because this is the meaning of my life. My father-in-law doesn't know how. I beg you , don't do this. Let 's think about it again. Maybe we have something better. There is no way to save , Although I have no relatives, it is enough to have you as a friend. Remember to put water lanterns for me every year on the Ghost Festival. Do n't let me go. I don't want you to die. Shuofeng doesn't want me. Shufeng can't wait. Qiangu, please give this sound transmission wheel to Mantian. Everything I want to say to him is in it. Shufeng, I don't want you to come back quickly. If Shaofeng does something wrong again and hurts me in the future, I hope you will take it into consideration. I try to forgive him as much as possible on the surface . In fact, he is not bad in nature. He is just too proud and lonely. Ah, ah , ah, Shufu, thank you, ah, master , master , master , master, master , master. Come on, come on. Hua Qiangu is back. Hua Qiangu is back . He 's back. Listen to me. Hua Qiangu is back. Master, this evil obstacle , actually dares to come back. Come with me to arrest Brother Hua Qiangu. The evil disciple must quickly hand over the artifact and capture me without mercy. Only then can I spare your life. What happened in the ages? Please tell me. Everyone, your leader was not killed by you, yes, yes, Qiangu, please say yes, Master, I can't give you the artifact now. Master may be captured by Shen Chunqiu and taken to the East China Sea. I have to save him now. What I don't want to see the most. After all, the scene happened. All the disciples listened to the order. My Changliu sect unfortunately accepted the evil disciple Hua Qiangu. Hua Qiangu stole the artifact with evil intentions. My Changliu sect was trapped in the East China Sea by Shan Chunqiu. Today we are going to rescue our junior brother, the sect. The door arrests Hua Qiangu to give an explanation to all living beings in the world. If the immortal is in trouble, I must go all out to control the bamboo wind. It is an artifact from the ten directions and is related to the safety of the world. I can still remember the catastrophe thousands of years ago like a nightmare. I must not do it. Let the power of prehistoric times be born again 11 Immediately fly a pigeon to send a message to Nimantian, asking him to lead Penglai to the East China Sea to meet each other. I know you are coming out soon. Hahaha. You came back so soon because you have thought clearly and plan to join us. I still plan to hand over the artifact as a deal. Where is my master ? Your master. Your master is not my master. How can I know where your master is? Do n't talk to me in a weird way . I'll ask you again. Where is my master ? You really care about you. My master, I even dared to steal the divine weapon for him. It's not bad that he sacrificed his life to save you. Not to mention that he was poisoned in this state, but he still dared to come to me in the East China Sea to look for people. It's such a deep relationship between master and disciple. I was so moved that I cried bitterly. My master. How is he? What else can he do ? He was exhausted and passed out due to the poison. I really didn't expect him to be like this today. He actually dared to come to the East China Sea to hurt so many of my men. It's a pity that he was poisoned. It's faster. With his celestial form, there was no problem at all for him to last another ten days and a half. But after this battle, he has lost consciousness and will never wake up again. I'm afraid he can only live for one day at most. Stop talking nonsense. Hurry up and hand over my master. Don't force me to kill you. You know I don't want to embarrass you. Who in the world is willing to fight against Bai Zihua? I just want my artifact. Since you have gone back and found that Bai Zihua is gone, it means that you have obtained the salt water jade and collected all the artifacts, right? You were willing to suddenly give me the folding fan and umbrella because you know that as long as the master is in your hands, I will definitely come back to find you . Bai Zihua is qualified enough to trade the artifact with you, right? You want me to give you the artifact. It's impossible. I'll tell you two things. First, I've sent the wilderness back to hold the Holy Lord back. Don't even think about relying on him to suppress me . Secondly , you don't have much time. Think carefully , but I'm afraid your master won't be able to hold on anymore. Which is more important, the master or the artifact? I think you already knew it clearly the moment you planned to steal the artifact . Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha don't think of carrying my star god anymore, you won't believe this hahahahahahaha do n't waste your efforts, I have guessed it long ago You're going to do this because I don't even know where Bai Zihua is. I don't believe it. What's the news? There's news from a long time ago that Hua Qiangu went to the East China Sea. East China Sea immediately sent troops to the East China Sea to seek justice for my father. Why? If you don't go yet , dad, if you have a soul in heaven , you will protect your daughter and avenge you. I don't know where my master is, so who knows. I just told my subordinates to find someone to hide Bai Zihua for me, and there is no need to send troops back to me. Hahaha, then I killed him . Hahahaha. What did you say? I said that unless the sky turns purple and the sea water flows back to the sky , you will never bring Bai Zihua out to me. What do you mean? I mean, unless the demon god is born, you will never be able to bring him out. I can't see your master anymore. Lie to me. You lie to me. You lie to me. Tell me where my master is . Why did you lie to me ? You thought I hated you. Since you showed up, we have changed our plans again and again. Every time, it's because You fail again and again and I hate you. The better he treats you, the more I want to torture you. I want to torture you to make you suffer the same pain as me. To suffer the pain of failure. It's your fault that you brought this situation today. It's not my fault. It's because he is stupid and you have no brains. I could have succeeded a long time ago , but you hesitated again and again and gave up again and again. You said you didn't want the people you love to be bullied again, so I wish you the command of the Seven Kills disciples . You said you wanted to sit on it. Let your sister be happy forever , I will help you keep the artifact, but you lost your mind and were left with hatred. You said that you wanted to stay and be resurrected , so I gave everything I had to make you magical again . But after Hua Qiangu appeared, Everything has changed. Everything has changed. You don't even know what you are doing. I want to lead the Seven Killers to dominate the world in your place. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha does it turn out that you are so ambitious for him ? No wonder you led him in the wrong direction. What if If you dare to kill Sister Sha , I will definitely take your life . Today, for the sake of Sister Sha, I will spare your life. The cunning of Spring and Autumn must have hidden Master in the last place I would have thought of . Where ? I know, it's so stupid. I didn't expect that there is a stupider person than me in this world. Brother Weng, let's take a sip of tea and take a rest. Thank you , Your Majesty. It's important. Something bad . What's the matter? Panic . A natural vision. Great changes in the East China Sea. What's the long flow of flying pigeons sending messages to the East China Sea? The change has not been saved for eternity. The enemy on the sea, please rescue Mr. Xue Dongfang as soon as possible. Wait , mobilize 10,000 elite troops to march out to the East China Sea. What happened? I am in trouble for eternity. I have to save him . Brother Meng, Qingshui, I will go with you. Good Lord. What 's the matter with you? Even though I ordered you, you still feel very uneasy. Nothing happened today. Report to the Holy Lord. It's very calm today. Nothing happened. The Holy Lord said that the spies came to report that Qiangu entered the East China Sea with the artifact from all directions. He immediately summoned everyone. The person who went to the East China Sea is Uncle Yan Shengyu . I hope you can help Master Shuo Feng. Master Shuo Feng is already well . Come back quickly, Shuo Feng. Come back quickly. Do you want to save him? What are you doing here ? I am here to tell you that although the wind is part of the salt water, But he already has an independent mind and can completely separate it from the salt water. Do you think I will believe what you say? In that case , let's go while you still have Bugui Yan in your hand so that you can hide further. I want to wait for my master to wake up and plead guilty to him in person. Do you think that if he knows that you stole the artifact to detoxify him, he will be soft-hearted, guilty, and be merciful and not deal with you? This is my business and has nothing to do with you. Sister's fault Xian Umbrella, please help me return it to him. Also, help me say thank you to him. You can still keep your promise at this time. No wonder Shengjun likes you . But don't you want to save Shuo Feng? So what? You know how salt water jade is broken? I don't know, forget it , but I want to tell you that all it takes is a drop of your blood to separate Shuofeng from the salt water. This person is so scheming and sober. I know you don't believe me . But wait until all the alliances and factions have gathered. Collect all the artifacts in your hands and wait until that time to save Shuo Feng, but there is no hope at all. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha I did n't expect that it would take several days in a row to unlock it The evil blood seal only needs a drop of your blood to be broken. Hahaha, great, great, great. The world is ours. My many years of hard work finally paid off today. Hahahaha no, I just want to save Shou Feng. You lied to me. You lied to me again. You said that the wind is gone and has disappeared and can never be found again. Your blood is only used to unlock the last seal of the artifact. No. It's just a drop of blood. Until now, you still don't know who you are, right? Only one person in the world knows about Bai Zihua . If I hadn't probed his memories when he was unconscious and learned the huge secret, I really wouldn't have known. It was you who worked together with the gods to seal the saltwater jade. It was you who shattered your flesh and blood into millions of pieces to repair and nourish the earth . You are the descendant of Nuwa. These are all lies to you. You lied to me