My name is Kelsey Stokstad. I live in Winona, Wisconsin. I actually was like, I was raised here in Madison, Wisconsin. So it's like right next, next door to. No, not but, I have a daughter, Reya. She just turned two and I'm married to my amazing husband, Sean. We met in college. My first symptoms started in May of 2023, and I was it was just a Sunday and my daughter was napping. My husband and I were cleaning, doing chores, and my left hand started tingling and going numb. Kind of like when you fall asleep on your arm and it like, feels weird and you can't. It's like completely numb. It was that sensation, but then it spread all the way up to my shoulder, so my whole arm was completely numb. I couldn't control it. I started panicking, thinking because it was my left side, thinking it was heart related. So I ran out to my husband and we call 911 EMT came, and by the time we got to I could feel my arm again. And, you know, it had probably been only like ten, 15 minutes of me having that numbness and tingling sensation. We did bloodwork. We did, the EKG test for my heart. Everything came back normal and fine, except I had low potassium. That was it. So we were offered a CT scan at the time, and we turned it down. I'm. Yeah, I was I'm a young, healthy person. Didn't really think that that was necessary. So continue to talk with my, PCP, my primary care. And I had some postpartum anxiety after having my daughter, so I they kind of attribute it to possible anxiety. Which I know for women is a very common thing that we're misdiagnosed with oftentimes, for various things. So pretty much, I was prescribed a beta blocker. So whenever I would feel the sensation, I would take a beta blocker in hopes that would help. That the sensation of the numbness happened probably like four times. And, probably in the period of time of, like two months, I would say. And the final time that it happened, basically, I was at work by myself and I started noticing the sensation, but it felt more intense or, I don't know, I, I could I could feel like it felt different and so I called my husband and I, it started going down to my left leg. And that's when I really started freaking out. So he's like, okay, like, lock the door. I'm, I'm coming to you. I was like, I helped my mom. With her business, she has a retail shop. So I was by myself there, lock the door and I like, could feel myself really starting to like, I don't Like, I was like, blacking out. Kind of like she was like, lay down. I'm coming to get you right now. And thank God I was on the floor because I ended up having a grand mal seizure. So I blacked out. He was still on the phone with me. Blacked out for, like, I would say, like, five minutes. And then when I came to, I was really confused and, like, remembered where I was, and, like, what had happened, but, like, was just out of it and then called him on FaceTime and I had, like, foam at the mouth and he was like, okay, we got to go to the emergency room. That's not normal. And so we get to the emergency room. It's it was August 16th, so I was like literally just a year ago, recently. And that's when we were like, we got to do a CT scan for sure. And then they found the four centimeter brain tumor, in my parietal lobe. My grandfather, he passed away like 15 years ago of a glioblastoma brain tumor. And, so when I heard brain tumor, that I instantly thought of my mom and was worried about her, because we didn't know at the time what my diagnosis was like. There's so many things that could be. But I just heard brain tumor and just of her. I. Definitely was emotional, but I really was just, I think, like, trying to process, like, why? Like, how is this happening? Like trying to be strong and calm for my husband. And, was really thinking about and my family during that time and had a thought like, my life is forever changed. This is a day that I will never forget. And basically as soon as they found the tumor they admitted me to, they had a there's that in, neurology and, he does, neuro surgery. And they had him come in and just kind of explain, like we're going to have you admitted in the hospital you're going to have brain surgery, as soon as possible. So because you need to be at the hospital until then, we can and everything like that. But yeah, it was, I don't know, it was just, like, kind of like an out-of-body experience because it was obviously the scariest news that I've in my life. I was admitted to the hospital and the my husband went to our house to get a backpack and everything. My daughter was, with my parents, actually, because my mom was watching her for because I was at work. So that worked out. But basically I was by myself and in the room, in the hospital room, and I got a call, like the phone rang in the room and I was like, kind of like, wait, do I answer it? Like, I don't know? So I answered it and it was my, my surgeon, Doctor Ahmed, and he was like, hey, can I like, come up? And I just want to talk to you, you know? Is that okay? And so he literally that he sat down next to me in the hospital bed and just was like, I do 200 of these every single year. You're just like, I'm, I'm so confident in this surgery. You're going to be okay. I'm also a father. I have young kids like I got you. And it was I'm so happy I was by myself with him at that time because it like, I feel like it was able to give me some, I don't know, like I was I felt really empowered and really like I got this, you know, okay. Like this is brain surgery. My my skull is going to get cracked open and I'm going to be operated on. But like, I can, like I'm going to be okay, I'm going to do this. And he just made me feel so at ease and confident in him, which as a patient, I so appreciated. My surgery was eight hours long, and was very successful. They did have At one point I was asleep because I know there's some brain cancer, brain surgery, surgeries that they have people might depending on where the tumor But I was able to be asleep, thank goodness. And but something happened. Where? they went too far a little better. They thought they did. So they had to, like, pause and stop and make sure, like, test my limbs and my arm and, everything like that. So. But yeah, overall it was like pre-op and surgery. It was like eight hours and my surgeon removed 98% of my tumor. I am so grateful. And feel so fortunate. It was a, a very accessible location. It was right on top of my brain. And so it just made they basically said they opened up my skull and there it was. The next few months were the hardest of my entire life. So far, hopefully the hardest. So recovery from surgery was easy. It was not as bad as I thought it was going to be. And actually, now that I've been in the brain cancer world talking to other people, apparently, and doing my own research, brain surgery is actually one of the easier surgeries to recover from just because there's no nerve endings in your brain. It's really just like where they open up. That's where the scar is and everything, and that's going to be painful. But, you know, obviously I had intense headaches and was really tired and but I think I emotionally was in a really I was just it was really hard. We were getting pedicures and my, doctor, Ed, my surgeon called me while we were getting pedicures and I was like, can I call you back? I don't think I need I don't think I can hear this news in public. So when we got back to the car, we called him. That was really hard day. Because that was when I got the news that I had Basically, he I was diagnosed with, an astrocytoma, grade three. And that was all they knew at this time. I had sent my, tumor into, a lab to get molecular testing done so we could get more information about my tumor. I have an ID one, the mutation. So essentially what that means, it's like a specific enzyme in my tumor or in my cancer. That makes it slow growing. So it's not aggressive, which literally just hearing just with that added like layer of diagnosis, it extended my like, like expected life or the life expectancy went from like five years to like 12 years to 15 years. Which was the it was just like, oh, it was the best news ever. And my oncologist as well, was very excited about this mutation because like, coincidentally, the like that mutation is one of the most studied mutations in the brain cancer world. There's like id1. And I need to and there's already really recently I don't remember the drug name specifically. I don't want to say it wrong, but there's a targeted therapy drug that was FDA approved literally like a month ago for my specific mutation, which like and it's shown huge, like progress and like really, really great things for people, man. I'll just I'll just don't sugarcoat things. They for I mean, rightfully so, you know, so when your oncologist is saying using the words hopeful and like chronic illness, you know, you're like, oh, okay. Like that's actually a thing. Like when I heard I had brain cancer, I was thinking, okay, that's it. Like, you know, brain cancer, like that's going to be how I go. But with this mutation and this new drug that has gone through and is finally FDA approved, it could potentially make my cancer a chronic illness over like a terminal cancer, which is like the most incredible thing ever. It gets me like, emotional, like thinking about it, but, Yeah. So that was great news. And, I'm just so grateful for the mutation because there's mutations that are not good, too. So, knowing that I have one of the good ones is just such a good feeling. My plan was radiation. First, I did 33 rounds of radiation treatment. It was every day. Every day for six weeks. I lost my hair, or I had a really big old bald spot, where my tumor was, and I got to ring the bell after 33 pounds, which felt so good. After my radiation. My oncologist decided to then go into we're going to so I, I'm still currently in the midst of finishing my chemotherapy rounds. I, prescribed da it's temozolomide as the official drug name. And, it's a pill I take at home, which I didn't even know was a thing. It's so. I'm so grateful I don't have a port. I was worried I would have a port, and, like, that's a whole thing. And knowing that I could was so nice to hear. I also didn't lose my hair, which was really nice. And but. Yeah. in the I started chemotherapy early December, so I did, I started radiation, I think, end of October around or like or like October time. And then I started chemotherapy in, early December once my kind of side effects from the And then. Yeah, I've just been chugging right along with chemo, and, my body's been handling it pretty well. I get super, super fatigued, and the brain fog is unreal when I'm like, when I'm, like, taking the pill, it subsides a little bit. Once I'm done taking it, cause I take it five days on and then 23 days off, like, is, like the minimum amount of time. Sometimes so the cycle is 28 days. And yeah, I take the pills at night, five days, and then, I stop and then wait until my next round starts again when I take the five pills, or pills five days in a row. So when I'm taking the pills, I definitely need, like, anti-nausea meds. Nausea, loss of appetite, fatigue. Like my most recent round, I literally slept all night and then woke up like, my husband had to wake me up at, like, 4 p.m. the next day. I thought it was like, 11 or something am. And he was like, no, it's like 4 p.m. like, are you good? Do you need anything? So, yeah, it's just a lot on the body. My grandfather, who died of the the last stoma. So he lived for six, almost seven years with this cancer. I mean, to live. He had. And this his tumor was like, nine centimeters in his frontal lobe. And, but the clinic, he somehow got into a clinical trial even at his age. I know how it happened, but the clinical trial was for ten da, which is the, chemotherapy that I'm prescribed. It's so surreal. I know it was because I was I was talking to my mom about it, and I was like, I know people, we call them Popo, was in a clinical trial, and that's why he lived so long. And, I was like, do you remember what it was called? And she figured it out somehow and was like, it is the one that you're taking. And I'm like, I'm, I, I'm someone who is like, I can be a little woowoo. I love, like, I don't know, I look for signs, I'm very open minded and, so I just like, I don't know, I don't think obviously him getting cancer, like, there's no, I don't like the saying it's meant to be anymore because cancer just sucks and no one deserves cancer. But in a way, it it gives it gave his cancer some sort of purpose and him having to go through that, because part of like the data that was from his experience, you know, led to me needing it and led to me being prescribed it. So it's just wild right now. I was getting scans every two months, at first, and then now it's I'm at every four months. But then I'm really excited because my last oncology meeting went was so amazing. It was so good. For many reasons that I can get into, but, my oncologist said that after my next MRI, which will be like in the fall, I can wait. There could be every six months because I've been clear scans so far, knock on wood. And my body's handling my treatments well, so they're just like, yeah, let's you. You're doing great. There's no sign of cancer right now. One of the big things that has helped me is I've actually been sharing my journey on TikTok. I'm someone who processes things by talking them through and out loud, and I'm very much a heart on your heart on my sleeve type of person. So I'm just like, you know exactly what I'm feeling pretty much at all times. I can't hide it. So. Which I think was a blessing. During that time, it made me just flow through the emotions. I just, I went to I did some therapy at the beginning, which was very helpful. My husband and I were just very, like, open. And just we've all. We're in. He's my best friend. Like, before this, obviously. And, after this experience, I mean, like, I'm so grateful that it brought us even closer. Because I know that not always, always the case in these situations. But, you know, we really lean on each other a lot, which I think was like, I for a while, I mentally was more worried about him and my family than myself, because I was like in my head, yeah, I'm the one with cancer. But I personally think that they have it harder because if I'm if I pass, I pass, you know, like, I'm not here. But then they have to live with that and like me not there. So like I even though I'm going and I have to go through all of this and it's like, like death is scary to think about. Like I've always I would think like about the situation and my husband's view and just get so overwhelmed with emotion and be like, I can't imagine this being you. I would not be okay. Cancer. Like I said before, it gives you perspective. It reminds you that life is fleeting and it, you know, we're all going to pass at some point. And so I think while it's important to work through all of the emotions that you feel that are normal in a cancer diagnosis, I think it's also just as important to, you know, think optimistically and, and have hope. For what's to come, because the medical world is the cancer world, too. Like especially like it's incredible what is being found and the information and with things are happening so much faster. And I just think to never lose hope. Because I know that it's easy to get into a dark place when you get something, a diagnosis like this. But just like, yeah, having hope and having faith and just, like, not giving up, mentally. And it can go such a long way.