I'll tell you something that won't be news to you. Life isn't all that sunny and easy. It's a very dangerous and cruel place. As soon as we show any weakness, it will knock us down with such force that we won't be able to get back up. Remember: neither you, nor I, nor anyone else in the world hits as hard as life does. It doesn't matter how hard we hit; what matters is how well we can take a hit and keep moving forward. We will keep going, we will keep moving forward. We'll keep moving forward; the main thing is not to stray off course out of fear. That's the only way to win! We know what we're worth! - We will come and take what's ours! - Yes! - Be ready to take the hits, not to complain. - That's what cowards do, and we're not cowards! - And we're not cowards! Forward, guys! Chyna! This one, this one, and that one over there. Are you already overwhelmed? Kraken is a unit primarily focused on assault operations, Title: Drago, Commander of the Assault Company liberating occupied territories. These guys are from Kyiv; they are &quot;Kult,&quot; whose core is made up of football fans from Title: Chicha, Company Commander the &quot;Brigade of the Brave&quot; collective. We have, and have had, guys from Dnipro, from &quot;Molodist&quot; and &quot;Derzost.&quot; I'm not even from Kharkiv; I'm from Kryvyi Rih. Title: Sanya PKM, Machine Gunner, Assault Soldier And I used to belong to a different group, and I still do--&quot;Bratya.&quot; They wanted something bigger, and as my gym teacher used to say, &quot;You want it? You got it!&quot; So, they came to Kraken. I'm from the football fan group &quot;Patriots.&quot; On the 24th, all my friends, let's call them that, went off to fight. I told my parents that I was going to meet up with some locals I used to talk and train with. Title: Gerasym, driver I'm from the Kharkiv region myself, so... I just left home on foot and walked to the city, took my documents with me, dressed warmly, and that was it. And then my mom called and said, &quot;Where are you?&quot; I said, &quot;Oh, I'm kind of in the city.&quot; She started scolding me, like, &quot;Where? What?!&quot; - Well, this is our youngest fighter. - Yeah, well, I told her that everything is fine with me and that I was here, you know, to help out. &quot;Don't worry, I'm on the phone, everything's fine.&quot; The group somehow shaped my character; you're constantly with the guys, in sports, in some kind of discipline. Many of them already have kids, and some have even become godfathers through the group. So, it turns into this big family, and when the war started, we just moved as one, and that was it. The work is physically demanding, psychologically tough, and the schedule is irregular. But I don't like to call it &quot;work.&quot; It's the duty of every citizen of our country. My son was here; I was still under occupation at the time. I waited for Easter, we celebrated Easter. Title: Zolotoy, assault soldier Well, you have to understand, I have a dog, kids. While dealing with the documents and everything... I was still at work, on my shift, when it all started, it was... That was, of course, quite something... I decided to take my family to the west. Then I said, &quot;That's it, you need to go.&quot; I sent them abroad and returned to Kharkiv. My callsign is Teacher because... Title: Teacher, assault soldier Because before the war, I worked as a physical education teacher. At Boiko School. - Which one got hit? - It got hit recently, yeah. Something landed. After the full-scale war began, I didn't think I would be fighting. I was helping the guys out. I was supplying them with plate carriers and gear from abroad. Because we didn't have any of that in Ukraine during the first days. But eventually, I realized that the war was dragging on, and I needed to do something more. So I made the decision to enlist and sign a contract with the Armed Forces of Ukraine. When we talk about SA Company, you have training twice a day, including firearms training, tactics, medical training, physical conditioning, rest, more training, and then deployment on missions. Mission accomplished, return home, rest. And then, it all starts again. Weapon control, sector control. Shift left! Up! When you do it, you take it, and, you know, you hit the shoulder. It should already be in your shoulder. Just lift it. You can even do it with your finger; I just didn't see how you... I was trying to watch. Use the pad of your finger to shoot, not the whole finger. - Uh-huh. For us, it's not about quantity; it's about quality first and foremost. Everyone does what they need to do. People here don't just sit around. We were told that we'll be working at night now, which I believe is a sign of trust earned through the successful operations we've carried out. In the previous ones. Most of the combat missions we carry out are classified and not disclosed to the general public. But eventually, everyone will learn about what SA Company is doing. From the very beginning, it's been all about assault operations. For a few months, we managed to be, well... not exactly scouts, but more like a sabotage and reconnaissance group (DRG). But it also involved elements of assault. - Helmet, show them what a piece of crap this helmet is. - Brand new. - This isn't just any regular helmet, damn. - This is a commander's helmet. - These are some real hard-working bastards... An order came from the company commander. We needed to reinforce the positions of adjacent units in a certain direction. We were sent to Kharkiv. We knew there would be an offensive. One of the guys from the adjacent unit runs in and says that the bastards are already advancing on the flanks. In the moment when I was returning fire, the thought came to me that if they're already here, I could, in principle, call in artillery on my own position. We were firing back the whole time. Since the bunker was burning, we knew we wouldn't last much longer because there wasn't enough oxygen. At that moment, Kokki's group arrived. Accordingly, we began clearing the trench line towards Kokki's group. We joined forces, and I realized that they definitely had at least one seriously wounded (&quot;300&quot;) soldier. I see that we have another machine gunner, Duda, and he's in pretty bad shape too. Musa says, &quot;Well, that's it, looks like GG (Good Game)&quot; At that moment, I hear an FPV drone approaching us, so I activate the jamming device. I shout to Musa to get Duda into the bunker. I also rush into the bunker behind them, but I don't make it in time. I see the drone coming straight at me, and I just think, &quot;I'll run into the flames, into the burning trench.&quot; I dive into the burning trench. The FPV explodes, I run out of the bunker, and I check -- seems like I'm not on fire. Tokyo got in touch with Fizruk, and then they joined forces with Gerasym, who is the driver of another IFV. And basically, they came to get us out of there. They evacuated Drago's group along with everyone else who was left, including the adjacent units -- everyone just piled into my vehicle, and we got out of there... Yeah, the vehicle was shot up, missing wheels and everything, but that's how we made our escape. Well, once the guys got into the vehicle, I somehow... Yeah, it felt a bit better, like, okay, I'm with my guys, everything's going to be alright. After that, we headed to our PDP. Permanent Deployment Point. We rested a bit, and then I realized something was wrong with my legs. Well, for some reason, they hurt a lot. And I take off my socks. And I see these huge blisters. Later, I still don't know how it happened, but they found third-degree burns there. Distance between individuals should be 5 meters, and between groups -- 10+ meters. - We're working without grenades right now, correct? - Let's use grenades, but not live ones -- airsoft grenades. - We have two or three of them, basically. - We'll position two people and wait for your group to pass. - Are you pulling back after the last one? - Yes, we pull back after the last one. After the last one. It was strange to me when one of the battalion commanders yelled at his soldiers, saying, &quot;What, you can't cover 300-400 meters?&quot; And I later told him, &quot;Do you have any idea what 300 or 400 meters in combat conditions is like?&quot; Even through the same treeline. When you go in and... Everything is trying to kill you: from drones, FPVs, air-dropped bombs, to artillery... - That's an artillery strike! - Drop, drop! Shkiet, Shkiet, move! Keep your distance! This way! An assault, as it is, is about using your head. You have to be... As a soldier, you need to be better trained than your enemy, and as a commander, you must be smarter and more cunning than the enemy's commander. I sometimes compare how we fought before my injury to how it's happening now. And I think, &quot;Damn, if everything had been like it is now from the very beginning, things would be much worse by now.&quot; In other words, the war is advancing at a rapid pace. Chasiv Yar. That was probably the toughest combat deployment for me. I went in to replace the guys, meaning I was there to evacuate the wounded and deploy our infantry. It's moving! Everyone, get out! As soon as we stopped by the building, two VOG grenades were dropped on us, and two or three shells landed in the yard. Whoever managed to jump into the vehicle did, and that was it -- the doors closed, and we drove off. We got onto the main road, and then they started... They were shelling the entire road, and us along with it -- shells were landing in front of the vehicle, behind it, all around us. I'm driving, and there are burned-out vehicles everywhere. Both regular and armored, and I realize that I could end up among them. We reached the transfer point, handed over the wounded, and got in touch with Chicha. Chicha said that we're tigers, and then I went back there for our and hit a TM mine. And we had to walk out of there on foot. Yes, and we got hit by &quot;Solntsepyok&quot; and artillery, and my friend was wounded as well. For me, that was a very tough combat deployment. Because, well, there, it was just... Shaheds, Orlans, FPVs -- everything was there... - No matter what, it's the infantryman who plants the flag. A drone can't do that; only an infantryman can. - Contact! - Clear! - Clear! - Empty! - We're done. - We're done. - Assault completed. - Assault completed. - Trench cleared! - Cleared, pass it on. Is everyone out of ammo? - Copy that. - Alright, let's move out of the trench. Right now, this is an innovative war, and if you're one step ahead in innovations, you win. As Kirill Veres said, and I might be paraphrasing a bit, &quot;War is like fashion -- if you fall behind even by a day, you'll be swept away.&quot; You might skip going to the range, or miss a workout at the gym. You can take a break, but there's one catch. While you're resting, maybe in a bar, or... Hanging out with your girlfriend. Some scum... in Rostov, or somewhere near Moscow, is training. What more motivation do you need? To survive. Overall, not bad, but when the second group moved in, the one that was supposed to clear parallel to the flank, they got too close to each other. You started working in the trench, then you moved parallel to each other, clearing the trenches side by side. Let's now... I told my parents, &quot;You need to leave because it's dangerous.&quot; And they said, &quot;But we have the farm, we can't leave.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay.&quot; I walked over because at that time we were all living together. I go up to Chilik and say, &quot;I need to go visit my parents, out in the region.&quot; Fortunately, that village didn't fall under occupation. And he was like, &quot;Why?&quot; And I explained the situation to him, like this and that. He said, &quot;Alright, fine, here's a vehicle.&quot; There were cows, pigs, goats. And that was it, I set up a slaughterhouse. Yes. My father and I processed the meat, and that was it. Packed it into the vehicle, it was winter at the time. The meat didn't spoil; everything was fine. I spent the night, kissed everyone the next day, and then drove back to the city and returned to our base. The guys greeted me, and I had taken a small car. And I completely filled it with meat. - It was white, I think. - Yeah, a white Geely, I think. - Yeah, a white Geely, covered in blood, and Gerasym shows up. - Yeah, I even got a flat tire on the way. - He opens the hood, and it's just blood everywhere... - Yeah. - &quot;What? Who?&quot; &quot;I brought you a cow.&quot; - The guys were chuckling, but I go down to the basement, walk up to Chilik, and say, &quot;I'm back, with meat.&quot; He looks at me and says, &quot;What do you mean?&quot; I said, &quot;You think I was joking?&quot; &quot;Like, seriously.&quot; He looked at me and said, &quot;Take all of it to the cafe.&quot; There was a communal dining area there. So I took everything there, and they cooked for us from that. And after some time, I came back for my family and said, &quot;That's it, the farm is gone -- it's time to leave.&quot; I packed their bags, put them on a train, and it's been two and a half years since I last saw them. I want to visit them, to see them again. This one on the left--no, but the one on the right--yeah, it's been destroyed. Yeah, when that damn tank fires, it kicks up so much dust, it's insane. - Yeah. They just bombed Vovchansk, I have two apartments there. F*ck, it's just... I'm completely overwhelmed with anger, I don't know... I don't know... - There wasn't any repair work done? - I'm a builder; I did everything myself, insulated it with basalt. I made the window and door frames. I laid everything with rubble. Well, imagine it. I put so much of my own work into it. And then they came, those b*stards, and bombed it. I don't even know how to describe it. - &quot;Liberators&quot;. - Liberated from everything... - Liberated from work, Yur. Saltivka. Probably... the area that has been hit the hardest. They could have used all the artillery they have. And they used everything they had against the high-rise buildings. Kharkiv is my home. When the war started, many people eventually asked me, &quot;What's your motivation? Why did you go to fight?&quot; I'm a very calm person in everyday life. And I would never take anything that isn't mine. But if someone tries to take something of mine... I wouldn't recommend it. - Well, I'm on my side and I'm going out. - I'm coming out here. Unloading! Covering! SA Company is our new team, formed during the war. Military unit. - So, just to give a concrete example of what SA means to me. Those are the guys who, in fact, pulled me from the brink of death and carried me several kilometers. Then, when I opened my eyes, they reassured me by saying that everything had already been decided for me, in terms of which hospital, where, and what would happen. - So I still didn't understand where I was or what was happening to me. - While I was lying in the hospital, as the guys told me, they recorded videos and tried every day to sneak into the hospital while I was still in "victim mode," saying things like, "I don't want to see anyone, I'm so old and sick." - For me, it's... I mean, I don't know how to specify it exactly, but... - It turns out to be like family. - Family. SA Company is family. - Hey guys, smile for the video. - Yeeaaah! - Great, smile! - Guys, who needs water? - Sure, it won't be unnecessary. - Denchik. - Karchik! Who said that I have a fly in my ward? - No, who said that it isn't there?! Satisfied, damn it, stole a Browning. Quietly stole it and left. Called it &quot;found.&quot; Come back in, damn it. Empty, empty! 25% ammo remaining. I can rely on each and every one of them. And I believe that each one of them can say the same about me. SA is probably my life now. Because here I've met people I trust, who trust me. This truly has become a family. And Chicha is an example for us. - The commander won't send us out at all... - Yes, if you trust your commander, - And he says, &quot;Guys, we need to move out.&quot; - And we understand that this is a very difficult assault. But you understand that if this person is sending us there, it means everything has been checked two hundred, three hundred, four hundred times. - And everything will depend only on us, and we need to act. - When one of your guys dies, you feel it's your fault. And it's... even hard to find words for it. But you want to give everything. Everything you have. You have to fight every day. You're tired -- you have to fight. Everyone is resting, some in a bar, some at the beach. And you have to train. Memory is about fighting every day. A battle for them, a battle for your loved ones. I don't want... Children and women have seen the horrors that war brings. We, as SA Company, will do everything to save as many lives as possible. For the guys, for what they have done to our city, to our country. And... with the people. Cuz we are the outlaws Cuz we are the outlaws Yeah you've been dancing with the devil Be careful who your gunning for Cause when it settles It's only pain and grief when your living lawless We only chase it if the chance of profits flawless We keep our eyes on the weak They know that their targets Hunting for Goodwill we ain't looking for bargains And you should say a prayer Ain't nobody praying for you Cause if I want it then it's mines That's what I'm saying to you If your faint hearted you better leave You try and cross me then your dead to me Cause I'm in the business of making enemies And there's a good chance that you may never leave You feeling comfortable You should never be Cause I'm bringing pain If we should ever meet Tonight you should really find a lifeline Outlaws come alive in the nighttime