This is the worst ending I've ever seen. It was at this point where I realized the whole movie The Room cheep cheep cheep omygawd They all have something in common. They're the funniest bad movies on the market, and anyone who's seen The worser I also eat up dumb comedies like Superbad Did anyone watch that movie? I got ads for it until I got bullied enough to watch it on And I love it. It's that genre but it's on cracc Think like Superbad, cause I love me some Michael Cera. And that's what I thought I thought it was either going to be fun, That's what it was at least advertised as. So, yeah, surprise. If you didn't know MGK musician made a movie like a straight up and it only got released on like, If for some reason you don't know who Machine Gun Kelly is Are you OK? MGK is a 32 year old white guy from Ohio turned rapper [ugh] got bullied so hard by Eminem that he started and now dates Megan Fox and hangs out with rappers Barker and Avril Lavigne, who, to his friend Mod Sun who I met at Warped 2014 rest in pop punk Warped Tour slash didn't have any to bring bottle and I ate free samples of Slim Jims I was so nauseous By the end of the day I almost But I got to me bowling for soup, So MGK's movie is called It was marketed as a stoner comedy, and doing stupid shit. The exact type of movie I would love, I was there to pay TOO MUCH MONEY it was. So we start off at MGK's characters Just keep in the back of your mind in in one (1) day, one whole day. I was really, really, really, really sad. That's basically the movie. We spend the next forever minutes every single side character by Kels says his fans call him. When I was growing up, This is Dylan. I met him when he was working in and out, and he used to hook me up This is Leo he's been my best friend his gym shorts after I drank Meet Kennedy. So this is Apple. This is Angel. Meet Maxine Goldberg. This is Fat Joe. I was OK after the first few intros with the main cast, the character's, stalker?? That's Sabrina. She's my stalker. She almost has no purpose If she was not in the movie, She gets an intro. She literally sits out here every day, because they're read To read the next paragraph in the book Yeah, and tell him to stop I'm sick of cleaning that up. That? Oh, that's Butter Pie. She's a bit of a hot head. Not to mention She thought salmonella were when they got food poisoning. (the joke is sam and ella) Also, mind you, How are all these people He just woke up and walked downstairs Do they all have a key to his place? There's no indication that his friends because they went out?? no. They're just existing in his house as side So remember how I gave a brief intro Well, that's because all of his friends And that's not an insult, it must have been really fun to shoot but unfortunately, Where the fuck do you get goat No, you didn't. So the premise of the movie is that MGK's who just acted in the worst season of this really popular show, And his manager, played by comedian Whitney Cummings, by getting him a meeting with the director I mean, London to play Batman. Can you imagine that? MGK as Batman? At least tell me your name what up I'm Machine Gun Kelly MGK's girlfriend in the movie sorry, stupid And she sends London with a U! followed by I wish I didn't So London thinks Apple His phone gets wrecked by Trippie Redd And apparently there is no other way None of his friends can message her on Instagram, Facebook, WhatsApp, Kik, Telegram. No, London can't remember her number, Therefore, they spend the entire movie So they spend the whole movie trying The wild of L.A. and it's supposed to be funny and they get into wacky situations So it's an ok setup for Could be...... weed smoke shower, and giant Next we'll hit them with the 420 blazeit Also, is this Ricegum's house? It is they used rice comes house to film So London's new assistant shows up played introductory scene where they meet And it's almost set up in a way oh they they might have a romance they might fall in love London's ex girlfriend, who the audience She knows everything that he likes, And there is this awkward interaction [interaction] I mean, but don't worry, So wood stained IKEA shirt guy here brings because London is having a bad day shirt guy is going to help him So he lives with London? Still unconfirmed and unexplained, drank It was at this point where I realized the whole movie Do with that Does she also live here? Oh, she does. And she's moving out. OK, so London gets yet who are already in his house which is a little acting real that you do Basically and I think this is a good time for this movie. Who dressed you? This shirt looks like a HomeGoods You look like a troll doll. You look like you're losing circulation. Also, you're just lounging Who would ever wear this This dude looks like he's in a 50 And that blunt looks like the cinnamon You look like a combination of all You look like Sid from Toy Story, you were the main character which I totally get because you've 20 minutes of the movie, one by one, So after the cringey where's the pot potter? (ugh) [idk what the heck he's saying] 911? alllllllrighty then (end me) they go to meet London's agent, who of course they do a character intro for Meet Maxine Goldberg, And all he's got to do and he's got the role, but, Remember Apple? the girlfriend who's breaking up with him career, life changing meeting because she likely made a typo because you can't do both You can't find your girlfriend tomorrow After the meeting, So the few actors that actually carry the movie are the comedians. Whitney Cummings and MGK: did she say She actually. No, you fucking crazy. Yup. Pete Davidson's in this movie Bet you didn't expect that! He plays that they will keep coming back to There are a lot more surprising namely Danny So as we drive away from this meeting plays in the background it's like they got one soundtrack and it's MGK's discography. In this movie, Machine Gun Kelly is is there an MGK in this universe Something to think about? So they pull up to Apple's house So naturally they break in. You know, my dad is saying, if you're Don't touch anything. Now, I wonder if they'll touch anything literary tool See? At least it was just one of them. Foreshadowing is a powerful literary too- So now what? The three off brand members of the Offspring broke into Apple's house However, are they going to fix this? That's right. Weed Blazeit 420 humor All the ashes from the weed is going to go back into the urns, and That's their big plan. Also, can't miss an opportunity Then they introduce another This is Fat Joe. And of course, he's already in the house What is this, a Mizkif stream? So now we get an amazing stoner montage with Stoner by young thug I'm a stoner. Stoner? I'm a stoner. Yeah. Stoner. Stoner. I'm a stoner. I'm stoner. I'm a stoner. Stoner. Yeah, yeah. Megan because it's not a complete stoner movie And she reveals that she's a lesbian. I like girls, And since they don't end up smoking enough pot to fill a giant bowl of ashes, And this was one of those scenes and creativity could have really brought because I do love dumb comedies. The plot can be as stupid as hell as long This scene where she rolls a giant and much funnier. So anybody have a lighter and compare it to this scene in Get Duked blunt with the map that they're supposed The course of the movie. What did you roll that with? I used the corner of the map are you insane? Relax, Ian. It's just the corner. we're never going there also, this movie does the character intros much better compare He's not fat, and his real name's not Joe. But remember that song Lean Back? I swear, every day since we met him, he gets so high, Who've I got? Dean Gibson, sir terribly disruptive attention banned from all local parks where the pacing because we intros actually have something to do with the characters to set up the character It sets up their personalities to cross the Scottish And each of their intros slowly build off that they're all trouble maker mates Which carries into the rest of the film. It has a purpose. The intros in Good Morning. With a U! serve no purpose they don't have a purpose Snoop Dogg as a blunt, huh? Smoke me, smoke me. Smoke me. I think a lot of the comedy in this movie so excellent pacing and the shots / music For example, Cameron got a new phone He calls her. But the way the shot is framed feels like something bad It's ominous. It's weird, it's unsettling. It's not L-O-L. This is so funny. He's so high that he can't talk. Where have you been? I think someone broke into my house I think maybe this was supposed to be IKEA table Mod Sun and new character put the urns back in Apple's house But Apple was already home She literally said to MGK on the phone, so what was the point of putting the urns back Whatever. I mean, ok, whatever. So MGK is parked at the Batman movie meeting to Apple's house because the guys saw her Think about that. She already left. The boys She already left. They saw her leave. So MGK shows back up to Apple's and is surprised that she's gone You let her leave? Yeah, cause these hooligans were supposed that they broke into her house So now MGK is like, what do I do? Do I go back to the Batman meeting because he thinks she's at the airport and neck pillow instead of, I don't know, So he chooses to chase apple, I get it if you guys don't want to be friends Why would that cause them to not want If he chose to chase the girl Why would that affect your friendship? Maybe I'm being a little nit picky. So since she thinks Apple control guy to try to delay the flight. I don't know how he has but this dude is played Adin Ross for hateful conduct Oh, so it was Dennis Rodman's plane, and I guess MGK tries to attack him And Dennis And I love looking at the fake messages Whenever This is crazy. Yikes. OK. I can't watch anymore. This is crazy. Wait, didn't They couldn't think of Oh, but what's this? Subscribe to GABI BELLE?? I wonder what that's about. Then Sabrina the stalker finally comes Then IKEA table decides to go sit in and it goes horribly. This movie is going to shoot itself. I think I'm going to shoot myself. One of my favorite lines Yeah there's That's a lot of gloves well yeah silly it's the glove compartment And this one. You take me home right now? Yeah, I was actually about to head over there anyway. A lot of the slapstick style comedy doesn't really land too well in this movie But if you want a movie that does this really well, The humor is so stupid, but the execution He's Caucasian. Caucasian? Yeah. You know, a white guy that's an awfully big mustache. So stalker drives and the stalker Shake hands when Apple finds them And that leads her So Becky G breaks up with him Good Morning And I wish I didn't have to do this rather be in person Also, immediately after he gets fired Also, this is still the same day. This is still one day, one whole day. So Apple stories or something So they go, of course, no one can just This whole movie would have been solved And for some reason there's this rule that they can't get into the party OK, and the whole party at YG's house a fun montage where shit actually happens as well as just being crazy and funny that movies do, high paced action, and loud music, or at least like actually happens to advance the plot But no, it was really Don't fall asleep, in my frickin house.! alright? Not tonight, bro. And they're playing MGK at a YG party. [MGK RAPPING] Where is MGK in this universe? Is this Hannah Montana The pop punk rapper and London the actor? And then it cuts back to the boys, They just hallucinated all of that. Why? It didn't have to be a hallucination. They didn't even find Apple This scene would have made a lot that they had found Apple at YG's party And then they woke up. But this whole party scene serves So Fat Joe is ded So their solution is to bring him to Berry Pete Davidson. No idea. There is no established fact related incidents He's just the valet guy. They could have established he did some funny misconduct and got fired Doesn't make any sense. How do you know Berry? Dude, He can snap anybody out of a bad trip. So they bring Fat Joe up to Megan Fox's Why is she here I love Pete Davidson's little moments where he's just, hAi I'm Barry. It is Barry nice to meet you. Barry. I'm sorry. No. Come on, Fat Joe. I just wanted to point that out. It's the little things Oh, shit. So we find out because Fat Joe left the sink on Just a convenient plot I don't know. Also, another thing in this movie and there's not really any intense stunts It's really just tripping I mean, this is a YouTube skit And then there's this one where they're in to give the fakest Can we get a replay? She really just bumped Then we get this really unfunny monologue Flippin period. Who knew a flippin' hamster gets a period. That's so weird, right? I don't get my period anymore. And I'm only 35 so happens you know what I'm saying? Jams that pancake up like the flippin Pancake House on a Sunday morning Where you've just got to get in there and get the Nobody wants to go up there Listen, I like my fair share of poopy, I really do. But you can't just do the equivalent of I promise this is almost over. Also, once again, this is still to tell him somehow the director And MGK calls Apple And she finally picks up and agrees And they're both texting and driving, terrible driving decisions in this movie, earlier in the movie. And they crash into each other, with both of them in the hospital, Usually comedies don't end like this, but is Avril Lavigne To my knowledge, and according to Google, Lavigne with an A, but in the credits OK, so as you could tell, to this movie, but lucky for us, there's that the whole movie was just a movie, and it was it was a movie the whole time. So you're telling me London Clash goes through all of this in the course of one friggn' day This is a worse And I don't have the money And acting lessons. You're all wankers. Well, I can't say I would rewatch this Thank you to my patrons And as always, subscribe if you would like to join the gatekeepers I was really, really, really, One day, one whole day. And I'll meet you at Ricegum's house in one hour, bye!