Tesla's global Supercharging charging network in North as the EV makers biggest Tesla's Supercharger network, design all the parts of it, reliability and availability, charging. In the fast charging market, way by almost a 60% market But at the end of April, Elon supercharging team, laying including top executives. Now its future is in This decision has rocked the believes about EV charging. It's baffling. Because they they do have such and such a easy way to behind the user experience to under this, it is really I would describe the the crown jewels of Tesla, laps and building the reaping the benefits of this, this pause. The layoffs were part of a happening at Tesla, as the sales and increased Tesla's stock is down 32% for But cutting the Supercharging to many. The supercharging driving the adoption of EVs. Tesla's now former senior Rebecca Tinucci, spoke about last year's Investor Day. At Tesla charging we have a great charging experience vehicle adoption. We've spent infrastructure when basically would do it. Those ten years opportunity to get pretty When we're talking about asking the public to buy into It is a new fuel source. Tesla was the gold standard they still are, arguably. And so to see that their dismantled, it begs to for Tesla as a company? In the U.S., Tesla's market than all other networks of all DC fast chargers They also just recently up their charging network to Ford owners will be granted Superchargers across the General Motors EVs will have Superchargers. Yet another what? Let's just go with Tesla's charging port, the Standard, or NACS, is now North America on all EVs so more easily integrate into The whole intent of the connector type was for the it would mean for plug. That raises a lot of confidence as well as Analysts believe Tesla's become a major profit driver It is estimated that global rise to $127 billion by 2030, billion of that, Elon Musk the supercharger network just You can't have a Tesla the Supercharger network growth of the Supercharger business. They go hand in Tesla launched the September 24th, 2012, with Coinciding with the Model S The network was free to use adopters. You buy a car, you get our package. It's basically an Everything works together. It's very nicely integrated. By mid 2013, Tesla started traffic corridors in Europe At the start of 2024, Tesla charging stations with around Alongside its Superchargers, around 40,000 destination installed at hotels, where people park for longer That type of infrastructure is The majority of Tesla's infrastructure features its introduced in 2019 and It recently started rolling which are capable of Europe last year and has the U.S. this year. They designed the cars and the it also designed the that ran them. And those two closely to each other. This vertical integration has seamless end to end user their cars. I solely rely on Tesla have used multiple third Electrify America, EVgo, not compare to Tesla's I feel sorry for people that an electric car, because facilities beautifully. There's nothing else like it, we've got a restroom and a They attracted customers with the repeat buyers and the result of the Tesla And a lot of the Tesla the Supercharger network, the reliability of it. For other charging providers, difficult, since they're car models with varying protocols. With Electrify America and to a greater or lesser amount of discontent among EV So there's a lot more added into diagnosed problems on. With Tesla it'll tell you how many are in use. Whereas I've used Electrify and it says that it is someone's in there. The stall service, not even functional. Tesla also built in other as battery preconditioning Other electric vehicle them, have vehicle side data. Other infrastructure at Tesla we have both. And perhaps most important - Other charging networks, they charging ports at a site. Tesla, it's between 8 to 10 Musk said that expansion of a priority. Tesla installed for the last few years When it comes to figuring out infrastructure, Tesla does it They know everything about They know everything about That gives them laser like does it make sense for them So why did Tesla gut the Perhaps it just didn't make company. In the early days, Tesla's predicted to lose money. The construction and stations can be expensive, depending on the type of infrastructure being built. Installing EV charging is We're not at mass market yet We are still seeing around for high power. Charging, actually the main not the charger itself. The bring from the grid. You have to do site prep, you more importantly, the have high voltage power near it in. However, Tesla did say that it considerably. We have the industry's lowest Our costs are often 20%, if alternatives. While it hasn't publicly construction costs, National Electric Vehicle has provided a window onto competitors. Tesla is really bidding 50% out there for NEVI funding, most amount of funding to For Supercharging, Tesla uses in the electricity costs, peak or off peak hours. Musk has indicated Tesla aims around 10% profitability on Tesla doesn't break out business, bundling it in its But it has called it out in saying &quot;pay per use profitable&quot; and that it was generators, helping million in gross profit for In the U.S., charging boost from federal funding, aggressively pursuing. They've got around $12 million around 30 sites in comparison So they've got the most The Biden administration's Infrastructure and the Infrastructure Formula Biden's goal of growing the 500,000 stations by 2030. So far, states have allocated 2022 and 2023 to support the an additional $885 million Government funding in the spurred a lot of work around charging infrastructure, but announced, it has taken a In addition to supporting the infrastructure, the programs the pain points common. Today. We're seeing standardization requiring 97% uptime on all also requiring payment these chargers directly. a more seamless charging in the U.S. Today. Tesla has said &quot;it's always Supercharger network to all more drivers to rapidly future.&quot; It started with in 2021, with a pilot program allowed non-Tesla EV owners sites. After a successful throughout Europe in 2022. In the states, as President for EV charging funded by the it was revealed that Tesla network. The move would grant as part of the effort to charging network. Tesla if they go after NEVI allow more vehicles to charge the biggest reason why I network to other automakers. In 2023, Ford announced a deal superchargers for Ford EV Owners would need a Tesla CCS ports compatibility with Ford and Tesla stunned the arranged for Fords to have network nationwide over time. It's been a pretty Ford owners seem to be Shortly after its would work with Tesla. CEO the company $400 million of a out EV charging in the U.S. and Canada. Every other maker has pretty We will give our folks access As other EV owners have network, it has presented Regrettably, they have to park because Tesla designed all of there now, with cables that the left rear corner of a Superchargers that are cables. There have been complaints with access being granted to charging sites is a growing It's going to be interesting a fairly large influx, and They're rolling out each car In the U.S., every automaker the CCS connector, meaning will need an adapter, but SAE International, an technical standards for with Tesla to standardize standard. Ford was the first with GM signing on in June We plan to adopt the North and we're working really hard come in 2025. Almost every other automaker its vehicles either this year The convergence of everybody U.S. is a hugely positive adoption of electric When you combine the the NACS chargers to everybody else, I massive win for Tesla for But I think for the consumer think it's a massive win for In October 2023, BP announced Tesla's ultra fast chargers. It's the first time Tesla's an independent EV charging at key BP, Amoco, AM PM, America and other charging Between widespread support Automotive industry and a build new sites, it seemed on the verge of going everything came crashing Elon Musk has surprised by scrapping the unit charging network. In an email announcing the will continue to build out locations where critical and construction. I wonder how that's going to purchased a Tesla, because points, right? Is that, you cool, extensive network where seamless. THe Supercharging network is Tesla cars. You got to keep The ideal is that there will I've been on the fence about another Tesla, but that edge. This is taking the place of whole lot more. You can make This is not no time to lay Stop playing around. I think break. For employees and contractors was sudden and unexpected. My business partner, he was Supercharger site that we're call from our construction turn around, his entire and Mark should go home and until we find out what's Andres Pinter owns a charging installation Tesla on several installation We contacted everybody that we Every single one of those We have a number of open working on for Tesla. I think they'll complete it's a liability for the open construction sites. It's just it's sloppy. They're not going to do that. Without an internal team, some development of new sites. We would love to take on the that supercharger network for I think there's a lot of ambition and ability to do Tesla reportedly left its intact and says it will Maintaining the Supercharger there's a lot of people resources. Tesla's got it I think that the suppliers maintenance, and particularly is key to maximizing the If Tesla's going to maintain network with a team of that will give drivers, I going to be selling millions So that then asks, how well stand up to that additional automakers? I do a lot of driving, so I supercharger stations. don't work, so they got to down. The response is It's just like a run around I just stopped trying to It's just a waste of time. Now we're possibly, being a problem and to wait. I don't know man. Like me personally. I'd just It's already strained in New York, Los Angeles, San that expansion is going to be It then leans on third party It's too early to tell what decision will be, but some responsibility on an industry mantle of the Supercharger Without having the brain trust that out and making it rely on industry to pick up One of the biggest hurdles the infrastructure policy. Tesla's policy team worked team in the deployment of the The policy team was able to typical red tape problems as rollout, that third party regular basis. Tesla's team how to navigate that on a But to blow up their own working so elegantly is Tesla does have growing space. While it enjoyed it is a smaller player in And there are companies with exceed the Tesla Supercharger There's Ionna, the joint and a number of other auto pocketed competitor that's supercharger network. supercharger network. Last summer, several legacy form a new joint venture to plus chargers in North stations expected to open In 2019, shell acquired LA Greenlots and has started stations as part of the Shell In the UK, it is converting a charging one. Oil and gas and retail is the that we're seeing today with all trying to enter this off EV charging, but really the dwell times. An EV driver is likely going they will at a gas station. The smart charging providers to be a way to squeeze a lot of their travelers. With more infrastructure being experts predict it will experience for everyone. The software is going to be communications is going to be processing is going to be The plugs are becoming There definitely needs to be And only time will tell in Supercharging strategy is In my opinion. Mr. Musk is playing three made a move that none of us Some will interpret it as a interpret it as a bonehead We have really relied on North America, and I think to seemingly halted. That brings into question who will step up the way that