(upbeat futuristic music) - If you've ever made one you know that household acids like vinegar and bases like baking soda react But did you know that a similar chemical reaction is what makes cakes and biscuits fluffy? If you see a recipe call for baking soda or baking powder, that's what helping your tasty baked goods rise. Baking soda and baking powder are just made up of slightly different compounds, which can affect the chemistry of your cooking. Back before grocery stores and fancy cake recipes, if you wanted to make your bread rise, you needed leavening agents from natural sources. And by that, I mean bakers would leave their dough sitting out so that wild yeast from the air could move in. The yeasts digest sugars in the flour, and make chemicals like carbon dioxide through a process called fermentation. All that carbon dioxide gas and create fluffy loaves of bread. Eventually, people started learning or just some of the flour water microbe goop to kickstart the process the next time. We still use this method And without yeast, bread just doesn't have the texture and flavor we're used to, but around the 1830s, bakers started figuring out that they could create a quick so they didn't have to wait for the yeast to do its thing. That way, other baked goods like cakes and biscuits could be lighter and fluffier. So bakers started using chemical leavening agents like baking soda, which, if we were to use the actual chemical name, we would just call it sodium bicarbonate. It's made from soda ash, which at the time, it came from the ashes of sodium-rich marine plants like seaweeds, or it was made synthetically by reacting table salt, also known as sodium chloride, with other chemicals and minerals. Today, the chemicals needed to produce soda ash and baking soda also come from mines. But the baking soda you find is the same compound that we've been using for almost two centuries. Usually, bakers would mix sodium bicarbonate and sour milk, which is full of lactic acid, and the reaction would produce like the eruption in a science fair volcano. Those gas bubbles can puff up but the acidity of the sour milk isn't all that consistent, so neither were these reactions The next leap forward in baking technology was in the 1840s with cream of tartar, also known as potassium hydrogen tartrate, or potassium bitartrate. It's an acidic byproduct of wine fermentation, and when you mix it with sodium bicarbonate and some water, you get carbon dioxide bubbles. Cream of tartar helped make the chemical reactions in baking more consistent, but there was one big downside: the availability and price varied depending on the grape harvest in a given year. For a while, sodium bicarbonate and cream of tartar were sold in twin packets, which you added to the wet ingredients when you were ready to set off the reaction and stick your batter in the oven. This worked fine for bakers, but the supply of cream of tartar still wasn't consistent. Enter the chemist Eben Horsford, who figured out how to make an acid called monocalcium phosphate from beef bones in 1856. Like the cream of tartar reaction, when you mix monocalcium phosphate, baking soda, and water, you get carbon dioxide bubbles. So Horsford mixed monocalcium phosphate and sodium bicarbonate together and then added some cornstarch to help keep everything dry and prevent early reactions. He marketed this concoction and voila, baking powder was born. During the 1880s, people realized they could extract monocalcium phosophate from mines instead, no beef bones required. And nowadays, most of the baking powder you'll find at the grocery store Like the name suggests, the sodium bicarbonate in double-acting baking powder reacts twice, once with an acid when the wet ingredients are added and then with a second acid That way, your dough keeps rising while it's baking and you get a fluffier product. However, some of these heat-activated acids can contain aluminum. Some people avoid double-acting baking powder because they're worried about although the CDC says the amount people consume in foods isn't enough to be dangerous. Either way, other double-acting baking powders are aluminum free and use compounds So there you have it, baking soda while baking powder is sodium bicarbonate an all-in-one chemical concoction to get the reactions going. You can't substitute baking soda for baking powder unless your recipe also includes an acid, something like buttermilk, vinegar, or cream of tartar. So next time you bake a batch remember to thank chemistry Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow brought to you by SciShow aprons. I'm not even kidding. It's a thing that we have at dftba.com/scishow, along with a number of other products to show you love and appreciation for SciSchow. Thanks for representing if you want to. And if you're doing any baking this Thanksgiving season, tweet out your baked goods to us. Hopefully, you use the right kind of baking products and things did not go poorly. In honor of Pi Day, we thought that we would talk today about pie. No, not pi. Pie. Tender crust with fruit inside, the filled dessert that is superior