My name I live just north of So I grew up around I got married three years. This October, the midst of raising We've got two cats and my lovely who is actually going into high school I was diagnosed with originally which is a type back in January So January 2024, right at And it eventually it was never fully confirmed a blastoma. The more that and the pathologist They couldn't So the exact, I guess phrase, the exact astrocytoma I was having in my mouth If you've ever had the candy That's like every day, And I was like, oh, I'm drinking Or maybe, Like, I'm So I was kind of keeping an eye on it. And the mouth were really odd. It was almost like the sensation too much saliva. Like, it was like to break down It was very. It was odd, I guess, I was noticing it. And then because it was Right. So then the, come around again. It's super infrequent. At this point, primary care doctor. And I knew that I wanted but I just kind of wanted because my husband and I are getting older, want to make sure all of our T's because my husband and to start trying so just wanted everything taken care of. And so primary care doctor and I say, you know, things And at that point, I can't remember when I think I just let him know about I was having, like and my mouth, And he was like, you set up for an MRI. I let him know, I've been working out You know, could it be did I screw something did I do something So we had, like, a nervous nerve There was a couple that I was set up like midway Or that I met him in January, I had these tests So then snowstorm hit And that weekend, having numbing right side of my face. It would start and then it was slowly And then my right being impacted too, And almost felt like putting my finger electric socket. And then it just got to a point one day. They ended up They were called. So they're called I ended up having 5 and one happened And I, at that point, presenting during that section of time, then I likely wouldn't have been because later the last one, quote after I put the it started happening. I walked directly and she's right there near the, you know, And I my, my hand is numb, numbed up, hand and of some degree. And she thought So that night, we get in the car, you know, I'm upset I'm sitting there sore plans you know, which is To think about that And we went to The hospital was Was it, it was very, I'm not a massive fan of the emergency room. No one is. And my husband and I We were watching on our phones, and we ordered and we kind of just were like, thinking like, this is going to and they're so busy And I, we go back and this doctor asked me every question and then he looked at have you seen her start to droop. And I'm like, I was And my husband A part of me was like, maybe said a little bit because I don't want to have to have for 4.5 hours maybe you should stop You know what I mean? But this doctor, I can't remember but he listened to me I mean, his his write All the details he was just sitting and he had me do neurological tests at the time, which now He was doing them to me, and I was passing He was like, let's just put you The Cat scan. Right? I was like, So they were only back, I'm chatting with the nurse, excited for a day off the next I'm not people but they get their results on their phone prior to talking And that's And it wrote on there, found on the left side It's pure panic. You're surrounded You've got, like, And I'm like. Like over there, who, like, it's clearly the some sort of intoxicated And they're just like, you know, reading this it doesn't say just says So at that point, my husband And then things really quickly the doctor came we're going to move you from because they didn't have a neurological They were going from this hospital, that which was affiliated with University which is where I got the remainder neurosurgeon, they start talking what is going to be the first action, So the first actions the tumor because of my tumors it was about the size of a green grape, and if you took and my left ear you went back and you met wherever that is, that's about So it was deep. And you don't just like kind of squishing You can't do that. So, you know, ten, ten years ago, my tumor completely inoperable and they would have on the standard of care of radiation and with it just hoped I enrolled in a trial, and I don't know name of the trial. But I can at least The first part of the procedure. So the procedure was I'm going with the full but the acronym for The bullet procedure, of made me laugh is it stands for laser And then t if something targeted therapy or something So basically they did my biopsy I was in the hospital. Right. And then they, you know, sent it off And at that point It's nothing else that can invade There's, you know, they actually diseases that can that can be But they know that it, it's cancer. They do a full body They can't find cancer So they know it's Fun fact if you're if if you have when you when you have if it starts there, it won't metastasize anywhere else called the blood It won't I don't know all the science behind it, that's something that so many people fear if it becomes and uncontrolled in other parts in a way it But the blood makes it difficult for medication Thankfully, my my specific chemotherapy but most can't, right? Because your body, you know, like, oh, foreign come in here. Right. So I have this I have the procedure After the biopsy, weeks off, I'm on like this, I'm like, well, Of course I'm I go like overboard on And I add like, we spent all this these and I have no idea You know what I mean. All I want is to try my best You know what I mean? But because of the all the healthy but every single thing in my house. Because, like, down at the table, So I was gaining and the steroids made my face really like puffy I kind of looked What is the, Oh. Humpty Dumpty. That's kind of look like across everything. It was in the, So I was extra, So nonetheless, I went in after they use that And I had like a very small scar from I went directly down They use that same to place into the tumor. The laser into the tumor to burn So that was that. That was the first second part of the Now typically people they have about and I'm sure other tumors again, I don't about the other stuff, 30 days, right, six Yeah. Radiation. But with my specific trial, they wanted to see what the progress with the treatment with five days of max, proton So you get your little face mask on, it's it's interesting. I was in there And what was was, was the therapy The radiation therapy center around the corner So I went five days and I wasn't Too bad with it all is is it just And this entire time I'm not back at work I'm using up the hours of sick time over the years. I have like over or something So I'm just blowing And they're just trying the best at work at that point. So that all happens. And then I take about work with Shady Grove, like our, our main, support facility, Go through So we do that And then in April the, the chemotherapy. So the the chemotherapy is not a So the chemotherapy is of the follow up And the only other part of the trial is that I'm called nurses, every month or so, basically ask me like a handful about my quality and my symptoms and then they plop it And there I am. So yeah. So I'm about to come up on my sixth That's a specific I thankfully don't have to go to receive it, or any other center It is mailed or my pharmacy. I recently switched it to my pharmacy right And it is pill form. It is in Pell form. I'm on a pretty high Mainly for a handful Man. I'll just probably but I'm able to bounce And I kind of just kind of like one, What the best way proactive about it is, but the best way with things during it and then the recovery which I find to So yeah, like I was coming up next week and I'm taking a total So it is five nights cycle, I take it. I asked my doctor, did this happen to me? You know, and she like, asked me a couple of silly like, did you live in Do you live They have a high And I'm like now. And she was like, She was like that. I mean, she was like, it's She said you were And if you're someone things or excuse me, you're going to dive You're just unlucky, And that that brings support to be working through. And a lot of people into some serious pets I know for me, every stage of grief. I was so angry I thought things taken away from me, And I, I saw it on my life, short for no reason. Because originally my prognosis know, we do all this as young, young people and we want to do so you're obviously extremely passionate I was I am continue passionate about children with special with special needs and. You just and you almost in and maybe you regret not, you know, focusing on things that maybe you were focusing on, but you really I definitely done a lot of work I think another is the access I know so many Because, you know, the social media to be able to connect I know a lot of young women who, you know, have have cancer they don't have And the only reason was because of the job that I have I don't really know but if I didn't, if I didn't have the job and I was unemployed it wouldn't I mean, financially, we wouldn't have been You know, going down the line that you can do it naturally because are out of your system and your healthy And, you know, it's it's not curable. It's it's always You know, for years and even maybe But it's always you're completely to sum all that up, the mental and the idea that you and things especially if you're, you know, or about to be married a relationship live your life, and that it's chucked in there to reorder everything. if scans continue and that the cancer isn't coming back, then the only difference will will become less frequent So right now, it's after my treatment It's actually supposed to finish which is super In fact, as of right now, it doesn't but if it does, it's, I'll just be seen via And as I've said, you know, what can we expect the fertility center and my teacher says, take it day by day. And I'm like, I can't, you know, I can't do that. But I have to, I've said, What would happen if, you know, in June something pops up, And she said, we'll work with it when it that is hard. So, you know, where you just kind of got to accept it, and just kind of I give it over to God and I that that's and what brings me And I, the working, and I'm back to working out and doing normal things that bring me I know a lot of other get the pleasure to do that at all. I'm very, very, that I can return my old hobbies to a degree. Right. I can't go out like, I can't coasters and stuff you know, as far as limitations go, I don't have And I know I'm lucky So, you know, continuing begin outside of cancer is it's it's incredibly whatever So that's helped me even if things even if treatment reason stops working, who's listening their treatment isn't and they're continuing to try That either way, to find this, you're, you're given kind It's it's you just look at it as a kind of a new rebuild, and to work that maybe in your heart. I know that I was never in therapy So that was really interesting Like we went down like talking about how I was worried you go to the bathroom on the way and like, all these, like, that I pushed down And I had so many so many things And it even if you don't have about that, Even if it's a parent or a friend you know, it's bury some things in that healthy way. So that's that's what I would think as like a second chance to kind of reinvent your, your pre-cancer self, And it's but it kind of gives