How should you value a startup without revenue? It's a mystery to startup CEOs and how you with no revenue. Why is one startup with no revenue worth 1 worth over 100 million? I've raised over a hundred million in venture helped entrepreneurs like you raise rounds In today's video, I'll explain startup valuation method that really matters how investors will method to increasing the value of your startup. Plus, at the end of today's video, I'll explain your startup is worth. I hope you like it. Hi, I'm Brett on my channel. I help early stage startup CEOs like you raise So if this sounds like you, then hit the subscribe time I release a new video. Let's get started. Part one, valuation methods you can try. There are a lot of valuation methodologies to value their startups with no revenue. However, before I share them with you, I want investor. Ask yourself the question that they're gonna So here they are. I'm just gonna go through a few of them for Number one, because we're going to be worth Years ago I met these two entrepreneurs. They were certain their startup was going no revenue and no product on the market. Now, there's nothing wrong with that. You should believe you're gonna defy the odds Now, they were about to raise money, and this I asked the ceo, Jim, how much money he was He said, 10 million. Before I could say anything Jim said, and Now, that's a post money valuation of $200 home, I asked Jim, why do you think investors And this is what Jim said, because we're going Okay, let's go back to our fundamental question. Does this matter to me as an investor? The answer is no. Investors do not care that you think your In fact, you'll likely scare investors away Plus, investors would lose money on any outcome And guess what? Mo scale outcomes are below $200 million. So this will not work. Number two, that discounted cash flow methodology. The idea here is that you estimate your future these cash flows by a rate of return. This gives your startup evaluation if you Now, again, here's the question. Does this matter to me as an investor? And again, the answer is that your future company today. In fact, your startup may lose money for the Uber has been around for how long now without So the reality is that cash flows or negative early stage startup with no revenue. So this methodology won't work. Now, there are other methodologies that I I'm gonna tell you what they are. There are about six of them, and I've seen are. There's the burkas method. Now, you can look all these up, by the way. There's the scorecard valuation method, there's risk factor summation method, there's the earnings, multiple methods. You can look 'em all up, they're there. None of 'em are gonna work. However, I can save you the trouble of why None of these methods will help you value investors. The reason is really simple. Investors just don't care about any of these So if you bring up any one of them, they're just gonna lose. Now, there is one methodology that might hold the comparable transaction methodology. Now here's what it is. You do exactly what it sounds like you do You research and find out what similar companies The reason this might work is that investors are being valued at. So this is a good tool to use. Now, I'll explain more about how you can use Now, part two. So how do investors value your early stage amount of every company they invest in. They know that some of their investments will okay, and some will be home runs with 10 x So for their overall portfolio of investments own a minimum amount of each company that As you can see, this has nothing to do with method that you come up with. None of 'em are gonna work. So here are some simple rules to give you This is a table. So you can see here, round ownership expected For a seed round, investors expect to own For series A, it's 20% and then 10 x to 30 The ownership percentages will vary based how hot your deal is. But this gives you an idea of what to expect. So here's an example. So let's say you're raising a $100,000 seed You'll probably be meeting with angel investors safe note. So the valuation is pushed to the next round. But let's say that this is a priced round. Here's what it's going to look like for you. The post money valuation is going to be around Since a hundred thousand dollars divided by As you can see, it's very, very mechanical. One more thing, investors will not invest of being worth, at least in this example, You will not get an investment if this doesn't Now, let's say you raise a series A of 10 million in this particular example. And the only way investors will invest is being worth at least 10 times that or 500 Do you see how this works? Now, it's extremely mechanical. Early stage valuations are always mechanical. Let's move on to part number three. How can you increase your early stage startups Now, there's only one way to increase your You know what that is? Competition for the deal. If there's competition for your deal where then you can negotiate for more. I will tell you from experience that this Remember, for every 100 face-to-face meetings, invest in one company. Raising money is tough. Now, if this content is resonating with you, part four. So how should you tell investors what your Cuz that's the question isn't what is your You're gonna get asked the smartest thing When an investor asks you what your startup The market is investors, so let them make Remember, it's always best to let the other In any negotiation, you can always give a The only exception to this is if you are raising then you're just better off setting a price. Otherwise, let the other side go first. Now, if investors pressure for evaluation, and say something like, I've seen companies Here's a summary of what we've learned today. Number one, most investment methodologies these methodologies and they don't use them. Number two, early stage valuations are mechanical investors need. Number three, you wanna let the market, which startup. You can always provide a counter-proposal Now, what did you learn from today's video? Put your answer in the comments column below for me, you can put them in the comments column you. Now, I have one more thing for you today. It's my free startup pitch deck template. It has all the slides you need to develop All you need to do is click the link below for more great content, click the link on If you haven't already, then click the subscribe For startup CEOs, I'm brett@brettjfox.com. Thanks for watching today. Take care. Bye.