At 12:01 AM on July 6th, 2018, this short Tariff Schedule of the United States. With that, new pneumatic tires, of rubber, pumps imported for use with machines for making for mixing mineral substances with bitumen; cells and primary batteries; fuses, for a 278 other products would now be subject to the US. This small tweak, and the $36 billion of goods later be known as the US-China trade war. The next rounds came quick: just weeks after, second package, covering some $16 billion response, an absolutely massive package of Finally, after further Chinese action, these Now, a Chinese-made space heater that might've a US distributor would look for suppliers they could get prices back down to $48. The ultimate net effect of this was an 8.5% a 26.3% decline in the reverse. But perhaps more relevantly, this spat dethroned partners. Now ranking higher was Canada, in the second But the trade war would be far from the end The next emerged not out of Washington, of After headlines were dominated by the news by COVID's global spread, then by the world's development, then by the shot's wide-scale 2021's headlines were dominated by supply Armed with lockdown savings but still facing concerts, and plane tickets, American consumers real-world products. COVID, however, was still exerting influence were still getting sick, while their counterparts unvaccinated or vaccinated with less effective and lockdown restrictions were still in place, The net effect was what made it to the headlines: ships sat offshore for weeks waiting to get as stock simply could not come fast enough. By late 2022 the trans-pacific capacity crunch had equalized, and container rates had nearly were never able to fully repair as Russia's trade. Sanctions cut off supply to key metals, energy air cargo was rerouted to avoid the belligerent Meanwhile, today's China is certainly not While perhaps a truism, up until recently, norm, but the nation's now entered a new In the most concise narrative, one single of China's unprecedented economic ascent: China was a place where foreign firms could massively through low labor costs, but in became a victim of its own success. In twenty years the nation's GDP per capita life improved massively. Major Chinese cities like Beijing, Shanghai, restaurants, and hotels as Tokyo, London, as an unprecedented number of millionaires middle class developed, living a similar quality developed nation. But to the outside, to the companies that in purchasing power meant a dollar didn't Wages rose, and so too, in step, did manufacturing The peak of inbound foreign direct investment enterprises have now focused elsewhere for of little concern to the nation as they were era into developing an impressive array of There are behemoth e-commerce platforms like like Tencent and Huawei; unicorn start-ups social media platform to attain global mainstream But TikTok is a rare exception: overwhelmingly, through services--it's with physical products. Physical products need to physically travel that's now coming into focus is that America Shanghai is the world's busiest container and Long Beach is the US', so trips between but they're no small feat. From the moment the Chinese coast disappears another eighteen days, assuming everything with massive improvements since 2021's supply range between 50% and 60% schedule reliability. Offshoring, just-in-time manufacturing, and phenomenons that largely developed in the In fact, some experts consider the fall of peak globalization. But this era might, in retrospect, be considered Russian invasion of Ukraine. The world has returned to a more fractured to this conflict, Russia's relationship from China's today. Diplomatic relations are maintained, but they're Certain respected western leaders now speak an invasion of Taiwan--as inevitable. So that's to say, the world is already less are certain, concerningly possible events the Russian invasion of Ukraine look like So, 2023, in the world of logistics, is marked Ukraine exposed the vulnerabilities, and there's the start. The consensus, therefore, is that there are globalized supply chain through building more earlier, keeping more in stock, manufacturing very real, surprisingly significant cost. The other option is to remove the risk, remove manufacturer and the market, and this option All that's needed is an alternative, another Pacific where wages are low, and the workforce From a manufacturer's point of view, Mexico's Of 180 countries ranked by the Corruption Of the 190 ranked by Ease of Doing Business, Of the world's fifty busiest sea ports, port of Manzanillo, outpaced nearly six times Further complicating things, it's hard to ranges run from the country's northwest to of the country's north, and dense forestry The roads, rails, and bridges that cross these forest alike? Well Mexican infrastructure's getting better, But complicated perceptions, outdated assumptions, aside, Mexico is blessed with one simple geographic lay claim to--it shares a border with the While the Rio Grande river isn't actually most valuable ports. Connecting Texas and the Mexican state of Bridge-- it's strictly commercial, 8-lanes cross it every single day, and since its construction As of 2022, the inland port ranks first among all this increased importance and stacking in Northern Mexico has to offer that China low cost. About 150 miles or 250 kilometers down Mexico's of Salinas Victoria, is this--a barren dirt Except, it's not actually a barren dirt complex constructed by a private Chinese-Mexican It's so new, with construction beginning the development, but it's there. And it's bold. The master plan is to lure over 100 Chinese a residential area to house employees, and restaurants to hotels and hospitals. The idea is to build out a little slice of and operators can feel somewhat at home. With much of the land still resembling a master plan is far from a reality. But it is trending in the right direction. Hisense, an electronics manufacturer, has So too have furniture makers Kuka Home, Sunon, And neighboring them are more Chinese manufactures: have all bought into the project. The incentives, especially since the opening in Mexico more cost competitive, are just Even without the restaurants, shops, and housing and the transition smoother, Chinese companies Hofusan Park, and outside them too. The tech company Lenovo, for instance, has for over a decade. And in 2022 alone, 44 separate Asian companies with 9 of the 10 largest being Chinese-owned, Leon. Zooming out from the state, this is a graph trajectory of investment is simply unmistakable. While concerns over security and capable infrastructure Of course, a few dozen companies relocating in itself signal the rise of Mexico as the the role or that this is the end of offshoring Right now, the sample size is small. But the reasons companies are moving to Mexico in Mexico extends beyond China. While China might be new to northern Mexico, US isn't. To industrial manufacturers, the region's Years before the establishment of NAFTA, Mexico costs of labor and proximity to the US by low-cost, tax-advantaged factories owned by would tamp down unemployment and entice foreign With the arrival of free trade agreements, Northern Mexico first experienced the invigorating BMW, Ford, and Audi among others. Then came the rest, as Lego, Samsung, LG, moved into the region. Their collective arrival transformed the Mexican In a 2012 analysis of Maquiladoras, some 5,055 north, and the factories employed just over The value of these turnkey factories persist of Mexican states being too dangerous and and ready to establish a new manufacturing What Mexico has had to offer in recent decades The factories already exist; the wages--though low; and by being here, not only are tariffs also relocating to a western business environment political risk is lower, and the negative Simply put, beyond what's pushing Chinese tremendous pull. Automotive and electronic manufacturers from away from home decades ago, fundamentally a mutually beneficial system for the country China's simply the most recent to recognize So it's got the geography, it's got the the pieces are in place for an economic explosion President Lopez Obrador and the federal government sector--most of the work to actually attract has occurred on a state level. States like Nuevo Leon have long focused industrial parks, offering financial incentives, it's worked. Despite sitting number seven in terms of population, by Mexico City and the state that surrounds That means the state's per capita GDP is Nuevo Leon is generally one of the safest the US. For all these reasons, Monterrey has become after the capital, featuring the tallest skyscraper systems in North America, and a dazzling array Other northern Mexican states have followed manufacturing industries, but still, inextricably, grasp the opportunity of the moment. The president has been widely criticized for sector during what could turn out to be its In fairness, though, he's been focused on This is justified--the country is experiencing its homicide rate up to the eighth highest ineffective at blunting it. The US is also worried about crime in Mexico Republicans surveyed ahead of the 2022 US number two issue, behind only the economy. American conservatives in particular are worried the US-Mexico border through both official of this surge is violence. Of course, taking it back one step further, a relationship that academics have established a driver of immigration itself. Therefore, you improve the economy, you improve at the border. Mexican manufacturing is rarely taking the it's taking the place of Chinese manufacturing, dubious record respecting human rights and politically allied neighbor. This serves the US' global goals and then spurs helps solve other American goals. It is, through and through, a virtuous cycle, federal authorities have yet to fully recognize This industry can be a solution to the problems to focus on first, but unfortunately, there's symptoms, rather than actual causes. Mexico is already a powerhouse, middle-income and an enormous educated labor pool and it the economic expansion it deserves, but this infrastructure, in spite of crippling violence, of so many constraints. So a future where Mexican manufacturing grows Just imagine a future where Mexico recognized decades ago. Some of the most important issues of the moment and media organizations play a part in shaping Advertising revenue is driven by clicks, clicks by appealing to what people care most about--that's than ever. You get a conservative to click by feeding about, you get a liberal to click by feeding which, unfortunately, is just a better monetization We actually made a whole video about this with this video when trying to get accurate current surge in immigration is. But to fix that I turned to was our sponsor, It's kind of an amazing concept: each day, aggregate multiple stories on the same subject of the political bias and factual record of This way you get an idea of how the same reality writing about it. Another feature I love is Blindspot--it shows political spectrum is talking about but that political bias of your media diet helping clickbait I mentioned earlier. You can see EXACTLY what conservatives and about a possible export restriction to China this story about Chinese reports on Indian Ground News has really come to be a crucial also become one of my favorite ways to consume that time to actually learn about the world--not designed to feed my own political bias. So if you want to add this crucial bias-correcting or in the description to sign up today and is an offer that is exclusive to Wendover