In August of 1945, as the world celebrates pacific the Americans make a puzzling discovery. The US Navy has intercepted a Japanese submarine they've seen before. Its scale is baffling. But not only is it the world's largest submarine, A submarine that can launch torpedo dive bombers. The American's have just stumbled across and soon they'll uncover a sinister plan course of the war. Japan's surprise attack on Pearl Harbor galvanizes a nation. Pulling a reluctant America into the Second "The unprovoked and dastardly attack by A day after the devastating attack, the United And the nation quickly mobilizes, firing up ships, tanks and aircraft at a rate that'll For the Americans, Pearl Harbor was a senseless But for the Japanese, the attack was something A calculated gamble and a long shot attempt with the United States. Because as the Empire of Japan continued its convinced that it was only a matter of time And the architect behind the Pearl Harbor to knock out much of the U.S Pacific fleet As a way to keep the United States out of and perhaps even forcing the Americans into But Imperial Japan grossly underestimated And in the aftermath, Yamamoto knew America's Now faced with a war he cannot win, Yamamoto To make America reconsider a drawn out war to America's Cities. But with the United States now on guard for stealthy weapon to reach the United States. A weapon the Americans would never suspect. The concept of launching aircraft from a submarine But these earlier attempts were experimental reconnaissance plane. What Yamamoto had in mind was far more ambitious. A fleet of submarines that could carry multiple by launching surprise attacks on cities, only In March of 1942, Japanese engineers were secret weapon. To start, Yamamoto's aircraft carrying subs torpedo dive-bombers. And engineers would have to design a catapult And a mechanism to recover the aircraft and But making the bombers fit inside a submarine With a typical World War Two-era dive bomber would also need to design an entirely new One that could be folded up to fit inside The submarines would also need to be able thousands of kilometers away. And then return all the way back to Japan And it meant carrying nearly two million liters a crew out at sea for months. Japan's secret underwater aircraft carriers And they'd be enormous. Nearly twice the length of a typical German To support the weight of the hanger and to engineers innovated a double hull design. Essentially two hulls stuck together. It gave the mammoth I-400 nearly three times American submarine. And the I-400 was still a formidable submarine Armed with eight forward mounted torpedo tubes And to fend off enemy aircraft, three triple-mounted gun on the sail. But of course the i400's primary weapons The element of surprise was an underwater And as the I-400 silently approached its target, aircraft. Mechanics would start by running heated oil be warmed up and ready to launch. The mammoth submarine would surface a few race would be on to get three bombers airborne. Each aircraft would be rolled out from the Crews would then start the engine, unfold and load armament. One by one, the three aircraft would be launched The whole process would take thirty minutes. After which the I-400 would dive back to safety from their mission. The torpedo dive bombers were cutting edge. They were designed specifically for the I-400 in Japan's naval arsenal. Equipped with floats, the aircraft would land aboard using a collapsible hydraulic crane. The aircraft could also be launched without but forcing pilots to ditch into the ocean The I-400 was a brilliant design, merging strike capability of an aircraft carrier. But Japan's new super weapon would make On August 15, 1945, after nearly four years closing in and the bombing of Japanese cities, The Americans first intercepted an I-400 off And at first they weren't exactly sure what The Japanese crew had thrown all of the attack And at first the Americans believed the I-400 But they'd soon unravel the submarine's in the War. To start, many in Japan's Navy considered to be a farce. And the slow process of launching aircraft for submarine crews. But resistance to the concept would soon be Because it took nearly a year to design such Construction of the first I-400s only began By then, the Japanese were already losing After a crushing defeat in June of 1942, the the pacific. And Japan was running critically short on Delaying I-400 construction even further. And Yamamato himself would never live to see In 1943, while on an inspection tour through downed by American forces. What started as a plan to build a fleet of eventually whittled down to just five. And only three were ever completed. The first entering service in 1945. So late in the War that Japan's military Launching sneak attacks on American cities been pointless. Even a more strategic mission to bomb the command felt that it too would've made little The only mission the I-400's would ever American forces as they amassed off a tiny But as the first I-400s traveled to their the Second World War. Aircraft carrier submarines had always been A way to change odds so stacked against Japan, tables be turned. And had the sub arrived at the start of the But Japan's secret weapon wasn't without The process of launching three aircraft was But rarely could it be accomplished in less A dangerous amount of time for such a large And the I-400's bombers, while sophisticated built from lower grade materials due to shortages. They were notoriously unreliable. Rarely could all three get airborne without And the enormous I-400's depth time, critical that of American submarines. Even submerged, it was still vulnerable. With a hull that was riveted, not welded, depth-charges. Still, the Americans considered the I-400 Especially in the wrong hands. And In 1946, with the Soviets demanding to scuttled the I-400s off the coast of Hawaii Keeping their exact wreckage locations secret, kind of weapon, that in a different set of of the war. This video originally appeared on Nebula. A streaming site that I helped create. Nebula is where you can watch Mustard videos Without any annoying advertisements or sponsor It's also home to a growing number of Nebula series on the Logistics of D-Day, long-form experimental content by your favorite creators. Right now you get Nebula for free, when you With CuriosityStream you get to enjoy thousands best film makers in the world. From history to science to nature, CuriosityStream's deeper dive into fascinating topics. Get unlimited access to both CuriosityStream all for just $2.99 a month by going to curiositystream.com/mustard sign up.