Hey there guys Paul here from In this video we're going to be learning all about the different their applications, as Now before we jump in, I to thank our partner DanFoss DanFoss have been creating for a long time and of high quality products In fact, they have up you need for your chiller system, including compressors, a/c heat exchangers, valves, All of these solutions help from the inside out. To find out more visit If you're working within especially chillers or perhaps you're a student or an apprentice, maybe you're a building then you're going to hear the recep, the turbo You might not have any idea If so don't worry because by Now we've covered how these chillers work in great detail previously, links are in the video description below and if you're not already a subscriber then hit the subscribe button now and we'll help you become an expert. Just to recap you on your chillers are simply machines or chilled water, which is to provide air conditioning. They are also used in but we're going to primarily in air conditioning of As you can imagine there types of chillers and they so it's important you the differences between them, as well as why. The first way to categorize a chiller is by defining whether or a vapor absorption type chiller. Vapor compression chillers use an electrically driven to force a refrigerant around the system. These are the most There are two subcategories which are water cooled and we'll look at these both shortly. The other main category of chiller is the vapor absorption type. Instead of using an electrically powered mechanical compressor, to move the refrigerant around the system. Coming back to vapor compression chillers, the two main types we said were Now both types of chillers have the same essential components, which are the evaporator, the compressor, the condenser and the expansion valve. When we talk about air or water cooled this simply refers to the way in which the unwanted heat is via the chillers condenser. The working principle for both air cooled and water cooled chillers The compressor pushes a of the chiller between the condenser, the expansion valve, the evaporator, and back to the compressor. The only difference is that fans force air across the which carries the heat away. Whereas with a water cooled chiller, this has a sealed condenser through this condenser and disperse this through A cooling tower we use a So where are these Large buildings with around 400 tons or 1,400 use water cooled chillers and they'll usually be centrifugal type or turbo coil type plant cooling system. They might also use a separate to handle the cooling such as computer and communication rooms. There might also be an absorption chiller within the central plant system making use of waste heat from but these are mostly used Medium sized buildings with 200 to 400 tons or 700 to 1400 kilowatts will typically use screw compressors or turbo core compressor chillers. Now these chillers can or air cooled and we'll look at why that would be just shortly. These types of buildings might also use an absorption chiller if is available. Smaller buildings with 200 tons or less or 700 kilowatts will typically use scroll compressors or even turbo call compressors and these are mostly going Again we'll look at why They might also use a such as a VRF unit but this of the building and the cooling load. If you have a building cooling load then it's use only one oversized chiller to handle the entire cooling load. This is not efficient and if it fails you will have no cooling capability left. Instead you should use multiple different sizes to meet at optimal performance For example you have a of 2,200 tons then you such as two 1,200 ton chillers or two 900 and a 500 ton chiller or 1,000 ton and two 700 The options are almost limitless. You also need to consider the and the redundancy required, which is known as the N plus number. Where the N is the number and the plus 1, plus 2 or plus 3, etc. is the number of backup chillers you need to be able to continue to in the event of a failure. So that if any chiller fails you always have a backup and take over to handle the cooling load. You might need to use chillers that can work independently so that if one compressor fails then the chiller can still Unfortunately many building upfront option but this is a bad idea because for a little extra a more efficient chiller which especially as chillers last around 15 to maybe 25 plus years in operation. So it would have paid and would have resulted in So how do you decide between or water cooled chiller? Well this really depends so let's have a look at the Now some of the pros for is that water cooled chillers especially for larger cooling loads. They use the evaporation of which is obviously going than blowing air across a hot surface like air cooled chillers do. Water also has a higher so it's inherently easier Water cooled chillers can for their floor space that they And water cooled chillers because they are held within the building so they're going to So some of the cons to is that these type of and for this you need of clean water. If the chiller is therefore in an area of water then you won't be able to Water cooled chillers are and they are very large machines so depending on the they can create a lot inside the building, which is why they are usually Water cooled chillers and also to maintain. Water cooled chillers take they need more mechanical more pumps, more cooling towers and water treatment facilities. This space therefore can't then be used for business purposes. Let's now have a look So some of the pros for is that they cost less to install and that's because they Air cooled chillers require less space, they can set up on the and they do not need a mechanical room. This means more space within the building for business purposes. Air cooled chillers compared to water cooled chillers, again because they have less equipment. Air cooled chiller and easier to design and do for the condenser loop. Some of the cons for is that air cooled chillers their fans and compressors which the surrounding areas Although some measures can to reduce this. Air cooled chillers typically do not have as long service life compared because they are exposed the frost, the snow, the wind, etc. and this will all Air cooled chillers can suffer They can be damaged and things like recirculation issues. So let's now have a look at some of the different compressor technologies that are currently available. Centrifugal chillers are used It's incredibly rare that an air cooled centrifugal chiller. They're usually medium typically available from of refrigeration or 530 They have a COP of around 5.8 up to 7.1. Typically they'll use only one compressor, sometimes two for They work best at full loading, although VFDs can be fitted to improve the part load performance. They'll use one or two rotating impellers to compress the refrigerant and force it around the chiller and the capacity can be as well as vane guides. Turbo call compressors in chiller compressor technology and they are an evolution on and this is definitely as they are becoming more common and you're going to start to see these more and more in buildings. Turbo call compressors can be used for air or water cooled chillers and they are used in all cooling loads from large to small buildings. They are typically available or 210 to 5,200 kilowatts. They have a COP of 4.6 even up to 10. Have one or more and they can be staged or They have variable speed controllers, they have soft starters, magnetic bearings and only have one moving part. They are oil free and They use rotating impellers and the capacity can be controlled through speed control Reciprocating compressors or water cooled chillers, although this is an older technology which is far less common now. They're used in small although now the technology in simple smaller low-cost refrigerators and refrigeration systems. For chillers they are typically available from 50 to 500 tons or They have a COP of around 4.2 to 5.5 and they use a piston and chamber to compress the refrigerant. The capacity is controlled cylinder unloading as Scroll compressors are used for air or water cooled chillers. They are used in small typically available from or 140 to 1,400 kilowatts. Air cooled chillers typically Water cooled COPs might be 4.45 up to 6.2. They'll use one or more compressors which can be fixed or variable speed and they can be stage or speed controlled. They use two spiral plates One will be fixed in place and the other one rotates. Capacity is controlled via scrolls in a solenoid valve Screw compressors can be used on air or water cooled chillers and they are used in small They are typically available or 250 to 2,100 kilowatts. The air cooled screw compressors of around 2.9 up to 4.15. Water cooled will have Typically they'll have one compressor on a water cooled chiller or one to two compressors They use two interlocking to compress the refrigerant and the capacity is or a slider. Absorption chillers, now the refrigeration process. They usually use steam or hot water. They're used in medium to large buildings, such as hospitals, swimming They're ideal for using waste And they're sometimes used to offset peak electricity cost. They typically are combined Now typically you can buy or 250 up to 4,900 kilowatts. They have a very low COP of 0.6 up to 1.9. They have no compressor. They are either direct or indirect fired and capacity is controlled the amount of heat which That about wraps things up but before I go I just one last time for sponsoring this video. Don't forget to check out their wide range of chiller solutions over Thanks for watching, I hope this has helped If so, please don't forget Also follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and Instagram and check out our website, Once again, thanks for watching.