Transcriber: Vivian Lim When I was 10 years old, and not for the better. One day, they called a family meeting. We had never had a family meeting before. They sat my two younger and they told us that we'd be moving from our little log cabin to the southern part of the province. And that they would be divorcing. Of course, my sisters The entire world that I knew and yet this was not the worst part. You see, my father, Peter, The divorce was extremely hard on him, and he was becoming He was less engaged he had less energy, and I barely recognized him anymore. I remember thinking to myself, "Is this my new dad?" One day I woke up at his house, and I could hear music playing downstairs, which was very unusual. As I came downstairs, I could smell and there was my dad, Peter, (Laughter) dancing and making pancakes. I said, "Good morning, Dad." "Good morning, Tia." (Laughter) I said, "Wow Dad, Are you happy because it's your birthday?" "You know, Tia, I have had three and I woke up this morning, 'I'm not going to have another bad year.'" I saw my dad choose happiness. So what did he do exactly? He started doing things So he played upbeat music all the time. (Laughter) He went back to school He exercised outside, and he spent a lot of time I learned as a young teenager and it's something that you do. And this lesson impacted my entire life. However, at age 18 and 19, I was really struggling, I had dropped out of university and I was partying way too much. I knew that there had to be more to life, and I knew that I had This decision took me to Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, I am so grateful that I chose Hilton Head because it exposed me to the travel This experience led me to a 15-year career in the hospitality industry that I was passionate about I led sales and marketing teams in Hawaii, New York City, Istanbul, and Los Angeles. Remember, I'm from a little log cabin A happy life is not about This is a huge misconception. A happy life has more positive than pain. We all have pain. A happy life has meaning and purpose, and a happy life has different experiences that make you psychologically rich. You think happiness comes from meeting but really, it comes Here is the simple secret Spend time doing things Society tells us what happiness is, what happiness looks like, but what really matters is how you feel. So many people struggle with happiness. I struggle. You struggle. Whether it's kids, work, finances, politics, non-stop technology, or the never-ending 24/7 (Laughter) I personally struggle to feed my family three times a day, seven days a week, every single week. (Laughter) I am not a good cook, Obviously, I would never Bottom Chef called and said, (Laughter) Here's just a few stats: Gallup's research showed that 79% of people, globally, That's almost 80% of people. Many people are doing work or that's not meaningful to them. Also, according to Gallup's 41% of people have a lot of stress The World Health Organization said one and the term "work-life balance" has over 2.8 billion And your brain, my brain, all of our brains have a negativity bias, which is really unfortunate. We have to work extra hard I'm going to share with you four things that many people really enjoy doing. I'm going to connect them And I want you to think Happiness choice number one - Spend a lot of quality time For me, this looks like playing with my daughters and FaceTiming and calling my sisters For you, it might be spending For you, it might be spending The Harvard Grant Study of Adult proved that our relationships directly affect our health Human connection is When I became a parent, I knew And then last Thursday, I was like, All the parents, yes, you relate. Happiness choice number two This means sleeping every single night. Research shows that sleep improves our brain functioning, and improves our overall quality of life. So even though (Laughter) or even though you could stay up just one go to bed and leave your phone in the kitchen. (Applause) How do you treat your spouse when you're really (Laughter) Right? We take it out on the people That's who gets it. Happiness choice number three - Moving at least four times a week. Exercise increases our happiness, increases our brain functioning, Do not exercise to look good; exercise to be happier. And I know you're busy. You don't need to do Even if you move 15, 20 minutes, Happiness choice number four that is meaningful to you. Research shows that meaningful work while we're working and makes us happier in our personal life. And if you don't have to change jobs or change careers, just spend more time helping people, and your work will be more meaningful. There are many other happiness choices, meditating, volunteering, journaling It's about you. When you spend your time you operate at a higher level. Happy people are more productive A recent Oxford-MIT study proved that people who felt happy while they're working That means you work faster, And happy people are more successful. Dr. Martin Seligman, the father studied close to a million And the research showed that people were four times more likely four times more likely So it directly connects Healthy people are So on one extreme, only caring about yourself. On the other extreme, there's doing what everyone else The simple secret is to spend your time so that you're happier, and you will take care of everyone What you enjoy doing may change over time, like when my dad found himself single Reflect and take new action. We all have different based on our genetics But everyone can In the recent article titled the researchers write, and a proper way to become happier. I invite you to prioritize your happiness and spend your time doing things Imagine what that would do for your life. Imagine if all parents and set this example for their children. Imagine if all leaders and set this example for their teams. Think about you, all the parents and their children, all the leaders and their teams, now taking this renewed energy and using it to serve others What kind of world would that look like? Thank you. (Applause)