Hello our dear viewers. Today, we have the the one who controls public opinion, the one who controls... Tell us more about your hobbies. I skipped way too far, -Mr. Elon, we're pleased to have you here. You're accused of What idiot programmed this host! We programmed him to ask So you make him accuse Don't embarrass us! Mr. Elon, did you buy Twitter to Mr. Elon, why do you support Trump Is it because it supports What's wrong with his chip? About the 'Neuralink' project, why do Back in the day I used to Tomorrow's maximum temperature is 30degC, and the minimum temperature is Why do you want to leave us to live on Mars? Since the world is ending, Of course 'Tesla' by Yeat. Bill Gates is smarter than you! Ahmed El Ghandour is smarter than you! Is Samih Sawiris your friend? What's your relation with Sam Altman? Welcome...The end of the world! Do you order the most Do you believe in existence? Are you they reason why Paris Or are you the reason why Is it true that you're in a relation Welcome...The end of the world! Welcome...The end of the world! Welcome... There's a problem in his brain chip! -Welcome... I'm not in the mood right now! Welcome...The end of the world! Welcome...The end of the world! Welcome...The end of the world! Hello my dear viewers. Welcome to a new episode of El Daheeh. Today's episode is about the man Imagine an ex that gives Today's episode is about &quot;Are you trying to find any Do you need money to the point This is a new episode and it's inspired by that was just released. In July 2018, Elon Musk's The production rate of Tesla while SpaceX's rockets The rate of payloads the was more than that of the USA and China. Everything was going great until suddenly Elon's It wasn't threatened by a or even a younger competitor who it was threatened by a Tweet. While Musk was scrolling he found a tweet of someone who were trapped inside a Musk ordered the engineers of SpaceX that could reach the cave On July 8, he went to Thailand, wearing a SpaceX hat. As if Musk was a superhero. &quot;Hello and welcome Mr. Musk, feel fr... What! Our divers were the ones to save That's what happened, the divers before Musk even used his capsule. Til now, it's a normal story of multiple The surprise is that the who participated in the rescue, told the 'CNN' that Elon and his capsule couldn't and it was better for him to put it Musk got involved in a He accused Vernon with shameful stuff, the least one was that Elon didn't stop there, my friend, he kept provoking Vernon more, as if he said: &quot;I'm slandering you and and get billions of dollars worth of You won't do anything because The childish battle that Musk had drove Musk's tweets made along with the damage he caused to his What genius inventor goes on Twitter and starts calling people Come on, man, you're a CEO! Less than a month later, Musk made another catastrophe. He tweeted saying that he into a private company, meaning so that the investors who wouldn't have any share in the company. Not only that, he also changed the This 420 is a symbol of at specific times, basically a joke. Of course the SEC, the agency stopped the stock exchange. It stopped stock exchange temporarily and started interrogating him. How can someone as big as Elon Musk announce such a crucial before even telling the stock market, as he is legally obliged to do this. The agency filled a claim from managing Tesla or any public company, and if he didn't agree to this, he had and vow to not tweet about anything It's like having someone to see what he does on Twitter. Musk refused all offers, my friend, however, as time went on and as he had to agree eventually. Newspapers as big as 'The New Musk's mental state, which made him, with some tweets, and thousands of investors. Jim Cramer, a host in 'CNBC,' publicly with a new mood every hour. Everyone started to wonder and one of the world's geniuses According to Antonio Gracias, we all know that Musk is intelligent, but many of his responses and don't come from the but from a more primitive part. We witness an emotional person We always feel like he's under he acts upon instincts in Anytime he's provoked, this that doesn't have a brain he has 2 options, either escape either way he feels trapped. According to Antonio, what along with his intelligence, is PTSD. He always feels trapped, You'd find that someone but at the same time he uses That's why Talulah Riley, his ex-wife, from becoming a 'mad or as she expressed it, from feeling where he would start to think Those who were close to Musk who was one-situation &quot;Abo Hmeed, let me ask you so that you can move to -Good job, my friend! how can this intelligent man I'll go get the child, my friend. Elon Musk was born on June 28, 1971, in Pretoria, South Africa. [Mohamed El-Shenawy] Since he was 3 years old, he showed and he had questions that She decided to send him to the nursery, but the owner of the nursery not only because Musk was still young, but also because he was weird. He was always absentminded and and he sometimes If you said you're going to eat him as a Musk's weirdness didn't exceed his house, Twitter wasn't around then, however, when he joined his classmates said that because he didn't answer any He wasn't able to make because he has a huge problem If someone said on a cold day His younger siblings Kimbal and Tosca made friends normally Elon used his isolation At first, he read all the encyclopedias He was hungry for knowledge, my friend, the source for this hunger was because he couldn't As time went on, and with he started to be really Elon read a book about future inventions, one of these inventions was a rocket that Musk didn't read scientific books only, he loved reading comics of as they are different They lived in isolation like him, but their difference because they're smarter Musk learned from superheros to use Musk also excelled in computer programming this was probably because its language To him, it is much easier than At 13 years old, Elon Using 123 lines of the 'Basic' he created the 'Blastar' game. In his book 'Elon Musk,' that a teenager who loved science, saw his dreams come true in a Douglas Adams' which contains 42, the The novel talks about Arthur Dent the last human to escape the Earth, which was destroyed According to Walter Isaacson, Musk a person whose problem is and needs to go to a far planet where everything is Elon thought that his weirdness which he confirmed would His intelligence didn't only but also acting like the Musk decided to save humanity. How can he do this? By building a bunch of rockets with to settle there and plant potatoes just Elon discovered that going to Mars is the way with which he into a method to escape to a as humanity will surely need That way people would recognize him. His weirdness isn't a disability stopping but he can help us because he's weird. This is a childish goal, that we can say became a compass If we use the language of the we'll find that he's similar to Batman. The person who decided to save the We all know where Batman's power lies. -&quot;Where?&quot; he can't fly, go invisible, he's normal just like us. He has his own villa, car, and Michael and that's his superpower. Musk realized that for him to have a he needed some loot, or what's known as bread, or money in normal people's language. That's the first step Musk he became a millionaire. In the early 90s, the 20-year-old Elon was a totally different he was confident in According to Robin Ren, his you'll find that he's not really He mostly talks about physics When he knew that a law in to be electric cars by 2003, he said egoistically that because electrical and solar so that we don't have to &quot;I'll be the one to invent electric cars, so global warming so that I won't have because I don't have Musk knew very well that if he told anyone He decided that big dreams aren't the first but simple, manageable dreams. We're talking about the 90s, the internet was fresh out of the oven. It's a virtual, open world and less complexities than the world. It's a place where the fittest don't rule. The masters of this place are and its heroes are people with the people that can't even Elon Musk found himself He made something called 'Zip2,' which was a guide for businesses, where you'd go on the internet, type the and directions to reach it, basically Google Maps before Google Maps. Take care that, 30 years that's why he found a company The company succeeded in selling including 'The New York Times,' however, something important happened. Even though everything was going great, Elon Musk was a The employees, and even himself, were When he left his computer and I think he discovered that he doesn't &quot;Those are who I want to If we try to find a suitable simile we'll find that Musk's relation was similar to 'X-Men.' He loved 'X-Men' to the point that he The thing is X-Men can't be weak. Musk saw himself as Professor X, therefore his team had to be superheros, so that together they were X-Men. They were hardly 'Men' to even be 'X-Men,' they carried around chairs to sit. While working on Zip 2, that Elon corrected the mistakes in a humiliating way, and he Even when he argued with his brother Kimbal, they would fight each other, and not just by raising their voices, they would hit each other. It wasn't just a verbal To the point that one time in order for Kimbal to save he bit Elon's hand and wouldn't let go. Elon had to get a tetanus shot All employees said that they and Musk was the reason behind it. No one took any days off because We'll see this pattern occur in all Can you imagine that he owns possibly the world's largest and one of the world's aside from the 500 projects he invests Of course he doesn't take days off. After all of this, if an &quot;I want some days off to he'll say: &quot;What summer vacation!&quot; This is probably one of the reasons no one can tolerate him. The only exception was Gwynne Shotwell, she is the chief of SpaceX, who He has huge fights with his brother. According to her, she can tolerate Musk because her husband has the same &quot;Hold on a second, Abo the difference between This guy is a manager, and he'll never succeed I want to tell you the he's the richest and he wasn't the usual leader Musk's harshness and pressure on the as more than 37 million Maybe they differ from each other, but Not all of them are toxic managers who intentionally ruin the When you read Walter Musk's childhood is one of the most In any biography, my friend, if read about the childhood, and Parents are sometimes the and the worst thing a person can have. If I sum up Musk's childhood in a word, it won't be Asperger, -&quot;What?&quot; Elon Musk knew violence when he tried to protect his mother At 6 years old, he was Can you imagine that it was the ones who are called loyal on While he was in the hospital, he however, when he left the hospital, This made him feel that maybe Elon's father didn't enroll he sent him to a field school, it's composed of survival camps in Bullying was a virtue there because the normal survival rule in the forest. Musk was beaten up and If he complained to the supervisor, the supervisor would scare him with stories of children who died Elon spent his childhood in It got to the point that one and according to him, they turned He was severely beaten to the point to fix its position. When he complained to his father, his father scolded him According to his brother Kimbal, this was the worst memory in Elon's life, and it could be what shaped This explains why he's angry, but when Mark Zuckerberg he kept saying &quot;Come on! Behind this is a scared child, a coward! [Elon Musk] [An Egyptian folklore Even though Elon's childhood was rough, it was a small frame in a which is South Africa in the 80s. It was a country about to Musk talked about a situation where he went to a musical and on the way he saw bodies and for him to walk Fights, where cold steel and automatic &quot;Abo Hmeed, everything you said My friend, toxic people are &quot;You said that mentally ill and ill-mannered toxic people Honestly, I didn't, my friend, but the world can tolerate both people. Musk was in fact a victim, my friend, but when he reached 16 years and he responded violently He kept using this response method He doesn't believe in &quot;an eye for an Like how he said: &quot;If you've never been you'll never know how it affects If you don't get punched in the Elon didn't leave this he always feels like he's and he must attack with violence even if this wining was just As you know, my friend, no you have to get hit in any fight, even if you win, you'll still get punched. In the Zip2 fight, Elon It's true that his intelligence but there was a consensus to Elon was ousted because In the case of Zip2, the hit came from &quot;You're a genius and thank you so but no one can work this way, no The situation remained the when Zip2, the company created by Elon Elon's share was 22 million dollars. Take care that 10 years prior who just arrived in Toronto. Then, he became a millionaire Everything suddenly changed in his life, his bank account, his look, and It was clear that Musk was wealthy, He bought a McLaren to suit his new position. &quot;That's great, Abo Hmeed, with a roof, a garden, and a and put the money in and live off the monthly interest.&quot; Money doesn't buy everything, my friend, and I mean what he had wasn't enough, now we know that it does buy everything. He had 2 dreams that There were 2 things number 1, he still wanted to but his money wasn't enough Number 2, he couldn't which ruined any attempt of In one year, Musk did everything again, he repeated the same cycle of in a project we know today as 'PayPal.' In 1999, Musk invested most in an electronic bank called 'X.com.' You understand? If you're an investor, and someone suggested an idea with you'll say: &quot;Don't you think that It's a weird name just The symbol X remained with he named his space company SpaceX, changed the name of Twitter to 'X,' and he even named his son with an X. Musk loves the symbol X because it's a logo that gives you infinite The X.com bank was a genius idea. At the age of 28, Elon Musk one of the most famous As usual, Musk's management and in the board meeting, everyone from the CEO position in X.com. The same thing happened again, without losing or gaining one more -&quot;Who wants him to leave?&quot; &quot;Please, leave!&quot; Not only did Musk pressure the employees, but also he set criminal like announcing that the site will What's strange is that this worked. He set unimaginable deadlines, and asked people to accomplish impossible In fact, many times throughout his I said many times, we still he's been talking about since 2018. In the case of X.com, in autumn 1999, he Can you imagine that he sold Zip2, used the money to make X.com, and succeeded to operate it Leave something for next year! Elon's team couldn't believe how this madman made them work at When PayPal emerged as a rival the rivalry between the one company had to defeat the other. The solution was the famous merging, where Elon Musk had to because PayPal was Keep in mind that Elon when he's cornered or threatened. In one of the merging meetings with Peter Musk took Thiel in his McLaren car, and to impose his authority, Musk drove at sonic speed. Why? To terrify Thiel and let him know that he's a crazy Suddenly the car crashed Musk said that he's happy because he assured Thiel [Peter Thiel] Nice ride, man. According to an investor in PayPal, this accident is a perfect simile of the While the company was doing that you can use on eBay, Musk wanted to change and change it into a full fledged While the company was Elon insisted on using 'Microsoft.' To settle this, Elon had an and to settle this argument, Elon &quot;I agree, Abo Hmeed. During arguments, people need to relax and play No, my friend, they actually to see who gets to say what they'll do, and Elon won the match. He literally ruled with an iron fist. Let me tell you that an entire in changing the codes to They focused on this instead of the scams that happened on which were pulling the In 2000, something strange happened the founders of PayPal led what's with the clear and from the CEO position They believed that he was a to prove his authority, and that he will crash the Musk was kicked out of PayPal and PayPal had the same fate as Zip2. In 2002, the company and eBay bought it How much do you think It was 250 million dollars, quarter of a billion. Elon Musk found out he entered the 6-digit pass code, and knew that this amount Then, Elon Musk was able to become Batman. Musk started a new during which he built the New aspects of his Maybe Batman wasn't the but Iron Man. He's a millionaire who but he's very intelligent and can he dedicates his fortune Elon loved Iron Man so much as a real life equivalent to Tony inherited his arms but Musk built his empire himself and inherited from his father he inherited the worst possible Failure was waiting like a According to Kimbal Musk, their father was a pro where he changed the surrounding reality a victim, and not as a person He justified ruining Elon's and sending him to by saying that violence is a and that he had to be tough and careful He had to raise his son to the and that if he doesn't The father also denied his by saying that they said this to satisfy Elon Musk called this pattern This is the known theme of the elegant man who always has justifications and but he hides a demon inside. Elon was his father's victim and He adopted the same In the early 2000s, Musk which competes with Musk believed that He discovered on their website that ever since they they didn't make plans specifically for his beloved Mars. His friends and family said: &quot;Are you crazy? You want to build Do you really think you can Listen kid, if you have money, You want to invest in space! Invest in spices instead, as people will never Of course Musk didn't care. &quot;I don't care, I'll go to Mars.&quot; According to those working lies in his ability to achieve crazy Musk didn't build SpaceX to compete with NASA in space but as a delivery company, We deliver anything to satellites, astronauts, As if they privatized NASA, they went to NASA and The problem is that in astronauts, or anything to space, you'll need rockets to do this. Elon tried to buy rockets from Russia, as we said in the &quot;SpaceX when he found out that he couldn't do it, he decided to build his own rocket. We have to say that there is from many other geniuses, for example when compared to Steve Jobs. Before Steve Jobs, you could and reassemble it again, However, Jobs made his so the geniuses after him became Since Musk was a child, he was to the point that he assembled an instead of buying a new car. His skill with machines made him it's very famous in It means that before you buy any device, disassemble it into its original parts, surely you'll find that these than buying the product as a whole. This means that you're because you can't assemble these where the collection of its parts is Musk wrote all the components of a rocket and applied the idiot index to them. He found out that he can buy them at a Musk dedicated the 2 narcissism and controlling. He dedicated narcissism to and controlling to build his without an investor to kick him out, a company with the same or help from anyone because no one is as crazy as him to invest Despite all of this, Musk He cornered himself by his choice because he knows that when and does his worst to the employees. He survived by simplifying everything. For example, a single valve of the Elon told his employees to search Engineer Jeremy Hollman discovered which mixes liquids to clean the cars. He managed to make a valve very similar If you use this as a you'll find that SpaceX managed to with only creative solutions. Musk was convinced that trial than being afraid to try One time lightning hit a test stand, so the pressure system in and the tank barriers stopped as well. In any airline company, this and buying the new Musk took a plane, gathered the employees, &quot;Come on, guys! Let's risk it and &quot;You said that he dealt with Where's that failure?&quot; Let me tell you that before launching Musk transferred the preparation of the to a remote base in the which are characterized In the first base, there which stopped Elon At that time, the military &quot;Step aside Mr. Musk with we have national tasks to finish!&quot; On March 24, 2006, the first and Musk announced that the reason was a leak in one of which was caused by Jeremy Hollman's This was Musk's father's as Elon was one way or One of the main reasons was because they moved The real reason is that Elon transported Even the valve that broke risk using cheap aluminium The second launching because Musk took the despite a technical problem When Musk achieves he takes the credit to himself, but when he fails, he puts the They have to pay for the consequences, This is clear in his most important The idea of Tesla started with He thought that since laptop if we use them with an we can operate an Along with Straubel's idea, AC Then, Martin Eberhard named the The technology, name, only thing left was Musk was making SpaceX to but he was still thinking One of our planet's biggest and one of its main causes is the use of Musk founded Tesla, and the Musk knew very well that and logical idea than rockets, but no one invested it them because no one wanted a car that looks like and pay more than 100 Musk's instinct of control and he changed from financing He started to interfere in the design. The first design was the Tesla Roadster, Musk found that its door and Musk was 188 cm, he Musk told them: &quot;Imagine a you want him to crawl in the The headlights made Musk told them that headlights are the Even though this was a minor change, so that when you turn on the headlights, This wasn't enough, Musk changed as if it's a magical car. Not only did Musk improve the design with Keep in mind that he studied as he sends people When he applied his ideas to Tesla, he changed its body to be which are stronger than glass fibers. Musk's adjustments went on until 2006, until it drained all of However, when the The Washington Post wrote saying this doesn't look like a father's Musk turned the idea and dream of nerdy into a trend that with an attractive look can make consumers feel like and make consumers who have When Elon felt like always mentioned him as a mere financier, Elon invited Robert Downey Jr. the actor He put Tesla cars in Iron genius advertisement of the car by Elon. When he appeared in 'Iron Man 2,' he connected himself to the car forever, just like Michael Jordan and Nike. After that, celebrities stepped like Arnold Schwarzenegger. In order to stop the he studied something He discovered that to make a car, Tesla buys the batteries from Japan, then ships it to Thailand then to England. The hoods are in France In short, the car parts travel to reach his factory. At the beginning of the trip, but after collecting a bunch of complete after calculating everything. Musk decided that it to manufacture the like he did in SpaceX. He fired Eberhard and held Elon musk wasn't getting fired and &quot;Elon was right, Abo Hmeed. They're and Elon kept solving problems!&quot; My friend, Musk hired a Michael Marks, who was the and other companies of a capital of up to He emphasized that Musk is and maybe he solved as if he paid the ransom When Elon Musk set crazy deadlines for this forced them to order the Since there was a crazy deadline, so they bought parts with higher Due to his reputation, the as he could get mad and fire them. No one talked or opposed him. &quot;You want us to finish on Michael stepped down from his where Musk didn't tolerate Michael said that Musk is but the price of his great is to tolerate dealing Of course it's worth a try, you can save the world with such a guy, you can invent stuff to change the but I don't want to work with that guy. Maybe it's worth a try, but I You can save humanity away from me. This guy can save humanity, &quot;There's an important question, Abo Hmeed, is Elon Musk good or bad? Full of flaws or are sins Or what, Abo Hmeed? Honestly, my friend, he's both stuck between a million This is what we'll find where we'll talk about dangerous and all of this stuff. I want to ask you to wait and you'll get to know We'll probably make more because he keeps making achievements! Last but not least, don't forget to Check the sources below and Do you know what's common -&quot;What?&quot;