Spirals are spinning Don't fly away Light comes to anywhere you like And I hope that you feel it There's no time to waste Just take me to where we collide Whoa, oh, oh, oh Whoo! And I hope that you feel it There's no time to waste Just take me to where we collide Tim Cook: Good morning. And welcome to Apple Park for this very special day about our latest technologies We love to see our amazing developers and bring those ideas to life It's remarkable to think of the App Store, Together with the iPhone, developers' apps have helped create enriched the lives of our users, We are committed to providing developers tools, and opportunities to help them One of these important resources is our Worldwide Developers Conference. We are excited to kick things off Our teams are continuing to innovate- creating breakthrough experiences Driven by the deep integration these experiences deliver the magic It's something only Apple can do. Today we're going to make some at WWDC. We'll be talking about the future as well as introducing So to get it started, to talk about the Mac. John Ternus: The Mac has been by the transition to Apple silicon, with industry-leading performance, and extraordinary battery life. Apple silicon has also enabled developers to take their apps further than ever and do things that simply And its power-efficient performance enables us to create new systems like the amazing With its incredible performance, all-day battery life, and striking design, it's our most loved Mac. And it's also Well, today, on another product Here it is... Dream big Whoa Dream big I didn't know this could be so Easy Dream big Big Introducing the 15-inch MacBook Air. It's the world's best 15-inch laptop. And here's Kate to tell you all about it. Kate Bergeron: in a 15-inch laptop. It starts with a design yet feels incredibly solid and durable. It's only 11.5 mm thin, making it the world's thinnest And it's easy to carry around It features MagSafe charging, and a headphone jack And it comes in four gorgeous finishes, including Midnight and Starlight. The Air has a brilliant with an expansive 15.3-inch screen that's surrounded by thin, 5 mm borders, so you can see even more of your content. And with up to 500 nits of brightness and support for one billion colors, everything looks remarkably rich It has a great 1080p camera along with a three-mic array so you come through loud and clear. And the new Air sounds awesome! With six speakers, it delivers immersive Spatial Audio. All of this is enabled by the M2 chip, which delivers amazing performance In fact, the new Air is 12 times faster than the fastest And it gets an astonishing So what makes the new Air Well, 15-inch PC laptops are full of tradeoffs between performance, display resolution, battery life, When compared to the with a Core i7 processor, MacBook Air is up to twice as fast. And its display is twice the resolution and 25% brighter. Even with better performance you still get up to 50% more battery life When it comes to design, the Air is nearly 40% thinner and half a pound lighter than the PC. And its fan-less design With all these great features it's the only 15-inch laptop If this is your first Mac, you'll enjoy how easy it is And once you start using it, you'll see how seamlessly So you can do things like copy something and paste it with your Mac Or pick up where you left off So that's the new 15-inch MacBook Air. It has an expansive display, the incredible performance of M2, a six-speaker sound system, all in the world's thinnest Now, back to John. John: We're super excited about the world's best 15-inch laptop. And it starts at just $1299! And $1199 for education. An incredible value You can to order it today, and it'll be available next week. We're also excited now starts at $1099- And the 13-inch Air with M1 So customers have more choices than ever to find the perfect Air for them. So that's MacBook Air. Next, let's talk about our pro products. Earlier this year, we announced along with the new MacBook Pro and users have been amazed Well, now we have even more starting with Mac Studio. Introduced last year, designed specifically for pros, Users have been astonished and satisfaction is through the roof. They love that it puts and extensive connectivity in a compact form And you can already find it in the heart of hundreds of thousands Like at NBC, where they use it to deliver And at Air Studios, to bring blockbuster movies to life. And at Lux, to create cutting-edge apps, like Halide. Today, we're excited to give Mac Studio And here's Jennifer to tell you more. Jennifer Munn: for its incredible performance and today, both get even better. First, Mac Studio is getting and it's a performance powerhouse. Developers can build new versions of apps with up to 25% faster performance Motion graphics designers using can render up to 50% faster than M1 Max. Mac Studio with M2 Max is also than the most powerful Intel-based iMac. And that's not all. Today, we're adding one final chip taking Mac performance to new heights. Introducing M2 Ultra. It is a monster of a chip! Connecting two M2 Max die together with our groundbreaking it doubles the performance of M2 Max. The 24-core CPU in M2 Ultra delivers 20% faster performance And its 76-core GPU is 30% faster Finally, the 32-core Neural Engine And M2 Ultra can support an enormous 192GB of unified memory, which is 50% more than M1 Ultra, enabling it to do things For example, in a single system, like large transformer models that the most powerful discrete GPU because it runs out of memory. So that's M2 Ultra- With a mighty CPU and GPU combined with massive memory it's the most powerful chip ever created And today, taking performance even further. Compared to Mac Studio with M1 Ultra, colorists using DaVinci Resolve will see up to 50% faster video processing 3D artists using Octane can now render up to three times faster! And with M2 Ultra's Media Engine, video editors can playback of 8K ProRes video. No other computer Mac Studio with M2 Ultra is also a whopping six times faster than the most powerful Intel-based iMac. M2 Max and M2 Ultra take Mac Studio performance For connectivity, Mac Studio now has enabling up to 8K resolution and 240-hertz frame rates. And with M2 Ultra, it can support an incredible driving over 100 million pixels! So that's the new Mac Studio. It's a performance powerhouse taking demanding workflows And we're not done yet. There are some pro users yet depend on internal PCI expansion Like audio engineers at Skywalker Sound, who work on feature films like Oscar winner &quot;Top Gun: Maverick,&quot; and artists at Color Collective, who grade films like Oscar winner &quot;Everything Everywhere All At Once.&quot; So today, to one more pro product. Introducing Mac Pro It combines our most powerful chip with PCI expansion to tackle the most demanding workflows. First, every Mac Pro comes with of M2 Ultra. Compared to the fastest Intel-based many real-world pro workflows, like video transcoding and 3D simulation, are three times faster. A key reason is the amount which is up to a gigantic 192GB. It enables the new Mac Pro to do things like render Disney's Moana Island scene with massive geometry and textures. Another reason is M2 Ultra's Media Engine, which accelerates video processing. The Intel-based Mac Pro does this a card that can play three streams Now, every Mac Pro has Afterburner performance built in! And not just one, but the performance It's incredible! In fact, when using six video I/O cards, Mac Pro can ingest 24 4K camera feeds and encode them to ProRes in real time, all on a single machine. And the wide array gets even better six on the back and two on the top- which is twice as many as before. Finally, Mac Pro brings PCI expansion It features six open expansion slots which is two times faster than before. So users can customize Mac Pro including audio and video I/O, Finally, it's available in both tower and rack mount enclosures. So that's the new Mac Pro, With incredible M2 Ultra performance, tremendous connectivity, and the versatility of PCI expansion, it takes even the most demanding workflows to a whole new level. Now, back to John. John: but the two most powerful Macs Mac Studio with M2 Max an incredible value for pro users. And with huge performance increases Mac Pro starts at $6999. You can order both products today, and they'll be available next week. They join our other Pro systems the most powerful and capable lineup that Apple has ever offered. This completes the transition which has completely transformed And we're just getting started. For Intel-based Mac users, And for PC users, to switch to a Mac. Now, back to Tim. Tim: With Apple silicon, it's remarkable how far in such a short amount of time. It's the best and most capable lineup in the history of the personal computer, and I couldn't be more excited And it's the integration that brings our amazing products to life. Our software platforms to do their amazing work, as well as provide incredible experiences So to tell you what's new Craig Federighi: This year, we looked across to provide delightful new features that make the things you do on iPhone Our next release, iOS 17, delivers more expressive communication, simplified sharing, and all-new experiences for your iPhone. Let's begin with some major updates to three apps that are central to how you communicate Phone, FaceTime, and Messages. The Phone app is essential Some of our most special moments and we're making a big update First, we're giving you a brand-new way with personalized Contact Posters. You get to customize when you give people a call. Contact Posters feature for both photos and Memoji, paired with eye-catching typography. And in Chinese and Japanese, the new layout with vertical text This rich new visual identity It's also part of your contact card, so you'll have a consistent look where you communicate and share. With Posters, you're in control! Customizing your Poster works Decide on the image, font, and color. The possibilities are endless. And when calls come your way, whether they're from your neighbor, they're going to stand out And for developers, so posters will appear for calls placed via third-party VoIP apps too. Next, we have a powerful new feature to help you make a more informed decision about when to answer an incoming call: Live Voicemail. Sometimes, when a call comes in it's hard to know whether it's one Now, when someone calls you you'll see a live transcription in real If it's something you want you can pick up the call This is great for calls Imagine you get a phone call and want to know or if it can wait You'll see the voicemail so you can decide whether to step out Thanks to the power of the Neural Engine, Live Voicemail transcriptions preserving your privacy. And there's another type of call FaceTime, where we've added one of our most requested Now, when you call someone on FaceTime and they aren't available, So whether you're just calling or want to share a precious moment, you can record a message Next, to tell you about some updates to another way we love to share here's Kim. Kim Beverett: Messages is the way with the people who matter most. To start, let's quickly cover that make using Messages First, search is more powerful and precise with the addition So now, you can start a search to narrow the results to find Next, a new catch-up arrow lets you jump to the first message It's perfect on busy days We've also made replying inline Just swipe to reply on any bubble. And for those times but you aren't able to listen right away, they're now transcribed, so you can read them in the moment, Finally, location sharing of your friend's location Next, I'd like to share for those situations you made it back home safely: Whether you're walking home after dark, or going for an early morning run, you can start Check In to let them know when you get home safely. As soon as you arrive, Check In automatically detects and lets your friend know. But if something unexpected were to happen it can recognize towards your destination And if you don't respond, useful information, such as your and they'll also be able to see so they know And any information is end-to-end encrypted. So that's Check In, that your loved ones have your back. We also have an updated design for how you get to all your iMessage apps. They used to live above your keyboard and now, they are gracefully tucked away, giving your conversations With just a tap of this new plus button, you'll see all the things like your photos, audio messages, And when you swipe up, you'll see Also inside this menu is a brand-new Stickers experience. Let me show it to you. By tapping the plus button and then tapping Stickers, you'll see the brand-new drawer that brings all my stickers like my recently used stickers, Memoji, and any sticker packs And we've made all Emoji into stickers. I can peel and stick an Emoji sticker. And I can rotate and resize it too! Last year, we introduced the ability from the background of your photos. And now, those subjects By tapping the new Live Stickers tab, I see all the stickers I've made Let me show you how I made these. I'll tap the plus button. I can pick any one of these photos And check this out. When I tap on the Live Photos tab, I see all of the Live Photos that will make great animated stickers. Why don't we make a sticker out of... this one? And just like that, it gets added From there, I can send my sticker inline, or peel and stick like this. You can also add effects to Live Stickers. When you tilt your phone in Messages, Best of all, you can now react to messages by adding stickers directly to any bubble from the Tapback menu. And the fun doesn't stop in Messages. We've added Stickers system wide, so you can access in Markup and anywhere you can including in third-party apps. So that's Messages. Now, back to Craig. Craig: These updates to Messages, will enhance the way iPhone provides many ways And we have some exciting updates to how we share with AirDrop. AirDrop makes it easy to share or send photos to a friend in seconds. And this year, we're expanding to share in all new ways, starting with how you swap your number Today, you either hand your phone to them, or one of you dictates your information Now there's a better way: NameDrop. With NameDrop, you can just You'll see the same contact poster and you can easily choose you want to share along with it and share them, just like that! And to make exchanging contacts you can use NameDrop with an iPhone And we're also using this same gesture to make it easier than ever and even kick off shared experiences. When you want to share the stunning photos again, just bring your phones It's that simple. And for those times when someone or a large video file you can now leave AirDrop range, and your content will continue in full quality over the Internet. You can also bring your devices together to instantly kick off a shared activity using SharePlay, like when you're going for a run and want to share some music And for developers, for apps that support SharePlay, so you can bring your phones together to watch the same livestream on Twitch or jump into a coding game It's never been easier to share. Next, let's talk about some enhancements that will make text input with the Keyboard and Dictation. iOS 17 brings big updates that improve the experience It starts with the feature at the core Autocorrect. Autocorrect is powered and over the years, The keyboard now leverages which is state of the art making autocorrect more accurate And with the power of Apple silicon, iPhone can run this model Autocorrect is also getting more capable, with a refreshed design Sentence-level autocorrections can fix more types If an autocorrection isn't quite tapping on the underlined word with the option And in those moments where well, the keyboard will learn it too. When it comes to speeding up your typing, predictive text already helps you add, or change a word. And now you'll get predictions so finishing a word is as easy as tapping the space bar. And predictions improve based so they're more personalized. Another core part of the keyboard which gets a new Transformer-based that leverages the Neural Engine to make Dictation even more accurate. These updates make typing on iPhone Last, let's talk about we're bringing to iOS 17, starting with a new way to reflect on Here's Adeeti to tell you more. Adeeti Ullal: Being reminded is a really powerful thing. For instance, we often hear about how much people love watching So we wanted to create a new way to help people not only remember, but also write about their experiences, inspired by rich details from their day, including people, places, in addition to photos. Today, we're excited to introduce Journal, a brand-new app coming to iPhone Journaling is a great way and has been shown to improve Journal makes it easy to get started Using on-device machine learning, your iPhone can create of moments to inspire your writing. Suggestions will be intelligently curated like your photos, location, And you control what to include and which ones to save to your Journal. And for developers, so they can be used in their apps too. Some Suggestions are personalized, to inspire writing You can pick any of them Let's look at this one of a trip. It includes where you went, and photos you took there. You can add these to your journal And when you do, like &quot;What was the highlight so it's easy to get started. As you capture life's precious moments, you can mark important ones to help you find new insights And to stay consistent, for the start or end of your day, to remind you to write and to tell you when new Suggestions are available. Of course, your Suggestions and entries and Journal is designed With on-device processing, and the ability to lock your journal, no one but you can access it- So that's Journal. And now, back to Craig. Craig: Journal will be a great way rich and powerful memories Now, I'm really excited to tell you about coming to iOS 17. With iPhone in your hand, you have all the information you need, right when you need it. We saw an opportunity to create for those moments We call it StandBy. Just by turning iPhone on its side you get a new full-screen experience with glanceable information StandBy is perfect for your nightstand, kitchen counter, or desk. And with the Always-On Display it's always available. When you wake up, And it's easy to personalize. Swipe up to choose from a range Swipe to the side, and you can look back StandBy automatically shuffles through taking full advantage of the screen. It also embraces the power of widgets, which are more glanceable than ever. With a quick swipe on each widget stack, you can see the current weather, or your favorite third-party widgets. And since these are Smart Stacks, just like on the Home Screen, they automatically surface at the right time. Like your schedule With support for Live Activities, you can also see the score of the game or when your food delivery is arriving. Siri in StandBy works great, with rich visual results And it's just as easy to ask to play music or set a timer hands free. At night, when you're charging iPhone, StandBy adapts to low light, taking on a beautiful red tone And for each place you charge StandBy will remember your preferred view. So that's StandBy. We think it's going to make in those moments when you set it down. iOS 17 has many more features, including the ability to simply say &quot;Siri&quot; And now you can issue without needing to say &quot;Siri&quot; again. In Maps, you can select an area and download a map to your device And in Photos, at spotting your favorite people, and now can even recognize that are part of your family too. And that's iOS 17. With big updates to the Phone app with Messages improvements more ways to share with AirDrop, and improved typing and dictation. Along with all-new experiences Now, let's head downstairs iPadOS powers iPad, our most versatile device, and it enables our users Over the years, we've added features from jotting down to working with multiple apps, to spreading out your projects And just last month, we further stretched by bringing Final Cut Pro and Logic Pro, our industry-leading professional video redesigned from the ground up all-pro experience Our next release, iPadOS 17, takes iPad even further, bringing new levels of personalization Starting with widgets and the Lock Screen. Let me show you. Widgets were designed to quickly Now we've made widgets interactive, and I can take action without even opening an app. So I can not only see my Reminders, I can also tap one to mark it as complete and as I do, These types of quick interactions At home, I can control my lights And start playing an album And developers can add interactivity I can learn something new and track it with Streaks right away. We think these interactions with widgets are gonna make the Home Screen Next, we want to bring and personalization to another space: Our users love personalizing So we're bringing that experience to iPad. Just tap and hold to get started. There are so many wonderful like Photo Shuffle, Weather, and Emoji. And new ones like Kaleidoscope, with those vibrant jewels and flowers. Now, I've already got that I'm excited to show you. Enjoying my photos on the iPad Lock Screen And when you select a Live Photo, we use an advanced machine learning model to synthesize additional frames to create a gorgeous, smooth, whenever you wake iPad. Also, we've optimized wallpapers for the large display on iPad. Of course, I can personalize it, and now choose from any of the planets each with incredible detail. And Earth just looks stunning I can tap the time, to adjust the font, and the color, and even change the font weight to get it just right. Here on the left, The Lock Screen is a great place and even perform quick actions. All right, this looks perfect. And that's how you can customize with iPadOS 17. It's really cool. The Lock Screen gets one other feature Live Activities. So now, right from the Lock Screen, you can keep track of a food order travel plans with Flighty, the score with Major League Soccer, or a timer. And we're happy to report of multiple timers. We truly live in an age of wonders. The new Lock Screen experience on iPad, combined with interactive widgets is a big step forward for how Next, let's talk about an app that we're excited to bring to iPadOS Health. The Health app has been designed to take advantage so you can see rich details at a glance. And because your health data you can see your health information from your iPad, iPhone, Apple Watch, as well as compatible third-party apps It's easy to see your activity, keep track of your medications, and view your trends and highlights. Interactive charts make letting you dive deeply into the details. And for developers, opening up new ways to build innovative health and fitness experiences. Like Rise, who has built as part of their new iPad app. Next, let's take a look to the way you work with another important PDFs. To tell you all about it, here's Jenny. Jenny Chen: They are built right into iPadOS, so you can open them anywhere, and they render beautifully. We use PDFs for so many things, and we wanted to make them Thanks to new machine learning models, iPadOS can identify the fields in a PDF so you can use AutoFill with information like names, addresses, and emails from your contacts. This even works on documents And if you need to sign it, or make a new one with Apple Pencil. When you're ready, with your completed form in Mail. Now, another place where we keep PDFs It's great for capturing And it's getting a big upgrade to organize, read, annotate, PDFs sit right inside your notes. You have all of the note-taking and the PDF is expanded You can quickly review the document, and annotate using Apple Pencil. You can keep multiple PDFs which is great for keeping PDFs in Notes are also fantastic When you're working together, you see each other's updates in real time. So as you scribble something down, the changes you make appear right away Live collaboration even works And when you drop an image into a PDF, you can still annotate right on top of it. If you need to finish later, you can use live collaboration It's even great With PDFs in Notes, note-taking and mark-up And now, back to Craig. Craig: So that's a look at iPadOS 17. But of course, there's even more, like improvements to Stage Manager, where we're adding even more flexibility giving you more control And you can now take advantage on your external display And Freeform, which gets new drawing tools fountain pen, and shape recognition. Along with a new feature that lets you follow a collaborator These join other great features and interactive widgets, along with the Health app, as well as other features like leaving a video message in FaceTime, in-line typing predictions, Now, let's turn our attention to macOS. macOS is the heart of the Mac. And with Apple silicon, the Mac lineup has never been stronger. Combined with macOS, it enables you For our next release, we focused Now, when it came to naming this release, we turned once again to Apple's legendary The instructions were simple and explicit: travel far and wide, Well, as far as we can reconstruct, that search consisted punching the words and beelining straight wine regions in the world, a place celebrated by the team and beloved by millions. Introducing macOS Sonoma, a big new release and even more productive. First, many of the features on iOS and iPadOS And macOS Sonoma brings that elevate the experience of macOS, starting with stunning new screensavers that show beautiful slow-motion videos of places around the world, like the sweeping skyline of Hong Kong, the sandstone buttes of Monument Valley, and the rolling hills of Sonoma. And when you log in, this imagery settles beautifully Next, let's talk about making your Mac Not only are they becoming more powerful, they're also now available somewhere new. Let's take a look. Before, widgets on Mac were available here But sometimes you want while you're using your Mac. Now you can, right into view here on the Desktop. I love to catch a glimpse throughout the day- And I can put these anywhere. So let's add Shortcuts here To make sure widgets aren't distracting we also came up with a way to make them glanceable If I open up Mail, my widgets instantly fade so I can focus on the task at hand. If I switch my wallpaper, you'll see the widgets based on the color behind them, so they maintain legibility Even the Photos widget adapts. It's really gorgeous. To add more widgets, where I have all the widgets But I also have some amazing widgets and through the magic of Continuity, I can now access them all So I can see my Apollo for Reddit, and even my car widget. I don't need to install these apps My iPhone just needs to be nearby And just like on iPad and iPhone, widgets on the Mac are now interactive. So you can use your car widget to start cooling off your car. And interactivity can unlock For example, photographers can select and with the Shortcuts widget, to apply a signature look and get them all with a single click. And that's widgets on Mac, an entirely new way and get things done throughout your day. Next, let's talk about gaming, a space where so much action is happening. To tell you more, here's Jeremy. Jeremy Sandmel: Apple silicon delivering incredible graphics And now, tens of millions of Macs with great performance, long battery life, and breathtaking visuals, presenting an unprecedented opportunity for developers to bring their games And since introducing Metal 3 with powerful new features demanding games have seen huge performance gains. This year, macOS takes with Game Mode, giving players an edge in precious milliseconds, ensuring the game gets keeping your background tasks and delivering an optimized with even smoother And Game Mode makes gaming on Mac dramatically lowering audio latency and significantly reducing input latency with Xbox and PlayStation controllers providing in-game responsiveness Game Mode works with any game, including all of these recent We are so excited to see developers And to help with that, Metal provides to make it even easier for developers from other platforms. These new tools enable developers just how well their game could run on Mac. A process that used to take months And they dramatically simplify the process of converting the game's shaders to take full advantage and performance of Apple silicon, significantly reducing And there's another big game To tell you all about it, Kojima-san from Kojima Productions. Hideo Kojima: Craig: Thanks, Kojima-san. Now let's shift to the ways macOS starting with video conferencing. We spend a lot of time on video calls, but when you share your screen, your face and presence can get lost. This year, we have great new ways A new video effect elevates your presence by including you on top of the content you're sharing. With small overlay, so it's easy to be seen With large overlay, while your shared screen We separate you from the background and layer your screen in between. So you can walk, talk, Thanks to the Neural Engine you get amazing quality. We also have a new reactions video effect. When you want to let others know you can add a reaction with balloons, confetti, hearts, and more. They're fun and have a cinematic quality And you can trigger these effects When you're really impressed, a celebratory display of fireworks. You can use these new video effects like FaceTime, Zoom, Next, let's talk about Safari, To tell you more, here's Beth. Beth Dakin: Safari is the best way With macOS Sonoma, It renders cutting-edge websites Safari is powered by WebKit, which provides incredible technology We're constantly updating WebKit. In just the past few months, we've added even more features and we're adding even more, including beautiful advancements Another cornerstone of the Safari Safari was built from the ground up and was the first browser This year, we're taking it a step further. Private Browsing now locks when you're not using them, completely blocks known trackers and removes tracking from URLs Of course, one of the best ways is with a strong password, or even better, a passkey. We're now adding the ability and passkeys with the people Everyone in a group to keep them up to date. And since sharing is through it's end-to-end encrypted. We have another exciting update Many of us use Safari for a mix and would love a way to separate browsing Profiles help you separate your cookies, history, extensions, So you can sign into the same site and personal account And if you're a student, of extensions and favorites Last, we're giving you a faster way with web apps on Mac. Let's check them out. With web apps, we're elevating with some of the same great features I use Confluence all the time. I'll make it a web app so it doesn't From the File menu, and the title and icon load automatically. When I click Add, Now I can close this window in Safari. When I launch my web app, I get an app-like experience On Mac, you can create a web app and developers don't have to do for their web app to look great. Web apps are integrated right into So I can Command-Tab It also works great with Stage Manager, Spotlight, and other ways you access apps. You can get notifications too. So Instacart can let me know And with a click, Web apps make it even easier Back to you, Craig. Craig: With Profiles, web apps, Safari is simply the best way And that's macOS Sonoma, featuring more ways and stunning new screensavers, new levels of gaming performance, and powerful productivity Now let's take a look Whether you're rocking out or watching the latest show we continue to focus on features and bring us closer together. So let's start off Here's Ron to tell you more. Ron Huang: AirPods are the most providing the best personal audio From Active Noise Cancellation, which removes unwanted background noise to Transparency mode, which keeps you while reducing loud environmental noise Our users love these features today, and there is even more we can do. That's why we are excited to announce It combines the best of both making it even easier and interactions Adaptive Audio dynamically blends to match the conditions [bell dings] So you can stay present while distracting noises [leaf blower whirring] [leaf blower muted] Adaptive Audio also helps your focus on your favorite music or podcast. And now with Personalized Volume, we use machine learning to understand together with the outside conditions, to deliver the best media experience We're also adding an incredible new way while wearing AirPods Pro. Just start speaking, will automatically lower your music, focus on the voices in front of you, and reduce background noise. - Hey, Corey. - Hey. How you doing? - Are you gonna be at - Definitely. I'll be there. I've got something I'd love to run by you. - Look forward to it. - See you! Ron: Another AirPods benefit - Hey, there. Ron: Adaptive Audio helps when you're by proactively reducing the noise [marching band music] [muted music continues] Ron: And for added convenience, or unmute yourself as needed. We're also improving the AirPods automatic Now it is significantly faster to to your favorite playlist on iPhone, And for the moments when you want to share there's AirPlay. I'll hand it over to Anne Anne Park Shedlosky: AirPlay is videos, and photos And we're making AirPlay more seamless Your iPhone and iPad now use to learn your AirPlay preferences. So if you usually listen to music the nearby HomePod in the kitchen And not only can you start to play music you can now also ask Siri on your HomePod letting you play even more of your Just say, &quot;Siri, With so much media at your fingertips you can enjoy your content from anywhere, That's why we're excited about launching With AirPlay support in hotels, it's easy in your room to watch an episode or practice tomorrow's presentation. Pairing is simple. Just scan the QR code That's it. You're automatically connected to Wi-Fi and ready to resume watching AirPlay will be available in select hotels with more to follow. And to make your next trip we have some exciting updates Today, adding a song to a road trip passing a cable, or sending a link. We want to make it easier for others and add to what's playing- That's why we're thrilled to Now, when the driver's iPhone any passenger's iPhone will automatically Just tap to connect. From there, control playback, Next, let's turn to tvOS and Apple TV, which work incredibly well to deliver the best of television, In tvOS 17, we've completely redesigned making it more intuitive to do things home cameras, system controls, and user profiles- all with a touch of the Siri Remote. And for the times you can now use your iPhone to locate it, Sometimes what you really want to watch It could be your favorite family photos Now to enjoy you can select Memories and see your photos perfectly framed Our home is also where And, for times when we're not we're excited to introduce a new feature FaceTime is coming to Apple TV. Now everyone can gather on the couch and catch up with friends and family The new FaceTime app on Apple TV to unlock incredible shared experiences So when you launch FaceTime on Apple TV, it wirelessly connects to your iPhone and lets you use their camera Let's check it out. You can place a call on your iPhone Or you can pick up a call from a friend and easily move it to Apple TV. Apple TV takes full advantage for effects like Center Stage. As you move around you'll always stay perfectly framed. At any time, that'll show up on everyone's screen. And because it's Apple TV, you have access With SharePlay, you can easily watch So that's FaceTime on Apple TV. And for developers, to make the biggest screen in your home So apps like Zoom and Webex for the very first time These are some of the features AirPods take personal audio AirPlay is coming to hotels, so you can enjoy your content Apple Music lets everyone control music And FaceTime comes to Apple TV, bringing everyone closer together Next, here's Kevin to tell you Kevin Lynch: WatchOS is the world's most and it's redefined how people all over We've continued this transformation through new features designed active, healthy, and safe. As Apple Watch has evolved over the years, it's become even more intuitive, providing easier access And today, we're excited with watchOS 10. We're celebrating this huge milestone with a new way to view information quickly and comprehensive app redesigns Rhythm is our business Rhythm is our business And it's time To get down Down Whoo To business Rhythm is our business Rhythm is our business Rhythm is our business Rhythm is our business This is such an energizing new approach Let's take a closer look. We're introducing a way for you like Portraits, to information you care about. Now from any watch face, to reveal widgets in a Smart Stack. I can start off my day with a glance And the Smart Stack uses machine learning to show you relevant information So later in the day, tasks you need to complete, It's so convenient to check And you can long press to add a widget like Sleep Data. And there's even a widget that can hold like Timers. Let's start a timer. Now, when I'm back at my watch face, I can simply scroll up, so you can easily see or pause it with a tap. This also works great like Stopwatch, Workouts, This is a fast new way to view We've also redesigned apps Let's take a look at a couple of examples, starting with World Clock, which now features that reflect the time of day. And I can easily see to call a friend in a different time zone. Let's also check out the Activity app. The app redesign includes to get to my weekly summary, And we've even redesigned the trophy case so you can see awards in progress And when you rotate the Digital Crown, for Move, Exercise, and Stand. Developers can also use this new Streaks now utilizes the entire display so you can easily see your progress NBA makes keeping up even more compelling with team colors And with Waterllama's redesign, you can see your hydration details with just a turn of the Digital Crown. We're also introducing Palette is a beautiful new face where time is depicted using three distinct overlapping layers. As the time changes, And to celebrate watchOS 10, Snoopy and Woodstock to Apple Watch. These beloved comic strip characters in many different animations. They can be playful ...react to the weather conditions ...or even get active with you. It's terrific to have Snoopy We're so excited for you to experience with redesigned apps and new ways to navigate all powered by the intelligence And if that wasn't enough, we have more features to keep you active, starting with Cycling. It's a competitive sport for some and a great way to exercise for others. Here's Eric to tell you that will make Apple Watch for cyclists. Eric Charles: Apple Watch has a lot like notifying you to start a workout and the safety potential For many riders, accessories as well as power meters, In watchOS 10, Apple Watch can now connect to Bluetooth-enabled bike sensors. So you can add cadence and power and even try out Using power, heart rate, and motion data, Apple Watch will estimate known as FTP, which is the highest level that you could theoretically maintain And by taking a percentage of your FTP, we can provide Power Zones, where you can easily see and track how long you spend in each. It's an effective and reliable way of improving your performance on a bike. We knew that we could do even more so we built a new feature that requires no additional equipment, except your paired iPhone. In watchOS 10, now automatically show up Tapping the live activity This is perfect Elevation, Power Zones, as well as a new view for current You're going to love views, and experiences on your next ride. Next, let's talk about Hiking for your outdoor adventures. In watchOS 10, two new waypoints for you. A new Cellular Connection Waypoint will indicate the last place if you ever need to check your messages or make a call to your family. And in the case of an emergency, another new waypoint will indicate you can make an emergency call using any available carrier's network. We're also introducing Using Altimeter data, you can see a three-dimensional view In addition to these new Compass features, Starting in the U.S., we're introducing a hill shading, and elevation details, along with points of interest You can use search and trailhead categories. And before you head out, you can review additional information, such as trail name, difficulty level, length, elevation gain, and more. watchOS 10 also introduces to create compelling workout experiences. The powerful motion sensors can detect rapid changes like when swinging a golf club Developers will have access For example, Golfshot can detect to refine your golf swing. Or to help your tennis serve, SwingVision can analyze your pronation, which is the twisting motion And apps like Training Peaks will be able to use a new API that you can access directly from These new developer features in watchOS 10 to keep you active. Our users also love using Apple Watch To tell you what's coming for your health, You're the healer Keep me busy Ah, ah, ah, can't let you go Sumbul Ahmad Desai: offer many important health features, like medications, sleep, and mobility. With watchOS 10 and iOS 17, we're moving into two new areas are grounded in science First, let's talk about mental health. We believe mental health is as important and even contributes to it. This is something that impacts So this year, we want to shine a light and empower you to care for your mind just as you do for your body. Reflecting on your state of mind and resilience. Experts say, &quot;Identifying our feelings &quot;to help us manage difficult emotions, appreciate positive moments, So you'll now be able to log and your daily mood in a discreet from the Mindfulness app in watchOS 10. You can use the digital crown to scroll through the engaging and choose how you're feeling. For added benefit to your wellbeing, you can also identify Maybe it's your family or travel, and you can describe your feelings like grateful or excited. Even if you don't have an Apple Watch, you can use the Health app to log your state of mind. You can see insights, to your state of mind, and how your lifestyle such as exercise, There may be times to more deeply understand and if you'd benefit So you'll now be able to take often used in clinics to answer questions right in the Health app, and then see your current risk two very common and treatable conditions. This will help you understand You'll have a report of your results and you can access helpful articles We know it's important to build emotional awareness by reflecting on your state of mind- and have screening tools on your overall health journey. The other important area of focus and specifically the reduction of myopia, which is nearsightedness that's caused It's the leading cause It's currently estimated to affect And that's expected to grow to 50% impacting five billion people. Myopia typically starts in childhood, and there are a few behaviors that can One is to spend more time Experts recommend at least but it's hard to know Now Apple Watch can measure the amount of time spent in daylight using the ambient light sensor, and it can be viewed in the Health app. With Family Setup, from a child's Apple Watch even if they don't have their own iPhone. And with Health Sharing, Another behavior that can lower is to increase the distance at which they view something, To help with this, we're introducing It uses the same TrueDepth camera that powers Face ID on iPad and iPhone to measure if a child is holding for an extended period of time, and then encourages them Screen Distance can also help adults We are thrilled to provide new ways to track and manage vision health. Back to you, Kevin. Kevin: Adding support can give you even more insight And as always, Your information in the Health app, including mental health is encrypted on-device and only accessible with your passcode, and it's never shared watchOS 10 is a major milestone, giving Apple Watch an enormous update with a fresh, new design delightful new watch faces, new features for cyclists and hikers, and important tools for health. Back to you, Craig. Craig: So those are our updates and the software With each, we continue our commitment to delivering unique capabilities tailor-made for each device while simultaneously designing with features and capabilities This is a big year for developers, with new APIs across all platforms that will enable you to build even more And we have an exciting week ahead starting with along with 175 sessions, opportunities to engage through one-on-one labs, as well as other activities to interact Our OS releases will be available and each of them will have a public beta All of these OS releases will be Now, back to Tim. Tim: Thanks, Craig. Today we introduced some amazing new Macs and showed you where we're taking that drive our products. It's already been a big day. But we do have one more thing. This is a day one that I've really I believe that augmented reality Blending digital content can unlock experiences So today I'm excited to announce an entirely new AR platform with a revolutionary new product. And here it is. Introducing Apple Vision Pro. Vision Pro is a new kind of computer that augments reality with the digital world. It's the first Apple product Vision Pro feels familiar, You can see, hear, just like it's in your physical space. And you control Vision Pro using your eyes, hands, and voice. With Vision Pro, Your surroundings Use your apps anywhere Capture photos and videos, in an entirely new way. Watch your movies, shows, and sports, and immerse yourself in games surrounded by Spatial Audio. And connect with people These are just some of the ways into the space around us. So in the same way that Mac introduced us and iPhone introduced us Apple Vision Pro will introduce us This marks the beginning of a journey that will bring a new dimension To tell you about the experience Alan Dye: Apple Vision Pro allows us unlike anything we've created before. For the first time, we've designed one magically controlled When you first put on Vision Pro, you see your space and everything in it. The Home View lives right in front of you. It's where you find all of your apps. It's familiar, yet revolutionary. The entire interface looks and feels Every element has been crafted They have dimension, and even cast shadows Experiences in Vision Pro aren't constrained to the boundaries they can freely fill the space around you. It's easy to make apps any scale, And you can place apps exactly where It feels natural, And launching new apps They simply occupy a new space, There's something truly extraordinary and experiences And apps can expand fully into your space, where you can create And with Vision Pro, apps and experiences They can grow beyond the dimensions Environments extend enabling otherwise impossible experiences. And they've been captured So you can control how immersed you are Whether extending or being fully immersed you can use reduce clutter in busy spaces, or as an inspiring new view. Every major Apple platform was driven Mac with the mouse. iPod with the Click Wheel. And iPhone with Multi-Touch. With Vision Pro, we set the ambitious goal to design an incredibly intuitive one that can be used without controllers Apple Vision Pro relies solely It's just you and your content. It's remarkable, and it feels like magic. You browse the system simply by looking. It's effortless. App icons subtly come to life In fact, every graphical element and responds to your eyes. Simply tap your fingers together to select The combination of hands and eyes together as if your mind is guiding the experience. And we designed every gesture so you can keep your hands like resting in your lap, or on the sofa. And the entire experience With Vision Pro, and just start dictating. Voice input has never been this seamless. And with Siri, play media, and more. Another foundational design goal was that you're never isolated You can see them, and they can see you. Your eyes are a critical indicator so Vision Pro displays your eyes It's incredible. This breakthrough innovation Not only does Eyesight reveal your eyes, it provides important cues to others This is how it looks when using apps. And this changes when sending a clear signal to those around you But even if you are fully immersed, Apple Vision Pro helps you stay connected When someone is nearby, - Hey. Alan: And Vision Pro will simultaneously The spatial experiences of Vision Pro seamlessly blend transforming what's possible. Whether at home or at work, To show you what it's like here's Allessandra. Allessandra McGinnis: Let's see Vision Pro has the apps you love But now, these apps are freed and live in your space, transforming how you use Notes, Messages, Keynote, Safari, FaceTime, and more. And of course, Vision Pro is always All your notes, messages, stay up to date automatically with iCloud. This is what you see with Vision Pro. Your entire world is a canvas for apps, so you can arrange them anywhere- at the perfect size Let's look first at Safari. Browsing the web is fantastic- web pages are large, making it amazing to watch videos As you scroll down the page, small text is crisp And Safari expands You can arrange multiple apps Layer them on top of each other, or to the sides of other apps. Like here, where you simply turn your head to change focus from Safari And the content within your apps You can receive a 3D object in Messages, pull it out, just as if it was there in front of you. It's magical! Because you can see the world clearly you remain present in your space And it's easy to interact So with Apple Vision Pro, you can create your perfect setup for whatever you're doing, You can review your to-do list in Notes, research your next trip in Safari, and discuss plans with friends all while listening Use the virtual keyboard With Vision Pro, Vision Pro also works seamlessly like Magic Trackpad and Magic Keyboard, which are great or working on a spreadsheet in Numbers. And you can even bring your Mac wirelessly just by looking at it. Place your Mac screen wherever you want giving you an enormous, private, Vision Pro is engineered within your ideal workspace. So you can dial in and use other apps in Vision Pro side by side with your Mac. This powerful combination of capabilities makes Apple Vision Pro or for when you're working remote. Because Vision Pro is great It makes it easy to stay connected For example, you can collaborate remotely And, of course, Apple Vision Pro FaceTime now becomes spatial, taking advantage of the room around you. You can join a group call As new people join, With Spatial Audio you hear each person's voice making group conversations And within FaceTime, and use them together with SharePlay. And you continue to see everyone This is powerful for so many activities, like reviewing a presentation, sharing photos and videos, FaceTime on Vision Pro works seamlessly like iPhone, iPad, and Mac, so everyone can join in. For work, Apple Vision Pro gives you and the freedom for whatever you want to do, To tell you about how Vision Pro En Kelly: Apple Vision Pro brings to so many of the things you do at home. It redefines how you can relive because you can capture and experience Select a photo, Your library of photos and videos with brilliant color Make it as big as your room, or zoom in, letting you feel even closer And panoramas are stunning. In Vision Pro, every panorama now expands You feel like you're standing Because of the powerful capabilities we were able to go even further, adding a new dimension Vision Pro is Apple's first 3D camera. It lets you capture and relive It's magical, and impossible to fully It lets you feel like you're Imagine being able to relive a special The incredible depth of this spatial video into that memory. It's easy to capture with just the press of a button. And EyeSight makes it clear to those You can capture a spatial video to share it with your family, or to experience all over again Spatial photos and videos to the moments and people you care about. Apple Vision Pro also delivers We love watching a great movie Vision Pro lets you have this, with a spatial cinema like this apartment. You have a gorgeous screen Vision Pro automatically dims casts a beautiful glow into your space, and surrounds you with Spatial Audio. And for a super cinematic experience, open an Environment like Mount Hood to scale your screen so it feels 100 feet wide- giving you the most majestic And with the Cinema Environment, turn any room This environment and is built to give you that you can take anywhere, Use your AirPods, sit back, and you can enjoy a movie while the seats It's amazing. And of course, your favorite movies and other content services This amazing cinematic experience You can watch 3D movies as well. In Vision Pro, 3D Movies have Although impossible to see on a 2D screen, it feels as if you are looking There is no other device in the world of 3D Movie experience. And beyond video, you can experience interactive Like with Encounter: Dinosaurs, where you can look back seeing dinosaurs interact in 3D with Spatial Audio. In addition to watching movies, you can play like NBA 2K23, with incredible audio There will be over 100 Arcade titles This is just the start Whether watching a season finale, 3D Movie, or Immersive Video, Vision Pro is the best way And with spatial photos and videos, you can capture and relive Now, back to Tim. Tim: Apple Vision Pro will change the way work, and enjoy entertainment. And the Walt Disney Company So I'm thrilled to introduce Bob Iger, Bob Iger: Thanks, Tim. It's a privilege to be here with you As The Walt Disney Company we're proudly reflecting on our rich while also looking to our future We're constantly in search inform, and inspire our fans by combining extraordinary creativity to create truly remarkable experiences, and we believe Apple Vision Pro that can make our vision a reality. The first time I tried Apple Vision Pro, the thing that struck me the most to create deeply personal experiences that bring our fans and more deeply immersed in our stories. This platform will allow us in ways that were previously impossible. We're tremendously excited of just some of the things So take a look. - What if all the things were suddenly possible? You could experience your favorite stories in unexpected ways... ...or in unbelievable places. You could do more than just watch sports. - Touchdown! - You could be at the game without leaving your home. Or be part of the action What if you could travel on a National Geographic adventure from your couch? Or if your imaginary friends... - Oh, boy! - Weren't quite so... imaginary? What if you could bring Disney World into your world? And what if you could become a super hero and seek the answer What if? - Space, time, reality- it's more than a linear path. It's a prism of endless possibilities- imperceptible to most, but not to you. Bob: We're so proud the greatest storytelling company with the most innovative to bring you real life magic. And I'm excited to announce These are just a few of the ways with Apple Vision Pro, and we're looking forward to sharing Thanks, Tim! Tim: Thank you, Bob! We are excited to work together Disney will do with the capabilities These groundbreaking innovations in design and technology. To tell you about the incredible new Richard Howarth: to define an entirely new category- to establish the principles that will Apple Vision Pro is the result of decades designing high-performance products mobile products like iPhone, and wearable products like Apple Watch. All that learning has culminated we've ever created. To achieve our goals of performance, we utilized the most advanced, The entire front of the product of three-dimensionally formed It's polished to an optical surface allowing it to act as a lens for EyeSight and a wide array of cameras and sensors The glass flows seamlessly that houses a button and a Digital Crown and rotates to control immersion levels It's machined from a custom aluminum alloy that gently curves This frame completes the form and is the primary structural element holding and protecting This surprisingly compact form encapsulates an extraordinary amount displays, cameras, sensors, and even a high-performance computer, all kept cool that quietly draws air through the system. In contrast to the high-precision we created a rich combination that provide comfort and wearability. We studied thousands of heads of the huge variation in cheek width, face angle, and head shape. This led us to design a modular system that allows us to tailor the product The LightSeal comes in a range and flexes to conform to your face, delivering a really precise fit. Extending from the frame that conform to the head, ensuring the audio pods They deliver rich Spatial Audio while The Head Band is 3D knitted to create a unique rib structure breathability, and stretch. The band attaches allowing you to change it or even a different kind of band. An easy-to-reach adjustment dial and enables micro-adjustments during use. For those who wear glasses, we teamed up with Zeiss that magnetically attach to the lenses. They accommodate a huge range without compromising display performance, Vision Pro supports all-day use and up to two hours of use with A separate battery means that you don't The soft aluminum form and connects via a supple woven cable. So that's the design of Vision Pro, our first-ever wearable, spatial computer. An incredibly capable and powerful tool that blends digital content To tell you about the technology to enable these extraordinary experiences, Mike Rockwell: Creating our first across nearly every facet of the system. Apple Vision Pro needed to deliver in a compact, wearable form factor. It needed an advanced, as well as incredibly convincing And of course, Your eyes see the world with To give your eyes what they need, we had to invent a display system but in a small form factor. A display where creating a smooth, continuous image. It starts with that fits 64 pixels they're just 7.5 microns wide. Combined, Vision Pro has 23 million pixels that are each just the size That's more pixels To magnify these panels a sophisticated lens solution was needed. We designed a custom three-element lens The result is a display delivering jaw-dropping experiences with any other device. It enables video to be rendered with wide color and high dynamic range, And fine text looks super sharp This is critical for browsing the web, Now let's talk about audio. What you hear is critical We wanted sound to feel like blending with the real world. So Vision Pro features Personalized sound is delivered through allowing us to create where your brain is totally convinced that sounds are coming Beyond personalizing sound to you, Vision Pro matches the sound to your room by analyzing the features using a technique called Precisely matching sound to your room of how Vision Pro makes use This system also provides enables precise head and hand tracking, performs real-time 3D mapping, and more. A high-performance eye tracking system and a ring of LEDs that project for responsive, intuitive input. It's so precise, from needing clumsy hardware controllers. Processing all the information while simultaneously delivering requires a system with massive It also has to remain cool and quiet. At the foundation of this system in a unique dual-chip design. It starts with the Apple M2 chip. It delivers phenomenal compute performance while allowing Vision Pro and run virtually silent. Running in parallel This specialized chip for the challenging task It processes input from 12 cameras, five sensors, and six microphones. In other head-worn systems, latency between sensors and displays R1 virtually eliminates lag, streaming new images to the displays That's eight times faster So while M2 ensures that Apple Vision Pro delivers incredible R1 ensures that experiences feel like they're taking place We also thought hard about while wearing Vision Pro. EyeSight utilizes a unique to project the correct perspective of your The result is a 3D display For digital communication like FaceTime, Vision Pro goes beyond conveying and creates This was one of the most in building Apple Vision Pro. There is no video conferencing and even if there were, Using our most advanced we created a novel solution. After a quick enrollment process the system uses an advanced to create your digital Persona. This network was trained on a diverse It delivers a natural representation, which dynamically matches With your Persona, with over a billion When viewed by someone your Persona has volume and depth None of this advanced technology without a powerful operating system It's built on the foundation in macOS, iOS, and iPadOS. To that foundation, to support the low-latency requirements such as a new real-time execution engine that guarantees a dynamically foveated rendering pipeline to exactly where your eyes are looking a first-of-its-kind multi-app 3D engine that allows different apps to run and importantly, were extended to natively support vision OS is the first operating system for spatial computing. All of the incredible innovations make it truly a one-of-a-kind device. There's simply nothing else like it. Apple Vision Pro is more It's the start To tell you more about what this Susan Prescott: We've been preparing and we're really excited Vision Pro opens up for developers. Vision Pro lets developers reimagine Spatial experiences can take many forms, and can include 3D objects We've given a few developers an early look and they created some apps Complete HeartX creates giving students a whole new perspective JigSpace lets designers collaborate like the design of the Alfa Romeo F1 car. And businesses can use Stages from PTC to review and approve before manufacturing begins. Mix your favorite tracks with djay, And with Sky Guide you are transported with views you can't see And Vision Pro is amazing Microsoft apps like Excel, Word, and Teams make full use of the expansive canvas and sharp text rendering of Vision Pro. And popular video conferencing apps to make collaborating easy on this device. And of course, our developer tools Developers can use familiar tools like Xcode, SwiftUI, to make new apps for Vision Pro. And to streamline the preparation we built Reality Composer Pro, which makes it easy to assemble The same frameworks available in iPadOS This means hundreds of thousands will be available on Vision Pro at launch. So you can use apps like Adobe Lightroom and easily control these apps We know there is a community of developers incredible 3D apps for years. And today, we are excited to share that we've been working with Unity to bring those apps to Vision Pro. So popular Unity-based games and apps such as pass-through, and native gestures. And because these Unity apps they can sit side by side, rendered simultaneously And Apple Vision Pro where users can discover and download as well as compatible iPad We'll share more and everything they need in the Platforms State of the Union. We can't wait to see what developers Now, back to Mike. Mike: We've been building towards Our work together with Unity combined with the world class rendering makes Apple Vision Pro an incredible Our amazing developer and app ecosystem people love their Apple products. Another is the relentless focus And that starts the moment where it authenticates you with a secure, called Optic ID. This new system which is distinct, to instantly unlock Vision Pro. Optic ID data is encrypted, and like Face ID, is only accessible Optic ID works seamlessly App Store purchase, and Password AutoFill. We also engineered privacy into Vision Pro For example, It can give away something In Apple Vision Pro, Eye input is isolated so apps and websites Only when you tap your fingers just like a mouse click or tap And camera data so individual apps don't need to see You can enjoy the experiences knowing our world-class security are right there with you. So that's Apple Vision Pro. With the most advanced displays a revolutionary Spatial Audio system, two powerful Apple silicon chips, a groundbreaking spatial operating system, and a gorgeous design Apple Vision Pro is the most advanced In fact, there is so much invention that we filed over 5,000 patents It's hard to believe are possible portable enough to use anywhere. It lets you replace a desk full of so you can be more productive than ever. It delivers stunning entertainment It provides powerful new ways And for capturing and reliving memories, Vision Pro is simply If you purchased surround sound system, powerful computer high-end camera, and more, you still would not have come close Apple Vision Pro starts at $3499. It will be available early next year and at Apple retail stores in the US, with more countries coming WWDC provides the ideal time about this incredible new platform And we will work with them to create new and innovative apps And the Apple Store You will be able to engage with our team get a demo, We can't wait Now, back to Tim. Oh, how the day goes by Tim: Thank you, Mike, And a big thanks to everyone at Apple This has been a huge day. We introduced the world's best 15-inch notebook, as well as the two most powerful Macs Mac Studio and Mac Pro- all of them powered by Apple silicon. And we showed you where we're taking iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS and the software And of course, There are certain products that shift and the role it plays in our lives. We believe Apple Vision Pro with the performance, immersion, that only Apple can deliver. Apple Vision Pro, together with visionOS, introduces an entirely new a platform that presents and exciting new opportunities And this is just the beginning. We made an ad for Apple Vision Pro, and I'd like to share it with you now. Dreamer You're nothing but a dreamer Well, can you put your hands Oh, no, I said dreamer You say you were a dreamer Well, can you put your hands Oh, no I said, far out What a day, a year, a life it is You'll know Well, you know you had Take a dream on a Sunday Take a life, take a holiday Take a lie, take a dreamer Dream, dream, dream, dream, Dream along Dreamer Dreamer, dream along Dreamer You're nothing but a dreamer Well, can you put your hands Oh, no - Toast! Whoo! Tim: I hope you're as excited You'll be hearing much more about it, as well as visionOS and our other Thank you so much for joining us. Have a great week and a great WWDC!