Transcriber: Yasushi Aoki What an amazing day! Filled with incredible ideas. So, where do these ideas come from? This is a question that I have been pondering Where do ideas come from? I started as a neurophysiologist, poking little tiny cells to see what they would tell me After I finished my PhD, and sort of learn all about working in big companies even started my own, and for the last almost 13 years teaching classes on creativity, And in my classes I have done trying to figure out what is involved What I've realized is that we look at creativity We really need to open the aperture and look at creativity And what I've done that I'm gonna basically explain about all the things And I wanna point out, this innovation engine, The inside is you: your knowledge, your imagination, And the outside the resources, the habitat, So let's start, let's start Most people start thinking about creativity So let's start there. Now imagination, that we don't really teach people And so there really are ways to come up with we have to go back to kindergarten If you are in kindergarten, What is the sum of 5 plus 5? 10! You guys are really smart, right? OK, we know it's 10 because But what if we ask this question What if we ask: How many answers are there to this? Infinite! And this is critically important, something that many of the speakers is that the way you ask a question The question you ask is the frame And if you don't ask you are not gonna get Consider the fact that the Copernican revolution The question, what if the Earth What if the Sun is? But you know what, you don't have to do this You can practice it Because most jokes because the frame switches Consider this, the Pink Panther, He walks into a hotel, he says to the hotel manager, And the manager says, He reaches down. The dog basically attacks He says, &quot;Well, that's not my dog.&quot; (Laughter) Think about it! Whenever you hear a joke, it's that a frame switched in the middle, and that is a really fun way to practice So that's one of the ways But there are other ways. One of the key ways is Most inventions in the world, putting things together often in really unusual One of my favorite ways to practice this Chindogu is yard They are not useful. They are un-useless. What they really are there might be something here, So in this example, well, gee, but it unlocks some really interesting ideas. Speaking of shoes, OK. Little dustpans. Again, it might not be practical, but you know what, Again, you can use jokes One of my favorite things, and I'm sure anyone the first thing you do and you look at The cartoon caption contest always Often they exert out of scale, very surprising to have in a same frame. And your job is to come up to connect these things in really So here's a caption for this cartoon. It is, &quot;We'll start you out here, then give you Now of course, you can come up with So there are two ways for you but there is another And that is challenging assumptions. One of the biggest problems we have and give them problems, they come up with So we are getting So what we do in our creativity class that are really surprising So here is an example This is the exact design brief. And I gave this actually to the group and their challenge was -- value measured starting with the contents They had two hours to do it. How do you like to do that? One of the interesting things and I put a lot of thoughts is that trash actually has We have to pay people So what happens is these students and advanced diving into the project, They thought about friendship and community All sorts of things ended up They thought about the trashcan To raise the bar even further, I told them that I had sent a note ouot, which I did, And invited their students So there were students in Europe, all doing the same project So let me show you a couple of the things A group in Ecuador started out with a garbage can Yard waste? I probably wouldn't have them but look at how amazing thing they did! They turned it into a beautiful mural. Or a girl in Ireland, her mom had just gone through and at a whole trashcan of old holy socks, you know what she did, she cut them out and sew them together Pretty cool. I hope some of you will go through So these are three things you can do Framing and re-framing problems, connecting and combining ideas But unfortunately, You need to look at other pieces And one of the next pieces on the inside Your knowledge is the toolbox Today we heard all about and about autonomous vehicles and why, how could they make this? These folks needed a depth of knowledge or about engineering Now, of course you can learn things by going to school, But one of the most powerful ways and to gain knowledge Most of us do not pay attention Not only do we miss opportunities but we also miss the solutions And one of my favorite ways to send them out to a location and I get them to look at them But I'm not the only one who does it. I wanna tell you a quick story who is a professor of here Stanford, who taught a Stanford sophomore seminar and it was called the Stanford Safari. And the students basically over two weeks as if they were just like but they were in the Stanford campus. And they talked to everyone they could and perspective about Stanford. From the groundskeepers and the pest-controllers and all the living Stanford presidents. They walked away not just with but an incredible appreciation for But, imagination and knowledge Every person needs to have the attitude, to solve the problems If you don't have that drive you are not going to You are not going to You are not going and go beyond the first right answer. Most people unfortunately view themselves They basically see themselves and their job is to get all the pieces But what happens? If you are puzzle builder and you are missing You can't reach your goal. True innovators, true entrepreneurs They basically take all the resources they leverage things, They leverage the materials and create something This is incredibly important. We have to view ourselves as those to really make amazing things happen. So this is our internal combustion engine Our knowledge Our imagination is the catalyst for the transformation And our attitude is the spark But unfortunately, And it's one of the reasons who are basically not living up because they're not in the environment and encourage this type of innovation. So we have to look at the outside Let's start first by looking at habitats. Now, habitats include several things. It's certainly the people you work with. It's the rules. It's the rewards. But even more than that, Consider the fact when we were little, There are stimulating You know it's a place It's colorful, Your rooms are very flexible. But unfortunately, you graduate and you get to go study (Laughter) The chairs are aligned up They are bolted to the floor. And if you talk to anybody, I spent my entire growing up writing, OK. And the fact is we then you know, they are just not and everyone laments that! And then if you are successful and you go after this environment And I know why you are laughing These type of offices were designed And unfortunately what happens is that people working in these type The thing is that Every space is the stage And it tells us what role we play, I'm fortunate enough to teach at D-school, Now it might look like the kids They were actually working as are the students in this picture. But the room is much more like with lots of manipulatives, The room is set up we can set it up differently depending upon what we want to do. Nothing is bolted down. Really innovative firms This is the picture from This is the picture from Pixar. These are not frivolous that the companies giving &quot;Innovation, creativity But this is not enough. We also have to think about the resources And resources come Unfortunately we think of resources And money is a fabulous resource, we certainly benefited from But it's one of many resources We need to look at We have to look at the processes We have to look at Unfortunately, I get a chance to see I was up in the northern Chile recently. And it was absolutely Up to the north of Chile, the beach was And Andes are there. And I said to the people &quot;Gee, what's really getting in the way And this man said to me, I said, &quot;Really? Because they didn't see. They were trying to replicate the resources As opposed to seeing resources So here, picture of this city. Think of the culture there. Culture is the last piece Culture is like the background music of any organization, of every team And I'm gonna play two video clips Think of the music in these video clips And I'm gonna play This is a clip from 1919 OK? And I want you to think whether you'd want to be there [Bottles are automatically conveyed (Merry music) [Syrup is injected [Carbonated water is added.] OK, then we'll go to the next one. [Bottles are automatically conveyed (Gloomy music) (Laughter) [Syrup is injected [Carbonated water is added.] OK, you get the point, right? So the fact is, this is the outside Let's put it all together. Now you might say, But how come you have You could just have it But it's the Mobius strip are completely woven together. And nothing can be looked at isolation. Let me show you how. Imagination and habitat Because the habitats we build are If you can imagine it, And in addition, the habitats we build the way we think, the way we feel, This is also true The more we know, And more type of resources we have The more we know about fishing, The more fish we have in our environment, This is also true Culture is a collective attitude and the culture clearly affects The wonderful thing though of the innovation engine is so powerful If you are the manager of your organization, You can think about the culture You can build habitats If you are an individual, you can start You can start with a passion and attitude You can start anywhere Most important thing is that everyone, everyone has the key It's up to them to turn it. Thank you. (Applause)