When the final games were played one of the most expensive summer estimated that the total cost the Rio organizing committee's billion. Rio had big stadiums, top of the line training significantly impacted the spending didn't just end with games. The city of Rio had to renovated shipping port, a environmental cleanup costs in seven months after the games, look like this. These crumbling byproduct of a city struggling maintenance costs, often costs. Most of the facilities supposed to last longer than the But the change in local limbo, when to be used or Now the question of the venues that are still up there in the there. We're supposed to be cities going over budget when unique to just Rio. According to since 1960. Every Olympics all except one, the Summer and stay within their estimated Winter Games have done a better the Sochi games was an outlier. games does very little for the If you're looking at this as an make an investment something 10 to have the outcome that good investment. That level of Well, other experts believe that city's infrastructure for its better roads, maybe it's Metro metro or it could be the Hoss place. As overhead costs become a withdrew their 2022 Winter Olympics grow from its humble expensive international event? even more potential host cities 1896, the Olympic Games became a as a modernized becoming what it event with Summer and Winter were relatively small, how for the games with ticket sales costs. Very first Olympic Games were in compete in those games and look at his recent 2018 on the a lot different. This is Dr. Nicole Forrester. in track and field who competed The Olympics is like the the sporting experience, both for viewers at home. The Olympic Games didn't see a evolution of telecommunications. were famously the first to be only about 50,000 viewers were Stadium by 1948. The radius grew Games. 500,000 people watch live 1960s. With the Rome games, they international broadcast, 1968. About 17% of the world's game's cost balloon. As more prestigious white whales country's national pride, draw bolster local businesses. Since Summer and Winter Games saw over things began to get dire in 1976 Zimbalist is an author and College in North Hampton. One of the economics of the Olympic Famously, the mayor of Montreal is before the games started, but more have a cost overrun than a turned out that the Montreal was almost tenfold over the The Canadian government shelled costs in the Montreal games well $120 million. The Canadian debt in 2006. At that time in Canada, we were The other issue that happened is skyrocketed. And then the year had workers walk off on a a delay, and then again added to games. By 1984, no country wanted to States kept their hats in the Angeles, it became the first and have an operating surplus of only bidder, Los Angeles had the contract with the IOC. And the there, together with with the fact that city in the United States, capital of the United States, do hardly any building, place, little building had to do There was such a surge in the media coverage itself that the Los Angeles games. And so now, we should, we should make get that big cut of the media The IOC saw the ELA games as an television revenue distribution. rights to the games local hosts, the revenues generated. In the took about 10% of the revenue. when the IOC took 33% of the LA broadcast revenue for the IOC Winter Games generated $287 respectively. Fast forward to $2.9 billion, and Pyongyang wasn't just the TV revenues that percentage of the IOC takes 2016 games in 2018. Games were Olympics has grown as more and more sports are added creating today we're seeing there's more sports program plan. So we look at the sports were there and versus Tokyo it is night and day for these games. As the games become more hosting the games becomes more begins constructing elaborate the games itself can cost 10s of All these cities would come it would be narrowed down to say you've got people within the IOC visits, help decide like what it narrows down to like two to be a very costly process to small guarantee that that city bidding process. Just take the Tokyo bid to host million was spent by the expensive consulting firms city architecture firms and much to Rio. However, Tokyo did have games, but spent an additional valuation and planning. winning steep price tag, largest single facility it has Olympic Village. This is for the that has to accommodate 11,000 additional coaches and trainers. lodging. You need to have you need to have tracks you need have other facilities. You need have entertainment facilities have clinics, medical clinics. village. You know, this is a So what else needs to get built? Then you have the Olympic infrastructure infrastructure, also potentially security costs these days easily billion. While both the summer and winter Summer Games are typically more more athletes More competitions specialized facilities. Winner cost estimate threshold with the Sochi games was an outlier billion in 2014. And it's over $51 billion since 1980. The average cost is 252%. For the Rio Games, it was billion went into hosting the $2.8 billion budget. economist, somewhere north of $20 billion billion actually went towards estimated $8.2 billion went intended to live well beyond the legacy builds went towards infrastructure highways a polluted Guanabara Bay. Of that subway line cost an estimated of Porto malamala was an the iocs requirement of 40,000 you had to lay out the to 18,000 rooms, intended to be apartments. nearly five years long term use buildings sit to maintain about $14 million a costs for real venues. Real in 1950, which held the opening Games had its power cut off in payments during a tendancy two months of no power and left football matches and concerts in all cases. And in all cities, venues didn't exist before the make sense to build them to build them. The IOC has an wouldn't have much of a use case the future. One of the simple change is you anymore. Either they needed by you don't build. And if you choices, you can have temporary extremely well in the majority abroad. Real isn't alone with its billions of dollars on these hoping for job growth or become a new tourist hub. legacy builds and infrastructure scope of requirements from the where there have been problems venues that were designed to be games, and too expensive. And absolutely not something we are to make sure that that we don't not repeat is that at the time, future gains like it is the case together about the venue the what doesn't make sense, so that problems in the long run. While Rio invest heavily on off as expected. That doesn't the death knell to a city's established metro line can pay the 1976 Montreal games, one of the greatest things that from the games is the metro committees that are bidding to than the sports themselves gonna all have access to like more like the field that day in city can really experience the development, new technology, whatever is required for that of the games and but for the in place. As of 2014 the IOC enacted the strategic roadmap for the future concerns, adapting the game to expenses on future bids and more economic and sustainable We reviewed entirely the to simplify it to make to make We came with 118 measures to the games. Let the capital costs constructions are needed. But 118 measures. And the third organization by allowing the innovative, not to impose to are providing much more ready solutions, so that you can reuse But in 2020, the Olympics were host the games amid a pandemic guys want to bring you some news that's just crossing according Prime Minister Ave is set to Olympics. And a call with the is NHK citing this on the wires, been widely speculated about would be able to go forth coming though, it looks like the delete tech tacked on billions expensive Olympics $2.8 billion another $1 billion in COVID-19. The Tokyo games cost of $7.3 billion dollars. As that the games will be $30 issue with the Olympic Games for cities withdrew their bids. So to host the games? Well, the IOC something out of the ordinary In 2017. The IOC four went the for the 2024 Summer Games, and effectively placing a pause on to Los Angeles in 2028, like much needed boost for both the the Olympic Games 32 and 84. And rich heritage. Whether the games transformational the way the 84 What I know is that the spirit And what was worth in 1984 in absolutely the case now. While for most cities, it continues to symbolic event, making the world all over the world come together