There's something huge and massive out there is pulling on everything, and accelerating our own Milky Way. But that's not all, astronomers may have just What is this unknown force, and will it destroy [INTRO] Astronomers are very good at finding things have today. But this time, we have to look at something the direction of the Constellation Centaurus. On that side of the Milky Way, the disk of stars, obscures the view from Earth. Astronomers have called this region the Zone And something called The Great Attractor sits With the development of X-ray and radio astronomy, of Avoidance. It turned out that our Milky Way, and the the center of the Local Group of Galaxies, Together, they all move toward the center The attraction zone in the middle of this Its estimated diameter is about 300 million million light-years away from Earth. In this area, behind the cloud of gas and of galaxies, now known as the Norma Cluster. Its total mass is estimated to be about 1,000 But later, scientists who conducted an X-ray of Avoidance&quot; project discovered there are region than previously thought. The Great Attractor was believed to have more the Sun. But researchers found that its mass was only Most of the visible galaxies in the region bias. In space, the greater the distance, the larger to detect. And so only the brightest objects could be Because of this, we mistakenly associate such they do not belong. As a result, some regions of space appear So the Great Attractor may, in many ways, exist. It may not be a super attractor at all, but galaxies than usual. The mass of the Great Attractor is not large So what then draws them to the center of Laniakea Looking for answers, scientists began searching pull and soon succeeded. This is the Shapley Supercluster, a collection 8,000 galaxies about 650 million light-years This supercluster encompases ten million billion It's the most massive formation within a Scanning the sky for the oldest cosmic light, images of the central part of the Shapley The largest pink spots show the two clusters 3562 on the left, as well as a couple of smaller Scientists have also created a model of a from the Shapley Supercluster. There, astronomers discovered a region of The Shapley Supercluster pulls celestial bodies insane gravity. As a result, the Dipole Repeller is likely And because underdense regions of space push the Dipole Repeller is associated with the But even the discovery of the giant Supercluster whole gravitational web in the area of the Professor Matthew Colless of the University velocity still cannot be explained. The researcher came to this conclusion by Virgo cluster, the Great Attractor and the up. It turned out that our galaxy should move miles per second]. Professor Colless thinks it's due to the Way. And it's possible that scientists have already It sits behind a thick blanket of dust and from Earth. The cluster is huge. It's about 370 million light-years across Each of them shines with hundreds of billions If its size is confirmed, the supercluster the Milky Way. The Vela Supercluster's gravity might explain speed and that caused by the expansion of Meanwhile, astronomers have studied 883 galaxies have never been observed before. The research was conducted with the Parkes First, scientists were able to find three then two new clusters - CW1 and CW2. On average, each galaxy contains 100 billion sitting behind our own galaxy means an incredible It's likely their gravity affects the speed But even this doesn't put an end to the The Milky Way is still moving faster than And scientists are still searching for hidden the nature of the Milky Way's own motion and One idea is that dark matter may be involved Its invisible clusters are just as capable structures of ordinary matter. Or galaxies may be accelerated by another Flow. This is the name given to the unexpected motion mass outside the visible Universe. Scientists from NASA Goddard Space Flight by analyzing data from the Wilkinson Microwave This is a very large-scale study, which covers The authors of the paper stated that the dark previously thought, 2.5 billion light-years the Great Attractor and then constellations According to one theory, this mysterious dark a hypothetical multiverse. It is assumed that our universe grew out of If so, many more universes could have formed And the dark flow could have been created mass from a parallel universe. Scientists are actually considering this theory Meanwhile, an interesting study related to team of astronomers. They observed the movements of 10,000 galaxies years from Earth. Scientists traced the movement of galaxies years and to the present day. They calculated the trajectories of galaxies brightness and position in space. Based on the results, the researchers compiled Attractor, the vicinity of the Virgo cluster, The model demonstrates how clusters and individual But most importantly, scientists calculated including the Milky Way. They found that the accelerating expansion moving to the centers of gravity. Scientists have even compiled an interactive in this region in the future. The model spans an era from the early formation be almost twice as old as it is now. The simulation shows that only a few large occur in the next 10 billion years. For now, we know that space is one big mystery. And answers often lead to more questions. What other space anomalies would you like Let us know in the comments. Make sure to stay tuned here for more amazing in our universe. Thanks for watching!