Extraordinary claims and it is my job, to remind people that alien hypotheses Now, I want to tell you It involves data from a NASA mission, ordinary people and one of the most It began in 2009 with the launch Kepler's main scientific objective was to find planets It did this by staring this one, with all the tiny boxes. And in this one field, it monitored the brightness continuously for four years, taking a data point every 30 minutes. It was looking for what This is when the planet's orbit just so that the planet And when this happens, which you can see as a dip in this curve. And so the team at NASA to search for transits At the same time astronomers at Yale What if computers missed something? And so we launched the citizen to have people look at the same data. The human brain has an amazing ability sometimes even better than a computer. However, there was a lot My colleague, Debra Fischer, said that people at the time were saying, &quot;You're crazy. There's no way And so it was on, the classic And if we found one planet, When I joined the team four years ago, we had already found a couple. And today, with the help we have found dozens, and we've also found in our galaxy. So to understand this, let me show you what a normal transit On this graph on the left-hand side and on the bottom is time. The white line what astronomers call a light curve. Now, when a planet transits a star, and the depth of this transit And so, for example, let's take Jupiter. Planets don't get Jupiter will make a one percent drop Earth, on the other hand, and the signal So back to our mystery. A few years ago, Planet Hunters were and they spotted a mysterious signal The observations in May of 2009 and they started talking about this They said and object like Jupiter would make a drop like this but they were also saying it was giant. You see, transits normally and this one lasted for almost a week. They were also saying meaning that instead of the clean, it had this strange slope This seemed to indicate that whatever was getting in the way was not circular like a planet. There are few more dips that happened, but for a couple of years, And then in March of 2011, we see this. The star's light drops and this is huge compared to a planet, which would only make a one percent drop. We described this feature It also is asymmetric, having a gradual dimming and then it snaps right back up to normal And again, after this, not much happens until February of 2013. Things start to get really crazy. There is a huge complex of dips and they last for like a hundred days, all the way up These dips have variable shapes. Some are very sharp, and some are broad, and they also have variable durations. Some last just for a day or two, And there's also up and down trends almost like several independent events And at this time, this star drops This means that whatever has an area of over 1,000 times This is truly remarkable. And so the citizen scientists, they notified the science team that it might be worth following up. And so when the science team looked at it, we're like, &quot;Yeah, there's probably But we looked really, really, really hard, and the data were good. And so what was happening meaning that something in space and blocking starlight. And so at this point, we set out to learn to see if we could find any clues And the citizen scientists they joined along for the ride watching science in action firsthand. First, somebody said, you know, and it still had the cloud of material And then somebody else said, well, what if the star and two of these planets had collided, similar to the Earth-Moon forming event. Well, both of these theories but the difficulties were that the star and there was no glow that was heated up by the star's light, and you would expect this or if there was a collision And so somebody else said, well, how about a huge swarm of comets that are passing by this star Well, it ends up that this is actually But I agree, it does feel You see, it would take hundreds of comets to reproduce what we're observing. And these are only the comets that happen to pass And so in reality, we're talking But of all the bad ideas we had, this one was the best. And so we went ahead Now, let me tell you, this was one Scientists are meant to publish results, and this situation was far from that. And so we decided and we called it: &quot;Where's The Flux?&quot; I will let you work out the acronym. (Laughter) So this isn't the end of the story. Around the same time I met with a colleague and he was also writing a paper And he was saying that with Kepler's it could actually detect but it didn't. And then I showed him this weird data and he said to me, &quot;Aw crap, Tabby. Now I have to rewrite my paper.&quot; So yes, the natural and we were curious now. So we had to find a way So together, we convinced who works on SETI, the Search that this would be We wrote a proposal to observe the star with the world's largest radio telescope A couple months later, news of this proposal and now there are thousands of articles, over 10,000 articles, on this star alone. And if you search Google Images, this is what you'll find. Now, you may be wondering, how do aliens actually explain OK, well, imagine a civilization In this hypothetical circumstance, this civilization would have exhausted so where could they get more energy? Well, they have a host star and so if they were able then that would solve their energy needs. So they would go These giant megastructures, like ginormous solar panels, This image above are lots of artists' impressions It's really hard to provide perspective but you can think of it this way. The Earth-Moon distance The simplest element is 100 times that size. They're enormous. And now imagine one of these structures You can see how it would produce such as uneven, unnatural looking dips. But it remains that even cannot defy the laws of physics. You see, anything that uses is going to produce heat, and we don't observe this. But it could be something as simple as they're just reradiating it away just not at Earth. Another idea that's one is that we had just witnessed and the catastrophic Now, I admit that this that we don't observe. But if we're already invoking aliens then who is to say they didn't for recycling purposes? (Laughter) You can see how this quickly Well, there you have it. We're in a situation that could unfold to be a natural phenomenon or an alien technology Personally, as a scientist, But don't get me wrong, I do think Either way, there is something new So what happens next? We need to continue to observe this star to learn more about what's happening. But professional astronomers, like me, we have limited resources and Kepler is on to a different mission. And I'm happy to say that once again, citizen scientists have come in You see, this time, amateur astronomers stepped up immediately at their own facilities, and I am so excited to see what they find. What's amazing to me is that this star because we just weren't looking And what's more exciting is that there's more data to come. There are new missions that are coming up that are observing millions more stars all over the sky. And just think: What will it mean And what will it mean Thank you. (Applause)