- It's this rock. This rock in the middle will be debated for a very long time. Maybe it's Britain's most debated rock, and for good reason, to be honest. - I'm Tony, a PhD student in geology at Curtin University in Western me and my team showed that of Stonehenge, the Altar Stone, came from the Orcadian - Wow, and how far away is - [Tony] Well, I've been but then I realize people so it's something like - That's a long way. The origins of this rock being somewhere around Orkney is really because Orkney is home to so much incredible the stones of Stennes, and most importantly of (laughs) I love this little chap. Honestly, the results of this research couldn't have And Tony, the man behind behind the work, was kind because I just love knowing how we know these things, When a big claim is made, I So that's what we're Britain's most debated rock, this isn't gonna be the last (inquisitive music) Okay, let's see here. I'm gonna be honest, I had or if I had, maybe I'd It's really concealed at Stonehenge. So the Altar Stone is this rock buried between two larger some point in prehistory. It's right in the middle of Stonehenge. It was probably given the name a 17th century architect who or not, I leave to the We don't actually know if it was an altar in any meaningful sense. We don't really know the rituals but it must have had an right in the center. And according to Tony, geologically, it is quite distinctive too. - Yeah, it's always been the odd one now. So the blue stones from Southwest They form from cooling magma The large, upright sarsens that's been heavily solidified, so kind of cemented by They're very distinctive. But the Altar Stone is this that's fine to medium grained. It really is quite distinct and also the surrounding Salisbury Plain. It's not from the local area. - I honestly wish I I'd love to point at a rock and be like, &quot;Oh yeah, classic igneous, Maybe as I become more rocks will be my thing, I don't know. It is interesting. So you have this distinctive rock, seemingly not from the local area. How does Tony and geologists to the north of Scotland, or deciding where any rock - Yeah, so the Altar Stone is a sandstone, which means it's made up of lots of minute compacted kind of like grains of sand at a beach. And each of those grains and chemical characteristics using the instrumentation - Basically, as Tony of course made up of sand and this makes sort of every bed of sandstone unique, I believe. It has its own unique profile, just based on the minerals that made it. These minerals. these and it kind of works similar They're dating the decay of these atoms. Radiocarbon dating measures the decay of carbon 14 into nitrogen 14, which takes like 50,000 years. After 50,000 years, it's According to Tony, they measure the rocks in exactly the same way, but I was curious like what's - So we turn to the which occurs over geological timeframes. We're talking hundreds of So we have a grain that's crystallized, and it will incorporate some uranium from the surrounding magma. Below a certain temperature, so you can think of the - Tony blasts these minerals, these rocks with a laser smaller than a human hair. (laser buzzing) And then in the gas that's given off, he can measure the ratio of This was a small aside, but I did wonder then, on the Earth is like a billion, Does that mean all the lead we have in the Earth is at least - Yeah, it's kind of, there's or kind of kinds of lead. - Yeah? - Some are called, it's which has always been there. It's like from primordial, it's from when the solar system formed. Other lead is called radiogenic lead. Anyway, lead isotopes are It's a whole discipline. - It's very, very- - I don't wanna go down a rabbit hole. That was just a thought that popped into my head. - Anyhow, they zap the rock with a laser, they measure the uranium to lead, they get the ages of all and because each bed of they can then try and match Do you see what I'm saying? I hope I explained that All right, let's see - So this underlying geology is broken up into so-called terrains. A terrain is just an area of shared geology in terms So the geology of southern It's East Avalonian bedrock. If we move northwards across just by the north of Wales, we're into Ganderia, which is Moving further northwards, which forms most of the bedrock of Scotland called Laurentia. - [Stefan] This is the in England, East Avalonia. As you can see, they're kind that formed in one event just This is the age profile they formed later, and are also formed of When we show the sample you can see it clearly lines and Scotland much, much more than it does from the samples from England, and this is the same for from around Britain too. - And if we look at the you'll notice that we're seeing much like what we see for In other words, it's the same rock. - How confident are you that this rock came like is there a margin of error? What's your confidence level? - There's certainly a margin of error. As geochronologists, we We can determine things to a degree of uncertainty at a given level. I may determine the age 1.4 billion years old, plus or minus five or 10 million years. We're dealing in percentages error here. So taken together with this zircon profile that we've built the age profile, we're greater than 95% certain that it comes from the Orcadian Basin or the Orcadian Basin ages, and the Altar Stone are the same. That's kind of where we're at. - Okay. This research can be In fact, it's already begun, This is Britain's most debated rock. Already since Tony's paper came out, geologists have been up in Orkney doing what they do to the Altar Stone is not the same makeup as the stones from the Ring of Brodgar and the big sites on Orkney. So they believe that the island as the original location but it could have come from other places in the far north of Scotland. I would 100% guarantee right now, there are teams of of Scotland trying to be the first ones to find the original I guarantee it. It's a geology bonanza up there right now. So Tony is 95% confident that the age of the Altar Stone is the same age as the rocks from the Orcadian Basin, and that therefore, they're the same rock. So how did it get all the This is where another debate for a long time. Do you have any strong opinion on that? What do you think about how it got all the way down to southern England? - Yeah, these are those maybe unanswerable I do put forward my opinion, and I think my opinion is based on kind of three options here. We look at maybe a glacial transport like you described, a and a marine transport route. - The first option, as Tony said there, is that the rock was moved by a glacier. Glaciers a very powerful geological force. They can move rocks all over the place. Currently though, Tony's team does not - And in terms of glacial transport route, the ice was moving in the wrong way. The ice was kind of emanating moving northwards, taking from southern Britain towards, you know, the North Sea and the It was taking stuff away. There's also no evidence on the Salisbury Plain. The Altar Stone shows no evidence of being transported by ice. You know, it's a rather Would it really survive a hundreds of kilometers south? I'm not sure. - It's possible glaciers at some of the way, maybe as It's a possibility, but in moving it some way if there's no evidence of glacial action on the Salisbury Plain. And there's actually a lot that they moved it all the - If we look at an overland some say it was very heavily forested like a temporary rainforest. It would've been, even today, a journey from Scotland But then we have mountains incredibly difficult, not impossible, but we know that there - This right here on made of gneiss rock. It's a nice, nice rock. (laughs) This came from the Island of Lewis. This rock traveled all the way from Lewis in the Outer Hebrides, long, long way to go, and to be placed in a burial with someone, it was almost certainly a prized item. It's a nice rock. (laughs) This right here on the grooved ware pottery. It's a common form of found around Stonehenge, The earliest places we Intriguingly, fascinatingly, the fashion icons of the Neolithic age, there's good evidence they liked to party down in Stonehenge. What you're looking at now that analyzed all the animal remains found at Durrington Walls, which was a big Neolithic It's probably where the and there's a lot of partying, fun stuff, fun stuff going on down there 5,000 years ago. (chuckles) Scientists can use isotopes to analyze the bones and teeth of animals and figure out where they came from, 'cause these bones and teeth, they're picking up minerals It's all about geology, this video. Animals being eaten at Durrington Walls by probably the same people building and using Stonehenge, came including Scotland. If an animal is traveling a pig is traveling that far, it's not doing it on its own, right? Someone had to travel with it, and maybe they brought a The last evidence I have in Neolithic Britain is the vole, specifically the Orkney vole. I didn't know this, I until I started researching this video, but the Orkney vole only lives there, doesn't live anywhere else in Britain, and its closest relatives are And we have remains of the Orkney vole from archeological excavations, so they're at least 4,600 years old, back to the Neolithic period. So this little mousy chap and chappette are believed on a boat that sailed from in the Neolithic period. That's the easiest explanation we have for them being up in Orkney They had to have gotten They had to have skipped It's incredible, isn't it? It's really incredible we can tease apart to try and The DNA of a vole on a Scottish I love it, I love it, I love It's why I love archeology. Shout out to voles, man, shout out. Are you coming back? - I gotta go see and put on - Yeah. - I said, &quot;What's the big deal? I don't care what anybody thinks.&quot; (Stefan laughing) - Yeah - Yeah. - I can't wait to look - I had heard some chatter of doubt on this discovery maybe, because it's just an illogical thing to do to move a six ton rock 750 Why go to that effort around Stonehenge? But the thing is, humans do Moving rocks is honestly one Stonehenge wasn't built out of some desire for maximum efficiency. It was built because it that made it, not just but from Wales where the and the north of Scotland where It really goes to show how interconnected Neolithic Britain was. Like, you're not gonna move a six ton rock all that way if you didn't and be sort of involved in the ideology, the symbolism, the community behind it. It's fascinating to imagine life back then and what these stones not just Stonehenge and Orkney, but all the sites in most of which we've lost now. It's, yeah, great to daydream about, but difficult to answer But one thing there is certain for sure, this is not the last time It's gonna be Britain's most debated rock for a long time to come. (chuckles) Hello, thank you for watching. Quick recommendation for you. If you are interested in archeology, and specifically how humans why we evolved that sense check out CARTA's next symposium. CARTA is an organization California, San Diego, and they're trying to more accessible, kind of like what I do, but they host conferences The next one is on a built environment. It is on October 11th, 2024. We're talking about Gobekli Tepe, talking about brain evolution, of architecture, all sorts and it's free to attend. So I'll put the link in the description. Check it out, you'll like and thank you for watching.