On the frontline 18 year old Aliya Moldagulova covers her comrades, watching over the battlefield with her rifle shoulder to shoulder with a fellow sniper. Suddenly, through the scope, she sees a German soldier emerging over the parapet just ahead of a team of comrades attempting to crawl through barbed wire. Her heart skips a beat as the enemy pulls out his rifle, faster than the Soviet soldiers can react. She takes aim, steadies her breath, and pulls the trigger. It's a long shot, but Aliya has to try. Her bullet strikes square into the German's chest before he gets a chance to fire a single shot. She breathes in and cycles her Mosin-Nagant. Up and down the line the soldiers storm the first line of German trenches, but as the advance turns into a melee, distinguishing friend from foe becomes next to impossible. Aliya and her sniping partner relocate, getting closer for better aim, but also getting closer to the artillery strikes. She finds a crater, and the pair of snipers resume their work, dispatching target after target, ignoring the rain of ordnance crashing down just ahead. A mortar slams the earth, shrapnel flying everywhere and striking her on the left hand. She grunts in pain and retreats into the crater for cover. She's bleeding badly. But pushing through the pain she bandages herself in the field, with her partner helping her to stem the bleeding. Ignoring the pain, Aliya crawls back up into position and sets up her rifle, resting it on her wrist. And her grim duty continues. She fires over and over, picking off German helmets over the parapet, as her comrades advance up the lines. The pair relocates again, moving swiftly across the war-torn fields. But back in the trenches, a German soldier gets on an abandoned machinegun, and he catches a glimpse of the small figures in no man's land. A muzzle flash shines from the German trench, and bullets zip all around the pair of snipers. They sprint for their lives and dive into the safety of a nearby crater. She checks herself as lead strikes the earth around her. She's unharmed, but her rifle isn't. The machine gun has punched straight through her scope. They try to fight back, Aliya firing despite her shattered scope, but it's obvious she's not hitting anything. Another barrage of bullets hits the dirt around them and forces them to hunker down. The snipers watch and see several muzzle flashes behind the parapet, but this time it's because Soviet soldiers reach the machine gunner. The firing stops and the pair gets moving. Along the way she finds a discarded submachine gun next to a fallen Soviet soldier. Aliya takes it and, with determination, she tells her partner she's going directly to the front line. She sprints across the battlefield, entering the captured trench. She finds a company of Soviet soldiers in the trench, trading fire with yet another layer of defenses further ahead. The men are surprised to see their sniper in the thick of it, but they brief her on the situation. She looks ahead, artillery and mortars rain down in the no-man's-land between their position and a second trench further behind. But further on, through the explosions and chaos, Aliya can finally see their target. It's the Nasva railway station, located right over one of the most important logistical arteries of the region. If they can capture it, the Germans invading the North-West of the Soviet Union will have their main supply cut right off. A group of Germans rush out of their trench line, charging to the attack. Aliya and her comrades open fire from the parapet, swiftly dispatching the stormtroopers. Two more German counter attacks brave No Man's Land, and both are violently repelled, the German soldiers are cut down. The soviet commander screams encouragement, and they charge over the parapet as one. They are instantly greeted by a flurry of gunfire as they hit the deck and crawl towards through fire. Aliya pushing forward shoulder to shoulder with the men. They crawl until the enemy trench is just a couple of dozen meters of open ground away. Aliya can see it, it's so close. But suddenly, a machine gun barrage tears through the gathered soldiers. They rush for cover, squeezing in the craters as dirt and bullets slam into the earth. Last month, only 1 in 4 people who watched our channel was a subscriber. If we could make that 1 in 3, we'd be well over 1 million subscribers. If you enjoy this video, we'd really be very grateful for your subscription. Thank you. Aliya springs into action completely from her own volition, crawling for the machine gun nest. Her small frame serves her well as she inches closer, right under his barrage, unnoticed. Many young soviet women carried one grenade with them. Better to go out in a blaze of glory than be captured by the invaders... but Aliya reaches down and realizes she doesn't have a grenade. Looking back at her comrade in the crater, she signals. He throws a grenade towards her. She grabs it, gets as close as she dares and pulls the pin, and lobs it towards the enemy soldier. The explosion silences him. Aliya looks back at her platoon and sees carnage. Many lay dead, among them, the company commander. The men of the platoon seem lost, looking at each other with worried eyes. The fall of their leader leaving them paralyzed with indecision. Seeing the battle could turn, she desperately implored to the men in their native Kazakh. 'Soldiers, Brothers, let's do this!' It works, and up and down the line, the men lurch into the attack, inspired by the 18-year-old pushing them to move on. Galvanized, they brave the hailstorm of bullets for a shot at victory. They flood into the trench, and the two sides clash in brutal hand-to-hand combat. Aliya fires at whichever German she can, as she pushes through the enemy defenses. The men follow her, Aliya leading the attack from the front as they bravely unknown. And then, a German officer rounds the corner, gun in hand. Aliya tries to fire, but she's too slow with one hand. The enemy shoots her, but running on pure adrenaline, she guns him down with her sub-machine gun. But that energy is short lived, her mind quickly noticing she's been hit. She's forced to sit down, abandoning the push as the soldiers she rallied earlier carry on without her. As the battle fades, some of the men stop and start rendering emergency aid, dragging her from the battlefield. We can't say for sure whether Aliya's life passed before her eyes. But if it did, it would have brought back hard memories. Abandoned by her father, her mother was shot while collecting leftover potatoes from a farmer's field during the Great Famine in the 1930s. Aliya was just 8 years old when her mother died. The rest of her family were either dead or absent, and Aliya was forced to wander the village, and to sleep and eat wherever she could, until her Uncle took her in a year later. He would raise her as his own and tried to protect her, even trying to get her to leave the frontline... But she never would. Her actions that day saved untold lives. The Soviets would successfully repel the Germans from the rail station just a few days later. She would be evacuated to the care station where she would be stabilized and begin recovery. But tragically it wasn't to be. A German artillery barrage would strike the station, claiming her life. She was credited with 37 kills as a sniper on sniper duty, but her total tally was at least 78, including over 20 enemies from her final fight, with some sources stating that it was more like 90. Aliya Moldagulova would be posthumously awarded the title of The Hero of the Soviet Union for her incredible skill as a sniper and courage in the heat of battle. Today, statues in her honor stand across the former Soviet Union and her home nation of Kazakhstan.