"Terror belli... decus pacis." Terror in war... ornament in peace. The words inscribed on every French Marshal's In France, the title of Marshal, or Marechal, It represents the highest possible position by a marshal's baton. The title was abolished during the French spirit of the age. But in 1804, Napoleon founded a new empire, That year he picked 18 of France's best Empire'. Eight more were created in the years that The Marshals outranked everyone in the new and ministers of state. They came from every background: sons of aristocrats, those who'd learned on the job; old school youngest... just half the age of the oldest. And though Marshal was a civil title, not the army as Les Gros Bonnets, 'the big hats', brilliant and flawed group of military commanders The most favoured were showered with titles But the price, too, was high: half were wounded, executed. This is Epic History TV's guide to Napoleon's All 26 have been ranked according to our own with expert guidance from retired Lieutenant of the French Army. More than 2,000 French generals served in Many were brilliant leaders. A few probably deserved to be Marshals more Any selection can only be difficult and highly of the best: Bertrand, Napoleon's faithful aide-de-camp, Leipzig. Clauzel, a veteran commander of the war in Desaix, Napoleon's close friend killed at Prince Eugene, Napoleon's adopted son, Gerard, one of Napoleon's best corps commanders in 1830. Gudin, whose infantry division bore the brunt of wounds near Smolensk in 1812. Junot, who first served with Napoleon at Toulon his fall from favour in 1813. Lasalle, the 'Hussar General', among the Wars, killed at Wagram aged 34. Maison, who told his division on the morning all be killed, made Marshal by King Charles Nansouty, the heavy cavalry commander, who Saint-Hilaire, hero of Austerlitz, died of Vandamme, of whom Napoleon once said, "If the vanguard." And now, Napoleon's 26 marshals, ranked 26. Marshal Perignon. When Napoleon created the first 18 Marshals, for past service to France. Perignon was one of these. A former officer in the royal army, he'd the Spanish on the Pyrenees front. He later served as ambassador to Spain. After a brief retirement, he was sent to Italy, disastrous Battle of Novi, where the army was badly wounded and captured. His appointment as Honorary Marshal in 1804 to win acceptance for his new empire, by emphasising its military heroes. Perignon never held active command as a Marshal, Naples. His eldest son Pierre was a cavalry officer, Perignon retired in 1813, but refused to in 1815, and was stripped of his Marshals' His rank was later restored by King Louis 25. Marshal Brune Brune was another Marshal whose appointment As a fiery republican, and former close ally support was politically useful for Napoleon. Brune joined the army during the Terror - the His political connections ensured rapid promotion, revolt in Bordeaux. In 1795, as a 30-year-old brigadier general, in Paris, with the famous 'whiff of grapeshot'. Brune then served with Napoleon in Italy, He won a reputation as a fierce divisional towns and churches. In 1798, he commanded the French occupation from the wealthy Swiss communes, the equivalent It was said that Brune's personal carriage that it immediately broke down The next year he won his most important victory defeating an Anglo-Russian army at the Battle But a short, calamitous spell commanding the was not fit for high command. Instead he sent him to be ambassador to the that he'd been made a Marshal. But Brune's lack of delicacy, combined with make him a successful diplomat. He was recalled to France, but as Governor a treaty with Sweden that failed to make any Whether a deliberate insult or act of incompetence, Brune spent the next seven years at his country He bitterly opposed the return of the Bourbon when he returned from exile the next year. But in the tumult following Napoleon's defeat mob in Avignon, murdered, and tossed into 24. Marshal Serurier Serurier was another of the four Honorary for past service. In contrast to Brune, Serurier was a professional Seven Years' War, and a stern disciplinarian. This background was not necessarily an asset who'd served in the royal army was viewed But Colonel Serurier's training and diligence French republic. By 1795 he was a general serving with Napoleon and looting won him the nickname 'the Virgin Serurier was a reliable if unspectacular Mondovi, at a crucial moment in Napoleon's The following year, he accepted the Austrian Mantua. Two years later, fighting under General Moreau's off by the Russians, and forced to surrender. Released on parole, he was back in Paris in of 18 Brumaire. Serurier then retired from active command, made him an Honorary Marshal, and Governor hospital for old soldiers. There, shortly before the fall of Paris in than a thousand captured flags and standards, 23. Marshal Kellermann Kellermann was another Honorary Marshal, the as the 'Saviour of the Revolution'. A career soldier from a middle-class background, officer in the Seven Years War. At the beginning of the Revolutionary Wars, at the moment of greatest crisis - when out the Revolution, and restore the ancien But at Valmy, in September 1792, Kellermann's a ferocious artillery barrage, persuaded the Valmy was not a stunning tactical victory, saved the infant French republic. When the Revolution took a more radical turn, of royalist links, and spent a year in prison Acquitted and restored to command, he was when he was side-lined, first by General Scherer, Bonaparte. Kellermann later specialised in army administration under Napoleon, whilst also entering politics His son, General Francois Etienne Kellermann, as one of Napoleon's best cavalry commanders. 22. Marshal Grouchy When Napoleon returned from his first exile upcoming campaign - Emmanuel de Grouchy. Although now infamous for failing to march up to that moment, Grouchy had had a long An aristocrat who embraced the French Revolution, the Revolutionary Wars, fighting counter-revolutionaries Vendee, and serving in Italy, where he was Under the Empire, Grouchy excelled as commander Cavalry Reserve. He was praised by the Emperor for his part an important role buying time for Napoleon right wing at Wagram. For the invasion of Russia, he commanded Third He survived the horrors of the retreat, but months to recover. He returned for Napoleon's 1814 campaign Grouchy was made a Marshal at the start of right wing at Ligny. After the battle was won, he was ordered to them joining up with Wellington's Anglo-Allied Two days later, as the Battle of Waterloo fateful decision to follow his written orders, has been widely blamed for the French Emperor's Grouchy's vilification is not wholly fair, his Marshals to show initiative, and often written orders. Nor should one blunder obscure the distinguished cavalry generals. Grouchy fled to America after Napoleon's pardoned and returned to France in 1820. 21. Marshal Moncey Moncey ran away from home to join the army After 20 years of uneventful service, he'd But then came the French Revolution. Most French officers were aristocrats, who, were nevertheless regarded as politically The result was that three-quarters of them from the army. Moncey - a middle-class officer with no with meteoric promotion. By 1794, General Moncey was leading the Army Spanish, on what was, admittedly, a relative In 1797 he was dismissed for alleged royalist Napoleon's coup of 18 Brumaire. By his own admission, Moncey was a sensitive a ruthless streak or iron will to succeed. Napoleon was aware of his limitations as a part of his emphasis on continuity between Moncey was appointed inspector-general of police force - and spent most of the rest He only held one field command again - in Spanish, he was given command of a corps for south of the country with mixed success. In 1809 he was replaced by General Junot and Moncey's finest hour came in the dying days of Paris in a courageous but doomed defence In 1815 the restored King of France, Louis preside at the trial of Marshal Ney, for treason. Moncey regarded Ney as a hero for having saved declaring "If I am not allowed to save my will save my honour." After a short spell in prison, Moncey was governor of Les Invalides, in which role he remains from Saint-Helena in 1840. At the end of the ceremony, the 86 year-old us go home to die". 20. Marshal Poniatowski Prince Jozef Poniatowski was the King of began as a cavalry officer in the Austrian Josef the Second himself. In 1789 he transferred to the Polish army not save Poland from partition by its rapacious By 1795 Poland had vanished from the map, After Napoleon's defeat of Prussia in 1806, Emperor was the best way to win Poland's Napoleon's aims. Sombre, serious and brave, Poniatowski proved in Napoleon's service. When war broke out with Austria in 1809, while a brilliant, supporting campaign against a For the invasion of Russia, he commanded the He and his troops distinguished themselves leading the attack on the right wing. Poniatowski and his corps performed heroically by their old animosity towards Russia. But by the end of the retreat, Fifth Corps Poniatowski remained loyal to Napoleon, even for the Russian re-occupation of Poland. He rejoined Napoleon in Germany in 1813, and On the eve of the Battle of Leipzig, he was of his service, and to inspire his Polish Poniatowski was the only non-Frenchman to He and his troops fought with their usual villages on the southern front against the At the end of the battle Poniatowski commanded But their only escape route, a bridge over Badly wounded, Poniatowski tried to escape But he was swept from his saddle and drowned. He had been a Marshal for just four days. In the short term, Poniatowski's loyalty Napoleon's defeat, Russia occupied Poland But Poniatowski's legend lived on: a model generations. 19. Marshal Jourdan As a young French private, Jourdan saw combat War. But he then caught a fever that led to his his life. When the French Revolution began, he was elected fought at the battles of Jemappes and Hondschoote, In 1794 he made his name defeating Coalition This was a crucial victory of the Revolutionary for 20 years. It was also notable for the French army's effective use of an aircraft in military history. Jourdan became a prominent politician under formalised France's policy of mass conscription. As a committed republican, Jourdan refused but his fame as 'the victor of Fleurus' 1804. Jourdan was on good terms with Napoleon's When Joseph became King of Spain in 1808, But the situation in Spain would prove beyond He faced stubborn resistance from the Spanish an equally stubborn refusal to co-operate under Jourdan's command, but who repeatedly competence. Marshal Soult in Andalucia was a prime offender, the Battle of Talavera contributed directly Struck by another bout of ill health, Jourdan Two years later he returned to Spain, but Joseph were outmanoeuvred and decisively beaten the Bonapartist kingdom of Spain. Jourdan never held a major command again. But his twenty years of service and evident He was made a peer by Napoleon, a count by serving as Governor of Les Invalides. 18. Marshal Bernadotte Bernadotte enlisted in the French royal army to become the senior non-commissioned officer The French Revolution and active service opened officer, and thanks to exemplary leadership general of division in a single year. Not even Napoleon rose through the ranks as He particularly distinguished himself at Fleurus, famous victory. As a professional soldier and ex-sergeant standards of discipline and conduct from his He even fought a duel with his own chief of In 1797, Bernadotte was transferred to Italy, for the first time. By this stage both men had brilliant reputations, of styles and jealous rivalry soon emerged What's more Bernadotte had immediately got Napoleon's chief of staff, by arresting In 1798 Bernadotte married Napoleon's ex-fiancee, Her sister Julie was married to Napoleon's family. But when Napoleon asked Bernadotte to support he did not actively oppose it. Napoleon suspected Bernadotte of conspiring to keep the peace. Throughout this period Bernadotte held key of the Army of the West in 1800, and Governor in each role. That year, Napoleon made Bernadotte a Marshal, of Austerlitz, playing a relatively minor Nevertheless, he was rewarded with the title But his relationship with Napoleon remained In 1806, as Napoleon took on Prussia, Bernadotte Davout at the Battle of Auerstedt, and was though Bernadotte partly redeemed himself, The next year he missed the Battle of Eylau, and a gunshot wound to the neck meant he also of First Corps passing to General Victor. When war resumed with Austria in 1809, Bernadotte On the evening of the first day at the gigantic fighting with the Austrians - but dressed devastating friendly fire, panicked, and routed. The next morning Bernadotte pulled his men again, he and the Emperor exchanged sharp Bernadotte then issued a proclamation to the Napoleon. Bernadotte was sent in semi-disgrace to the British landing at Walcheren. But another triumphant proclamation, effectively infuriated Napoleon. In an unlikely twist of fate, in 1810, Swedish Prince of Sweden: the current king was old general and administrator, member of the French army officers, who remembered his fair treatment in Pomerania. Napoleon was at first bemused, remarking that better qualified. But he did give his assent, even when Bernadotte pursue Swedish interests. He was true to his word. Three years later, with Napoleon on the ropes Prince Bernadotte brought Sweden into the With his insider knowledge, he helped the - a strategy for defeating Napoleon in Germany, and targeting only his Marshals. In September Bernadotte defeated former comrades Five weeks later, he played a major role in Bernadotte's legacy would prove the most royal house of Bernadotte sits on the Swedish Bernadotte was labelled a traitor by Napoleon's He was unquestionably a gifted soldier and and long-running feud with the Emperor, meant 17. Marshal Augereau Augereau had, by his own account, an eventful the French, Russian, and Prussian armies... in dubious circumstances. He briefly earned a living in Dresden as a a duellist. He embraced the French Revolution, and joined German Legion, before holding various staff the regular Prussian army proved valuable. Promoted to general, Augereau served in the and bold, decisive action helped win a series Later serving in Italy under Napoleon, Augereau The future Emperor's reports were glowing: the habit of war, liked by his men and lucky." In 1796, Augereau played a leading role in at Castiglione... and Arcole. In fact, the painting of Augereau's heroism long predates the more famous version by Vernet, is an even greater work of fiction. Augereau's standing among fellow generals, looting to rival General Brune, while others Augereau was known to be a reliable republican, be the military muscle for the coup of 18 This was an army-backed purge of pro-royalist monarchy. A brief spell in charge of the Army of the for high command, as his unruly entourage headquarters. As a republican, Augereau initially opposed soon sensed which way the wind was blowing, Created a Marshal in 1804, status, wealth behaviour. He commanded Seventh Corps in the 1805 campaign, battles of Ulm and Austerlitz. The following year, he was in the thick of against the Prussian southern flank. At Eylau in 1807, Augereau was so ill he had Corps into battle in terrible winter conditions. Ordered to advance, his corps lost its way charged and virtually destroyed. Augereau himself was hit, and crushed under He returned to France to recover, but was His energy and zeal were gone. During Napoleon's war in Spain, he was sent of Catalonia. He completed the grim, 7-month siege of Girona, lacklustre performance. In 1812, Augereau commanded depots and reinforcements to its destruction in Russia. However at Leipzig he was briefly back to to fight for several key villages in the south, In 1814 Napoleon gave Augereau command of But he surrendered Lyon without a fight, and his former Emperor as 'a man who, having ambitions, has not known how to die like a When Napoleon returned from exile in 1815, but the Emperor was not interested. Augereau was stripped of his baton, and died 16. Marshal Lefebvre Francois Lefebvre was a sergeant with 16 when the French Revolution broke out. When the Guard was disbanded, he became an the first of many wounds protecting the royal Every inch the soldier, the Revolutionary command and rapid promotion: in just two years a reputation as a formidable divisional commander: to the needs of his men. His chief of staff, the future Marshal Soult, example. In 1799 Lefebvre commanded the Paris military Not much impressed by politicians, when Napoleon it, declaring, "Yes! Let's throw the lawyers into the river!" In 1804 Napoleon made Lefebvre an Honorary Lefebvre would prefer a quiet life in the with the scars to prove it. But he'd underestimated Lefebvre, who pleaded him command of the Imperial Guard infantry The next year, Lefebvre commanded the siege by leading one counter-attack in person. After the successful conclusion of the siege, Danzig. Lefebvre's record as a corps commander was by twice ignoring orders. But in 1809, when Archduke Charles of Austria Bavarian Seventh Corps was crucial in slowing to take charge. He was then given the difficult task of suppressing Hofer, which he achieved despite some early For the invasion of Russia, Lefebvre commanded During the retreat from Moscow, the 57-year-old head of the Guard, all the way. At the end of the retreat, he was devastated was among nearly 100,000 men who had not survived He had been Lefebvre's last surviving child... After a year recovering from exhaustion and one last time in the defence of France, and But in April 1814, he was one of the Marshals his position, and forced him to abdicate. Lefebvre and his wife, an ex-washerwoman turned and graces, for honest, blunt speech, and When a friend commented on Lefebvre's wealth courtyard: "I'll have ten shots at you with I miss, the whole estate is yours.&quot; When the friend declined, Lefebvre added, closer before I got all this.&quot; Lefebvre was too exhausted to take an active a role as a Senator under Napoleon, which Bourbons returned. His rank and honours were restored to him 15. Marshal Mortier Edouard Mortier was from a prosperous middle-class When the French Revolution began in 1789, new middle-class militia charged with preserving When war broke out with France's neighbours, Standing 6 foot 4, Mortier was conspicuous twice, and winning praise from his commander, In 1799, Mortier fought under General Massena's to defeat the Russians, and winning promotion Mortier then spent three years commanding His efficiency impressed the new First Consul, mission in 1803: the occupation of Hanover, kings of Britain, with whom France was once Mortier carried out this assignment with tact unopposed. This delighted Napoleon, who rewarded him Following Napoleon's victory over the Austrians Corps led the pursuit of the retreating Russians... at Durenstein. Mortier fought his way out of the trap with escape, but his corps suffered heavy losses. Mortier and Eighth Corps were in a supporting But the next year at Friedland, his corps left wing, as the Emperor inflicted a devastating Mortier was well liked by all, and almost with the other Marshals. Oudinot was a particular friend: in East Prussia, with pistol-shots; they always paid generous In 1808, Mortier joined Napoleon for the invasion brutal Siege of Zaragoza. He then helped win a series of victories over at Ocana, operating alongside another friend, Mortier was recalled to France to organise unit of the Imperial Guard, made up of the Mortier led the Young Guard in Russia in 1812, destruction on that campaign - first through then on the retreat - where his surviving open the road at Krasny and allow the army's Mortier continued to command the Young Guard France, and was never far from the action: horse, was in heavy fighting at Leipzig, and In 1814, the final defence of the French capital with support from Marshal Moncey's National Mortier told his men, "We have not enough but today, more than ever before, we are fighting When Napoleon returned from exile in 1815, role at the head of the Young Guard, but a the Emperor at Waterloo. Napoleon never regarded Mortier as suitable and conduct were always beyond reproach. He went on to serve the restored monarchy for war. In 1835, he was riding beside King Louis Philippe when an assassin opened fire with a home-made, wound, but Marshal Mortier and 17 others were 14. Marshal Marmont Marmont, like Napoleon, was a trained artillery first time at the Siege of Toulon, where Napoleon They formed a friendship, and when Napoleon he took Major Marmont with him as an aide-de-camp. Marmont distinguished himself at several of was commanding his own artillery regiment As part of Napoleon's inner circle, Marmont in 1798, fighting in the battles of Alexandria Naturally, he backed Napoleon's coup of and made himself First Consul of France. Six months later, Napoleon led an army over It was his artillery commander, General Marmont, the mountain passes using man-hauled sledges. At the ensuing Battle of Marengo, Marmont's to win a decisive victory over the Second Two years later, Marmont was made inspector-general reforms that improved firepower, mobility Marmont was bitterly disappointed not to be But he was still only 29, and Napoleon assured He was further frustrated in 1805, when his southern flank, and so missed the great victory The spoils of that war included Dalmatia, Though he lived in extravagant luxury, his effective that even the Emperor of Austria Marmont was not in Dalmatia two or three years When war broke out with Austria again in 1809, to join Napoleon near Vienna. But at the great Battle of Wagram, his troops were engaged in ferocious fighting. At last an opportunity to prove himself came, Austrians. But reckless over-enthusiasm nearly led to A week later, Napoleon created three new Marshals: "Macdonald for France", it was said, "Oudinot Napoleon then rather undermined the moment, you've not yet done enough to justify my His big chance came in 1811 when he was sent But after a promising start, and some bold River, he stumbled into disaster at Salamanca: battle, badly wounded by a shell burst and his army. After convalescing in France, Marmont was battled to save his empire. He commanded Sixth Corps throughout the campaign and Dresden. At Leipzig.. he held the northern sector with Prussians pay a high price for the village Marmont played an important role in Napoleon's movements along the Marne River, and guarding But by now he was showing signs of exhaustion At the Battle of Laon, he allowed his corps Napoleon's stinging criticism may have been He was the senior Marshal in Paris when the After a day's fighting, and facing inevitable Five days later, with Napoleon at Fontainebleau marched his corps over to the Allied lines Napoleon was shocked at this betrayal by one He'd already been persuaded that he must old son - now he accepted that he must abdicate Whether Marmont acted to save lives, out of all three, remains the subject of heated debate. We do know that he was well rewarded by the by Bonaparte loyalists. As military commander of Paris in 1830, Marmont had to flee France. He spent the rest of his life in exile, becoming son the Duke of Reichstadt. He was the last of Napoleon's Marshals to 13. Marshal Saint-Cyr Gouvion Saint-Cyr was a gifted student, who an artist. A passionate republican, he embraced the French service. Though proud and aloof by nature, his republican elected captain of his company. His skill at drawing enemy positions then him a job on his staff. During these turbulent early years of the who was punished for his defeats... with a Saint-Cyr's instinctive grasp of warfare, from volunteer to general of division in two as he'd had no formal military training. But his cold, analytical approach meant that loved. After five years' service with the Army At the disastrous Battle of Novi, he commanded his troops from the debacle. The next year he was back on the Rhine, and at Biberach. But a bitter dispute with his commander, General was impossible to work with. Saint-Cyr believed soldiers should not meddle seizure of power in 1799. Nor did he show much enthusiasm for Napoleon's later. His political views cost him dearly: Saint-Cyr able generals were made Marshals. In 1805 he commanded French forces in central Marshal Massena, a man whom he personally Napoleon threatened to have him shot for desertion. In 1808 Saint-Cyr was given command of a corps But his failure to take Gerona meant he was Leaving in a fury before his replacement Marshal martialled again for desertion. Saint-Cyr's military talent, however, was In 1812 he was recalled for the Russia campaign, His role was to support Marshal Oudinot in salient. When Wittgenstein's Russians attacked at took over command, turning probable defeat For this achievement, Napoleon awarded Saint-Cyr But two months later, at a Second Battle of Russian army, seriously wounded in the foot, His injury meant he missed the worst horrors typhus early in 1813, and was sick for many Saint-Cyr returned to the Grande Armee in and the defence of Dresden. Incredibly, this was the first and only time and both soon learned new respect for each Saint-Cyr's skilled defence of Dresden set later that month. But Saint-Cyr was incredulous when Napoleon while other forces concentrated for the decisive Napoleon's defeat at Leipzig meant that were cut-off, and had to surrender that autumn. Saint-Cyr took no part in the Hundred Days, disputes. Under the restored monarchy, he served as Marshal Ney from the death penalty. He also struggled to enact military reforms resigning in disgust, and retiring to his Marshal Saint-Cyr remains one of the great extremely able commander, side-lined for his of Napoleon's very best Marshals. 12. Marshal Oudinot Nicolas Oudinot ran away to join the army years later to help run the family business. When the Revolution began he volunteered for In the wars that followed he served with the the fighting, rapidly promoted and frequently In 1799 he was promoted to General of Division Massena's new chief of staff, a role he Serving with General Brune in Italy, he led at the Battle of Monzembano, sabring gunners which Napoleon awarded him a sword of honour. In 1805, the newly-crowned Emperor Napoleon Division, formed from the tallest, strongest In December that year, at the Battle of Austerlitz, person, despite having been shot in the thigh His grenadiers were kept in reserve for most latter stages, as Napoleon completed the destruction At the siege of Danzig in 1807, General Oudinot's an enemy warship - a British sloop, that A month later at Friedland, Oudinot and his and played a crucial role holding up the Russian blow. During the 1809 war with Austria, Oudinot When Marshal Lannes died of his wounds, Napoleon of Second Corps. He led his new corps with such success at victory to Massena... and Oudinot. A week later he became one of three new Marshals: friendship'. Oudinot: the army's choice - fearless all around him. He later received an additional reward - the In 1812 Marshal Oudinot led Second Corps into and handed over command to General Saint-Cyr. Ten weeks later he was back with his corps, army on its retreat from Moscow. Oudinot's men were shocked when they saw looked more like fugitives than soldiers of Since Oudinot's Second Corps was in better the desperate crossing of the Berezina River. But the next day, in bitter fighting to hold was shot from his saddle. He was carried back to a cottage with a serious surrounded by Cossacks. Oudinot asked for his pistols and, "from began firing at the Cossacks." They were rescued by friendly troops just Oudinot was back with the Grande Armee in In August, Napoleon ordered him to lead an Bernadotte's Army of the North at Grossbeeren. He then retreated in the wrong direction, difficult to have less brains than the Duke In Oudinot's defence, he'd probably been men to take on a strong opponent, bad weather, not yet recovered from his ordeal in Russia. Napoleon put Oudinot back where he was most his close supervision. At Leipzig, he commanded two divisions of on the southern front for two days. Oudinot continued to serve the Emperor courageously campaign of 1814 - but in April, he was with the reality of his position, and force When Napoleon returned from exile in 1815, monarchy, but declared neutrality, telling Sire, I shall serve no-one." He continued to hold senior commands under By one estimate, Oudinot was wounded 36 times Marshal. Here are just 20 that we found details for... A fellow officer, who bathed with him at a and observed, "He was little more than a Ironically, Oudinot was also one of the longest-lived Governor of Les Invalides. 11. Marshal Victor Claude Victor-Perrin was an experienced soldier with 8 years' service in the Grenoble Artillery The Revolutionary Wars brought the opportunity an infantry battalion at the Siege of Toulon. He led a daring night assault on British defences young Major Bonaparte. Both men were wounded, but the attack was to brigadier general. Victor served under General Bonaparte in Italy, In 1800, he distinguished himself at the Battle wing won particular praise from Napoleon. But Victor did not hide his disapproval of as a result, received relatively minor roles In 1802 he was earmarked to lead an expedition but it was called off when Napoleon decided, Victor and Marshal Lannes were close friends In 1806, Lannes persuaded Napoleon to let for Fifth Corps. Napoleon agreed, and in October, Victor served Napoleon's earlier misgivings about Victor given command of the newly-formed Tenth Corps. But within weeks he was captured by a Prussian Prussian officer... General von Blucher. His big break came in 1807, stepping in for First Corps at Friedland, where he successfully Promotion to Marshal and the title Duke of In 1808, Marshal Victor and First Corps took be posted for the next three years. Victor's record in Spain was better than in personal glory and rewards than in co-operating In 1809 at Medellin, he inflicted a crushing Four months later, his bold night attack on close to success. He was furious the next day when King Joseph attacks, and instead ordered a cautious withdrawal. The next year Victor besieged the Spanish It proved a lengthy, futile operation, devoid allied sortie at the Battle of Barrosa. In 1812 Victor was recalled from Spain for His Ninth Corps was held in reserve for most busy defending depots and convoys from Cossacks That autumn, his corps attempted to cover The greatest crisis of the retreat came at As the remnants of the Grande Armee began Ninth Corps was ordered to form the rearguard. Though heavily outnumbered, Victor skilfully the Russians at bay as the army made its escape. He then marched his surviving troops over performance, in desperate circumstances. In Germany in 1813, Victor commanded Second last great victory at Dresden. His corps was in heavy fighting again at Leipzig Victor continued to serve at the Emperor's By now, like many comrades, he must have been Regardless, during the Battle of Montereau, his troops into position, and blamed him for Victor was relieved of command. But angry and humiliated at what he considered "Marshal Victor has not forgotten his old I will shoulder a musket and take my place Moved by this response, Napoleon relented Guard. Two weeks later, he was badly wounded at the in the war. A month later Napoleon abdicated, and Victor with surprising zeal. He led an investigation into former comrades Days, and was one of only two active Marshals Ney - a decision he later claimed to regret. Victor later served as Minister of War, but the overthrow of the Bourbon monarchy. 10. Marshal Murat Joachim Murat, the son of an innkeeper, was out of college and joined a cavalry regiment To his immense frustration, he saw little Wars, being stuck with staff and training But in 1795, while stationed in Paris with A young general, Napoleon Bonaparte, had been Convention. With a mob poised to storm the building, he which he did, racing the guns through the the mob with a famous 'whiff of grapeshot'. Napoleon was hailed as the saviour of the Army of Italy. Murat was promoted Colonel and went with him He soon made a name for himself as a bold 6 foot height, curly locks and love of women sabreur". In 1798 Murat joined Napoleon's expedition At the Battle of Aboukir, his flanking charge the Ottoman commander prisoner, despite being immense relief, did not ruin his looks. Back in Paris, Napoleon launched his coup When he got a hostile reception from the Council day, leading troops in to clear the chamber, before adding something a bit more coarse. His place at the future Emperor's side was youngest sister Caroline in 1800. Later that year he commanded the French cavalry win a decisive victory over the Austrians. When Napoleon established his empire in 1804, only to Berthier. He'd later also receive the title Prince In the 1805 campaign, he commanded Napoleon's and diversions proving crucial in the encirclement Three weeks later, Murat and Marshal Lannes, together bluffed an Austrian commander into him that an armistice had been signed, when It was a bold stunt, but overall, Napoleon the enemy: "I cannot approve your manner You go on like a stunned fool taking not the Yet in battle, Murat remained a brilliant and the next year at Jena, where he led the The next year at Eylau, with the Russians ordered Murat to lead a mass cavalry charge Murat's men succeeded, and saved the army in men and horses. Napoleon had rewarded Murat in 1806 by making Berg. In 1808, he sent Murat to Spain to act as Spain was still a French ally, but in May, affairs triggered a ferocious backlash. Madrid rose up against the French garrison... force - killing around 200, executing 300 When Napoleon deposed Spain's Bourbon monarchy, Spain, but that title went to Napoleon's throne of Naples. If it felt like second prize... it wasn't bad going for an innkeeper's Napoleon expected Murat to merely represent ideas: he reformed the Neapolitan army, equipping a blind eye to smuggling, which undermined - so-called Continental System. Relations between Murat and the Emperor became But when Napoleon began planning to invade his cavalry. Their differences were put to one side: Murat Napoleon's second-in-command. During the advance into Russia, Murat's task, trying to locate the enemy in a vast Horses died in their thousands from poor fodder And they faced a dangerous and wily opponent Murat, always riding with the advance guard, uniforms that the Cossacks came to admire Murat!' whenever they saw him, and hoped to capture Murat was among those who tried to persuade but was ignored. At the great clash between the French and best, directing a series of attacks on the was hottest, inspiring all with his courage. Murat remained with the army during the retreat had virtually ceased to exist. One eyewitness noted that throughout the ordeal, at the Berezina, he looked splendid, in an in his cap. When Napoleon left the army to return to Paris, But Murat, now primarily concerned with hanging and returned to Naples, where he opened secret He offered to join the war against Napoleon, crown. But he received only a lukewarm response. So in 1813, when Napoleon asked Murat to join together, he answered the call. Murat had become increasingly difficult to status, prone to tantrums... but in battle, At Dresden, his charge through rain and mud the way for victory. But then at Liebertwolkwitz, he showed his command - getting drawn into a major and forces, and twice nearly being captured himself. Two days later, at the Battle of Leipzig, charges - coming close to breaking the enemy But it was not to be. The Battle of the Nations ended in a disastrous As Napoleon retreated to the French frontier, for Naples, promising to raise fresh troops. Murat and Napoleon would never meet again. Three months later, the King of Naples had sides. "So long as it was possible for me to believe bring peace and glory to France, I fought "But now... I know that the Emperor's sole desire is However, Murat's commitment to the Sixth His army marched against Eugene's forces fighting before news arrived of Napoleon's Murat then began to suspect what had been was not going to honour its promise, and Murat So in 1815, encouraged by news of Napoleon's the Austrians, proclaiming a war for Italian Just seven weeks later, his campaign ended With the British and Austrians closing in, He sailed to France, but Napoleon had not him. After Napoleon's defeat at Waterloo, he volunteers and returned to Italy, in a hopelessly his throne. Chased by a mob, and arrested on the beach, Bourbon monarchy of Naples. He met his end with his usual courage, telling me, aim at the heart!" ...then gave the order to fire himself. Murat is rightly remembered as one of the - inspirational, fearless, with brilliant But outside of combat, he was, in Napoleon's He always waged war without maps." Worse, when the conflict turned against France, over loyalty to the Emperor. As Napoleon's Chief-of-Staff Marshal Berthier the grace of Napoleon and French blood. It's black ingratitude that's blinding 9. Marshal Bessieres Jean-Baptiste Bessieres was the son of a in southwestern France. When the French Revolution began, he volunteered to join the King's Constitutional Guard, This unit was soon disbanded, but Bessieres defending the Tuileries Palace, when it was In the aftermath, he needed to get out of So he volunteered to fight on the Pyrenees His bravery and good sense won him a commission himself at the Battle of Boulou. Transferred to Italy, his friendship with General Bonaparte, who was impressed enough known as 'Les Guides de Bonaparte'. Bessieres distinguished himself as a cavalry promotion to Brigadier and loyally supporting He became one of the few men that Napoleon When Napoleon became First Consul of France of the elite Consular Guard cavalry - which the next year. In 1804 Bessieres became a Marshal - less being a loyal member of Napoleon's inner Bessieres himself was well-liked: kind, well-mannered conservative, who liked to powder his hair His young wife, Marie-Jeanne, was also a favourite Josephine. In 1805, Bessieres commanded the Imperial In December that year, at the Battle of Austerlitz, Guard at the battle's climax. At Eylau in 1807, his squadrons supported own disciplined attacks to cover his withdrawal. However, Bessieres' opportunities for glory Guard back as his last reserve, as at Friedland. In 1808, Bessieres received his first major That May, the country erupted in revolt against Bessieres reacted quickly and decisively, He then attacked Spanish forces at Medina an enemy that outnumbered him two-to-one. But once the immediate crisis had passed, When Napoleon arrived in Spain, Bessieres a role he retained for the war against Austria In May, Bessieres and his cavalry were among occupying the village of Aspern on his left, When the Austrian commander, Archduke Charles, Bessieres, outnumbered four-to-one, made save the army from disaster. It came at a high cost. Bessieres and his cavalry performed bravely. But that night, a long-running feud with Marshal Bessieres of hanging back. The matter went no further, as Lannes was Bessieres commanded the cavalry again at redeployment to the left wing. As the charge began a cannonball killed Bessieres' A rumour reached the Imperial Guard that Bessieres Some old veterans began to weep for their was only wounded. "That was quite a cannonball," Napoleon tears!" As a devout Catholic, Bessieres was critical leading to a short spell out of favour. In 1811 he was sent back to Spain to command He found an impossible situation - a widespread He wrote bluntly to Napoleon, stating that something the Emperor would never allow. For all his piety and refined manners, Bessieres in his attempt to pacify northern Spain - brutal this conflict. Later that year, he joined forces with Marshal Wellington's army at the Battle of Fuentes to send in his cavalry to support Massena's Unfortunately for Napoleon, this was typical - they'd rather watch another Marshal In 1812, Bessieres accompanied Napoleon into Since the Guard was kept in reserve, he saw the advance guard, clearing a path for the The disaster in Russia left Bessieres severely But he was resolved to do his duty, now serving in Marshal Murat's absence. On 1st May 1813, Bessieres was scouting enemy a cannonball hit him in the chest, killing His death robbed Napoleon of a dependable "It is surely a great loss for you and your "but an even greater one for me.&quot; 8. Marshal Macdonald Jacques Macdonald's father was a Scotsman bid to seize the British throne in 1745. After this ended in defeat at Culloden, the Inspired by tales of the Trojan War, Macdonald in Dillon's Irish Regiment - a French In the Revolutionary Wars, he won a reputation and served as aide-de-camp to General Dumouriez, He distinguished himself in that general's for rapid promotion, from lieutenant to general He led his division well during campaigns bond with one of France's most successful In 1798 he was sent to Rome as governor, and Summoned north the following year to reinforce in a skirmish with Austrian cavalry; and while was defeated at the Trebbia by a larger Coalition Suvorov. But Macdonald's own conduct won approval Later that year, he assisted Napoleon's ensuring the loyalty of the troops at Versailles. He was rewarded with an army command in Switzerland, to attack the Austrians in Italy. His march was far more challenging and dangerous in quite the same way. In 1804, Macdonald's former commander General in a plot to assassinate Napoleon. Macdonald stood up for his friend's reputation but disastrous for his career. Moreau was exiled; Macdonald was placed under estate in disgrace. Five years passed before Napoleon, desperate to serve as military advisor to his 27-year the Army of Italy. Macdonald and Eugene worked well together, feat of marching, joined Napoleon near Vienna The second day of the battle was Macdonald's Entrusted by the Emperor with the main attack into a giant open-backed square, and advanced Napoleon, watching through his telescope, What a brave man." Macdonald's costly attack helped to secure The next day Napoleon went to find him on words, "Let us be friends from now... You have acted valiantly and given me the On the battlefield of your glory, where I I make you a Marshal of France... You have long deserved it." In addition, Macdonald received the title But as time would prove, his loyalty remained Macdonald spent an unhappy year in Catalonia, immoral war - in his memoirs he even praised of the Spanish. In 1812, he was given command of Tenth Corps This corps, composed of German troops and flank of the invasion, and had a relatively In December, the Prussians suddenly agreed loyal remnants of Macdonald's corps to fight By 1813, Napoleon relied on Macdonald as one In August, he gave him command of the forces of Silesia. But when Macdonald advanced across the Katzbach chaos among his troops, just as they encountered Blucher launched an immediate attack, and Thousands of his new conscripts surrendered river itself. Macdonald took full responsibility for the bad luck were also to blame. Napoleon certainly continued to respect Macdonald's He continued to command Eleventh Corps, and two months later. Macdonald was with the rearguard when the the chaos that engulfed the army. When the Elster Bridge was blown too early, the river, and just managed to swim to safety Macdonald continued to serve Napoleon as a 1814 campaign, effectively serving as his Unlike most Marshals, Macdonald was never his mind to the Emperor. This in itself was a valuable service, though Perhaps inevitably, in April, it was Macdonald with the facts of his situation: the war was Napoleon named Macdonald as one of the three his foreign minister, the Marquis de Caulaincourt, man of his word, of high principles, and he In their last meeting a few days later, Napoleon I was prejudiced against you. I have done so much for so many others who've And you, who owe me nothing, have remained I appreciate your loyalty too late." Macdonald was kept on as a military advisor He continued to speak his mind, so much so Outspokenness'. During the Hundred Days, Macdonald remained troops to fight against Napoleon. When he saw this was futile, he escorted the Paris, where he refused to meet with Napoleon. After the defeat at Waterloo, he was put in Napoleon's Grande Armee, and helped many Macdonald was a methodical, reliable if unspectacular But he distinguished himself above all by complete loyalty to France, and his willingness too rare among Napoleon's Marshals. 7. Marshal Massena Andre Massena was born in Nice, at that the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia. His father, a shopkeeper, died when he was enlisted in the French army. He was quickly made a sergeant, but a commoner after 14 years' service, he quit. When the French Revolution began, he re-enlisted Massena, supremely self-confident and unfazed battalion, and led it with success against Despite his lack of education, he proved an to brigadier... and after leading a successful of Division. He won an impressive victory over the Austrians commander, General Scherer resigned, over many expected Massena to replace him. Instead, the job went to the 26 year-old General experienced than Massena, but with far better Nevertheless, Napoleon and Massena worked advance guard, and played a major role in In reports, Napoleon described Massena as He won so many battles that Napoleon acclaimed - the spoiled child of victory. Massena was, however, notorious for extorting his own troops went hungry and without pay. In 1798 Massena received his first independent The next spring, after French defeats on the defence of France lay in his hands. Rather than wait to be encircled, he attacked... and Russian forces at the Battle of Zurich. Rewarded with command of the Army of Italy, 1800. He was eventually starved into surrender, time to cross the Alps, and defeat the Austrians Physically exhausted by this last ordeal, Massena was recalled to Paris and went into When he was made a Marshal by Napoleon in on being congratulated, remarked, "There But Massena was one of the few Marshals who'd making him a priceless asset to Napoleon. In 1805 he was recalled to active service, the war against the Third Coalition. Massena kept Archduke Charles's army busy victories at Ulm and Austerlitz. In 1806, Massena oversaw the occupation of reprisals against local resistance. In 1807 he commanded Fifth Corps in Poland, the major battles of Eylau and Friedland. Later that year, while out hunting with the he was accidentally shot in the face, and Napoleon, a notoriously bad shot, was to blame, The war against Austria in 1809 saw Massena for the crossing of the Danube, and fought against an overwhelming Austrian onslaught. Massena was everywhere, displaying his usual ensured his troops pulled back across the The battle was a defeat, but Massena had Together, he and the Emperor oversaw preparations weeks later. The Austrians were waiting for them, at the Because of a riding accident a few days earlier, He made a fine target for Austrian gunners, of his corps at the height of the battle, Massena's bold manoeuvre secured the French Massena, already ennobled as the Duke of and another, less welcome reward - command Massena was deeply reluctant to go, and complained He was showing clear signs of exhaustion, When he arrived in Spain, General Foy observed, He's lost weight and has begun to stoop. His glance, since the accident in which he His subordinates, already underwhelmed by also decided to bring along his mistress, The French invasion of Portugal proved a disaster tactics, a hostile population and terrain, His corps commanders, especially Marshal Ney, At Bucaco, Massena squandered lives with British position. When he reached Lisbon, he found the city Lines of Torres Vedras. Massena waited outside Lisbon for reinforcements raids took their toll on his army. Five months later, he re-crossed the mountains villages behind him. The next summer, at Fuentes de Onoro, Massena despite much hard fighting, again failed to He blamed Marshal Bessieres for his lack But the Emperor's patience was at an end. He sent Marshal Marmont to replace Massena, cutting words, "So, Prince of Essling, you Massena's health was now in steep decline. He never held a major command again, though district in southern France. He died after a long illness in 1817. In his prime, Massena was a superb commander But he was past his best by the time he became Nevertheless, there were enough sparks of The Duke of Wellington once remarked, "When never slept comfortably." 6. Marshal Suchet Louis-Gabriel Suchet was born in Lyon, the Plans to join the family business were derailed ardent republican, joined the cavalry of the In 1793 he was elected to lead a volunteer himself by helping to capture the British He also made friends with a young Major Bonaparte. Suchet went on to serve under Napoleon in at Lodi, Castiglione, and Bassano. Transferred to Massena's division, he led Rivoli, was wounded twice and promoted Colonel. It was in Italy that Suchet learned the most to be effective, they must be properly paid, consistently failed to achieve. Despite proving himself to be an excellent never quite made it into General Bonaparte's He went on to serve as a highly effective in Switzerland; and was with Joubert in Italy, Suchet was promoted to General of Division, of Italy's left wing. With Massena besieged by the Austrians in on his shoulders. In a brilliant independent campaign, he held back into Italy, taking 15,000 prisoners. Despite this impressive record, Suchet was in 1804. Worse, in 1805 he was effectively demoted, Lannes' Fifth Corps. Nevertheless, it was a role he performed with at Ulm and Austerlitz, and the next year, over the Prussians at Jena. The next year in Poland, his division saw back to defend Warsaw, and missed the great Napoleon heaped rewards on General Suchet baton... In 1808, Suchet's division was sent to Spain, His first role was to support the Siege of Then on Marshal Lannes' recommendation, and made him Governor of Aragon. Suchet found his troops to be poorly supplied, Their first battle together, against General rout at Alcaniz. Suchet found the drummer who'd started the corps. He then reorganised his troops, and restored over the Spanish. He also faced a guerrilla war in Aragon - a French invader. Suchet drew on French experience of fighting and realised that it was only by winning over to make progress. He made it his first priority to ensure his almost unheard of for French troops in Spain. He enforced discipline, and made sure requisitioned He told his troops: "I will look after your well-being... and to the inhabitants... you will make them, by your conduct, care He told the Spanish people: "My troops will not impede you harvests They will live in the countryside ready to Religion and clergy will be respected." Crucially, Suchet also promised protection behaved no better than bandits. His practical and humane approach won respect, The guerrillas could never be completely defeated, region in occupied Spain. He extended French control of eastern Spain Mequinenza, and Tortosa. In June 1811, he took Tarragona. For this victory, Napoleon finally awarded earned in Spain. Then he moved south. He defeated a larger Spanish force at Saguntum... with 18,000 prisoners and nearly 500 guns. Napoleon rewarded Suchet with the title Duke But the overall situation in Spain was deteriorating The partisans became better organised and troops on the coast to make diversionary attacks; for his own campaigns in Russia and Germany. After King Joseph and Jourdan were defeated back towards the French frontier, leaving On Napoleon's abdication, Suchet remained When Napoleon returned from exile, Suchet It was the first time they'd met in person "Marshal Suchet, you have grown greatly the Emperor told him. He entrusted Suchet with command of French command, for which few men were better suited. Suchet dutifully kept France's enemies at until news arrived of Napoleon's defeat Following the second Bourbon restoration, estate, where he died in 1826. He was still held in such esteem in Aragon in the cathedral of Saragossa. Suchet was a brilliant commander, widely-regarded army. He was also one of the few who thrived with He never had the opportunity to prove himself But when Napoleon, in exile on Saint-Helena, "That is difficult to say... but it seems 5. Marshal Ney Michel Ney was a cooper's son from Lorraine, eastern frontier. His father wanted him to become a clerk, but a hussar regiment instead. He soon distinguished himself as a fine horseman time of the French Revolution. When war broke out, Ney was made an officer, his reports described Ney as active, brave Ney served in the Netherlands and on the Rhine, he was seriously wounded once and captured Fellow officers nicknamed Ney 'the Indefatigable'... or red-faced. The 30 year-old Ney was now a proven brigade than once, regarding himself as unqualified. In 1799, following glowing reports from General General of Division. In 1800, Ney and his division played a major the Austrians at Hohenlinden. This brought him to the attention of France's whom he'd still never served. When they met in Paris, they warmed to each task of imposing his 'Act of Mediation' swift efficiency. The same year Ney married Aglae-Louise Auguie, now Napoleon's stepdaughter, drawing him In 1804, Napoleon proclaimed a new empire, The next year, he was leading Sixth Corps He was accompanied by Colonel Henri Jomini, Ney had been quick to recognise his talent, to publish his work. Jomini would win fame as one of the 19th century's as his chief-of-staff on several campaigns. During the advance against the Austrians, Marshal Murat that would've allowed the Their decision was vindicated when Sixth Corps closed the trap on General Mack's forces Ney's corps missed the Battle of Austerlitz, following year. There had already been signs that Ney's tactical leader, could also get him into trouble. At the Battle of Jena, Ney ignored his orders, becoming cut off. His troops had to be rescued by Marshal Lannes' A furious Napoleon remarked "Ney knows less boy." Ney was criticised again by Napoleon three East Prussia appeared to provoke a Russian The winter manoeuvring culminated in the horrific only as darkness fell. That summer, Bennigsen's Russian army launched destroy Ney's Sixth Corps near Guttstadt. Ney, outnumbered four to one, conducted a the trap. A week later, Napoleon caught Bennigsen's Ney led a crucial attack on the enemy. "That man is a lion," said Napoleon, watching Sixth Corps' onslaught shattered the Russian decisive victories. For all his flaws, Ney had proved himself and was rewarded with the title Duke of Elchingen. In 1808, Ney commanded a corps during the He spent more than two years in the Iberian found it a bitter and frustrating experience. In 1810, he joined Marshal Massena for the being placed under his command. He criticised every decision, helping to create The French advance on Lisbon came to a halt During the subsequent retreat, Ney again demonstrated series of rearguard actions that kept Wellington's But Ney's fury at what he considered Massena's insubordination: he was relieved of command, But he did not remain in disgrace for long. Napoleon knew Ney's worth in battle, and He'd be needed in Russia, and was recalled As the Grande Armee advanced deeper into attacks at Krasny, and at Smolensk, where Amid the slaughter of Borodino, Ney led his earthworks. When they were finally taken, and he was told to follow up their hard-won gains, he exploded "What business has the Emperor in the rear Since he will no longer make war himself... us to be generals for him!" It was typical of Ney's lack of restraint. But his blind faith in the Emperor did not henceforth, he'd fight only for France. It was during the retreat from Moscow that military history. Just 2 weeks into the retreat, the Russians Ney and Third Corps took over. Ney was not only an instinctive tactician, he could inspire or bully other men into superhuman A French officer later recalled: "I can see him still, at the spot where men, indicating to the generals what positions with the confidence that flashed from his He made an effect on me I don't know how At Krasny, when the rearguard got cut-off calls to surrender, and led his men in an crossing the frozen Dnieper River at night, they fell through the ice. Surrounded by Cossacks and down to 800 fighting Ney was more than a hero to the army. He was its talisman. News of his escape caused rejoicing throughout Napoleon himself remarked, "What a soldier! The army is full of brave men, but Michel Ney led the rearguard for the rest of the last man to cross the Niemen River into Poland. His leadership helped many thousands of soldiers Ney was rewarded with the title Prince of 1813, though his relations with the Emperor, strained. At Lutzen, Ney was moved by the conduct of Blucher's surprise attack, but fought back Napoleon then entrusted Ney with command of But the plan for him to fall on the enemy's Badly-drafted orders led to delay, and the Ney fought in the Emperor's great victory his limitations as an army commander were Throwing himself into an attack, he lost control Army of the North. Ney was devasted by his defeat, but Napoleon At the gigantic, four-day Battle of Leipzig, the line until a shoulder wound on the last He rejoined the army in 1814 and fought in Guard, and personally leading a bayonet charge In April, Ney - outspoken as ever - was among of his position, and force his abdication. Ney was feted by the restored Bourbon monarchy But he could not hide his contempt for the with disdain. When the king's niece reduced his wife to others were fighting for France, while you In February 1815, Napoleon escaped from exile Ney was horrified by the prospect of civil Napoleon back to Paris in an iron cage. But he soon saw that the army was flocking When Napoleon appealed to him directly as decision to cast in his lot with the Emperor When Napoleon advanced into the Netherlands armies, Ney commanded his left wing. But he made a string of blunders. Against Wellington's troops at Quatre Bras, Two days later, at Waterloo, Napoleon left to Marshal Ney. It was a mistake. On his own initiative, Ney launched a series to launch any co-ordinated attacks on Wellington's He had four horses killed under him, an the Imperial Guard. Ney's courage that day was awe-inspiring, defeat. In the aftermath, Ney spurned several chances by the restored monarchy. A military court refused to pass sentence, With the king's allies demanding that an trial was never in doubt. Five of Ney's fellow Marshals were among On 7th December 1815, he was marched into "Soldiers, when I give the order to fire, "Wait for the order. It will be my last to you. I protest against my condemnation. I have fought a hundred battles for France, Marshal Ney was among the most inspirational soldier and brilliant tactician... unless He lacked the confidence for high command, proved one of the Grande Armee's greatest 4. Marshal Soult Jean-de-Dieu Soult was from a small town in Royal aged 16. He became a tough, capable sergeant, and in a new battalion of volunteers as their drill Soult's self-confidence and bearing meant The unit went into action against the Prussians the battalion became casualties, though Soult's After a spell on the staff of General Hoche, division. Soult learned much from Lefebvre (a future of staff, and later as his best brigade commander. Soult's rise from sergeant to brigadier-general In the process he won a reputation as an organised He also began a bitter, long-lasting feud In 1799 Soult established himself as one of under Massena's command at the Battle of He was then put in charge of three divisions proving his ability for high command. In his report to France's new First Consul, and courage, Soult has scarcely a superior.&quot; The next year, Soult and Massena were besieged Soult led a series of daring raids on the and captured. He was robbed, and spent days in agony in explain Soult's later reluctance to lead On his return to Paris, Soult received a hero's His rewards included an honorary rank as Colonel-General assembled at Saint Omer for Napoleon's planned Soult, the old drill instructor, imposed strict the nickname 'bras de fer', iron-arm. Even Napoleon wondered if he was being too can't handle what I myself endure will be Those that can will be fit to conquer the In 1804 Napoleon proclaimed his new Empire, The next year his impeccably-drilled troops the Grande Armee - and marched east to That December, at Austerlitz, Napoleon entrusted enemy centre. As he issued his final orders to his Marshals, "As for you, Soult, I say only - act as Fourth Corps' attack was the decisive blow to Soult's exceptional divisional commanders, With victory won, Napoleon acclaimed Soult However, it was observed that Soult was now taking a more managerial approach to command tactical instinct remained superb. The next year, Soult's corps played an important of the defeated Prussian army that followed. In the brutal winter battle at Eylau, his Soult's relationship with Napoleon was excellent, advice - much to Marshal Berthier's annoyance. In 1808, Soult was ennobled as the Duke of in Napoleon's invasion of Spain. When the Emperor returned to France, he entrusted Soult. The British nicknamed Soult 'The Duke of the mountains of Galicia to La Coruna. But in battle, he could not break their lines, Soult then marched south and occupied Porto, crowning himself king of Portugal. Whether the rumours were serious or not, in by surprise, and drove him out of Portugal This was the most ignominious chapter of Soult's that saw sparks of brilliance, but also missed to co-operate with other commanders. Later in 1809, Soult replaced Marshal Jourdan and led French forces to a crushing victory He then oversaw the French occupation of southern Appointed governor of Andalucia, Soult administered at Seville, though avoiding harsh measures He lived in royal style, and notoriously, he soon amassed one of the great art collections francs. He was increasingly aloof, and even his aides "Soult's character is hard, and above no more than a passing interest in those around In 1811, with Marshal Massena's army stalled give support. Like many of Napoleon's long-range interventions yet Soult marched north with 20,000 men, capturing of an enemy landing near Barrosa. Two months later, he marched north again to and met Beresford's larger army en route Soult launched a flanking attack that threw But he failed to follow up his advantage, to others. Nor was he on the spot to inspire his troops... The next year, Wellington's victory at Salamanca and retreat to Valencia... Though that autumn, he had the satisfaction army back to the Portuguese frontier. In 1813, Napoleon summoned Soult to Germany, the main attack at Bautzen. But when news arrived of the calamitous French to Spain to take charge. Soult inherited a demoralised, disorganised He quickly imposed order, turned it around, It was an impressive feat, but his mostly well-led troops - two attempts to relieve Soult began a fighting retreat through the Despite the limitations of his demoralised had to fight every step of the way, counter-attacking till the end, even as Napoleon's empire The last battle of the campaign was fought as Napoleon had abdicated four days earlier. Under the Bourbon restoration, Soult became Like Marshal Ney, he initially opposed Napoleon's was blowing, and rallied to the Emperor. Napoleon made several dubious appointments chief of staff, replacing Marshal Berthier. Not only did this waste Soult's command implement Napoleon's orders; Soult also own devising. Crucial errors resulted during the Waterloo unsure of their role. Soult's warning not to underestimate Wellington's that because Wellington defeated you he must I tell you that he is a bad general, that be over by lunchtime." Following Napoleon's defeat, Soult lived under a political amnesty. After the July Revolution, he served as a as President of the Council of Ministers, He also became the 'grand old man' of with the exalted rank of 'Marshal General Soult died aged 82, in the same town where Soult's record as a Marshal was mixed - a ability to deliver a master-stroke, or inspire Yet he was one of the few Marshals that Napoleon - a quality he needed desperately, but found So far we've met Marshals Perignon... Brune. Serurier. Kellermann. Grouchy. Moncey. Poniatowksi. Jourdan. Bernadotte. Augereau. Lefebvre. Mortier. Marmont. Saint-Cyr. Oudinot. Victor. Murat. Bessieres. Macdonald. Massena. Suchet. Ney. And Soult. 3. Marshal Berthier Louis-Alexandre Berthier was born at Versailles, His mother served at the palace as a chambermaid was a colonel in the Topographical Engineers Berthier followed in his father's footsteps, 13, and was commissioned lieutenant at 17. He proved a talented and diligent staff officer. Ten years later he accompanied General Rochambeau colonists in their War of Independence... By the time the French Revolutionary Wars with 25 years' service, who'd studied military organisation and command. A reputation for outstanding staff work meant as Chief of Staff to Rochambeau, Lafayette, But during 'The Terror', ties to these himself under the spotlight. He was stripped of his rank, and not officially of Staff of the Army of Italy. A Chief of Staff led the staff section, which orders into action, by drafting written instructions every aspect of army administration; ensuring reports on the enemy, terrain, roads and anything Berthier, building on recent trends in French staff organisation: He established 3 sections: His personal office or cabinet, mostly skilled transcribed orders, filed reports, and collated His private military staff, made up of aides-de-camp, And the general staff itself, headed by the into three sections: The first dealt with additional troop movements, military policing, prisoners-of-war and security The second section organised the army's The third section was the topographical section, The general structure of Berthier's system proved uniquely effective at handling the warfare. Its chief beneficiary would be the Army of Napoleon also discovered that his chief of - a heroic capacity for work, meticulous to duty and discipline. Crucially, he had a gift for turning Napoleon's clear, concise, written orders that made sense Napoleon and Berthier established a highly last until 1814. It relied on Berthier's complete acceptance in devising strategy, and never challenged of logistical detail. When a friend queried his devotion to Napoleon, boss, Berthier replied, &quot;Remember that one Bonaparte.&quot; Berthier's hard work and brilliant staff in Italy, and beyond. They spent so much time together, Berthier He was personally brave too, leading an attack But his genius was for staff work and administration, When he briefly inherited command of the Army as soon as possible to take over. Berthier played a crucial role in planning and masterminded his famous crossing of the almost 100 miles through the mountains in The same year, Napoleon made Berthier Minister military administration. When Napoleon proclaimed his new empire in of new Marshals, with seniority over all others. The next year his role as chief of staff, was officially confirmed. In the fast-moving campaign of 1805, Berthier's information about the location and strength reports on enemy movements from scouts, spies, Such advantages helped him achieve the stunning Ulm. On campaign, Berthier and the Emperor often working without pause. His workload was immense, but so too were Following the victory at Austerlitz, Napoleon of Neuchatel &amp; Valangin, with an enormous Over the course of Napoleon's reign, he francs per year from the Emperor - more Yet Berthier remained a liability as a field In 1809, Napoleon put him in temporary command When Archduke Charles made a bold advance and muddled, and nearly led to Marshal Davout's Only Napoleon's arrival averted disaster. Returning to his usual role as chief of staff, talents, co-ordinating the movement of 200,000 victory at Wagram. The title Prince of Wagram was added to his The invasion of Russia in 1812 was a test staff. It required co-ordinating the movement of ever seen in Europe - across a 400-mile front. "A simple private is happier than I," by all this work." By August, it was clear the Grande Armee's was among those who tried to persuade Napoleon He was ignored. As disaster engulfed the army, Berthier continued By the end of the retreat, he was marching When Napoleon left the army to return to Paris Despite his own poor health in the wake of the remnants of the army, and served throughout By now, Napoleon's enemies had reformed by Berthier's example. But neither Berthier nor his system was perfect: In May, a confusing order to Marshal Ney contributed and a missed chance to crush the Coalition Berthier was also notorious for his jealousies Jomini, Ney's talented chief of staff, drove Berthier must also bear some blame for the knew there weren't enough bridges for the the matter with Napoleon. When the only bridge out of the city was blown Berthier continued to serve Napoleon faithfully, the Emperor's abdication in April 1814. The restored Bourbon monarchy showered titles gave him an honorary rank in his own guard. Napoleon's return from exile 11 months later both ways by his sense of duty and loyalty. He accompanied the king on his flight to the by the royal court, that he left for his wife's There, a few weeks later, Berthier fell from It was most likely a simple accident, though or despair, or less plausibly, was murdered Napoleon had expected Berthier to rejoin him "I have been betrayed by Berthier, who was kind of eagle." But after his defeat at Waterloo, in which role, Napoleon conceded, &quot;If Berthier had Berthier had none of Murat's glamour, nor of Davout. But he was 'the indispensable Marshal', work were the foundation for so much of Napoleon's 2. Marshal Lannes Jean Lannes was a farmer's son from Gascony, to join the local volunteer battalion in 1792. Energetic and charismatic, he was immediately The unit was sent to fight the Spanish on a brave and active officer. He distinguished himself in several actions, Lannes was then transferred to Italy as part bold, aggressive leadership won praise from Bonaparte himself, who rewarded Lannes with advance guard. A month later at the Battle of Lodi, Colonel off the bridge and wading ashore under enemy At the Battle of Arcole, he was wounded twice, he left the dressing station to lead a fresh capture or worse. Napoleon later presented the flag he'd waved was formed between them, based on mutual respect Lannes was promoted to brigadier general, to Egypt. He played a prominent role in the campaign, and leading the assaults on Jaffa, and Acre... from certain death by his men, who carried At the Battle of Aboukir, Lannes' infantry crushing defeat on the Ottoman army. While recovering from his latest wounds in from home: his wife had given birth to another He returned to France with Napoleon in October, When Napoleon staged his coup of 18 Brumaire, The next spring, Napoleon's army marched Lannes' vanguard led the way, and at Montebello, it two to one. Lannes was able to win a brilliant victory, Just five days later, his division played Marengo. Lannes never forgot a favour - he and Victor But he also never forgot a grudge, was notoriously In 1800 Lannes remarried to Louise-Antoinette he'd have 5 children. He was also appointed commander of Napoleon's But he was dismissed after General Bessieres for which Lannes never forgave him. In semi-disgrace, Lannes was sent as ambassador against expectation, his soldierly manner By 1804 it was clear that all was forgiven a Marshal of the new French empire, and orders The following year he took command of Fifth for the advance against the Austrian army Lannes had to work closely with Marshal Murat, but they put their differences aside. Together, they bluffed an Austrian commander persuading him that an armistice had been At one point Lannes even snatched the fuse light the explosive charges. The day before the Battle of Austerlitz, Lannes' to fight a duel with Marshal Soult, who - in front of the Emperor. Soult ignored the challenge. In the battle that followed, Lannes' Fifth attacks... later pushing forward with the cavalry to After the battle, Lannes was infuriated that by the Emperor. Within days, Lannes had resigned his command In 1806, with tempers cooled, Napoleon summoned Prussia. Back in command of Fifth Corps, Lannes was At Saalfeld, he fought the first major combat by Prince Louis Ferdinand. Four days later at Jena, Lannes opened the division in the lead. For six hours, his troops were engaged in until finally, the Prussian resistance was By December, the war had moved into Poland. Lannes attacked a larger Russian force at affair. Wounds and fever then forced him to convalesce That spring, Lannes resumed command of the Russian army, hoping to force a decisive battle. When Bennigsen located Lannes' apparently-isolated He expected an easy victory. But Lannes, with support from future Marshals to fend off the Russians, while Napoleon raced Lannes' delaying tactics allowed Napoleon the river, and inflict a crushing defeat. The following year Lannes was ennobled as the invasion of Spain, despite suffering a Taking command of Marshal Moncey's Third Battle of Tudela, sending the enemy fleeing He was then given command of the Siege of Spanish soldiers and civilians defended the leadership and methodical, house-by-house at a high price. Even Lannes was left shaken by the savagery this is a horrifying war." Napoleon recalled Lannes for the war with His Provisional Corps formed the vanguard series of quick victories over the Austrians, Napoleon next needed Regensburg taken quickly, After the first assault wave was mown down, Furious, he picked up a scaling ladder and was a Marshal I was a grenadier, and still As he rushed forward, his aides grabbed the led a successful attack. After occupying Vienna, Napoleon ordered his Austrians. Marshals Lannes and Massena led the way across cavalry. It was soon clear that Napoleon had miscalculated, but the full might of Archduke Charles's Massena held the village of Aspern, while But desperately-needed reinforcements and floated obstacles downriver to smash the fragile Lannes' old rival Marshal Bessieres was Lannes sent repeated orders for him to charge of cowardice, and that evening the two Marshals The next day, Lannes' corps led an attack by the weight of enemy fire. The French-held villages were under constant, Around 4pm Lannes' old friend General Pouzet of him. Lannes, badly shaken, walked off to sit alone the ground and smashed both his legs. Lannes was carried to the rear, and placed famous surgeon, Baron Larrey. Larrey quickly decided that he must amputate The operation went well. But the wound became infected, and Lannes Napoleon, who'd visited Lannes every day, "What a loss for France, and for me". Then he wrote to Lannes' wife: "The Marshal has died this morning of the My pain equals yours. I lost the most distinguished general in my years whom I considered my best friend." Marshal Lannes' death was a great blow to He had proved himself an outstanding commander... as brave as Ney, with the military mind of vanguard in four of his greatest campaigns. His remarkable, soldiering skills would be years that lay ahead. 1. Marshal Davout Louis-Nicolas Davout was born into a noble military service that went back to the Crusades. At 15 he was sent to the Military School in who'd graduated a few weeks before. In 1788 Davout was commissioned into the Royal his vocal support for the French Revolution to resign his commission and spent 6 weeks In 1791 Davout joined a local volunteer battalion, The next year France was at war with Austria a brave, highly-organised and energetic officer. He also won praise for attempting to prevent defecting to the Austrians - though he was The incident did speed Davout's promotion But the Revolution was now entering its most from the army, and Davout had to resign his A year passed before he was reinstated, with the Moselle. He led a series of daring operations against General Desaix, who became a close friend. In 1798, Desaix introduced Davout to his friend Napoleon was not at first impressed -Davout Napoleon even described him as a "damn brute". But he did trust Desaix's judgement, and Egypt. It was a tough campaign for Davout, who caught But he further demonstrated his military skill, expedition into Upper Egypt... and later leading Soon after their return to France, General robbing Davout of a close friend and patron. However, Napoleon had been won over by Davout's General of Division, and appointed him Inspector Napoleon also encouraged Davout to marry Aimee bringing Davout within the First Consul's It proved a loving marriage, and great source In 1803 Davout was given command of the Camp the invasion of England. Here he established his reputation as an exceptional discipline and regular training, while paying sacking officers who didn't meet his high In 1804 Napoleon proclaimed a new French empire, its new Marshals. His inclusion was a surprise to many, especially than a brigade in battle. It's very likely that the deaths of Davout's cleared a path for him. The next year, Davout's troops became Third east to take on the Third Coalition. On the eve of the Battle of Austerlitz, Davout arriving at dawn on Napoleon's right flank. His troops went straight into action, holding time for Napoleon's decisive move against It was a remarkable performance by Third Corps.... the next year, in the war against Prussia. As Napoleon concentrated his forces at Jena, army.. he ordered Davout's Third Corps and retreat. But 10 miles north of Napoleon, near Auerstedt, army. With no sign of support from Marshal Bernadotte's of more than two-to-one. Davout's masterful handling of his troops onslaught. Then, his line stabilised, Davout went on It was a stunning victory, won at a high price killed or wounded. When Napoleon heard the first report, he was "Your Marshal must have been seeing double!", Davout's spectacle-wearing. When the report was confirmed, he sent a message his generals and his troops have gained everlasting He later gave Third Corps the honour of being The next year at Eylau, Davout's corps again Russian flank. When his men were driven back, Davout rallied Siberia, the brave will die on the field of This time Third Corps could not break through, to retreat that night. Following the peace treaty of Tilsit, Davout Warsaw, where he oversaw the recruitment and In 1808 he was ennobled as Duke of Auerstedt. But for all his military prowess, Davout was Notoriously tough, his troops respected rather irritated by his air of superiority and blunt In 1809, with war looming with Austria, Davout When Archduke Charles advanced into Bavaria, Berthier - nearly left Davout to be cut As soon as Napoleon arrived, he ordered Davout It was almost too late. But with immense skill, Davout and Third Corps the army. Davout played a major part in the counter-offensive pinning Austrian forces at Eggmuhl... until A month later at the Battle of Aspern, Davout The Marshal's role was limited to trying the French were forced to withdraw. When the army crossed the Danube again six on the right wing. On the first day of the Battle of Wagram, attack. But the 'Iron Marshal', as he was now lay ahead. The next day Davout's troops fought off their own attack, gradually driving in the retreat inevitable. Davout and his corps had emerged from another A grateful Napoleon bestowed on him a new For a few years there was peace in central in his new role as Governor-General of the and illegal trade with Britain. In 1812, Napoleon entrusted him with the enormous invasion of Russia. Davout's First Corps alone was 72,000 strong, When it crossed the Niemen River in June, observer compared them to the Imperial Guard Davout's giant corps was the spear-tip of He mauled Bagration's Second Army at Saltanovka, Three weeks later, his troops were in the But Davout's lack of allies among the other Many were keen to see him taken down a peg Marshal Berthier - and perhaps even the When Davout got into a row with Marshal Murat, decided in Murat's favour, giving him one On the eve of the Battle of Borodino, the the Russian defences. &quot;You are always for turning the enemy," In the bloody battle that followed, Davout's earthworks. The Marshal himself was injured when his dying field, directing the attack... which was, Six weeks later, the Grande Armee began its The remains of Davout's corps were ordered But he was criticised for moving too slowly. Near Vyazma a gap opened up, and Russian General and saved only by the quick intervention of Ney's corps took over as rearguard, but widely blamed for not turning back to rescue The moment highlighted the gulf in charisma by the troops, and Davout, who was not. Davout began the 1813 campaign holding Dresden, Napoleon sent him north to organise the city's Exactly why Napoleon kept his best Marshal in Saxony continues to puzzle historians. Davout was a stern and effective governor and Napoleon's strategic northern flank. He organised a new Thirteenth Corps, and - following a six-month siege. Davout only surrendered Hamburg in May 1814, abdication. But what difference the 'Iron Marshal' or Laon, remains a tantalising 'what-if'. Davout was not welcomed into the restored loyalty to Napoleon was despised by the ultra-royalists. Instead he was forced into retirement and When Napoleon returned to France in 1815, waiting to greet him at the Tuileries Palace. But once again, Napoleon gave Davout a role waste of his ability. Davout was made Minister of War and governor and loyal administrator. And Davout worked miracles to raise a new But if Davout, not Grouchy, had commanded knows what might have been. Following the Emperor's defeat at Waterloo, urged Napoleon to fight on. Later accepting that he must abdicate, Davout and submitted to the Bourbons. The royalists had promised Davout that his conduct. He was furious to discover these assurances He also testified on behalf of Marshal Ney Davout was stripped of his rank and income, thanks to the intercession of Marshal Macdonald. Davout shunned court, as he always had. His health was failing, and in 1821, the death He died two years later of tuberculosis, aged Davout, the youngest and least proven of Napoleon's Cool under fire and a brilliant tactician, A superb administrator, he was a stern and Germany. His main weakness was his severe and blunt even wishing to see him fail... not something often. So concludes our ranking of Napoleon's Marshals... 26 dramatic lives that reflect a tumultuous Products of a military meritocracy, forged Skills honed by two decades of war... Their fates entwined in the rise and fall History may never see such an extraordinary, commanders again. Thank you to all the Patreon supporters who Visit our Patreon page to find out how you access and help to choose future topics.