Sorrow is no stranger to Zelda stories. Casting shadows over all of the exploration, missions, loom big clouds of sadness that Zelda ingredient the writers have been slowly Sorrow is being written like a disease - a world and Link, the hero of these stories, with flushing out the virus and restoring More often than not, it's the supporting characters is constantly connecting these 2 themes of to heal their sorrows and ease their Titles like Majora's Mask and Twilight Princess and regret into the opening dialogue, while into broken worlds already operating in the of the characters as they awaken to fulfill Oracle of Ages and Seasons use flames of Sorrow upon the world, but what's important is - necessary rites of passage for story progression Language like this. Except one. (Mood shift) Ocarina Of Time is often overlooked when it comes to discussing which be because Ocarina director Shigeru Miyamoto that the Zelda Sorrow Language like its successors. Those recurring themes of sorrow, regret, any corner of the script. Instead, this kind of off-center cryptic poetic language. Themes like: -Melodies that draw you into infinite darkness -the flow of time is always cruel -childish minds turn to noble ambition In the past, these themes have been discussed form to assist theories or arguments generated But tracking this language back through Ocarina's thematic threads that when isolated, actually narratively complete stories of sorrow. With the bones of these 2 threads now in mind, stories begin to pop out. Miyamoto and Osawa have used everything in characters, nature, events, architecture, subtle clues that all point back to these Instead of casting obvious clouds of sadness dialogue, the creative team have buried sadness begin to uncover all of the hidden details, a doubt, the saddest Zelda story no one noticed. In order to make sense of Miyamoto and Osawa's look at the beats that construct Ocarina Of on The Great Deku Tree sending Navi the fairy Sword and shield in hand, Link is warned by the land of Hyrule and is sent to gather the One inside the tree, one in a cave and one Using the 3 stones and the Ocarina Of Time leads Ganondorf into the sacred realm and one evil wish - govern Hyrule. Link sleeps for 7 years and wakes as an adult Dark Hyrule and is sent on a new quest to 5 temples. Through tackling this evil, all 5 sages are now transcended to the position of Guardian lake, underworld, desert. With their help, Link takes down Ganondorf back in time before Ganondorf hatches his This top adventure line is the face of Ocarina the box, complete with deadly dungeons, weapons So where do these 2 sorrow threads come into play? Well, they Actually begin where the entire scene I showed in the prologue, the death of The Great Deku Tree. This scene with the Deku Tree's death is in that its meaning translates differently is being followed. On the adventure line, his death is used as - a curse spreads across Hyrule and Link witnesses Off Link goes. But the first sorrow thread though specifically but how. Emphasis is placed heavily on the importance Of Time. Before his death, the Deku Tree recounts to Three goddesses, each with their own divine the land, the law, and life to uphold that With this creation story embedded in the DNA the land Of Hyrule is inaugurated not just but as a living breathing organism - almost and sleeping patterns. Following the creation story, the Deku Tree who was the one to cast the death curse on Hyrule's natural balance and the death curse While the characters in other Zelda stories disease, in Ocarina it is Hyrule's nature Link is restoring a natural order tipped off-balance ethics found in the japanese home-grown religion That's Miyamoto at the Fushimi Inari Shrine Osawa's childhood hometown. While the direct influence of this Shinto series, the broader spirit of the Shinto faith gameography, none more so than the Zelda series the needs and rhythm of nature. Yet, no Zelda story is quite as distilled Of Time and this is the first sorrow thread SHINTO LINE defining foundation of the Shinto religion. The minutiae of a moral compass is replaced with Kami - the spiritual energy of a particular The name Kami can be translated to 'Gods' literally translates to The Way Of The Gods. The fox Miyamoto addresses at the Fushimi the Inari god - 'Inari' being the name of - believed to host the god of rice, fertility Purification is a key aspect of all ritual order and balance between nature, humans, Purification rituals counteract the threat to the flow of life and blessing from the The anthropomorphisation or physical representation and the best visual example might be from that borrows heavily from Shintoist artifacts. The biggest examples being the lives of the spirits of individual trees, and The Forest larger Kami of the entire forest. In Mononoke, San and Ashitaka are seen as Kami, rhythm, nature, and consequently, ultimate Miyamoto and Osawa's work in Ocarina Of Different villages with their own unique races race is bound elementally to their own section Gorons to mountain and fire, Zoras to water These rural kami-like races dedicate their - the Great Deku Tree, in which, similarly the Kami of Kokiri Forest, and Lord Jabu Jabu, to embody the divine spirit and protector in some sort of altar. Jabu only grants entry when presented with food like rice and fish is taken directly The beta version of this scene shows a pedestal that music was originally required to open Shintoist ritual practice called Kagura, aka festivals to appease kami spirits. In fact, music in Ocarina is the direct replacement Saria explains that music can be used to speak when music and dance are used to bring happiness Hyrule. In Ocarina, music calls down rain, splits calls a horse to Link's side - music here to the rhythm of Hyrule's nature. But Osawa and Miyamoto also achieve this connection The 3 dungeons Link must explore first during directly from the greater nature deities: belly, and inside Dodongo's cavern, which the remains of an old dinosaur with skulls Link then purifies each dungeon - ridding and is rewarded with one of the 3 spiritual he's purified - forest, mountain, water. These elemental stones are then used to open the sanctuary door during Shinto ceremonies used to replace the concept of ritual to open the gods. (beat) Link's childhood phase is dedicated predominately healthy Hyrule looks like and Osawa and Miyamoto for the tragedy of what happens next hit harder. (mood shift) Shintoism largely died in the post-World War In the aftermath of the war, most Japanese had led to their downfall. Lust for territory blinded their leaders to We see this theme of territorial conquest and Mononoke, Ganondorf and Lady Eboshi - whose rather than seeking to establish harmony. Eboshi plans to kill the forest spirit in it easier for her town to conquer and prosper Ganondorf, in his quest of greed to gain complete of Hyrule's nature Deities and with Kami Kami spirits are of two minds. They can nurture and love when respected, when disregarded. And so while manifesting into only smaller Parasitic spiders in the Deku Tree, dinosaur anemone's in Jabu Jabu's belly, when Link curse now affect Dark Hyrule at large. Lake Hylia has been drained, Death Mountain the floor of Kokiri Forest, dark spirits are minions gather in the desert. Shintoism also believes that upon death, souls - and so the appearance of big Poe ghosts are now an occurrence. Instead of dungeons crafted from Hyrule's adult now have man-made qualities to their world Link now occupies is built on the strength At the lake bottom there is the water spirits (beat) And so the Shinto Line is really a story about is the cure - purifying the world with his After destroying the manifestations of the a process of healing and the new awakened Light, forest, fire, water, shadow, and spirit. With the forest now purified, a Deku Sprout Deku Tree. The volcano is calmed, the ice melts in Zora's and the infinite darkness is destroyed in An element of the Shinto creation Myth is Yomi - an evil realm where the dead reside. The spirits living in Yomi are malicious and land of the living. At the very end, Ganondorf's castle - the and the light sage calls upon the gods to the void of Evil Realm. Ganondorf is sent to Yomi. (beat) Conclusion: (slower and more thoughtful pace And so Miyamoto and Osawa's first sorrow and the importance of striking a harmony with Greed and hatred are a pollution to this natural will surely retaliate. Who knows what might happen to those who are SATCH END Osawa's 3rd and final thread might be the to these last pieces of poetic dialogue - newborn's younger days etc. These kinds of references to age and growth but Link's age is the focus of about 90% Before Link enters the Sacred Realm to sleep make sure Link knows exactly how little the Just a kid, just a little kid, fairy boy, boy, boy, lad, son, kid, boy, kid, kid, boy, kid. Seeing Link for the child that he is is a to his disposition would render unimportant obsession the characters have with the idea Becoming a 'man' is an ideology the characters, to consider as the highest level of honour. There's talk of being a real man, not being Link to prove he is a real man, Princess Ruto keep her waiting, and Nabooru wishing she seeing how handsome Link had become as a man. The third thread for Link is an inward journey. It is Osawa's exploration of the transition the real world, it is both awkward and tragic. It's the growing up line. GROWING UP LINE If threads one and two are about why and how in the Growing Up Line requires an examination The children of Kokiri Forest describe The entire forest, but also their Father - claiming race as well as everything in the forest. The name KOKIRI, when translated from japanese Ko meaning kid or child and Ki meaning tree. So here we have 'children of the tree' on the Shinto Line, but gives the entire Forest The layout of the forest is a playground with holes and mazes. Similar to Neverland from the Peter Pan stories, realm separate from the real world. Children never grow up here and each child of a true Kokiri - and the story begins with fairy companion, Navi. And so Kokiri Forest is the physical representation for the growing up line. Though as carefree as it appears, Kokiri Forest Humans name Kokiri Forest the Forbidden Forest from the outside without a fairy transform faces in future temples. We see this happen later when a man enters only to vanish later - leaving a Kokiri girl Everybody, Stalfos. That guy isn't here anymore. Anybody who comes into the Everybody will become a Stalfos. Everybody, Stalfos. So, he's not here anymore. Only his saw is left. Hee hee. But children cannot leave either. The Great Deku Tree said that if a Kokiri You're not allowed to leave the The Great Deku Tree said that if she will die! And so with no one entering as an outsider we have this protective bubble around what Tree's dialogue aligns with this idea stating stands as a barrier - deterring outsiders is a purity and innocence being protected But this protective bubble begins to collapse In the wake of the Deku Tree's death, Link thrust into a world of adult responsibility. Ganondorf's greed has ripped childhood out The Deku Sprout reveals later that Link is to the Deku Tree years ago seeking protection So Link is an outsider with a Kokiri fairy to and fro between childhood and the adult Even on the outside, Link still sees the world Osawa keep the design playful during this The castle market is full of life with dancing The dungeons are full of magic and mystery, vines and playing hide and seek with castle But things turn grim after Link passes through the Master Sword from Now in an adult body in an adult world, the comes at Link with everything it has - the with colour, now cold and desolate, and its and Ganondorf, who on the adventure line represent vs man on the shinto line, into their designed Ganondorf represents everything Link isn't attack the only thing Link is holding onto: As Link gains back ground from Ganondorf in on the growing up line a slow subtraction The more Hyrule gains, the more Link loses. Saria, Darunia, Ruto, Impa and Nabooru, all him behind. A clip of Miyamoto and Zelda producer Eiji of Link leaving the 4 girls from his childhood Link must lose everything to save the world. This plays heavily on the &quot;everything has Shintoism. You don't just get wood, you have to chop You can wash away corruption but it has to In this case, the corruption is lifted off This is his designed role in nature. But we're not done yet! While each sage's relevance stems from their on the Growing Up line, Osawa has infused dialogue symbolic of milestones one must navigate loyalty, and sex. Saria's dialogue dedicated predominately and family after Link saves the starving goron and marriage, Princess Zelda's loyal bodyguard, asks Link to protect Zelda in her stead, and and comments on how handsome Link has become And so those medallions Link collects are and Link's childhood guide, the Owl, closes maturing as an adult. Childish minds turn to noble ambition. But at this point, Link has lost everything and with his childhood essence still attached to kick off the final chapter and the final Ocarina Of Time's code disables the ability than the Master Sword. The growing up line requires a poetic close the master sword, aka the essence of childhood, After defeating Ganondorf and ultimately, sends Link back in time to his childhood version. But the greatest tragedy is yet to come the essence of childhood now falls to Link's key back into Kokiri Forest where he can live But with no explanation, Osawa writes Navi Navi leaving Link behind. Link's last connection to his childhood become a Stalfos like the man against the He is forever banished from his childhood. This Stalfos character from Twilight Princess, his regrets is confirmed by the creators to And so Miyamoto and Osawa's 3rd thread of The Growing Up Line is a losing story and on, Link pays the ultimate price and falls against from the beginning: the cruel flow Time is the true villain of the story and mirrors Miyamoto's personal ethos when it I think that inside every adult is the heart We just gradually convince ourselves that Ultimately, Ocarina Of Time is a story about comes attached with it. While other Zelda stories allow the audience direct means, Ocarina creates an indirect then removing a world of happiness. On each line, Link loses something in the protector, and a father, and this gives way of Link as a person, transformation of the world he inhabits. But its actually in Ganondorf that we find weapon. Appropriately named King Of Theives, each - The triforce, the health of Hyrule's nature, of all time, Link's childhood. While that Zelda Sorrow Language may not appear sorrows and easing regrets on scales far larger In the end, Link is changed forever - a saviour alone in a world that doesn't remember him beneath the heroic adventures of the main Ocarina Of Time is the saddest Zelda story