- Oh, hello, look at you. Oh, aren't you a deadly little hunter? So fuzzy, so cute. No, no! Zoom in you fools. That's better. Oh, look at those eyes. Oh, you such a cutie. Who's your cute little spider? That's right you are, yeah! Hey, smart people, Joe here. Behold my children. I mean, my pets. I used to hate spiders these are the ones that Like I legitimately love spiders now. It's because of these guys, and it's the eyes, that's They're so curious. They look up at you, they follow you. They're genuinely so stinkin' cute. But beyond their cuteness, jumping spiders possess and highly tuned visual I remember a few years that said Jumping spiders might be able to see the moon in detail. I was like, are you kidding me? Nothing else that's this small can see anywhere near So how do they do it? I made this video to find We are gonna get up close so that we can see some that they can do. And how their one-of-a kind visual system makes that possible. And I visited a lab to see how real scientists (light music) Okay but first things first, Spiders come in a lot of shapes and forms, but about one in eight is a jumping spider, making them the biggest There are more jumping spider species than species of mammals. They're officially known That comes from the Latin word to jump. And jumpers come in a lot Unless you live in Antarctica there's probably a jumping You should be honored. So this is kind of a weird thing to study. - Usually when I tell I get sort of a very shocked reaction. First, people didn't even really know that there are people that watching spiders and But I think especially in because of their large charismatic eyes, a lot of people start to and ask questions and you - What is it like to be a jumping spider? What's your day like? What's your environment like? What do you do? - So the sensory sort of is very different than ours. Well a jumping spider detects a lot of cues in its They're also tasting Their visual world is also very different because us and many other vertebrates we have two eyes that but their eyes are set - Okay, most spiders have eight eyes. It's like the second thing you learn after spiders have eight legs. But most types of spiders don't actually rely on vision They detect vibrations using tiny hairs, or they smell chemicals But vision is number it's what makes them such deadly hunters. And we're about to put that to the test with this little cricket. Circle of life guys. The idea is that this spider and we're gonna get the All you gotta do okay is just It's right there in front Please jump, please jump, please jump. Oh, I hate you so much. Please back up. Oh my god, oh my god, go. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Oh my gosh, that took like a whole day. (Joe laughs) When your hunting strategy involves flinging yourself at your prey, you need eyes with really sensitivity, and detail. Now just like a camera, More sensitivity typically means - Basically the more light that a single cell or single it reduces a resolution. So if you sort of think of it like a TV screen with the if you have really large pixels, each individual one could be bright but less pixels make up the whole image. There's constantly a trade off between how many photons you can take in versus how small details you can resolve in your environment. - If you want more sensitivity you can make bigger sensory but then you can't fit as many in your eye so you lose detail. If you want more detail you so you have more of 'em, but Different animals have evolved to solve this trade off. Insects obviously have very tiny peepers, but they solved the detail Every facet on a compound eye acts kinda like its own eyeball. So the more they pack in Each one only samples a super tiny area, but they add up to give a kind Dragonflies have pretty much the best compound eyes out there with around 30,000 of To get that level of detail though, their head is like all eyes. They've run out of eye real For a compound eye to see as much detail it'd have to be the size of a basketball which would make it pretty hard to fly. Humans and other animals went for a totally different solution. Round eyes with a lens up front that focuses light on a big Packing lots of those cells back there means a crisp detailed picture. We've got hundreds of millions in our eyes. And some birds of prey have Things with backbones and but jumping spiders are not huge. Most of them can fit on You can't fit big eyes or in this guy. Yeah when it comes to they have the best eyes of anything without a backbone on land. But they don't have compound eyes and they don't have eyes like humans. So the big question is how do they do it? It all starts with those two They're not actually round, they're tubes, kinda like telescopes. Lens on the front to focus - The front two eyes, they're But with jumping spiders, although their eyes are big they're still very, very, very small. - To get high detail these guys have a really cool They can move those telescope - Each eye tube has and what they can do is move each of them. - Jumping spider eyes are only big enough to fit a few hundred light sensing cells, but as each little telescope eye moves it samples little bits almost like shining a flashlight at different parts of a picture until you can make out the whole thing. So they get amazing vision that around eye would require. Telescopes for eyes. Are you kidding me? But that telescope scanning Wonder if these guys would like a cat does? There's only one way to find out. Oh, what'd you see? See this over here? What's this? What's this? Oh, you see it? Over here. Over here. Over here. Look what's this? Oh, what's this? Now most jumping spiders only have two types of color sensing cells in their big old cute main eyes. Cells sensitive mainly to green light and cells sensitive mainly But weird physics happens to light when you're at really small scales. And jumping spider eyes are actually built to correct for that. See different wavelengths they get bent by a lens at It leads into what's known Now this is not that big of a but in an itsy bitsy spider eye it means different colors of at totally different - And when we find when you look inside the you'll find photo receptors that are more sensitive to UV or ultraviolet wavelengths closer, and then deeper or Photo receptors that are are actually at different depths. So all colors can be in - Like that's ridiculously cool. They can even use those stacked cells to see how out of focus in different layers. And they can use that to We need two eyes to get depth perception, but jumping spiders can judge Did you see what happened when behind the spider? It always turns to point at whatever is interesting, and that is what those These other eyes are a jumping spider's - [Alex] The motion detecting they have a nearly 360 degree view around the hemisphere of the spider. - Those secondary eyes than the spiders to telescope eyes. They don't see color, but they are great at sensing motion. - So you can't sneak - [Joe] It just automatically - Turn body. - Wow. Whenever those six other the spider instinctually to face it and get a As soon as I learned about this, something really big because these eight tiny spider eyes do the same thing that We use the center of the to make out detail and color. On the other hand, most is really low detail but Jumping spider eyes do the same thing. Those telescope eyes make but all those secondary eyes, well they sense motion They've divided all that instead of two like us. All eight eyes combined, jumping spider eyes see as good as pigeons, and actually about one All with peepers that are But how do we know any of this anyway? I mean it's not like you can Well, actually yes, you can. Show me where you keep your babies. This is like the Ritz - Oh yeah. Show them anything you want. spiders are just watching Can we go see it? I wanna give a spider and eye exam. - Yeah let's do it. - [Joe] To get a spider Alex applies some melted wax and mounts a little stick Next the spider holds onto a little ball. Alex can track the ball's motion to measure how the spider turns and moves while looking into the - What we have here is a special camera that allows us to pick up light that's reflected off the retinas. So what we're left with is and where they are actually looking. - So just like the doctor can see my retina and stuff you're doing the same thing here? - Yeah, exactly. And as the spider gets you see this exploratory movement but once-- - It's getting bored. But when the cube moves again and tracks it. all by moving their - Inside their head yep. - And so sometimes I even see the eyes seem to almost point different Like they come apart there and - [Alex] If they're really like a cube moving in front of them, they bring the retinas together to get a better view of it. - We should give them something really interesting to look at, like some YouTube videos. - Yeah, definitely. - [Joe] I couldn't think of And our good friends from Deep Look, let's see if spiders like Deep Look. - [Alex] Yeah, let's check it out. - [Joe] Okays so the fly's moving and the retinas look right at it. What must be hungry. - [Alex] Oh yeah. (Joe laughs) - This might be the first time a spider has ever watched a YouTube video, except for the one that's Getting up close and personal has really made me wonder need a visual system I mean their world is so small. But these tiny feats have allowed them to with their prey, with their habitat, even with each other, in - Maybe if you were thinking about sort of a classical representation of a spider, you imagine a large web, and insects flying in and getting trapped, and the spider running over and detecting the vibrations in their web. But jumping spiders are a lot So they walk around, they - Their visual system also comes in handy during mating displays, When a male spider approaches trying to mate he never getting eaten or getting lucky. So many jumping spiders as a way to attract female Researchers have used the to see where females and which parts they find most attractive. In mammal eyes and jumping spider eyes nature's solved the same problem using totally different hardware. I think that's pretty cool by hundreds of millions And this is just one family of spiders. Spider eyes come in lots arrangements, shapes, and sizes. Each combination is perfectly suited to a unique way of living spider life. But jumping spider eyes with and powerful motion sensors, they're unique not just among but really all animals. Now that I've learned how they see, I think these guys like of all the eyes. It's just one example some pretty surprising things I mean literally right under our noses. They are adorable and awesome and I hope everyone else Maybe like me, you've fallen in love with Stay curious. Ahoy matey. I'm a pirate. The newest show over on PBS Origins will take you on an enlightening voyage through the pirate history It's called &quot;Rogue History&quot;. It unravels the historical and champions some unsung heroes. It's basically the pirate Hit that link down in or walk the plank. And I wanna take a minute to tell you about our Patreon page. We rely on the support from our audience, people like yourself to help and do bigger, better, If you'd like to learn how you can check out the link We've recently reorganized a with new perks including the opportunity to submit a dad joke at connoisseur of fatherly humor. No jumping. I see that. I see that. Stop it! Don't jump outta the box. He's like, let me out. You're doing great just. Don't you? Don't you little cutie pie? You have the best eyes? Are they the best little eyes? Hello, I'm over here. Are you sleepy?