Hello, today I am going to prepare a sponge cake for you, we will prepare a basic cake, a cake that will serve as a base for cakes, it will serve you to fill, it will also serve you to eat alone, and the main thing is that you I want to indicate all the details for you to upload. There are many of you who are already commenting on me on facebook or here on my youtube channel that the cakes do not go up, what is the secret for it to go up now I am going to tell you a little about all the details, so that the cakes go up easily and fit you fluffy. So I'm going to tell you what elements you will need to prepare it and then I'll tell you the ingredients. We will need bowls large enough to be able to assemble and work the cake dough. We will also need a removable mold. Let's see if you can see it, one of these that the base is lined, and then easily disassembled. A sieve, you can use this one, and if they do not have they can also use a strainer then you will also need a rod machine, if you use manual rods it will be much more complicated to raise the whites to the point of snow you can use this type of rods, you can use the arm of the mixer with the rod, not with the cutting accessory and in case you have thermomix I am going to tell you that it is not the best element because it does not raise the whites so much. Even so, if you do not have another device, it will also do the service, what happens is that they will not upload that much. Then also, you can have a machine of those that are to be assembled, which has a fixed arm, and they carry their own bowl. The element that you are going to use to assemble the whites and to make the cake is a bit, as long as it has a whipping accessory , not a cutting accessory. Come on, now I'm going to tell you the ingredients that we're going to use for this cake. We are going to prepare a cake with five eggs in a 22-centimeter-diameter mold . Then we will need five eggs, 250 grams of flour , 250 grams of sugar, if you look at it, it is 50 grams of sugar and 50 grams of flour for each egg that we are going to use, we will need lemon and vanilla, if you want to give them this flavor; If you want to give them a different flavor, you can use other flavorings. We will need baking powder, in Spain we call it chemical yeast, in other countries you call it royal-type baking powder , or any other brand; I'm not going to tell you the brand because this is a white label from a supermarket. We will need a pinch of salt and, if you want to decorate it at the end, with a little icing sugar, also icing sugar. I'm going to leave the cake clean and smooth and now we're going to start, ah! I have not told you, we are also going to use a mold release spray. You can use either this mold release spray, this brand or another, it is indifferent, and we will also use 15 milliliters for each egg, that is, 75 milliliters of a mixture that contains water and oil, you can substitute the oil for water or for milk; The fact is that we are going to have 75 milliliters of liquid, which could even be lemon juice, but in order to have a very fluffy and very juicy texture, the liquid proportion would be this. So let's get started: the first thing I'm going to do is prepare the mold. The paper is placed, this is a baking paper and we place the mold on top. And now, we close it. We are going to cut this excess paper. Once we have the mold lined, now, you either grease it completely with butter, or you grease it with the mold release spray. The mold release spray helps the cake slide well on the walls, and tends to rise a little better. We insist on the edges, and that's it. The first thing is to separate the yolks into 2 bowls and the whites, we reserve the yolks and now we are going to add a pinch of salt to the whites. What the salt will do is help enhance the flavor. And now with the rods we begin to beat. When you see that the whites turn white but we have not yet reached the snow point, add half the sugar, this amount is a little by eye, and continue beating. Now we intend that we have a meringue with a fairly consistent texture.When you already have a strong point of snow, and you can see that it does not fall, now we are going to reserve these whites if you use a blender of this type, which is a little powerful and If it is not going to take a little longer, but you are still going to get this point of snow, I will tell you too, that with the one that with a manual rod you would also get it. So now we move on to the bowl of yolks. We add, in this case it is, water and oil; You could use butter, you could use only oil, only water, milk, whatever you want, but the proportion would be 75 milliliters for five eggs so let's add it We also add the rest of the sugar and now we will add the lemon zest I have added the whole Striped lemon, as you can see there is practically no skin left, only the yellow part, and now I am going to add a little vanilla if you do not have liquid vanilla you can use a vanilla sugar or, if you do not have either of the two, you can use a little vanilla; And now what we are going to do is beat this mixture, you can see that I have not cleaned the mixer. Because it does not affect it. Before adding the flour, we are going to add a tablespoon. This dessert-sized tablespoon of baking powder or baking powder is exactly about 8 grams. Each envelope comes with 16 grams so, I will always use half. And now we are going to incorporate it into the yolks , the flour is passed along with the baking powder through a sieve to remove all the lumps and that the flour remains well aerated and well loose. Now it has to be incorporated; I'm going to do it with the blender, but I could do it with a spoon It is already fully incorporated and now we are going to add the egg whites, as always, you know what we are going to do enveloping movements the first two teaspoons are to lighten this dough a bit. It is very thick, so we cannot be very careful with our enveloping movements because it will completely absorb all this egg white now, you can see that the dough is a little lighter, we continue adding all the egg whites little by little and we will integrate carefully not to lower them. Once integrated, as here we have a bit of very thick dough, we remove it and continue adding the whites the only secret that I may not be able to tell you, is going to be that you have to catch the little trick in the oven. This cake I made yesterday to test with this mold if it suited me well and I could even see the temperature of the oven and to see the time it took. I had this cake in the oven yesterday for 55 minutes, that is, if the cake rises in less time for you, that in half an hour it has been done, it means that you have too high the heat. In order for it to be fluffy, it has to rise slowly. You will use the time that is necessary, that is not too important and if you see that it browns too much at first, then you have too much fire. Next time you should moderate the oven temperature. Now that I have it completely mixed, I'm going to move it to the greased mold; If you notice, this mold is a very light mold There are some molds that they sell, which weigh a little more, and they are told that the quality is better but it is not better for making the cake. So these molds take a little less temperature than others that are heavier and that is why they allow the cake to rise more slowly, now I am going to dump all the content. Once we have all the content, we smooth the surface a little and tap it to raise the air bubbles. I have not told you that I have the oven on at 175 degrees with heat up and down. I put it in the preheated oven, notice that it is on the second level of the five that the oven has and now we calculate the time. Now now the programmed 45 minutes; in 45 minutes I will check if it is too early or if it still lacks a little. When you come across a cake, you tell me that it doesn't come out, that it is very bulging in the central part and is under the edges, perhaps it is that it has risen too fast; Going up quickly makes a crust on the top and prevents it from continuing to rise over the edges, then it is when it has finished cooking and the cake opens like a cupcake The solution to this problem would be to moderate the heat and leave it on for a longer time the oven Yes, I have read in some places that it browns too much, put an aluminum foil on top if you have to put an aluminum foil to protect it from the heat, we have too much fire; we'd better lower the fire and leave it longer; I, with this temperature, which in my oven is 175 degrees, but it is not the most powerful; Maybe you put 175 degrees and it cooks too quickly It is important that you consider moderate the heat a little and try next time to lower it 5 or 10 degrees until you get this cake, with the 22-centimeter mold like mine, It is in the oven for the same time that I am going to have it, just so we are going to check that it has been done exactly the same. Many times you tell me that you have done it the same as me, as I can do everything; The only thing I cannot tell you is how your oven works and what temperature it is; this is an electric oven what I put is heat up and down without a fan; There are those who use a fan so everyone must know how their own oven works so now we are going to wait 45 minutes to click it. I'm going to show you from time to time how the cake rises in the oven At this moment it has been in the oven for five minutes and you can see that it has started to rise Now it has been in the oven for ten minutes Now it has been in the oven for just thirty minutes, I have not told you that if you are going to prepare this gluten-free cake you can use the same quantities and only use a gluten-free pastry flour, or use a mixture of flours and not only a cornstarch, but you could mix the rice flour with a cornstarch, or with potato starch Now it takes 45 minutes in the oven. One way to know if it is done before clicking, is to move it a little You see how it shakes from the top, this is still very soft , if we took it out now it would be when it would sink completely, which you tell me many times, that it goes up a lot and then comes down suddenly so we are going to leave it for ten more minutes before we play. Now the cake takes 55 minutes in the oven I think it will already be if we move a little we see that trembles and punctured the skewer comes out completely clean, so it is time to remove it from the oven We give a tap on the marble, and now although it still burns, it is ready to unmold, let's see, it looks good You can see that the cake has reached the edge the cake is a little lower than when I had it in the oven, it is still very fluffy to unmold it, it is best to have a kitchen paper handy It opens, now it still burns If necessary, what we have to do is take off this edge a little and we can help ourselves with a knife It is only to take off the top part because the The walls are completely greased, I can see that it is detached and now it can be removed very easily. If you are going to decorate it and use it for a cake, it is best to turn it over and present it like this. On the other hand, if you want to use it to eat like this, we leave it with the mountain. So I hope you liked this recipe and you know if you liked the video, finger up and give me a like and you can subscribe to my channel If you have any questions with this cake, it does not turn out well or anything, leave me a comment because I am going to answer them all and I am also going to put an entry in the blog, which I will leave the link in the information box so that you can read it and follow all the steps so I will wait for you in the next video, thank you.