&gt;&gt;The extremely popular STAR method for behavioral interview questions actually suffers from Number one, it allocates too much time for background information, where more the answer should Number two, by the hearing religiously to the STAR interview format, and result, many candidates when to add takeaways and In this video, I'll show between the STAR and and when to use each technique. I'll also walk you through two so you can see a side-by-side comparison of the two formats in action. So let's get started. Hi friends, welcome back. If you're new here, my name is Jeff and this channel is all and interview tips. So if you're a current consider subscribing for Other than the two limitations I've heard from interviewers that candidates who are rely end up sounding too robotic, like they're just repeating So if you really want on the interviewer, try using the CARL method the next time you're answering behavioral to truly stand out from the CARL simply stands for and learnings. At first clients, it doesn't from STAR. The A and R even represent action and results. But if we dive a bit further, we realize that the C context, combines both the situation and this keeps the background concise and to the point. To prompt your brain simply ask yourself, what was I hoping to And you often find your answer, will naturally include both Let's take a simple example. Imagine if I were asked a common behavioral interview question, tell me about a time you went If I were preparing strictly my answer might start When I was a management I worked primarily on finance Usually when a project ended, I would help out on other to pitch additional engagements. One time I just rolled off a project and I realized we didn't have a consistent onboarding program for new hires. And so I took the initiative aimed at decreasing new hire wrap-up time. If I were using the car format and primed myself to think context first, I would instead start off by When I was a management I decided to make use of some to design a training and then launch right into the action and say exactly what I So I basically used a few for the more important parts of the story. And you might be wondering, Well, yes, because it gives you more time to talk about your learnings and the learnings is from someone who has an equally if not more impressive story. And this is because it shows and reflected on your experiences leading to a finding or T takeaway that should influence your future actions. If you're enjoying this and CARL method so far, actually I have a Facebook group where I share exclusive weekly tips. So consider joining if I'll link it down below. This brings us to the how best to come up with a around the learnings prompt. And they're really just three questions you wanna ask yourself to nail this part. Number one, what are the implications of the actions that you took Number two, what did And number three, what if you were put in a similar situation? So I'm just gonna jump right into a behavioral interview to show you how to apply this in practice. I'm gonna say the prompts like situation and learnings out loud, just to make it very clear what I'm doing. Please don't actually say those words as part of your answer Let's say I'll ask the common and tricky behavioral interview question, &quot;Jeff, tell me about a time you failed.&quot; Using the STAR method, my answer might look something like this. Situation. A previous nutrition and I prepared for my colleagues and so I wanted to take it a step further and share my entire weekly workout routine with a broader audience task. I wanted to create videos on home workouts since many of us were stuck at home for prolonged periods of time this year, and I also wanted to reach Action. I started feeling myself and I made small edits in and other social media sites. The result. Engagement was minimal, fewer than 1% of my what I posted, and so I felt like I wasted so much time learning how to shoot and edit videos. Let's pause right there, because technically the STAR method ends with results, right? Even though a question like you should really go on to and how you can apply And this is where the call Let's go through the exact same experience but this time use the context, action, result, and learning prompts. Context, following a of fitness and nutrition to my colleagues. I wanted to upload videos on home workouts that will benefit a wider audience. You can see right away that was a lot more concise. The action result will stay the same, so I'm gonna skip over those two and go straight to my learnings. Upon reflection, I realized was simply not in the same league as some of the other out there. So although I felt like I didn't give up. I decided to apply my new found to another topic. So it took some time to I had a great deal of knowledge on, and here we are with career interview tips for current college students and young working professionals. If you found that example answer helpful, a like and sub to the In a situation where you're we might overly rely STAR our results. Okay, I just need to end with results. Whereas with that good body CARL, you will remember to end Finally, at this point, some does this mean I should never No, definitely not. For example, the bullet should always follow the STAR format, because the ending of your bullet points should be results oriented, backed up by data points. Learnings are usually not included, because that would make Feel free to check out my video on how to write an incredible resume. I'll link that down below as well. And finally, if you're and has been working well for you, by all means, stick with it. For those of you who are and switch things up, the call technique is All right, there you have it. A comparison between the for behavioral interview questions. Just remember, the main learnings in your answer, because that shows the interviewer you took the time and Please give this video a and let me know down the comments below, if you have any questions. Subscribe if you haven't already, see you on the next video, and the meaning, have a great one. (upbeat music)