- This is the circle. Before your torture begins, This white line is the You can step one foot out, but if both feet leave, you're out. You do not win the 10 grand. See this purple line? Don't cross it with your feet. You can reach across it with your arms. Don't cross in other You can step on it, but Any other questions? - Can I throw my poop? - So Garrett chose that quadrant. Chandler chose this quadrant. Chris, which quadrant are you choosing? - I think this quadrant - All right. And Tyler, that leaves All right, that is all Chandler's stuff, and it's all in his quadrant. So this is all Chris's stuff. - Pop-Tarts. Lots of other snacks, Any other fun stuff you We don't have to give it all away. Ooh, okay. All right. - And then you got your poop bucket. Last person. Tyler, what do you have? - 'Cause you did get lots of bread. So everyone else went You didn't really go too heavy on food. You just got bread and peanut butter. You went more for survival stuff. - I have the bread of life, the Bible. 9:50... It's blurry. It's 9:57, three minutes Chris is helping him build a tent. He has a minute and like 20 seconds left. All know is it's 10 O'clock. All right, you can still If both your feet leave this white circle, you get nothing. Last one of you to leave the No peeing in other people's quadrants. Chandler is having his first sip of water. How about you, Garrett? What do you- - I had my first sip of water as well. - Just a little update, guys. It's actually really hot. Everybody's feeling it, right? So I went ahead and got pretty much naked except for my underwears. It's gonna be hard. Are you filming me? Are you filming me vlogging right now? - Yep, yep. - But I thought of Chandler, who do you think will win? - Chandler. - Hey, Garrett, who do you think will win? Wait, you think Chandler's gonna beat you? - Yeah, I think Chandler's gonna win. - Chris, who do you think will win? - Chris. - Tyler, who do you think will win? - Chandler. - Oh, he's just saying that to confuse the viewers. They all think they're gonna win. And guess what? Only one of you get $10,000. - All right, it is 10:12. - Oh, so you guys have only - I mean, finally, after - 15? You started at 9:00-- - That was an hour! Took an hour to build this tent. Hey guys, I'm about to go to bed soon. - All right, Chandler, what time is it? - It's 11:25 PM. It's getting pretty late. Chris is being a sleepy boy. He's being a sleepy boy. These two are getting You doing good over there? I got my tent up. Dude, you were getting so Chandler, Garrett, Tyler, Chris, you keep an eye on each other. Don't let each other step out. Technically, you could step but if someone catches you you're gone. - So Chandler said he really doesn't kind but he's not gonna quit. He said he was just gonna So Chandler's dad said, if then give him a call - Chris offered me $300 - 300? - He lost his mind. Tell him you'll leave right now for 1,500. - Ooh. Chandler wants to leave. Chandler asked me to, did anybody want to buy his land? And he was gonna sell it for 300 bucks, which, I mean- I knew, when I got home, I said, &quot;That boy's not gonna last - 350. - No, 500, man. He's gotta gimme 150 of it. - Come on. He gets to go home. - 500, that's a good deal. You have so much money. That's a lot of money. And it's only if you win. - All right, have fun sitting through - Yeah, it is. - Chandler's now trying &quot;$30 a snack&quot; he says, like - Dude, it's a good deal. - It is not! It's $30, I have bread and peanut butter. What else do I need? - All right, well, I'm kind of bored. I want 500, like- - It's start of Saturday. - It's been about two hours almost. - It's been two hours and you gave up. - I haven't. I'm not out of the Give me a deal, 500, that's a good- - It'll be 20 bucks for all your snacks. - Get out here. What do you think this is? What, do you want me to starve? - I think you're about to in like minutes. Oh, you're not gonna get up now? - No. If I don't get anything out of it, no. What's the point? - That's really gonna rough it, right? - Yeah. - Yep. - Yep. - Chandler, that was the - I didn't make the decision, I just offered and no one said yes. - No, I'm talking about buying a chair! Where did your money go to, man? - I got Gushers. So my dad's trying to get someone to fill in for him at his job. - Chandler, it's been two hours! - Come on, bro. - Sorry, I don't have a bed to sleep on. What up? My dad's calling me. Hello? - I can't get up with . - What about Brother Bobby? - Brother Bobby's been hit by a car. He can't even freaking walk, someone in little knee scooters. - Oh. - Right? He was drunk while crossing - Oh my God. Right, Dad, I'm losing patience. - Dude, what- Like you gotta get home and do something. What the hell are you gonna do? - Sleep. - You got an option to get off work for four days straight. - It's Wednesday. They're gonna be here - No, they won't. If I had a little more warning, I'd have prepared better And my would be at camp there. - I asked you what to get. - And you got a chair. - You got a chair that my big wouldn't fit in. - Chandler spent like six but $5 on his chair. - Dude, I saw a box in the floorboard. - All right, man. I'll be here. - Dude, go to sleep. - I'm not tired though, that's the thing. All right, bye-bye. - Keep going, man. You're getting by. - Chandler's dad, exact words. &quot;If you leave, I'll beat your .&quot; - Oh, you gotta survive. You should buy healthy food. Chandler's like, &quot;Oreos, - Hey, I got beef jerky too. - All right guys, I'm Got a nice little toilet seat. I dunno if you saw that, but- - Are you pooping? - I'm going to be going - Chris, can I vlog? - Yeah, you can. - Soccer Dad here. Gonna go to sleep. Love y'all. - Though these guys are gonna super quick. - It's your boy, Garrett, I'm so awake. It's nighttime, everybody's - Hello. - Garrett sprayed Silly String on my tent and now there's ants everywhere. So I'm never leaving again. I got bit everywhere. - Hey. - Get that away from me. - Yoh paparazzi. I have to pee so immensely, badly. Wanna watch? - We all officially made I went to bed at like 12:00, It wasn't the worst sleep I've ever had. The only thing is we're all kinda, everybody would agree, It's not bad. The rule was, if you're reach it, you can use it. So put on some chill music Yeah, Tyler walked out of his tent and literally got destroyed by ants. You know I love you. Hugs and kisses. - Yeah, I need like a- - Garrett, tell us what you're having - Milkshake Pop-Tarts. So me and Tyler, and We are not gonna be eating. Our strategy, we're not eating. If you don't eat, you See that sun right there? It's hot. Everybody's being affected by it. - All right, Chris, who do you think will - I mean, judging by last night... - I got it outta my system, okay. Chandler, the mental games are not - See, Chandler- - I think Chandler's gonna win - See Chandler, maybe. I've seen Garrett's been on Tinder, so. - Some girl's- - He's gotta get a booty - If it's someone hot, &quot;I want &quot;I don't wanna date. &quot;I just want you to come over tonight.&quot; - I'm looking out for his fake accounts. Don't worry about it. - I'm a creative fake douche. - I'm a catfish. keep in mind he has three phones and all the time in the world, so. - You gotta be bored. I don't wanna make this easy on you. - I'm bored. - I'm gonna have to - So we all have a prediction. We think that Jimmy's 'cause he misses us so bad. Just sitting here, drinking water, telling stories about our yester years. We're actually talking about movies. So it's kinda like watching a movie. I guess that's why they did they just talked about like - It's 1:16. Garrett's trying to sleep. Chris is laying down, I don't He's got some kind of cloth over his face. - I'm making my first sandwich, Take bananas and cut And then on the other piece of bread, you spread peanut butter on it. And it's a peanut butter-banana sandwich. It's unbearably hot, which isn't really My wife works night shift and we don't ever get to see each other. And Friday, Saturday, and Sunday are the only days we get Like I haven't seen her and it's Thursday today. So I'd really like to see her, and I feel like I'm gonna crack. The other guys are asleep right now, but I really think I'm gonna crack because I would really like to see her. - I'm not asleep. - I'm not gonna crack, but I might have to make a because I could stay So if somebody offers me I'll probably do so. - Stay number two. It's been kind of rough. Just woke up from a long nap. Anyways, I'm gonna hand the so they get a chance to vlog. But I'm winning this - I haven't been vlogging that much. I'm focusing on surviving. These guys are decent, Chris He's got a tent. But I'm literally gonna sit 'cause I kind of need this 10K. Garrett and Chandler, they're probably gonna So I'm thinking that I I've just gotta knock out Chris. Once I get Chris, it's all - So word on the street is you're trying to quit, Chris. - So Tyler said that he thinks that I'm So he said he would gimme - That's if he won! But if Tyler doesn't win you get nothing. - No insult to Tyler, but Tyler literally has no life, and he will sit here until I freaking die. So I'd rather just go and not spend five days - Are you auctioning off - Yeah. - You want some gold fish? - Yeah, I'll take your - Try it. - Did everyone agree on the trade? - I'm gonna prove that - 'cause you're screwed honestly. Chris, are you sure you wanna do this? Once both feet cross, All right, no 10 grand for No longer a joke. Tyler who owns that quadrant but he has to give Chris $1,000 if he win. That was their deal. - All right, to make things simpler. Tyler's getting these two squares and Garrett's taking Chris's tent. 'Cause we don't- - That way we don't have to move the tent. - Yep. - Never leaving? - One down, two to go. This chair that was once And if he wants it, he has to - So you're the underdog right now, right? - Yes. - Why do you think that is? - I don't have a tent. Everyone's hating on me. I have no supporters. - Chandler, where do - You got married. That's your first mistake. - Katie's gonna kill you. - Sorry Katie, love you. - So what do you think, what do you think your competitive - I'm crazy. - You have what now? - Oh, you think Oreos- - And Doritos and Gushers. - Is that your competitive edge? - Yeah. - We've all bonded here together, right? - Yes. - I think we know a lot Garrett actually, he's a priest. We didn't know that. - It's like almost seven No one thinks we're gonna win. - Pretty much, it's just We're all just kind of 'cause we're in like the hate stage. We all hate each other right now. - I'll offer you $1,000 Jim, guess what? I just offered Garrett. - What'd you offer him? - A thousand, and then he said, yes. - But that's only if - He knows. - So you're gonna go up - I have to prove you wrong. As you can see, he's on the way to confirm this situation and I'm one step closer - There's no way. Chandler is gonna buy out Garrett, which literally means that because I didn't even This is the easiest thing ever. - I'm like super tired right now. I'm just chilling in Chris' tent 'cause Chris sucks, 'cause he lost. But I'm about to do the same thing. I'm about to cop out. He offered me a thousand and I really do believe - All right guys, feeling Jimmy's on his way, so he for the $1,000 I've given him. - I'm leaving. - He's using his phone. Garrett, you are leaving. - No, I'm not. - It is 8:10. I got a multi-case. So it's been 23 hours and 10 minutes, and Garrett wants to tap. Did you get a match on Tinder? - No! Matter of fact, I did. - You did? - Yeah? - She wants to hang out tomorrow? - She wants to hang out tonight. - Wait really? Now look at me. Now look down here. This is how you exit the circle. One foot out. - One foot in. - Foot in the Orvus, and this next- - Now I'm a loser! - You cannot win 10 grand. You have put both feet out. All right, now, you own that quadrant - And you owe me $1,000 if you win. - Garrett is giving Chandler his quadrant and Chandler has agreed, if he wins, to give Garrett a thousand of the dollars. You now own that quadrant Tyler owns this quadrant Chandler, are you sure - I'm 100% sure. - You are stupid. - Who do you think this is? - Yeah, but why? - You could have had a free tent. The circle is cut in half It's a little blurred. This half is Tyler's. That half is Chandler. - The odds are stacked against me, but I'm gonna pull out the win. - Yep. - Are you gonna have Chris' wife's sister bring you food while he's asleep. - Is that allowed? - I don't know. I just wanted to bring up that you're dating Chris' wife's sister. - Well, there you go. - Well, you have fun on your Tinder date. I'm gonna keep babysitting You just... - Have fun. All right, we're talking to I just wanted to let you know that it's down to Chandler and Tyler. They're the only two left. - Oh my God. - Who do you think will win? Your son or Tyler? - Tyler's mighty hardheaded. - Yeah? Do you have any words of I mean, he's doing pretty good. He wanted to quit, but Like, you helped him last - Better not quit now. - Yeah. - His car's about to fall apart. - And I need the money. I need the money. - Yes, absolutely. - All right. you better not leave, boy. - Chandler, I'm pulling for you, brother. Tyler, I'ma get you tonight - Bring it. It is nine O'clock. We have been the only two Everyone else has bailed. Air high-five. - Don't touch me. Right Chandler? All right, guys, it's I'm getting really tired of being here. - All right, what's up guys? It's Friday. Went through the whole night. Slept pretty well, willing to stay out here Pretty much everything I've been saying, other than, it's the next day. And I don't know. I think Chandler's and I think I'm gonna take this one. - All right, guys. How you doing? Chandler, you good? Chandler, you sent me a What did you wanna? You said you weren't feeling it anymore. - Yeah. - But it's $10,000. - Chandler, I'll be honest with you. I'm about to quit right now. And I'm just kidding. I'm here for a while. - Tyler has a tent. I think Tyler's gonna last a long time. - For real? - I'm done. Are you sure? - If you step over that line, you can't win 10 grand. Yes! Man, that's what I'm talking about! - Shake hands- - Shake hands. I want you guys to be good sports. - You're a hard competitor. - I appreciate it, thanks. - Chandler, the viewers appreciate you. - Can I step out now? Yeah, I mean, you already won 10 grand. - I'm free! Thank God. Oh, I was on my final legs. I only had like three more weeks left. - At least three more weeks. - Tough. - 'Cause you had a tent. All right, Tyler. - There's your 10 grand. - Hey! Please don't, please don't Please don't, please don't Please don't, please don't