Chuo Ward, Kumamoto City, Kumamoto Prefecture. Aramoto, a pound cake specialty store. This is a wonderful shop where you can feel the warmth of wood. Make a pound cake. The owner, Mr. Aramoto. We have always maintained the same sweet and modest taste that has remained unchanged since ancient times. Everything is made by hand. When marron is added to this, it becomes marron pound cake. Apple pound cake with apples. Packaging is now automated everywhere. I will hand wrap the bulk tomorrow. It's all done by hand, so it's a lot of work. He's bright and fun to work with. It's been 35 years. How old were you at that time? . I was 37 years old. 37 years old. I'm 70 years old now. I try not to think about age. The long-awaited pound cake has been baked. The scent of sweet cake spreads throughout the store. It is a walnut pound cake. Special syrup made with brandy on the baked cake. The walnuts are dipped in a special syrup made from rum. Put the pound cake with syrup in the banju. Let it sit overnight so the syrup will spread throughout the cake. It becomes moist and has a very elegant taste. Inside the store, there are photographs showing the history of Aramoto and important drawings received from customers. In addition to pound cake, there are also many other cute and delicious cakes. Makes me want to buy them all. Started packing the bags the next day. Pound cake left overnight. Each item is carefully packed into bags by hand. The interior of the store is elegant and has a sweet scent. I'm looking forward to seeing what kind of encounters I have today. Load the cake I baked on the back of my bicycle. I go out to sell them ringing the bell. I thought it was good to have dreams there. It's not just a performance. It was a lot of hard work. Work hard for three or four years. I thought it would be nice to open my own shop. When I actually opened the store. When I thought about it, I realized that my bicycle was my shop. I thought I should not stop riding and selling bicycles. He will load the cake onto the bicycle. Including the weight of the wooden box, it will be about 80 kg. Turn on the bell and ready to go. I hope you have a good encounter. Please be careful. It's time to leave. I think it will be difficult for him to work in this heat. I respect him. You've eaten it many times, haven't you? . Of course. He goes to various places in the city. when I'm in the car. Sometimes I see him riding his bicycle. Mr. Aramoto is popular and is approached by many people. I always feel anxious before work. But I always feel a sense of accomplishment on the way home. I do the same thing every day, but there are different dramas involved. It's delicious. He came to my school to give a lecture. We became acquainted from there. I bought bread at his shop the other day. It's really delicious. I'm glad he is being kind to me. Thank you as always. I think it's better to have more difficulties. That way you can feel more grateful. Dripping sweat. Live each day desperately. I think it would be a blessing if I could live like that. He's an attractive person. He's a wonderful person. I think it's because he has experienced a lot of things in his life. He continues cycling. I'll do my best to keep up too. I am always grateful to him. Everyone is happy too. It's nice, the smell of summer grass in summer. When spring comes I ride my bicycle under the beautiful cherry blossoms. In winter, I ride my bicycle in the cool breeze. However, in summer It will be a life-threatening job. There are times when I feel like I'm going to get heat stroke. He finally made it back to the store. He is exhausted. welcome back. It must have been hot. He can only do so because of the words of our customers. The driving force behind his energy is the appreciation of his customers. That makes me very happy. I'm grateful to him. Thanks to him, I was also able to raise my children. The store is also doing well. I am filled with a lot of gratitude towards him. After all, it's because I go by bicycle. I have many encounters with everyone. I wonder if I'll step on the pedal again for that encounter. I don't think much about the future. Anyway, work hard all day today . Sleep like mud. And live another day tomorrow. It's an accumulation of that. The day will come when I won't be able to pedal anymore. That's why I think it's important to continue. I'm going to do it with my own beliefs. I believe this is the calling God has given me. There's nothing else like it. Today too, put pound cake and a smile on bike. He pedals energetically.