Hello, friends. &quot;Kitchen Inside Out&quot; is here. Nowadays, it's not fashionable to say that somebody likes sweet things. Everybody's talking only about healthy eating. But we can't help it. We are sweet tooths. And we like tea with biscuits or with a piece of homemade cake. We eat desserts even in summer. I've got plenty of recipes for biscuits. But there are several most simple ones. I think it takes more time to get to the store than to make these cookies. It's hard to choose which of these recipes is my favourite. That's why I'll start with the easiest one. Only three ingredients, and 10 minutes of your time and you can make tea. Add 50 g of sugar to soft butter. I've taken 170g of butter. You can use margarine instead. Mix it well with the sugar. And add sifted flour. It usually takes 150g. I always add it gradually. Not everything at once. Sometimes it takes less amount. This is what you should get. Make a ball. Roll it into a log. Sprinkle the board with some sugar, about 50g more. And roll the dough in it. Cut into small pieces. And put on a baking sheet with parchment paper on. Make a little distance in between. Something like this. Put the baking sheet with the cookies into a preheated oven at 180C for 15-20 minutes. Let the cookies cool down and put them into a bowl. Give it a try: a little of effort and a lot of pleasure. You can use not only sugar to cover the cookies but also, cinnamon, sesame seeds or nuts. It's delicious, too. The second recipe is very simple, too. But it takes a little more time. These cookies literally melt in your mouth. I don't like this expression. But this is what they do. Crumbly and very tasty. These cookies tempt even those who are on a diet. They have many names. &quot;Sugary&quot;, &quot;Floury&quot;, &quot;Snow&quot; But I call it &quot;Delight&quot;. I'm sure all lovers of shortbread will appreciate it. Butter is the base ingredient, too. Put it into a bowl. The butter should be soft. And add 4 Tbsp of starch. Most of the time I use potato starch but of course, any starch will do. Add powdered sugar as well. And mix it. It's better to use a mixer for this, but you can do it without it. When it becomes more or less homogeneous add vegetable oil. Now some flour. And a pack of vanillin. Some more flour. And mix it. It usually takes exactly 500g of flour. The dough is... how do I put this... inconvenient, unruly. It crumbles in your hands. It reminds of wet sand. But you can make a ball out of it. Cut off some. Form a bar out of it. And cut it. And make the same steps. Put everything onto a baking sheet with parchment paper. Put it into a preheated to 150C oven and bake it for about 40 minutes. It should get only a little brown. Put powdered sugar into a bowl. And dip warm cookies into it. Now I'll try to show you the result. The cookies are very soft and tender. I usually make bite-size pieces. They are easy to eat. It's hard to describe how tasty it is. Try it. You'll love it. I'm using these ingredients for the next recipe. And it's also very simple. Break an egg into a bowl. Add 100g of sugar and mix it. Now 150g of sour cream. I've taken 20% fat. And 60 ml of vegetable oil. Then add 0.5 tsp of baking soda. And 3 Tbsp of lemon juice. Mix again. And add sifted flour in the end. About 280g. It can be a little less or vice versa, a little more. I usually watch the dough. It has to be like this. Quite thick. Put the dough into a pastry bag. And squeeze out little by little onto a baking sheet. Like this. I'm using a silicone mat. But regular parchment will do the same job. Put it into a preheated to 180C oven for 10-15 minutes. And you can make some tea. Look how lovely the cookies are. It smells wonderful and is very soft and tasty. It's tea-time. Join us! There's one more 15-minute recipe for cookies. Whisk two eggs. While whisking add 70g of sugar. Then 90g of flour, some vanillin, about 1/3 tsp of baking soda 1 pinch of lemon acid and salt. Just as I did in the previous recipe, put it on a baking sheet. But this time the dough is thinner. It will spread a little. You should take this into account. Put it into a preheated to 180C oven for 8 minutes. That's it. You can eat them just like this. But we like to eat these cookies with boiled condensed milk. Take a cookie, put some condensed milk on it And cover it with another cookie. It's tastier this way. You can take it to work with you. It's perfect for tea-time. And one more recipe for today. Chocolate shortbread cookies. You can have them with tea instead of sweets. Very tasty. And simple, of course. Add soft butter to sifted flour. And some baking powder. Mix it thoroughly. You can do it with your hands. You'll get crumbles like this. Add 1 egg, some sugar and cocoa powder. Mix it well. And make a ball. This dough is much easier to handle than the one from the last recipe. And it's very easy to make cookies from it. Pinch off a piece. Make a bar. And cut it. You'll get two baking sheets of cookies. Heat the oven to 180C. Put the cookies into it and bake them for 25 minutes. You can sprinkle them with powdered sugar. But I usually serve them just as they are. Very crumbly and super chocolate. No sweets needed. Try to cook them. All the recipes are in the description box, as always. I'm looking forward to your feedback. Thank you all for watching my video and cooking along with me. Subscribe to my channel so you don't lose any of these recipes. And like this video. And of course, hit the bell button not to miss a thing. There are plenty of interesting recipes ahead.