This is the Site C Dam. A hydroelectric megaproject in a country that is This is not just any project, but THE most and it is also a highly debated one. Site C will provide renewable energy started back in 2015, the budget has The project has many critics, from to indigenous groups and environmental activists. On the other hand its clean Canada's sustainable goals and economic growth. Despite the controversy, the developer Why? Well, in today's video, as we take a deep dive into the most Site C is a hydroelectric power station. The stored water behind the dam holds the potential energy converts into kinetic start to turn. And generators can then produce In any case, Canada produces 60% power. Making it the third largest In fact, Site C is actually one of 475 Why so many? Well, hydropower just makes sense for reliable and efficient, and the energy produced is All that to say, Site C is nothing out of It's still pretty impressive though. When the dam At 1000m across, 500m wide and 60m tall, the dam contains 16 million cubic Most of it came from on-site be brought in and was transported It might seem like a lot, even for a in 10,000 year earthquake that many The reservoir behind the dam will be filled has been completed. 83 km of the Peace creating a reservoir more than And once it's operational, the site will produce increasing BC's entire supply by about 8%. Not available on demand and relatively So, where's the catch? If Site C can why has it come under criticism? To find out, let's turn back the clock for a second This is the Peace River in 1872 - long before And this is the Peace River today. You see, Site C isn't the only dam and they're all part of one huge hydropower The first dam, the W.A.C. Bennett, was Reservoir. The dam was, at the time, the and to this day Williston remains the 7th Several years later, in 1980, a second at Peace Canyon. The Dinosaur Reservoir it than the Williston Reservoir - but that's By building multiple dams on one river, the same water can be reused to produce And that brings us to Site C. Despite years of pressure from BC Hydro - the provincial government repeatedly rejected Site C. in the demand for electricity, but the provincial Until finally, in 2014, the project was BC's population had tripled in the The economy had skyrocketed and Canada With all that in mind, the provincial was sufficient demand for more with the budget set at around $6,4 billion But, as per usual, not everyone was in agreement. Before signing off on Site C, the government in charge of the process was called Harry proposal. He disagreed completely with Ultimately, he believed that there simply if the demand for electricity did increase, BC And he wasn't the only one. Opposition leader John Horgan was openly opposed to He promised a comprehensive review into the Fast forward a little, and Horgan was elected. By that time, construction had been underway for two years and it was already But Horgan kept his word and ordered the ran any further over-budget it would no it would become more expensive than In the official document, the reviewers remained that this was all dependent on future energy needs But in other notes, publicly accessible members of the review board were more outspoken. And so, in the face of this situation opinion about the dam, the newly elected Horgan... ... decided to continue with construction. He said it wasn't the project he "would have Cancelling a megaproject of this size tough decision Nevertheless, In a 2020 progress report, issued by BC Hydro, they classified the overall They mention "serious concerns" over "schedule, scope and budget" and discuss structural And speaking of foundations, there is a You see, Site C doesn't sit on solid bedrock under shifting pressure. This isn't a deal have been built on similar ground. Nonetheless especially in an area where So to fix this BC Hydro came Instead of having a dam running straight design you can see here. On top of that below the dam to increase stability They laid down roller-compacted concrete built some key components, like the on top. Doing this provided a firmer makes up the south bank of the river and As things stand today, construction is Hydro BC directly they mentioned that they plan to The most recent estimates put the real most expensive dam Canada has ever was attributed to geotechnical delays and But the real cost isn't only The controversy around the dam is about You see, Site C sits on Treaty 8 land. Treaty 8 is an agreement dating back to 1899. It rights of 39 indigenous First Nations communities Flooding the Peace River to create the Site C of this land, infringing the constitutional Even John Horgan, before his 180 on the And he wasn't alone. In 2019, to be suspended until an agreement was Construction didn't stop, but And of course, a megaproject like The Peace River Valley is also home be displaced or killed by the reservoir. 63 species threatened by the construction. Infact, the WWF openly condemned Site C, saying it Beavers, birds, bears and elk will all and migratory routes. BC Hydro plan to replace rebuilding ecosystems takes a long time and Looking at all this, it's fair to say that Site challenges: economically, environmentally and and the government are so determined to push The first is the most obvious - electricity. Site C will produce clean, renewable electricity operational, the output will be enough to And hydroelectric power is actually one of the BC Hydro actually says that Site gases per gigawatt hour than most of the However it's not just the amount of electricity Inside the dam, there's It opens and closes to control the amount By using the headgate, the dam can is high and reduce production when demand is low. This is a crucial difference between hydropower can't control how much wind or sun there through a dam. That makes hydroelectric And because Site C is the third in a series of In fact, by reusing water from upstream, Site that's generated at the bigger W.A.C. Bennett As a result, Site C provides a large amount amount of land. Yes, thousands of but way less than if the dam was built on a And at the end of the day, the electricity The second reason for pushing ahead Despite being so expensive, Site benefits to the region and to According to BC Hydro, the construction of and $3.2 billion to the GDP of BC as a whole. In other words, Site C will generate a lot and indirectly, through the purchase of over 2,700 people were working on site. In fact, if we add up all the hours of work it works out to 10,000 employment years! service providers whose work goes into Site C from All this work and activity helps grow the economy as a whole and has positive effects And we should also point out that BC Hydro has of the damage done to communities and wildlife million Indigenous Traditional Use Fund to use" or employing a full time conservation And on top of all that, there's also the fact of dollars on the project. If the government most of that money would be lost. Which OK, so that brings us to the third reason. and is definitely up for debate. But basically, Site C isn't the only megaproject This is the Coastal Gaslink Pipeline. It's a 670 km pipe that will take natural And where does the pipe start? Here, in Why? Well, gas extracted from in Dawson Creek before it can On the other end, here in Kitimat (@Regis: then cooled to a liquid - giving And these processes require a huge The LNG produced at the end is sold abroad, C is actually being built as a means of producing The BC government stands to make $23 billion as well as another $24 billion in enormous gas reserves across Canada, And the market's there. Asian countries are government still says is environmentally friendly... BC Hydro have addressed this controversy, or without an LNG sector". They point out that all the electricity is pooled together, no But critics say that using hydropower to to "greenwash a climate unfriendly industry" What is your opinion on that? Is it still through hydropower? Do you agree In any case, Site C is due to start producing start filling the reservoir at the end of If things go according to plan, we'll finally be able to see what the And in the coming years, we can examine not. Perhaps the increase in clean project being so over-budget. Or perhaps the LNG industry and indigenous land rights One thing's for sure though, people will be make sure to subscribe to Megabuilds And as always, we'll see you in the next one.