Every year more than one billion is thrown into the trash. This is an alarming figure, the capital of the Philippines, there is a place where this food, is re-cooked and becomes I'm talking about pagpag. When we got here, it looked like the worst job was scrounging around but there are the people to try and collect what is left, It's 05:30 in the morning. But now it's time for pagpag! Because they eat it for breakfast. I'll wash it. Chicken, soy sauce, MSG, Sprite. Yummy! Delicious and inexpensive. My name is Giuseppe and I have a mission: to travel the world, to meet the most and to ask them a simple question. What is happiness to you? Welcome to the Happiness Project. So what exactly is pagpag? Well, it's the traditional dish of Tondo, which is the largest slum in Manila. Everyone here goes crazy for it, but I'm sure that none of you And do you know why? Well, because it's garbage. That's right. It's basically the leftover fried chicken which people have thrown away, scavengers collect it from the garbage, and it's then rinsed I know it's hard to believe, this is everyone's favorite dish, because it's cheap and apparently Today our mission will be to follow to find out where they end up and survive day to day feeding off Everything appears to be tranquil here, but actually they are all telling us especially in the dark alleys, because so many people here Let's move away a bit because They are addicted to Shabu, in Asia and especially the Philippines, and it's made by mixing meth and caffeine. It keeps people awake but very aggressive. And there have also been cases where these people stab other people So it is very dangerous. Situations can get out of hand but everything is under control now. Everyone is very nice, but we always have to keep our eyes I don't think it's a huge surprise that They're everywhere, eating the remains of the garbage that the pickers bring here. Once you're inside Tondo, it is not at all difficult they're in virtually every corner. The first trucks are arriving in the slum. Over there is Ryan, whom we just met. And he's sorting these bags There's a bit of everything. He explains that there's some plastic, some cans, but there is So Ryan's job right now is from all the other trash in these bags and then that food will become the pagpag. So now we're getting a look They search with bare hands and they are looking Is this one good? Pagpag? Yes, it's pagpag. Dry chicken. Can I see? Okay, this is an example. This piece of chicken will become pagpag and it's simply a piece of fast food that someone in the city ate I don't think I will ever look at Ryan, isn't it hard putting Sometimes it is exhausting, Especially when you find There is no other job that pays enough This one here, which is actually new, he won't eat it because it's gone bad. It had an air bubble inside, and so they give it to the pigs. As I said, they have to be careful as well as to what they choose to eat, because sometimes the wrong choice Wow. Look at that. It's full, full of food... This is good, too. Good. These are other pieces that are It all gets mixed together. Just put it here? This bag is an exception, because New food that, as we said, January 11 Ah, the 11th. Yesterday. Okay. It is still good. It's good. Yes. Dumplings. Still good enough to eat. It's been a long time since to describe something that but this is one of those moments. It is complex. It is complex recounting the conditions under which The pungent smell and injustice that... that's in front of us. And I'm almost ashamed to ask him to put his hands inside in this rotten food that I don't think it matters much when Some you give to the pigs. In absence of abundance there is also he's finding snacks and giving them Actually he could even sell them, Because in a community like so if you can help each other, you do it. And we are seeing it right here, How much can you sell this for? 100 Pesos (about $1.80) per bucket. For every bucket of Jollibee? Yes. Okay. They sell it by the bucket, about filling it with all of this, so but with all the good food they find, they sell it for 100 pesos, Does touching anything in the garbage Sometimes broken glass. Broken glass. Yes. Have you ever found gold, money, rings? Money. Money, you've found money? Yes. How much? 203 dollars. 203 dollars! Wow! Is it good? Delicious. Yes? It's not bad. It's very good. What is it? Jollibee? Yes. Can you tell if it's KFC or Jollibee? Yes. Have you ever felt sick eating this stuff No no! It's healthy. It's healthy. Very good. This stuff doesn't make me sick Do you ever think about how the food Maybe it was in their mouths and For me there is no problem. I'm not picky, and besides, You want some? Actually we don't eat it like that. We cook it in boiling water. Have you ever had a real meal A meal freshly made for you? No no, always from the garbage. Always from the garbage. Yes. I've only ever eaten it from the garbage. Are you ready? Dinner time! Would you like some? When the sun goes down, the slum where entire families sift through It is continuous. All night long, There are no working hours here. These young boys and girls sorting through all of this garbage. To Fill this bag requires about Do you know how much they sell it for? 2 euros. In these situations there's always there's someone who has the worst of the worst jobs. When we got here, it looked like was scrounging around There's someone who collects And then there are the people to try and collect what is left, I peel off the labels from then we will sell them by the kilo This is our livelihood, Life is hard, we don't have other jobs, We have no choice. If this is the only work around, This is our daily sustenance, you know. My children go to school. They are my family, all of them There are four of us. Life is hard here; we cannot afford Otherwise we would have nothing And plus, my family needs it, so they can study. It all comes from this. But in the end, even here If you can scrape together 2 bucks, you can make your family happy. You have something to feed them every day. And you don't have to try Without any of these certainties, You know why? Hunger. I assure you that an empty stomach And any work, even one like this, because it allows us to live with dignity and allows me to pay for my daughters' along with my wife's work. Toti's gaze is reminiscent of someone who And even in adversity he manages every day to find a reason, albeit a small one, His story particularly resonates with me, which is why I gladly accept the invitation Hi, how are you? Hey. Hello! Toti? Ah, there he is. Found him. Hello, may I? Hello. You good? Oh, he also has a dog. Hello. Where do you sleep? Upstairs. Can I see? Yes. Oh, watch out! Already bumped... Ah, are they sleeping? Ah, no, no, it's fine. I don't want to bother. How many kids do you have? There is another one, so you have... He is not my son. He's not your son. Okay, wow! Okay. I didn't want to bother them. They are too kind. But this... this is a typical Tiny, it's absolutely tiny. And you eat there? Yes. You eat there and cook there? Yes. It's a nice house. Ah... Six. Six? Yeah. We have been living in It is a simple life. It is what it is. Did you build this house or was it.... No, it is my own home. But did you build it? No. You bought it? Yes. How much does a house like this cost? 2,000 pesos. Two thousand? Yes. 2000 pesos is 30 euros, it's impossible. Is it comfy? Yes, I am comfortable. There's no bathroom. But you can go to the common one outside. Do you ever wish you had This house here is fine. We're more comfortable here It's 05:30 in the morning and and sleeping in the middle of the road. But now it's time for pagpag, Asking around, though, so I take the opportunity We are about to enter a traditional house, meanwhile these boys are showering. Hey, what's up? Everyone here is very welcoming. They gave us permission to go up This is how they live in Tondo. The most affluent in Tondo a former port warehouse where each family has somehow managed to create a decent home for themselves Never in my travels had I seen a cluster They are piled on top of each other, and you get the feeling that In addition to that, you have to be because there are spikes, cables, Although the children seem quite at ease, Let's go in and see what it's like. This is the most curious thing of all. Basically this here is a WiFi center, So people come here to connect and pay one peso for 6 minutes There are some people who are Now I see that they are using It is extraordinary. Okay. This is the signal. Yes. Just wait. Okay. Okay? One peso. It didn't go in. Okay, 29 minutes and 53 seconds. Okay. 3 pesos. We have found that the Internet here and I don't think there is an angel as they surf the Internet. For us, though, the solution is If you aren't already using a VPN Your IP address, browsing history, location, is visible, in the best case scenario, but unfortunately also to cybercriminals. But what NordVPN does is and make it essentially invisible, hiding your IP address and thus from malicious attackers. Oh, and here's a bit of impartial advice: don't trust those free VPNs because in order to be &quot;free&quot;, they make money to advertising companies who buy your data to find out more so as to make their advertisements Plus, with the link in the description, in order to protect the navigation because you can protect by using NordVPN with your WiFi router. Or you can choose to protect up to six devices And as always, I'll leave you to find the best offer to try NordVPN and finally But now sit tight, because I am going What this child is doing, however, because he is not just separating it from the label. He is also collecting the water which will probably be used So really, every little bit is important. Everything that we normally throw away If I were to ask you what would you say? For me it is being able to help But what would really make me So I can catch thieves. Are you happy that your son Yes. Because I know he cares about it. Do you think a person can possibly Here in Tondo people take it for granted But unless they do something It's up to them to improve their lives. In the Tondo community there is no doubt: pagpag is the best-selling street food. Everyone eats it because it costs pennies, But among all the vendors there is who has earned herself Because hers is the best of all. She agreed to show us her secret pagpag recipe that has made her so famous here. Now I pour it. Jollibee and McDonald's mixed. Mixed. It is a little bit dirty. There are pieces of... First, I will wash it. Everything is washed. Thank you. After that we will wash it once more. How many rinses? Three. So the process of making pagpag is: so that Evelyn can remove all the parts, the garbage that remains stuck to food. She does this three times, You can still see the bite marks There's a piece of hamburger. Patty. Is this worth more? More? Yes, more. Finding an intact piece of hamburger You see, in this rinse bowl but that will be mixed so you'll see it's all random. If you're lucky you'll even The second step is frying Soy sauce. Soy sauce. Yes. Okay. What is it? Sodium glutamate. MSG. Ah, MSG. Glutamate to give it and cover all those flavors from being in the garbage. Maybe not the healthiest, but I think Sprite. Sprite, yes. Why Sprite? Is it good? To enhance the flavors. Yummy! So you use chicken, soy sauce, Sprite. Yummy. Folks at home, write this down, for using yesterday's leftover chicken. Yummy. I used to sell typical But then I realized that my customers and so one day they said to me: &quot;Evelyn, why don't you try cooking pagpag, that really is our favorite dish.&quot; And so I tried it, and then And now they're raving about they come looking for me and say: &quot;It's time to cook,&quot; and I get Everyone likes it, because it's clean. Evelyn, could you tell us My secret to being happy... I just keep cooking for others. When I am here I can't help but smile. People say I have an easy smile. because I do this for my Filipino because this is what they can afford. It is within their budget and basically Delicious and inexpensive. For a family of five you only need 50 pesos to make sure everybody is fed. A price like this allows one Because people here are very impoverished and this is what they can afford to eat. Cooking makes me happy and gives me I'm always smiling. Even when there are problems, smile, Is it good? Good. Yummy! Yummy? Uh... I am really full. I've tasted a lot of stuff in my life, but I think I had better It is not very safe actually. Maybe their stomachs are nice and strong, But I'm really glad that Evelyn here can make But I'm not risking it this time. Yummy! Delicious. The best. Evelyn's infectious energy and smile that I am in one of the poorest places But if there is one good thing it's to remind us, to remind us because the abundance we have According to United Nations data, more than 820 million people worldwide And in the Philippines, for example, Thirty percent of children under five But even so, the stories of Evelyn, and of all the people that I met in Tondo reminded me that happiness can flourish from the smallest everyday joys. And perhaps in this simplicity lies that happiness is not defined by but from the human spirit that finds