Mitch Hedberg was one of the greatest comedians He might not be a household name like George remembered for his signature style and one-of-a-kind &quot;I bought a two-bedroom house, but it's up isn't it? This bedroom has an oven in it!&quot; Unfortunately, before he could truly break died of a drug overdose in 2005. Although his time here was sadly cut short, Mitch Hedberg. Minnesota Nice When you think of Mitch Hedberg's laidback, to learn that he actually came from the Midwest Despite the fact that middle America is generally really tried to hide his liberal drug use. &quot;I used to do drugs. I still do, but I used to, too!&quot; It was early in his life in Minnesota that heart defect. His mother claimed his condition often caused Although the coroner's report ruled that Hedberg his heart condition may have contributed to The acting bug Hedberg got his first big break on the Late This led to an appearance at the 1998 Just an impression. Fox jumped on the Hedberg bandwagon and signed to come up with a TV show. Unfortunately, Fox and Hedberg never found his deal. But the next year he went on to write and film about workers at a Mexican restaurant Jay Chandrasekhar of Super Troopers edited was great, but...kind of hard to work with high to remember their lines. &quot;By take four, they're kinda looking at each They're being recorded, right? By take six the two of them are literally The film premiered at Sundance in 1999, but Los Enchiladas! was never released to DVD, since its premiere. When his movie failed to gain any interest, as well. After being cast as a stoner on That '70s Almost Famous and later took a small role Comedy Central blow-out Mitch Hedberg's first Comedy Central Presents win over the audience. His material was just too different from what &quot;I don't have a girlfriend, I just know a me say that.&quot; The edited version of the special makes it unedited version is totally different. At one point, he just sits down on stage, In the end, he won the crowd over, but it &quot;And Pringles is a laid back company, they A helping hand Even though his Comedy Central special was success on the road. TIME magazine even went so far as to call But even in the midst of his growing fame, When Mike Birbiglia was still early in his the new comedian out. Hedberg performed at Birbiglia's CD release himself there and refused to be paid. And when Hannibal Buress was just starting When Hedberg played a weekend of sold-out inexperienced comedians go on stage during As Buress put it, &quot;That's unheard of. Comedians just don't do that.&quot; But Hedberg was apparently happy to give any That one act of kindness kick-started Buress' Never say no Toward the end of his life, Hedberg was constantly He'd do three shows a night, then go to the His wife said Hedberg never passed on a job. He'd been rejected so many times, he felt -- or else all the rejections could start Even at the peak of his fame, he never seemed traveled and performed until his last days. He had severe stage fright It's strange to hear that a guy who made his terrified of doing so, but Mitch Hedberg was He told Time journalist Joel Stein during with the crowd. I find that if you look at people's faces, And so, the prototypical Hedberg performance over his eyes, and set-long staring contests He also, as the New York Times put it, &quot;sometimes Remember, the guy pretty much always wore And he would still close his eyes to keep He would criticize his own jokes onstage Every comedian messes up a joke on occasion. They're human, too, after all. But for the most part, comedians tend to ignore like nothing happened. Not Hedberg, though -- he tended to ruminate on a level that few comedians could ever get &quot;Dogs are forever in the push-up position. Okay that joke is dumb, I'm aware of that.&quot; Deadspin likened it to him breaking the fourth didn't land. In an odd way, it made him more endearing It didn't hurt that far more of his jokes He thought he could moderate his drug use Rather than kick his longtime drug habit, In May 2003, the comedian was arrested for call for people to stop what they're doing, Hedberg had other ideas. In a 2004 interview with Las Vegas Weekly, so people couldn't associate him with drugs As he said, &quot;You can't do copious amounts use has tapered off ... but I've learned just He thought the plan might help his career, he got arrested for drugs once, any mistake drugs. So, to make himself look better, he was planning the ones he did do. Sadly, the plan was doomed from the start. Arrest and hospitalization Hedberg's drug problem was never a secret, it was. Although he was open about smoking weed or of his act. Then in 2002, he was arrested for heroin possession, His leg was so infected from injecting heroin &quot;It was 13 hours of surgery. They took muscle out of his back, and transferred Once he recovered, Hedberg returned to standup In 2005, he died of a drug overdose. &quot;This morning, we've learned a popular comic Mitch Hedberg has died in a hotel room in Though he had a tragic end, Hedberg was one and will be remembered for his exceptional He might not have been the new Seinfeld, but He was Mitch Hedberg. &quot;I like to take a toothpick, and throw it Thanks for watching! Click the Looper icon to subscribe to our Plus check out all this cool stuff we know