PAUL FREEDMAN: Good morning. Questions or problems? So today, this week, we seriously about religion. And I remind you, we're talking particular not because of its but we're interested in the power dealing with, allied from the Roman Empire. Everything changes with the The Church becomes first then finally the sole legal by order of the Emperor On the other hand, in order to power or the politics of this understand the doctrine, people fought over doctrine. And as you've seen in the Jones the emperor's intervention. This is not a question as might today of a religion split about dogma solving those problems two factions. The questions over the persons of the Trinity, priestly office, Donatism, of Constantine's conversion, And they're only the first. have fun with heresies. Heresies are neat. Professor Carlos Eire freshman seminar, I believe. Is it not called &quot;Basic STUDENT: &quot;Essential Heresies.&quot; PROFESSOR: &quot;Essential even better. And I don't know of any quiz demonstrate expertise on this, Or there ought to be sites on a perfect score. We're only touching the surface, the iceberg, to use a cliche. There are lots of heresies. There's a lot of division Why not just say, &quot;Hey, you superior to the Son, and I So what?&quot; That's so 2011. Or actually, it's so 2000. Because we ought to be used to military or other kinds So I'm not going to have to we're spending some time But if you do want me to, the rationale is. If your roommates are bothering quizzing them about the relation of the Trinity, have them appointment, and I'll explain I'd be glad to do this Or my Facebook page, whatever. This is a situation created We've seen Constantine's fairly the Roman Empire. We emphasized the creation of a second capital and the favor that when Constantine died percentage of the Empire's When he died, the Roman Empire to its former glory. That chapter that begins the World of Late Antiquity is And he emphasizes this because, historians saw the fourth the sack of Rome in 410 as In 410, as we will discuss next was pillaged and partly burned I hate to use the word &quot;tribe,&quot; but don't tell anybody-- tribe of barbarians who had Danube and the Balkans. This was a cataclysmic event, crises in the Western would lead to its collapse. This weakness of the Western partly political, and partly weaknesses, of instability, It's always hard to say why sense, even though we can see their decline. One of the signs Brown talks fairly extensively, and that rich and poor grows. On the other hand, this is a social mobility. There are a lot of paths open In this period, barbarians the Roman army. And indeed, the army is a path very important one. In general, as I've said, the death of Constantine and the not see themselves as living They did see themselves as change, the most dramatic of Christianity. And the most dramatic example of of the Emperor Julian. I've given you a handout emperors of this period. Notice that some of them reign and then some usually briefly We're in a transitional period the Empire is sometimes divided With the death of Theodosius in those emperors on the list, he three years. With his death and the division his son Honorius, ruling the Western capital now, in and Arcadius, ruling from point on, we can really speak And almost always, there were collapse of the Western Empire Questions at this point? So the reign of Julian &quot;Apostate&quot; because he was born restore the traditional 360 to 363. His failure shows the weakness or traditional Roman religion. By this time, Christianity Julian tried. He tried to reestablish He tried to reestablish cults of the gods. He was an eclectic worshiper of also was a philosopher. He is a wonderful, if intellectual in power. Very few of these emperors intellectual in the sense-- many of them were cultivated, classical music and art. But Marcus Aurelius is a least is a would-be He had a beard. He studied in Athens. He was very unsuccessful, People did not follow He was a very good His troops, when he was on the France and Germany, were But as emperor, not only did many of his own followers did. He died in an unsuccessful of perhaps murdered-- unclear. But with his defeat, the end of traditional urban, upper-class was in permanent eclipse. The decree of the Emperor already of 393 proclaiming religion, except for a small not really mean that everybody a practicing Christian. The two groups [correction: most would be outside of that the countryside, a very large either continue their worship of local gods or Christianity. We're going to be talking in a couple of weeks.. On some obvious level, which I which is nevertheless and there are many of them-- they are holy figures. They're not gods, powerful than human beings. The saints are a kind of We'll talk about why The other class that tended to last was the very upper senatorial elite-- the people who were the most traditional religion-- and philosophers, people who known as the Platonists. And we're going to come to them, important for Augustine's Constantine was succeeded After two of the sons died, Constantius assured that he most of his family. Julian was one of only two that and he shouldn't have, because This is brass-knuckle The chief preoccupations of century were the same as when threat on the eastern frontier, on the Rhine-Danube frontier. But there are also other third-century emperors had not problems. They are, Arianism and Donatism. And we've seen a little bit about Constantine for the let's go over this. Arianism. Please remember that with completely different meaning. Aryan is this discredited racial not invented by, Nazism. Arian with an &quot;i&quot; is a Arius was a priest from from Plato about the absolute Any religion, but Christianity If you make God too absolute and does he care about us? If you make Him too powerful enough to transcend Platonism-- that is, the philosophy of emphasizes the absolute, what we can understand with senses, and the superiority The reason the spiritual is Platonism and in Buddhism and in that the material is mortal, The problem for many people, not world, is that the material is is hard to apprehend or prove. But most people who think about history agree that the spiritual it is immortal. Therefore, those who emphasize kind of unknowability, not-easy-to-apprehend-ness For Platonists and for Arians, infinitely high above us. Now, Christianity has as its respects-- just speaking the fact that God becomes man. Christ is incarnated; that This is not a common Mohammed is not God. He is a messenger. In Judaism, there are prophets, made of the same substance There are religions in which supernatural-- a lot of religions But in Christianity, God is manifested the Trinity-- the Father, the Son, and the Christ is essentially different in some fundamental way, that way of interacting If you have studied Plato or of those key concepts, in and then there's the Demiurge. The Demiurge is this hardworking force, whatever interacts between the divine He's divine, all right, He's the one who is out there matter, creating the world and know it, while the So similarly in Arianism, intervening on Earth, indeed, sacrificing Himself for God the Father remains This is not what Christianity Christianity or the Orthodox Christ and God are of The Arians therefore are They subordinate A convenient way of remembering tagline: &quot;There was a time when supernatural, metaphysical time, This goes against the creed this day is the standard Christian denominations. The Nicene Creed, as it is of the Trinity are eternal, God did not create Christ. Now, Arianism appealed to people worried about the Trinity. The Trinity could be denounced three gods. How could God be both Also, people who worried about Christ becomes flesh, how can God be God if Arianism, you have to take not just troubling the It is not just something for leisure on their hands. It's not for philosophy It's not even for religious It's not even for the Roman equivalent of college graduates. The barbarians-- and I deliberately avoid barbarians-- but the first barbarians to more or less-- and as time goes, on historians but more or less Germanic The missionaries who converted mid-fourth century, which is the the Roman Empire. When the German tribes or the Empire beginning in the 370s, within the Empire. The Council of Nicaea in the Constantinople in 381 pretty heresy, and by 381, it was But ironically, the new rulers Arians well into the cases, sixth centuries. Donatism, or the Donatists. The Donatists-- here we're not dealing with questions of the relationship of We're dealing with the nature nature of the church. It's a question of the If it turns out that I do not University of California, an impostor, that somehow I have been showing up here, just some random guy-- like the guy who is obsessed and has gotten various passes to maintenance yards and stuff like be like that, you will this course, I assure you. Because Yale, as an official your degree, gives you credits, responsible for hiring me. So if I've imposed a nevertheless receive credit. You don't have to do a You don't have to find out about my credit status or my mortgage, Yale to do that. Think of this then in terms If it turns out that the priest alas, that happens-- or a sinner-- or what the Donatists really under threat of torture or the persecution of Diocletian and or renounced Christianity-- if your priest is bad, is That's what Donatism is about, No. It depends on the virtue You can't have a priest they called a traditor. Traditor is an interesting Latin because it means both or is the root of the word &quot;traitor.&quot; It's the handing something, the giving So one can speak of the our family has cranberry sauce our tradition-- or handing over state secrets, scripture to the authorities. The Donatists accused priests capitulated to Roman last years of Diocletian. They branded them as traitors, not perform legitimate Therefore you, in North Africa, were strong, you as an ordinary do a background check on your is illegitimate, your baby is participation in the church short-circuited by Worse than that, supposing your in fact, supposing it's 330 AD born during the reign of consecrated him, the bishop traditor, or maybe that bishop it's like Christmas tree lights, tree lights that I have, They're little bulbs, and if string goes. If one is defective-- the proverbial bad apple rotting But the problem with that is church on that basis, you can't from one corner of the world to that the church will guarantee the individual minister. The office, the fact that the more important than the man, local communities. You can only trust, if you're a up with and a community stable of the ancestry. Donatism lends itself to what we is a small, tightly It does not lend itself universal, big, massive. And it also doubts that the overcome the defects Now, Manicheans are not exactly appear in the Confessions, and So since we're doing doctrinal teaching about good and evil religions besides Manicheanism basically evil have a real existence. There is a war in the universe god and an evil one. And this may be applied outside within Christianity. And within Christianity, the according to the Manicheans of a while joined, the god Jehovah is the evil god, and the the Christian god, Jehovah is the one who smites Jehovah is the creator god, believed that matter is evil Spirit is good. The Christian god Human beings are imprisoned in figure out a way to liberate of the evil god. Vegetarianism, for a start, But salvation means casting How is this different And doesn't this sound to you mistrust of the flesh? The devil is identified physicality, generally. Manicheanism is very useful And this may not be something but it will at some point, Where does evil come from? Why is there so much Why, if God is good, is there Sure, some of that may you lose your job or your a better one-- but that's not the same as disabilities, or the death of thousands, or choose Why does this happen? One explanation is that There's another god. What's the problem with that? Why is Manicheanism I mean, in a way, it is. But you will travel far says they're a Manichean. STUDENT: They think God's PROFESSOR: Yeah, all powerful, and so And then instinctively, problem, maybe, with it? I could say, so what? God is limited. You know, he's trying. Anybody else have a sense of the the devil made me do it? STUDENT: It takes away self-- PROFESSOR: It takes responsibility. I didn't cheat those The devil cheated them. I didn't mug that Ezra The devil did. Anyway, this is a debate. I'm not asking you to take Confessions the attitude of Manichean experience. So the fourth century is a around as Christianity starts This would merely be a chapter it not that the Roman emperors many of these issues. So just forgive me if I am heresy is important because of church through controversy and to try to resolve heresy. And thus marks the beginning state in a way that would become entire Middle Ages. The other thing to remark is a lot of success with It's very frustrating for an killed immediately. All he's got to do is say, tongue pie. Take him away and kill him.&quot; But with heretics, partly because It just toughens them. So you have the Prefect of [correction: to Constantine as and saying that this bishop in been attacked as a traditor. And Constantine does what appoint local judges They say, go and have a hearing going on, and make a He makes a recommendation home and shut up. They don't. They appeal to the emperor. The emperor says, &quot;Go home and They defy the emperor himself. They go back to North Africa, against traitors. Constantine, why does Why didn't he just say, pretty literally-- or, it's a matter of opinion, core the faith? STUDENT: He's afraid PROFESSOR: Yeah. He's afraid of upsetting God. Remember, we said that philosopher, not much He had won a battle with the Now the Christian God-- he was the companion of The Christian God has If the church starts dissolving factions, God is going his favor will cease. We have to take the ruler's religious unity seriously. So he changes his policy Remember, we're talking about all his military rivals, sent Minor, caught and A man of tremendous Nevertheless, dealing with townspeople and, from his point were strong in North Africa, them to obey him. Sometimes he tried compromise, saying, nobody can And none of this worked. Not only did this not work, preoccupy him. And you can see in his letters, &quot;OMG, I didn't realize for,&quot; tone to it. At first he was anti-Arian, He saw it as a denial If Christianity by its very name then Arianism would seem to fundamental thing. So after defeating Licinius, Arianism, which was strong in reaction was maybe your reaction of anybody who's more this world. He considered it over-subtle, and ultimately trivial. But he couldn't get rid of it. He couldn't get rid of it, and judges, he summoned a council of what later would be called &quot;ecumenical&quot; meaning a universal council, which met right across the Bosphorus, there's an &quot;a&quot; in there more or less in the western And it met in 325. At this first ecumenical the last ecumenical council of way, was in the 1960s, the early and this ecumenical council was and the emperor was in the room presided, intervened, He was very deferential He is not a bishop, after all. He is not a priest. He does orders, but nevertheless, he boss of this conference. And it came up with a formula, what every Christian must Christ are of the same essence, but different persons. God and Christ and the Holy issue yet-- there will be a heresy involving not until the end the course-- they are the same essence, Same essence-- the Greek word is homoousios. Christ was begotten by the That's a tough one. That's a tough one. He was begotten by the Father, There wasn't three minutes Does someone want to go out and Or is it coming from outside, Thank you. Arius gave a kind of equivocal arrangement, but the Bishop of Arius back into communion. In other words, the Nicene Creed fighting raged for about 50 between Christ and Constantine kept on Again, the poor guy He wanted this to go away so He died more or less an Arian. He came to believe that the the best. This is partly intransigence of the Bishop the Archbishop of Alexandria, Athanasius would then later upholder of the orthodox line. So Constantine was baptized In this era, usually, baptism embraced Christianity totally. It's Augustine, particularly, responsible for infant baptism. Infant baptism then means you but for sure you're The understanding in the 330s Christian, I am no So if you were in an office like are shedding blood, giving would wait until your death-bed getting baptized. So he would be baptized on his What's the danger of this, STUDENT: That you PROFESSOR: Die The proverbial bus hitting you of another sort. And we're going to talk-- I'm sure this is going to be remember with pleasure-- but briefly about sin, why interaction of good and Indeed, we're going to start over the Confessions. Let me give you a little bit Confessions, which I hope you Why are we reading this autobiographical work? First of all, it is a classic. How many of you, may I ask, A certain number. It is an autobiography, which It's an intimate It's not just highlights of He talks about anxieties, It is, therefore, a portrait of person in the ancient world. We get a better idea of the life many other, most other, almost It shows the fluidity of the Roman Empire. His father is a pagan. His mother is a Christian. He is first a Platonist, sort Christian Platonist, and then So it shows some of the options of this era. In doing so, we do come across the Western tradition about We also are looking at the Roman Empire and the Christianity and classical Some things to keep in mind The book is uniquely On the other hand, it doesn't like to know. More time is spent going over stealing pears from an orchard Concubine: a woman that you're subordinate with whom you And indeed, he would Pears, Book II, towards attention to that. The book has a lot of prayers, It's very Biblically infused. Don't be put off by that, confession. &quot;Confession&quot; has two meanings One is its meaning now, the confession of sin. But it's also a confession I confess God, meaning I praise Him. Finally, I just want to go over both admires the Platonists, the Manicheans, but ultimately This is described fairly beginning on page 73. But let me just take a few Platonism or Neoplatonism, Neoplatonism is a religious It differs from Plato and his bit more mystical in the sense to apprehend the One, and less state, or the kinds of that Plato dealt with. Platonism asserts the the inferiority of matter. But unlike Manicheanism, which evil and spirit is good, everything is good. Everything is good, but there So matter is not It's just inferior. Where evil comes from is the the superior, the preference of to the spiritual. So to take the most famous have this little funny vestigial Platonic love-- love of a sexual sort is What is evil is assuming that referring it to a higher nonmaterial kind of love. Wealth is not bad, but the spiritual things is bad. Here again, as we spoke at the important to emphasize the over the material, because Evil comes from not realizing material-- of the spiritual, or not acting on it, acting is all there is. In Platonism, evil is a falling your vision, to evoke It is a misperception, result of poor education. If you educate people to the they will throw off The reason people misbehave, other, is that they don't know them, they'll reform. Keep that in mind as we turn to thinks about it. He adores the Platonists because He admires them because they Manichean dualism-- that is, good versus evil, Platonism is an explanation of not a sufficient explanation. And that will form part matter of our next talk. So I'll see you on Wednesday. Oh, and Wednesday, you'll get paper, which is due Thank you.