IMAGE AND SOUND DIGITALLY RESTORED MAY WE FOREVER HONOR THE HEROES MOSFILM VREMYA Just great! And that was our newest tank! RASTENBURG Field Marshal General Manstein, go ahead. My Fuhrer, if I may. &quot;Top Secret. Operations Order 6. I have decided as soon as weather conditions permit. Its primary objective is to attack from the north surrounding and crushing gathered at the Kursk Salient, followed by a tank attack 17 Panzer divisions, 22 infantry will be employed for the main thrust of the attack.&quot; What's our troop strength? About one million soldiers, 2,700 tanks and 1,800 aircraft, my Fuhrer. Gentlemen! The two campaigns did not defeat the Russians. Now, in 1943, we begin and it will be decisive. We have launched Thanks to this, to 9.5 million men on all fronts. Never before has We built new, highly meant to crush They must crush them! But what's this? This Russian antitank shell And you want to attack now? I can't risk that! Return all Tigers and reinforce their armor. We can't begin Prepare, prepare, MOSCOW It's been quiet on all fronts... for almost a month now. They haven't recovered Nor have we from Kharkov, Stalingrad was... a terrible defeat for Hitler, both militarily and politically. But at Kharkov... the Germans showed that and that the decisive There's no doubt that... the enemy will try to retake the strategic initiative. The real question is... where, when, and with what forces he will attack. What do you think, Zhukov? I believe that Germany to prepare a major offensive but only in one theater. Given Southern Ukraine's I expect the enemy to fight He is likely to take advantage around the Kursk Salient to do that. Attacking from the north the enemy cut off and surround the troops of the Central Doing this would grant him in any direction he finds Vasilevsky, what do you think? Headquarters has recently air and ground intelligence, Intelligence has established that enemy troops are mainly headed to as well as towards Orel and Bryansk. This confirms What do Headquarters Headquarters, Comrade the German troops' onslaught drain all the enemy's strength... and then finish them off We have begun to plan the operation. To plan the operation? What happens if our defenses don't It's happened more than once, Can you vouch for them? We can, Comrade Stalin. LIBERATION FILM ONE THE SALIENT ABLAZE Screenwriters: OSKAR KURGANOV Director: Director of Photography: Production Designer: Composer: Sound: Conductor: Unit Manager: Story Editor: Costume Designer: D. OZEROVA Editor: E. KARPOVA Camera Operators: Set Designers: COMPOSITING Camera Operators: Set Designers: Modelmaker: V. SMIRNOV Assistant Directors: E. AVAKOVA, Assistant Camera Operators: Assistant Designers: V. GLASS, Lead Military Consultant: Military Consultants: Colonel General A. RODIMTSEV Colonel (GDR) J. WITZLEBEN Production Managers: Assistant Managers: G. KRYLOV, Production Intern: CAST Tsvetayev: N. OLYALIN Orlov: B. SEIDENBERG Lukin: V. SANAYEV Vasiliev: Y. KAMORNY Janek: JAN ENGLERT (Poland) Leontiev: I. OZEROV Zhukov: M. ULYANOV Vasilevsky: Y. BURENKOV Antonov: V. STRZHELCHIK Moskalenko: N. RUSHKOVSKY Katukov: K. ZABELIN Stalin: BUKHUTI ZAKARIADZE Roosevelt: S. JASKIEWICZ Hitler: FRITZ DIEZ (GDR) Keitel: G. M. HENNEBERG (GDR) Kluge: H. HASSE (GDR) Skorzeny: F. PIERSIC (Romania) WITH TROOPS FROM THE KIEV, MOSCOW, AND TRANSCAUCASIAN MILITARY DISTRICTS KURSK JULY 5, 00:10 GENERAL OF THE ARMY ROKOSSOVSKY, A private in the 6th Sapper Battalion What did you get an Iron Cross for? Stalingrad? You're in luck. You may shoot me, but your We'll make it to Moscow. - We heard the Fuhrer's order. This morning, you will be dealt It will be the final, deciding blow. When does the offensive begin? On July 5, at 03:00. So, 03:00. MARSHAL ZHUKOV, If that's true... But is it fact or fiction? First of all, HQ did warn us that the German offensive Secondly... as we know, made a reconnaissance-in-force And, finally, Field Marshal von Kluge, What do we have on Kluge? Partisans report him moving out of Orel and closer to the front. So everything points to them being... At 03:00, Yes... What measures do you suggest? A surprise barrage from all artillery. Preemptive counter-battery strikes. Issue the orders. But we haven't identified MAJOR GENERAL TELEGIN What if the prisoner is right... and the German attack will start Then we really do need Artillery Commander, go ahead. LT. GENERAL KAZAKOV LT. GENERAL KAZAKOV 03:10 There you go... &quot;An uncertain silence as a writer would say. Why are you whistling? Enjoying yourself? Why not, Comrade Captain? We're moving forwards, trophies await. I bet there's a depot in Orel. A depot... - We might be running back to Kursk. Well, we might. Captain, the colonel wants you. Remember, a lot can happen LT. COLONEL LUKIN, COMMANDER OF The infantry will let tanks through, so they'll head right for you. I am, Comrade Lieutenant Colonel. &quot;I am&quot; what? You can't keep everything Will it be 10 tanks At any rate, plan for 50. Your ridge is right where Maximov's - Orlov! - Nothing. - Am I free to go, Comrade Colonel? You too, back to your battalions. - Keeping that in mind? They're silent. Weirdly silent. Maybe they had second thoughts. - Break a leg, Maximov. Hey Orlov, what's wrong? Is it nerves? No idea. Like how lousy soldiers Ah, Zoya, dear! - Go straight on and don't look back. What are you doing here? I'm a little scared. I have a bad feeling. Nothing will happen to us. Everything will be alright. 03:55 It's strange, a German attack It's now... 03:56. - Are they going to begin or not? They must. It's clear there's no stopping their Connect me to the Voronezh Front. Silent as the grave here, MARSHAL VASILEVSKY No, no sign of them Maybe we'll be in luck Take care. GENERAL OF THE ARMY VATUTIN, What? - Are they waiting? Quiet enough to make your ears ring. Well? Same as it was, Comrade Vatutin. Comrade Vasilevsky... should we alert the next-in-command? Let's do it. Connect me with Katukov. LIEUTENANT GENERAL KATUKOV, Comrade General, red alert! Got it. - Let me help you. I'm coming. Go on. Damn it. - What is it? Fine. Get on your motorcycle, Dorozhkin. And don't get too inquisitive. Yes, sir. What is this, the crew? The crew of Tank 13, So where's your tank? Where's your commander? [speaking Polish] Did you understand what he said? - No sir, Comrade General! This crew always tries valiantly So where is the commander? General, Lieutenant So you do speak Russian. Are you Polish? Yes sir, Comrade General, Polish. From Warsaw. So why were you I think in Polish, Comrade General. I see you always - Lieutenant Vasiliev reporting... Tired of those shoulder stripes, I want a straight answer. No sir, Comrade General. Well, he should be. Fine. We'll see if your stripes are - Off to your platoon! 04:30 COLONEL GENERAL MODEL, FIELD MARSHAL VON KLUGE, Field Marshal, sir. Our whole plan was based on the element Their artillery has disrupted comms and caused serious So what do you propose? Call off the operation. That's not possible. Did you inform the Fuhrer I didn't find it necessary. It will be too late, if we wait. So what do you want? Field Marshal, This is a decisive The fate of Germany is at stake! We're starting the battle that will decide the war. - When can you attack? Do it. JULY 5, 05:30 Leontiev, man the guns! To your posts! Forward! The time has come Almost all the countries in Europe Here you have them. Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, Belgium, Finland, the entire Balkans. Soon new states will be set up on the land conquered by Germany in Poland, Lithuania, Belorussia, and Ukraine. What is left in Europe? A strip of Russian land whose fate is already set. Today, German troops at the base of the Kursk Salient, trapping ten Soviet armies Bolshevik Russia will not withstand SACHSENHAUSEN CONCENTRATION CAMP As you can see, That stands for You, too, may join this army... if you want your wives and children, your mothers and fathers, to greet you as their liberators. I invite any of you who want to join to step forward. My name is Arthur von Kristman. I represent I have here a news report A delegation of the Red Cross to discuss potential with the Soviet authorities. After much difficulty, the delegation After listening to a delegate he said, There are only traitors.&quot; Now you know Once more, I invite those who want to join us to step forward! Anyone else? Take Vlasov's men away... give the rest a lashing. Are you Stalin? - No. Yakov Dzhugashvili. What difference does it make? You and I have met before. I don't remember. At training exercises I was in the blue team HQ then. Now where are you? Don't forget your I'm trying to help you, How long have you been a POW? Since August '41. Almost 2 years. Well, now you have With your army? I was instructed to tell you exchange you who was captured at Stalingrad. But for that to happen, I'm not writing anything. You may want to think again. I'm not writing Stalin anything. If the exchange with you'll be shot. JULY 5, 15:00 COMMANDER, 381ST RIFLE DIVISION COLONEL GROMOV Those don't look like ours. Back up! Go left, quick! Come on! Hang in there! The anti-tank guys are on their way. Did you know, Colonel, by German tanks behind your lines?! - Yes sir. So how come they broke through? Forty tanks broke - Look, it's Major Maximov. Where did you come from? Abandoning your battalion, your men! Let me find out what happened. Well, why are you here? A shell wiped out the dugout. I came to and saw My men weren't there. I couldn't. I just couldn't! Your men are on the ridge! Get to the ridge! Get to your battalion immediately! His men are fighting a coward! Maximov, where are you going?! He's gone crazy. Anti-tank guns, fire! Comrade Captain, Comrade Captain, Look, there! - Where? Orlov is retreating. Halt! - Back! Go back! - Halt! Halt! The tanks got around us. Where's Orlov? Where is Orlov? Get down in the trench All you wimps can go to hell. Go back! Go back! - Orlov, you alive? I'm still here, Go back! Go back, blast you! Savchuk, you wounded? Load! Get me a shell! A shell! Load! Hang in there, Comrade Captain! - Hurry! Comrade Captain, Go, Sashka. - Darling boy! Get us a dozen shells. - A dozen! Sunflower, come in. We all died What are you talking about? - We didn't die! You're shell-shocked. Sashka, my boy, we have two shells. Get back to the rear! They won't kill him. They can't kill him. They won't kill him. Nurse! It'll all be fine, sweetheart. It'll all be fine. Hang on, sweetheart. It'll all be alright. Hang on a second, hang on... Hang on, sweetheart. Oh God, let this be over soon. It has to end sometime, doesn't it? It has to end. Nurse! Zoya! Zoya! Sergei! You must be Major Gennady Maximov, commander of the 2nd Battalion, You speak Russian? Major, the general has Your answers may save your life. You know Russian. Are you Russian? I'm German... but I lived in Russia. The general has one question: how deep are the Soviet defenses I'll ask you again. Are you listening? I'm waiting. Is it true that Zhukov and is now among the troops? We know Russian soldiers like to say, &quot;When Zhukov arrives, Is that so? It is. And now you can shoot me. We Germans don't shoot As a soldier, your life belongs You're free to go. If you happen that German tanks Here's my advice, Major: A brave officer would choose Run along now. We've let you live, Major. Rejoice... Go on, run. I've been let live... by you Krauts? And you're coming to Kursk? Your tanks are burning right there! You should have your necks Run, you Red bastard! Shoot. I'll show you how Shoot, you German whore! For the last time, run! - Run! CENTRAL FRONT HQ, JULY 9TH 8th, and all of the 9th, General Model's strike force tried to penetrate in the area of the 13th, The enemy advanced but ultimately failed Today's report from The Germans cut through the defenses of Chistyakov's 6th Guards Army, advancing 30 kilometers The second defense belt Katukov's tank army took That is the situation as at July 9. They cut through! Yes... Vatutin has it pretty rough. So do we, Comrade Zhukov. It's not as bad here. We were all to fall on the Central Front, Then again... In war, every general thinks he's the target of the main blow. It's Moscow, Marshal. Comrade Zhukov? Yes, Comrade Stalin. - What is it, sir? Rokossovsky and I believe We identified their units regrouping The enemy lacks the strength... for a breakthrough. It looks like they will Maybe it's time What do you think? I think it's time to bring in troops as we outlined in Operation Kutuzov. Without their support, Rokossovsky's counterattack When do you think we can start? I think... the 12th at the earliest. Let's make that the deadline. The Chief is rushing us. What is it now, Comrade Antonov? The International our military attache in Sweden. Trying to impose It's about your son... about Yakov, Comrade Stalin. The Germans propose you exchange him for Field Marshal Paulus I don't exchange privates... for field marshals. Our motto is: &quot;Victory or Death.&quot; The Fuhrer has said: &quot;I am starting from the beginning.&quot; And his words are now The great German army of unprecedented ferocity on Kursk. One more decisive push, LONDON May the Lord bless Turn that thing off. I can't stand listening to that Even if only half of about Kursk was true, I do think According to our intelligence, is about a million men, I'm afraid that this time We're approaching Perhaps we should revise and invade Normandy sooner? For my part I consider the best Especially since the situation is very serious indeed. I'm afraid, sir, that there's YUGOSLAVIA JOSIP BROZ TITO, SUPREME COMMANDER Captain, how is the It's easier to bear If we manage to join the partisan forces operating our forces will double. I hope so. Perhaps, by that time Mr. Churchill wants to the Balkans and shut them out. He calls it the second Balkan front. That front has already been opened We're seeing heavy combat here. I'll do my best to help, sir. I know that, Captain. Comrade, there are German We'll try to break through. LIEUTENANT GENERAL SHTEMENKO &quot;Attention! Attention! broken out of the encirclement. It's essential you Yes sir. General Rybalko is here. LIEUTENANT GENERAL RYBALKO, Glad you're here, Comrade Rybalko. Thank you. Come on, let's talk. Here we have the situation Field Marshal von Kluge as deep as 10 or 12 kilometers And at Vatutin's front, 40 kilometers into our defenses. Today, our intelligence reports, that Field Marshal von Kluge the 12th Panzer Division and In so doing, Comrade Rybalko, Headquarters believes it's time to strike at the Germans' Comrade Shtemenko, explain As your tank army advances you should take the city of Orel, I... will not take Orel. What do you mean? The streets there are narrow, no So what do you propose? I'll go around it... and let the infantry Alright, we'll divide up Good luck to you. ON JULY 11, AT 05:35, THE BRYANSK FRONT AND BEGAN THE ADVANCE TOWARDS OREL. About an hour ago, the Russians' went on the offensive... against my left flank. This puts Model's entire strike In these conditions, but to give up attacking FIELD MARSHAL GENERAL MANSTEIN Don't inform the Fuhrer Operation Citadel I'm sending in all Yes, all eleven of them. The division commanders are here. They are determined to take Kursk. I wish you success. Gentlemen, Field Marshal von Kluge is confident Or even today, Field Marshal. We men of the Adolf Hitler Those are worthy words, You need to see that The battle is starting It's bound to snap. Much, if not everything, The SS Reich Panzer Division My SS Totenkopf Panzer Division The 19th Panzer Division Our duty unites us all: victory or death. Yes, Field Marshal, One firm push towards Kursk... and the string will snap. Gentlemen, you may go. THE VORONEZH FRONT Well, I'd cross myself - Let's go! Platoon... Forward! The machine gun! - Janek! A sub-caliber shell, now! Sir! Fire! Come on! Fire! Only fools say there's Comrade Lieutenant, Forward! Say hello to Auntie Motya, Krauts! - Everyone OK? What about him? Looks injured. Get the tank to the river! Gorokhov, can you hear us? Bastard! Chistyakov... eliminate the breach Retake Kazachye. Don't call me How are things at Prokhorovka? Bad, Comrade Vasilevsky. The enemy broke the 183rd Division They're barging their way - What about elsewhere? Our reserves are all deployed. Comrade Vasilevsky... ask Stalin for the 5th Tanks. It's high time, God knows it is. I know, Comrade Vatutin, but the 5th Tank Army and the Steppe Front... is HQ's reserve Don't you see that a crisis is A counterattack by the 5th Comrade Vasilevsky, ask Stalin. I'll try. Connect me with Headquarters. COLONEL GENERAL KONEV, The Steppe Front was It was meant to be sent into battle should our counteroffensive But Stalin, anxious about gave two armies from General Zhadov's 5th Guards Army and General Rotmistrov's LIEUTENANT GENERAL ROTMISTROV, To the plane. General, the 5th Tank Army the enemy forces that have Their line of deployment The enemy is already in Prokhorovka. - Turn the army back immediately. JULY 12 The Battle of Kursk Perhaps our whole Field Marshal, sir. My division is no more. But I haven't forgotten my duty. What was that? Senseless. Tell the troops... to hold on at any cost. I'll prepare the order. There's nothing for us to say Hold on! But the German troops the Soviet armies' The tank battle at Prokhorovka, the greatest in World War II, had turned the tide It was the beginning although there remained of fighting, suffering, bravery, Restoration Producer: (c) MOSFILM CINEMA CONCERN, 2020 END OF FILM ONE