- What's up man? - Hi. I'm trying to remember the last time we ran into each other in some award show. We were backstage, I can't remember. You and Jenny. - Maybe the Grammys? - Yeah. it was somewhere. I was like, we ran into you somewhere. But hey, it just Valentine's Y'all are the cutest couple ever. How is Valentine's Day for y'all? - We really are. - It's all for her - Yeah, I just stand next to her and look at, I stand next It's kind of inevitability, but yeah, we're very- - Yeah, she's the most amazing woman, and we celebrate every day. Like it's Valentine's Day every day, like it's our anniversary. But this Valentine's Day, of course, we typically, I'm working and she's in Illinois in So we kind of just send and just load up our dressing So everywhere we go, there are gifts when we can't be together- - 'Cause that's tough. You're on different coasts. - Yeah. - You're on different coasts but you meet up in Chicago, right? Y'all are there for a lot of winter. - We live in the middle. I'm on the east, she's in the west. We meet in the middle and have - Oh, you're like a country song, okay. - Yeah, we are. - That turns out great. And we drive around in my pickup truck and go out and have a beer, that's it. - Yeah, absolutely. So this is sad, but also kind of beautiful because your mama passed away in 2021, but you found something. She left all these like Of all this stuff, like - Well, yeah. Well, recently my band, we were doing a convention and I have this massive and I assumed all my would be there. My old wardrobe from shows and my famous ripped pants - [Kelly] Yeah. - And now you remember those jeans? - Yeah. - You made those. - Yeah, they're- - They became really famous but what people don't know of jeans at that time. Like I told you, I grew of the tracks as you- - The wrong side. And I took those jeans My mom was like, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; - [Kelly] I used to do that too. I love it. &quot;This is the thing. This is the thing.&quot; And she was like, &quot;No, and it's gonna expose your thing.&quot; I said, &quot;No, don't worry - Yeah. become a thing and but years to do this New Kids On and I wanted to find any old stuff I had and I couldn't find it. I mean, I had tour cases And I'm gonna open them for And I opened- - The mold, the mold I'm- - That happened to me, once I opened it up and I was like, &quot;Well, this is all gone.&quot; It was pretty brutal. But I opened the tour cases thinking there's gonna be a and it was empty. It was like Geraldo's Vault. For you younger people, you but trust me, it ain't good. But there were these boxes that I didn't wanna open And so they were all boxes from her house after she passed away. And they were all taped up, and I said, you know, I'm And one day I just had nothing to do. I went over, I said, &quot;You know what, let me just go in them.&quot; - Were you just afraid 'cause it's your mama and everything? - Yeah, I just, you know, I just didn't wanna open the boxes. 'Cause you know, I don't And I just decided to open them one day. I ripped them open. And so typical of my mom, I owned and get rid of it or, so I thought she would throw it away. And I was like, I just assumed she threw all this stuff away. Everything was neatly packed, folded. Those jeans were in there, I mean, so all of my stuff that I thought was lost forever. - Still taking care of you. - She was still taking care - I love that story. And I love the memories that kind of flood with all that stuff that flood in, the memories from all the memorablia. - Yeah. - It's really special. - What do you, you can't wear those pants in Chicago in the winter. How do you... I mean, are you cold? I got them on. They were- - No, it's not about getting them on. It's about, it's a little breezy. - The cold yes. - That's true. - That would be a very - It was cold back then too, trust me. But you know, Chicago, when Jenny and I live in a and she's from Chicago, But when I moved there, &quot;Are you ready for Chicago winters? Are you ready?&quot; And I was like, &quot;What I grew up in Boston. Like, I'm tough, this is nothing to me.&quot; And I was wrong. It is so cold. - It's like, it's- - It's pain. It's like it hurts your feelings cold. - It's a wet cold. It's got wet in the air - Yeah, after it smacks you in the face, it just disrespects you like personally. It's the worst cold. And I was wrong to everyone I apologize. - Yeah. than us Bostonians, but- Power outage there, I hope - I've been learning. - I've been learning, yeah, yeah, we've been practicing. Just saying. - That was a look of the So what do you love most - Oh my gosh. Everything, honestly, yeah. It's been- to love your, a job. You know what I'm saying? It's a different job than like earlier in life, that's cool. - Well, yeah, I mean, in some something like that when I grew up. But, you know, I have and Blue Bloods just sort and I've been acting for years. I've been in a lot of movies But when Blue Bloods came along, it was really the perfect job for me. At that time in my career, that prepared me for that opportunity. And also in terms of maturity too, I think I was ready to work and I, you know, my life was at that point where I could be here. And I mean, the crew is phenomenal. The cast is phenomenal. The writers, I mean, it's It's one of the things from my wife, you know, I have this other family not just onscreen but off. And it's just been the greatest blessing. It's truly been an amazing run. And I just, I love it, I love it so much. - I love to hear that. What do you think you're gonna miss? Has it been like 14 years that Blue Blood? - 14 years. That is so long. - I'm just saying like like that's kind of unheard of to have a show that lasts that long. - You know, it's very... Listen, having been acting and auditioned for 5,000 jobs or you heard someone else you know, it's an incredible blessing. You know, I'm gonna miss it. You know, I don't even, I'm a very much a present moment person. - Me too. it's not going away as And maybe there's some way and carrying on in a different way. But for me it's just, I don't know. I get a little emotional that I work with. I mean you know, you've and you can show up in a safe who are kind and places- they're happy, everybody yeah. - Yeah, and- - Absolutely, and there's that part of it and there's also all the you know, that from to these jobs that nobody ever hears of. And you know, we've been, for years, paying for their mortgages and their kids' college And it's like, you know, with something that has for so many people and so I'm sorry, I'm getting a little emotional. - No, at least it matters. I have to ask you this Like, have you ever been pulled over and got out of a ticket? Come on. - I've been... No, for the most part, and I don't even think they think of it as I play a detective I love the family dinner. You know, usually when I see Even if it's police officers, that family dinner's great.&quot; Or &quot;That's like my family, you know?&quot; - Yeah. But in terms of tickets, it doesn't help. I drive within the rules of the law. You know, I'm very safe driver. I may text and drive on Not, I'm really good about it. Jenny doesn't like that. She's like, hang up the phone, stop texting me, drive and focus. But you gotta take real measures. - See, I'm not even doing that, man. I'm full on looking at the and like, I'm affected Like I seem like a driver that's driving way under the speed limit, like on a slow song. And like I, you know, it picks up when I got Aerosmith on, you know? - I get that. - I do a lot of the creative So I'm the creative director for our tour. - Do you think in that - Yeah, right. A lot of the song is produced and that's why I get in the car. I'm like, &quot;Jenny, I gotta take a ride.&quot; She's like, &quot;Why?&quot; I said, &quot;I gotta play in - Yeah. I'll turn on music loud as- - All as loud as can be. And I drive and I'm &quot;Okay, we're gonna lower and come out and this is gonna... Confetti's gonna pop out here.&quot; And I drive- is we shouldn't drive. - That's right, no driving for us. - I think that's what We're gonna do everybody a service. This is amazing. So you already, y'all already but you're gonna do it again, right? (indistinct) touring again with Paula. I love it. She's amazing. And like, I literally, I was like, &quot;Girl, what are you doing? Flying from like things?&quot; I'm like, I wouldn't do Like she, yeah, she's still- - She loves it because honestly, she could have sat at a performing for the rest of her life. - She loves it. I want to keep doing it. - And she's incredible at it. She puts younger people to shame. - Phenomenal. - I'm currently trying to get her, so the New Kids On The Block with Paula Abdul and - Yes, yes, Jazzy Jeff. - So I'm trying to negotiate with her now to let me do the Skat Kat - Two steps forward. - Yeah, And I know I'm gonna regret it because she's gonna be like, Like, I'm like, &quot;No, I just wanna rap and do this little singing part.&quot; She's like, &quot;Oh no, no, no, no. You're gonna tap dance. You're gonna do all the choreo.&quot; I can't be that. - On Dancing With the Stars. She's gonna be like, &quot;Move like this.&quot; - And that's when I'm and put him right in front of me and say, &quot;You dance, I'll rap.&quot; Let's go. - No, now, now we expect the dance. It better be good. I'm kidding, I'm just kidding. - Trust me, she will - [Kelly] I love it. - She sounds good. - Yeah. I cannot wait to see the show. It's gonna be amazing. I hope you play Skat Kat. Alright, let's do a The final season of Blue