For a very long time the field of who insisted that the way to change how you that is true, it's at least partially true; when feel, but there's something deeper than thoughts. actually has superiority over your cortex and is showing that your nervous system really think your way out of emotions, but when you calm as well. In this video you're going to learn how emotions can get stuck in the body or nervous to be calmer so that you can process through This video is sponsored by Better Help. Better Help you with depression, anxiety, trauma, grief, just answer a few questions and they match You can also use their service to message your live sessions without needing to leave your home. therapy, this is one of the easiest ways to give it can get 10% off your first month. In the last video This is an automatic reaction in the but your beautiful brilliant brain isn't just responses in your nervous system. This natural and a natural calming response. Now quick review, to get activated in order to respond to threats; This is what leads to the physiological changes Your nervous system also has a response to calm remember this by thinking para as in parachute. It and your body to return to a calm state. The lowers your blood pressure, it turns back on This state is also known as rest and digest Your immune system gets back to work and Both of these responses are helpful, it's important important to rest and heal. These two states are system that we use the most becomes the strongest. two states easily. It can go through these cycles a task, getting motivated, dealing with problems, and sleeping, rejuvenating, refreshing, right? A healthy calm state than it does in the activated state. natural cycle of being at rest and then being freeze response or in some level of performance, to rest and digest. Peter Levine, who is the creator process so well, and he uses this example of a So this polar bear was peacefully doing its him down with a helicopter and shoot him with a and the bear is helpless to stop these researchers The bear has experienced a traumatic event, but violently and this is his body's natural that surged through his body when he was trapped. with no residual effects from the experience. He The cycle is the essence of emotion processing go on alert, then fight-flight-freeze, then this looks like laughing or physically shaking and back to this rest and digest state. Now, let's Have you ever seen someone who had a near miss Their immediate reaction is this strange laugh or but they're unharmed they often go into this shaky off that adrenaline and process through those Your body is naturally trying to return to calm but we humans are different than other animals, that helps us plan things out and think things in the way of that response. 'Don't cry' it says, It says, 'try not to get shaky at your and so our brilliant, thinking mind, and our it interferes with our natural ability to resolve in the body, they get trapped in muscle tension, and we carry them around with us. Maybe we try not body holds the deep wisdom of how to let them Sieben, a self-proclaimed acupuncturist and healer. &quot;general wellness.&quot; He thought I could do something mind. He appeared withdrawn, scattered, and shy. of sexual problems with his wife, and a lack of Within the first three sessions (of acupuncture patient would begin crying on the table and which he couldn't explain... I encouraged him trying to understand or classify it. ... For several He kept coming back because of the growing sense again feeling joy. His sexual function was also this patient began to seem like a new person, very posture and demeanor changed dramatically, he energy, his relationship improved, as did his sexual gained the attention of many people, which also Once the expression of grief, fear and we decided the therapy had concluded. Now I am not you know, repressed emotions, but there are lots of these emotions or of trauma when doing physical or acupuncturists or chiropractors, you'll hear or crying during a session and and they Can we say in a very specific way, an empirical or your uterus or that acupuncture releases your the tools to measure that, but we can say with at resetting the nervous system and healing with ptsd or anxiety or stress, I encourage you to and one thing you could look for is someone who is believer in evidence-based treatments, that means to be effective consistently and not harmful necessarily a proponent of energy healing for for trauma and body work that's happening that the research can back up, but on the other hand is that they experience something really different, modalities, and the research is starting to catch way to heal trauma and anxiety. So for example, yoga ptsd, and according to Bessel Van Der Kolk, it's Physical treatments like acupressure, are all things that people say help them with rebalancing the nervous system. Same thing with than medication at treating mild to moderate because it's helping the nervous system go through So unresolved trauma or chronic stress can leave the thermostat gets turned up, and that fight- gets turned on easily and it stays on for a long in the body even when we may not be consciously nervous system gets stuck in elevated levels The sympathetic nervous system takes over danger in the slightest signal, and find it very exhaustion and crashing. We're often unaware and this leads to us being stuck in it even longer. day long and then collapse at home or to simply how to regulate our nervous system throughout the emergency room doctors, emts, police, the military to Now many of these people have very stressful stuck in fight-flight-freeze at work, then they This trainer, he trains them to build a of relaxed vigilance, and this is essential for health in general. In the next section I'm going to learning to trigger that parasympathetic response, in small moments, frequently throughout the day, and like taking deep breaths, or tensing and then high performer, in a high stress job, and have a can train yourself to be calmer. Our nervous system, change and grow depending on how we use it. There's the physical structure, the chemical balance, and how we use it. We can even influence our genes and to have quite a bit of influence on our nervous wake up, perform tasks, or respond to problems, and recoup, to process, or to repair and we do this through The many skills you're learning in this course are make more intentional and powerful choices with of survival and attachment and training our brain skills as we move through this course. For now, Dr. James Gordon travels the world to and he uses research-backed, mind-body techniques. victims, earthquake survivors, and veterans the website mindbodygreen.com. About a year after Gordon traveled to the island to lead a workshop for about 100 nursing students. They'd many of them very young women, in their late afternoon, I got them all up shaking, and within two bit became aware of our breath, and then I put on still crying, others started laughing, and afterward told Gordon it was the first time that they'd and that they thought they had to be strong, Dr. Gordon says- &quot;When you shut down one emotion and emotion you're protecting yourself against that gets Okay, so here's how to do it. So first go or if you can't think of something upbeat, turn but I can't because of copyright reasons. So okay shoulder width apart and just start shaking there at your legs and then let that move up and I want you to shake it out to music, act like and dance for like 45 minutes okay? Not 45, 4 and then when you're done, take a few slow, By doing this you're essentially sending a are safe and this turns on that parasympathetic you how to train your mind and body to respond to teach the body to return to calm quickly. You're of your nervous system through self-regulation. This video is one skill from my 30 skill course- of the most essential skills for resolving Emotion processing is an essential skill for have never been taught how to do it. I'm putting the world to access for free. You watching these and my sponsors make this possible. If you would ad free, with its workbook, exercises, downloads, and links to extended resources, the link to