There was bread at home. I toasted the bread in butter to make it delicious. Cook it over low heat until golden brown. I added eggs here, then added green onions, ham, sweet corn, and mozzarella cheese. I tried this because it seems popular on social media. Wow..whoever came up with this first must be a genius! If you have old, crumbly bread, cut it in half Mix 3T mayonnaise, 2T sugar, and 1T minced garlic. This will be an addictive garlic bread sauce! add parsley powder Bake in the oven at 180 degrees for 10 minutes. It's so easy to make chewy and crispy garlic bread! This is even better than what I get at the bakery! If you have mayonnaise and eggs at home, Try making toast as well. Now all you have to do is bake the bread. about 10 minutes in 180 degree oven It's simple yet filling, so it's perfect for a weekend breakfast! Foreign subscribers said they liked Korean Hotteok, So I found an easy way to make it with nuts. (almond slices, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds) 4T brown sugar, 3T honey, 1T butter, salt and cinnamon powder (for 6 slices of bread) Since hotteok is round, I will make it similarly. Add oil and bake until golden brown. Hotteok dough is difficult to make, but making it with white bread makes it easy and crispy. and Hotteok tastes better when eaten in winter :) If you are planning to binge-watch movies or dramas on the weekend, I recommend this white bread caramel popcorn. Toast the bread in olive oil until golden brown. Please cool down for a moment...... Add 4T of sugar and 3T of water to a frying pan and wait until it dissolves. Add maple syrup and butter to your taste. Stir-fry over medium-high heat until the moisture disappears. If you let it cool in the frying pan, it becomes crispy caramel popcorn. One bite of this will automatically make you want to watch a movie! Let's forget about calories at Christmas... There is a toast store that is popular in Korea. ( ISAAC TOAST ) 2T of scraped apples, and 2T each of sugar, mayonnaise, and syrup. If you boil it down to the consistency of jam, it becomes toast sauce. Spread sauce on bread, top with cheese, sliced ham, pickles, eggs, and cabbage. You can also use kiwi instead of apple. (Oh, I forgot to add sweetcorn to the eggs!) It was still delicious though! :) I actually liked ROTI-BOY's coffee bun more than this toast. Mix 60g of room temperature butter and 50g of sugar powder. Mix one egg at room temperature in two batches. Mix 20g of strong coffee (both shot/coffee powder is possible) Now your delicious coffee buns are ready to eat. (I used 2 slices of bread at first, but I found that using only 1 slice tastes better!) Bake in 180 degree oven I like to have iced coffee with warm coffee buns. I'm going to make it again this weekend.. Before I got married, I was in charge of late-night snacks at home. I made many toast bread that time for my dad. Korean toast is often baked with margarine rather than butter. Mix eggs, green onions, carrots, and cabbage and fry. Put sugar on one side and ketchup on the other. The point is to fold the bread and eat it. And I saw a recipe for toast that sold over 4,000 units in one week. Applying mayonnaise, ham, cucumber, mashed eggs + mayonnaise. What's unique is that it's topped with drained kimchi! Cut it with a sharp knife. It was crunchy and sour, as it had kimchi pickles! If you have sausages at home, how about white bread hot dogs? Roll out the bread with the edges cut off. Lay out a slice of cheddar cheese Put the cut sausage on top. After fixing it using spaghetti noodles, Bake in the oven at 180 degrees (adjust time depending on the size of the sausage) Sausage hot dog simpler than frying in a pan it is more delicious if you spread the garlic bread sauce on the outside of the bread :) It was a good lunch :) Last bonus menu is..! I came up with this because I didn't want to buy an expensive X-mas cake. This cake is made by spreading whipped cream between slices of bread. The advantage of making it at home is that you can add as much fruit as you want. You can also adjust the amount of sugar as well :) With three slices of bread, it looks quite like a mini cake. I'll put the cream in the refrigerator to harden and then pick up my daughter! I cut the outside of the bread thinly to make a cake shape. Now decorate it with cream or fruit to your liking. The Christmas holiday starts today. I hope you have a happy holiday with your loved ones!