I've been using this commercial okay, but it's definitely not wide enough that I usually build. It also has way too many dog holes in it and it's just not as sturdy it doesn't have a lot of weight to it . So today I'm going to build a workbench that can solve all those problems, I'm Brad from Fix This, Build The biggest cost So to keep it down, I'm going to be using which is construction It's going to allow us But the downside is that as we start since we have wider boards, So let's cross our fingers So all of these boards were 12 footers, because this is the material I do have two different sized boards here, Now, I really just want it all to by I can only get so many. And so I had to go to the two by ten because what I was looking for because I'm going to be ripping them And so that edge being clean is going to give me a nice clean top There's a lot of different options aisle between sizes and types of wood. Now, right off the bat, I'll just grab some two by fours Well, that's not usually a great idea a lot of small knots in them. And also those edges And then the color of them and the white wood up to this in some of those, which I don't even So what you want to do and go where the large construction So your two by 6 to 2 by twelves, are going to have much fewer knots. Even though the knots will be larger Now you can get them in lengths, anywhere from eight foot You could just go through those boards and pick out the ones that are the best because you can figure out the cut list And if you've been a good woodworker, some nice straight boards although they may just have some surprises That did not take long at all. I was about a third of the way and it started bogging down on me. And that takes a lot So if I look down here at the back, the rising knife. So I've had this happen to me before, the wood to try to just open up that gap Hopefully I will not have to do this But yeah. The joys of working I've got my big section of boards now glue ups, and that's because the total top And I want to be able So I'm going to do two sections of So to sort through the pile, and I'll make sure that the top and that there's no defect So I can have a nice clean face and rigged up a little to the side of the bench that I can have I kind of wonder like, I'm making its replacement All right. So I'm going to dove and there's a lot of surface As I go through, because I don't want to wait till push everything together because it might start tacking up on the So wish me luck here. We're going to jump That was not nearly enough, and that was probably far too much. This is not going well. Go faster. Got to go faster. Oh, we'll do that. Oh, why are you doing that? Stop! My gosh, this is a disaster. Oh. Okay. That was way more hectic than I expected for sure. I've done much wider groups and bigger, been wider boards with thin So having that wide extra service here And the other culprit in the bigger So I was using just the regular So for this next one, I am going to use I've even heard people using kind of a disaster. But so this next one, it'll go a lot better. Oh, more. Now, one thing that you should definitely do start to kind of crook or bow, And so I had some boards here and that meant that the center because it was teetering So I went ahead and I use my electric You could obviously do that And so now it sits nice and flush So the center was up You could also use some clamping try to get them into alignment, because anything that's off, you're going It's going make your top a lot thinner. And I wish I hadn't That'll do. And I've And what I need to do now is get them all to the same thickness and make sure that Now, wrestling these monster slabs around was no easy feat, all it could take. Now, that is a 15 inch planer, you may have to go to actually And speaking of feet, that you protect yours, you could break a toe or a foot I've been an ambassador and they have a great selection And my daily drivers and they have a composite toe on them. But Timberland Pro which is the radius knit slip on. And these are nice because they're flexible and lightweight safety toe on them. So they're not going but they're going to protect your feet. And I love their base play t shirts they're rugged and they're so they're perfect in the shop So if you're looking for some quality work where you can check the links and I'll link to some of my favorites for sponsoring today's video. All right to go up this monster, table, and I had to shimmied up to get it at the same level. And now I have the width that I need. You can also just go ahead and just find the flattest spot you can. And after I get the glue on, and I'll use a mound to get all the seams So it will have just a little cleanup Look at the size of this thing. This thing is huge. There is so much space here. It's like 36 inches. I don't know what And oh, wow, we're at actually 37 That is on more board than I supposed. I do have COVID right now, so my brain's a little foggy, And now I'm going to cut it to sized. Spill. My Mountain Dew. High alert and high alert. Now getting a flat top is super important. And I just finished up working on the top and basically it's and then using my level just to check and doing that across. Now you can decide how close you want I am going to try to make it. Perfect because, I am not a perfect guy, but the guy You keep digging like this, you're Now, you can also use a belt sander That's an easy way to do it, So you may want to do that outside. I don't use hand planes a lot where the grain changes So you want to be careful if you are hand But you can finish off with a hand sander And if you have a little bit of tear This top is looking great. I'll come back later for the dog holes. All right. I went and I use the same methods and the table saw to get there. And I basically got these two by four, except of course, Now, I do have a few knots in there as picky on these because But I do have these ready for the base But I cut everything to size and I do have plans available or have laid down below in the description Right now I'll get into making the legs, which I'll show how those go together So the legs are going to be two pieces. They're going to be glued together beefy, sturdy leg. Here's how the group's going to work. This is a full length leg And then I'm going to glue on to other in between them. So one on the top And I've got it up just so I'll have some room It's going to go ahead and start to make sure everything's good. So this is really slippery. So I'm just going to tack it in place just to make sure and repeat the same thing down. At this end, I use my spacer I'll set this aside I've got everything now I went ahead and cut the stretchers and these will get We made a little bit earlier, but before I do that, in the underside of the top stretcher and those will be I go ahead and pre assemble this and then I'm going to drill because once you get glue in there, it's kind of like wrestling agrees to peg So let me go ahead and pre and then that way when I put the screws in it'll just go Everything is screwed together and I did check everything for Square, Now I'm going to do this I'm just going to take this one off, and then screw it back down and cover up the scrolls. I'm just gonna plug metals With the signs done, we can start And so I cut the size, the supports I also drilled in some pocket hole and now allow us to conceal the joinery And since I have this nice, huge top, to assemble the base. I'll go ahead and put this top piece to make sure that everything Before I move on and attach Is there a quick If you have two different screw lights out the longer screw length, because if you don't, you may end up going through your work piece and screwing Oh, I put the two and a half inch screws in a two inch screw star. I have these nice little holes here I'm not going to fill it. I'm just going to leave it here, because we always need a reminder We're not perfect and we're going to All right. This is the part of the project worried about the most, I'm going to be doing a lot of holes, that it doesn't hit any of the support Also, I don't know how so I've got a forced inner bit, I went out and grabbed one of these. I bought this little drill so that make sure that the holes And I chopped up the bits and I tried each of them on this off Now, the first bit I tried that one out first It's trying to make but my bit must just be really dull. Now, the second one that I tried out here, it was the spade bit, but the hole was a little bit oversize Now the next one, the auger bit, It blew out the hole on the top and I just don't really think So if I had to pick out of the three but I didn't really like any of them. And this is an bit that is not self driving, but it's specifically made and it's supposed to be really clean So I'm hoping this is going to be and I'll have links so you can check it out that went really well, almost no blowout. And look at the fit on these The next one was still a little bit loose. This guy nice and tight a tape measure and a grid to mark out But I do want to have a perfect 90 degrees and different things. And so I did use my X car, C and I just went into easel So there's a three quarter inch holes. But what I also did was I cut a edge to make sure that this was exactly 90 I'm going to register this on the corner I'm going to make sure that nothing Then after I have a few holes in there, to register it as I move down of holes, a whole series of holes All right. I've got three rows of holes the front edge of the bench, That thing is amazing. Highly recommended. At the beginning I mentioned my old bench had too many holes So the four inch on center on What I'm going to do is I'm only going to run and leave a large area on the bench If I want to add more holes later, I'll store this away somewhere and I can All right, look, the top is looking great, around each of the bench dog holes just to help to keep them from the edge Now, I just need to get this But as I was doing that, our editor and he said we should put and get a little nameplate for the front. And so I made this. And check this out. It's so cool. Since I had the car already going, the easel software and carved this out switched over to a 60 degree detail a bit Then I backfill the letters with some and I use the black obviously for the logo with a little hint of black This is so cool. I think it's going to look awesome I'm going to keep it easy because they're really easy a film based finish like polyurethane. I'm using Ruby harmonica and it dries almost instantly Goodbye, old friend. Here's a little bit and some of the design considerations First of all, the size of it, because now I can fit my 31 inch parallel clamps across there Also with the dog holes, there are a lot of different whether I want to put so maybe I can use a block plane on it, in front to hold a panel in place or doing any type of other joinery Well, my favorite way of clamping And so I left a large overhang all the way around the work bench, and that allows me if I'm doing face frames or anything else. And speaking of the top, this thing is so so I can't really move this thing around I did leave the shelf down below open because I aim to be adding So I'm thinking maybe some drawers, I'd love to hear your ideas. Let me know what your favorite storage method is for a workbench if you want to build your own. There's a link down I want to give a big that have enjoyed And until next time, guys