Translator: Queenie Lee Good afternoon. It's a real pleasure And today I'm going to talk And share with you, hopefully, an idea that's really made and hopefully could make I've spent my life, really, When I was a kid, so I spent a lot of time and seeing the mess and trying to clock how I avoided that. Then I had the great fortune and some of you may know that medical training because you get up close on every single level, on a daily basis. I've been in a room where people and it's a really profound moment. I've also been in a room I've delivered a number of children, one of whom is at the back - Hi, son. (Laughter) (Son from the audience) Hi, dad! So medical training, I became a researcher, and studied right down to the nano detail of how our white blood cells and with really clever adhesion molecules stick and kind of squeeze out and fight infection. More recently as a neuroscientist. And also at a much bigger scale. I had the good fortune of working in some of our biggest companies looking at the hidden social dynamics that determine whether a company As you heard, I've worked with elite athletes, I've read a lot, learned a lot. And through all that time, sort of eating away at my brain. And that question was: if you could teach yourself, what would it be? What would that one thing be? You can only teach one thing of all the things and it's that that I want What is that one thing? I can tell you it's not &quot;Eat an apple&quot;; We're going to talk about that. But before, I want to return, just, I don't know whether you remember, but there was a time For some of you that was probably (Laughter) But as we all grow up, and this is a really where you can see, about one year old - it might happen a bit sooner, a bit later, where a child realizes they exist It's that moment where they look &quot;Oh, that's me!&quot; They move their hand and they realize that that's them. So they have a physical But they haven't yet developed which is why you get the terrible twos. So when a two-year-old is hungry, the world is hungry So there's that kind of intensity, That's where they kind of get So in the supermarket, it's &quot;Mom, mom, that that, me, me, and they kind of bother you And then again, it's witnessable, that not only are they but their emotions You may have witnessed this with a child walking down eyes, streaming red, that they can't get what they want, and then looking at you like: &quot;Why aren't you crying?&quot; &quot;We're hungry; (Laughter) There's that bafflement in their eyes, that sort of thousand yard stare. And that's the emergence separate from the parent or the caregiver. So that's a sort of second level up, but it's not until they get that they get into the &quot;conceptual self,&quot; and part of that emergence So it's what you would know is they start to become aware - not only that they're physically, but they've got an identity. And it blossoms between One of the things that happens in the emergence So language is essentially a concept: So the emergence and we start to label our universe - you know, cat, dog, bat, ball, So the world starts to make sense Children between the age learn about six new words There's phenomenal But only from the fourth level, which is called concrete consciousness, they start to learn Then it all starts to make sense: why is a dog a dog and a cat a cat? Why is a mummy a mummy What's the rule? It's in that between that the fun starts to happen. So if you speak to a seven-year-old, you can start to have fun you know, look at that cat No! Cats go meow! They don't go woof-woof. And it makes them laugh There's this whole in a child between six and nine. And then that's where most people stay ... (Laughter) Most of the people on the inside: nine! (Laughter) See it in accompanies all the time: toys out of the pram, It's very common. There is an attempt, to get beyond that concrete self, which is why you get teenage conflict. You'll see it, and parents like it's a bad thing. It's a developmental stage! You shouldn't be suppressing this stuff; So this battle ensues: you told me to be home at ten, You told me to be honest; and the fight breaks out. And they have their whole Regardless of who wins that battle, it bubbles along for a few years. Now eventually, they leave home - hopefully. (Laughter) (Applause) They go! Right? But then a much bigger parent and imposes its rules. So a lot of people go back not like transferred but back that we start to believe we've got to get a job, we've got to get all these things So we start to follow the rules, and we start to work our way following the rules. So a lot of people you'll encounter their life become stereotypical. You'll see people talk about this: &quot;That's not how we You'll be the Chief Executive, That's how we do it around here.&quot; It's a set of rules and we're often not even And that will often happen you don't even realize By the way, these rules weren't given they were just imposed We're not even aware of it. If you're lucky, you have a crisis. At some point in your life, something terrible happens Now, most people this never happens to - or if it does, it doesn't That might be the loss of a loved one, the loss of a relationship usually, most commonly, in midlife. Then you enter the stage is it starts to occur to you there's something wrong I've been following all these rules, I thought if I was and I got a good job, and a good house, I would be happy and blissful forever; and I'm not. That's the disease of meaning, If that happens in a religious context, I mean, literally, it's hell on earth. So people get into this state they become unpleasant because they're basically in pain. Now there are two strategies to that pain. First strategy - much loved by students - anaesthetic. (Laughter) Because if I can blot that kind of existential question - if I'm wasted on a Friday night, I don't have to think It just goes away as a question. So then some people do this every night, either through alcohol and drugs. But the problem is the question returns; it's still there. You can't answer it. If you're smart, you realize So you get into the second strategy, There are lots of different That distraction can simply be Let's pump some iron. Because when I'm feeling the burn, So I become &quot;the body beautiful,&quot; getting the kick But you realize that, actually, the question is there again. So the gym doesn't solve it. So you might use sex ... Right? Because while I am engaged I don't have to think about the question, (Laughter) But you may have noticed that bloody question comes back again. So some people go even more nuts: (Laughter) then a whole crowd - desperately trying to get away the meaning of their life. So if sex doesn't work - then you get into materialism: shoes! I'll go and buy some shoes. Or a car, or a house, or a yacht. So we get into materialism, or some people that we see, they become work-addicted. Because while I am working I don't have to think about the question. None of that solves the problem. Because we mistakenly believe that the problem is out there whereas the real problem is in here. You cannot solve your sense with an external solution So stop looking out there, and particularly to look Now, most people go through their life particularly us fellows, right? If somebody mentions the word &quot;emotions,&quot; Emotions are just energy in motion, the signals made up the sweaty palms, or whatever is going on biologically, it's stereotypical energetic patterns - Now, we all have emotions, even us fellows. Feelings, however, Feelings are the awareness So the energy is always there and that's where we're stuck - is we haven't really learned So we go through our life believing how we're feeling is down to somebody else. We actually say this: &quot;You annoyed me,&quot; &quot;You did it to me,&quot; believing other people are So newsflash: nobody's doing it to you. Nobody's making you feel these things. I mean, what do you think that happens when you get frustrated Did they come up to you with the chemicals of frustration? Did they create the electrical the pressure waves, the sound waves? No. You did that. You created that inside yourself So, if you can accept it's not them, it's you - that simple truth takes you and it crosses the threshold to ownership. That's the most important transition So to help you navigate that, first and foremost, you have to understand If I asked you to write down your current you'd have a list of things, and then we said, OK, and we did a test of how many you got, the average in a room like this There are 34,000 emotions Most people go through life And just to try to help you navigate, to help people know where they are So we've plotted and this map shows you the axes. So, to the top of the axis we've got the ones that are, and to the bottom the ones To the left the ones and to the right the ones So you can see that we've plotted and as I'm talking to you, right now, You're somewhere in the universe and we can bring in the next 100 emotions, we can bring in the next So we've built this app to try we've built it with And you can enter into and start to navigate round and see where you are in relation because if you don't know Now, you'd never get control and it's really important for your health, whatever you're doing, whether you're a sportsperson that you can start to control of what's going on for you. If you don't know where you are, how can you possibly The answer is you can't. So the start of the journey This is designed to help you, it shows you roughly where you are Now, we can zoom in and look at a specific solar system. So, where do we go into? Maybe, Sociable. We can see. So let's zoom in and start to see If you want to move and then gradually navigate yourself you can see where you are. Most importantly, so you can enter some notes. You visit the planet of, I felt popular today. People came up and gave me And you could enter and actually keep an audit trail, and you can socialize this You can either share it on Facebook and see, well, who else or even on the planet Popular - And I can track, as it does with these audit trails, So this is your start point, of do you even know which are the nearest planets start to get some navigational capability So the first thing is you've got and this is designed to help you build So you're not just stuck or in some people frankly: two! I feel &quot;yuck&quot; or &quot;OK,&quot; So you've got to build a repertoire, and what you discover some emotions are So you can start to navigate around. The second maneuver, once you've started is really, once you get there's no right and wrong, When you get can you stay there? And that really requires you it's called Mastery, where you actually take the emotion it's a subjective experience, you're sort of subject to it, So if you've got anger, if you're on the planet of Anger, it's got you. You haven't got it; it's got you. The way to get control over it Like, &quot;Oh, it is anger.&quot; So you take it out and you objectify it. And if you can objectify it, If you can do that then you can move yourself and stay there. So you really don't have to feel anything Misery is optional, But if you haven't got control, then who has? And the answer is usually So I'd really encourage you, if you want to transform because, ultimately, they'll predict your performance, they'll determine your ability emotions drive all of that, If you don't know about them it's a little bit of a lottery as life. So if you go away after today, what planet am I on? And what planet would I like to be on? And start to work to be rather than wherever life has pushed you. Imagine a world where all of us could be on the planet or navigate around or the galaxies that we Imagine a world where, when you go to the bar to chat up you didn't need four pints before you could go there. Imagine you could just do that yourself. Imagine a world where you didn't need to feel anxious where you didn't need Imagine a world where your children, didn't feel terrified or bullied. If you could control your emotions, So I'd really encourage you to start wondering about and start putting in that part of the universe Thank you very much. (Applause)