Sometimes abundant and generous, Water shapes the landscapes of Africa. Animals are in constant search It allows them to drink, but also to feed oneself, to play, to cool off. And even to meet people. In the south of the continent, southern Africa From the flooded areas of the Okavango Delta, from the dry savannah of Etosha wildlife Fine droplets the Zambezi River Every second, 9000 cubic meters of water fall from a height of 100 meters over a width of 1700 meters, thus marking the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe. Air currents rush into the rocky fault and send down torrents of water on the banks of the river. Seen from afar, it is the bowels of the earth that appear to be smoky. This continuous rain allowed the development Going up the river towards the west, from the confluence we cross a humid savannah landscape. This is home to who comes down to drink on the bank This is where the savannah elephants which they need daily. The anatomy of their tubes to draw fluid into the stomach, elephants use it The generous flow of the river which constitute the greatest density Despite a weight that can reach six tons for males, This gives them access to preserved islets where food is abundant. The river water but it also allows them to clean food. They thus get rid of hanging from the roots of the reeds. Just return of things, prevents the river from silting up. They always start the return journey in a group. The youngest swim just in order to lean on their backs When you have a natural snorkel, Harvesting 150 kilos of plants per day to this activity. So, once the meal continues. The 100,000 muscles are used to pick, shake, grab, tear off and even peel food. The buffaloes, for their part, which grow in the damp earth They feed mainly The great egret to flush out small fish But the waters of the river are home to many other species. In the evening, all eyes turn to the west. In the distance, the sun will soon plunge Recently classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, one of the largest covers 15,000 square kilometers. At the beginning of the dry season, earlier in Angola, and make their way But due to a rise in the ground, in a huge basin Water spreads everywhere, of the Kalahari Desert Fortunately, this annual flood did not form a deep lake, interspersed with islands In fact, outside of flood periods, to be built on dry land. Birds enjoy and reject seeds As they grow, the roots slip down to the damp basement. During the next flood, the alluvium clumps around and end up forming islands more and more plants are growing. So, for several centuries, it is thanks to the termites splitting the arms of the river to spread more widely In the early morning, The animals seem frozen If baboons spend most of their day on land, they climb trees Palm trees have the advantage of being inaccessible, even to leopards, Giraffes take advantage of the morning coolness to feed. Reserving the warmest hours Their long prehensile tongue allows them to grasp the leaves of the acacias avoiding the thorns. If they find Giraffes can go without drinking They remain very cautious this perilous operation. A predator on the prowl would have quickly jumped on their necks. Elephants since it is water and not the other way around. Not far away, She waits for the rest of her pack to return from hunting who should come for his little ones It's not water that interests because these animals drink mainly but rather, But some antelopes can be such as the black antelopes This is why predators to focus less powerful Waterbucks usually grouped in a harem The place is enjoyable, The Nile crocodile is never far away. The heron Goliath has also understood and himself predated. The many waders remain vigilant. Death can come from anywhere. Hippopotamuses, on the other hand, However, it is on dry land which they feed on every night. It's amazing how fast In Africa, hippos are the wild mammals which cause often to defend Their skin, not having they need to cool off more or less submerged. They spend the day like this, huddled together, to watch their territory Males are concerned They challenge each other by opening their mouths to show off their impressive teeth. The hippopotamus's grunts the herd of lechwe These antelopes endemic to wetlands from northern southern Africa, of several dozen individuals. Very social, they rarely isolate themselves unless the call of This is the time when most animals seek shade. Nothing moves in the savannah, crushed by the heat. When it comes to rest, lions are experts. Lion cubs stay with their mother either shortly after she The life of a lion cub is very threatened. If ever a new dominant male he will try to kill the younger ones But this one is lucky. Only child, he must not share his breast with anyone. Thanks to a mud bath while protecting them the warthogs are now Their kneeling position allows them when they dig in the ground The Southern Ground Hornbill This is where he will be able to find frogs Indeed, even during the hottest hours, flooded plains mainly wading birds such as sacred ibises, egrets and kingfishers. The African marabout, comes to see if there isn't something there to supplement his diet, even if he is Not all wading birds share Those with sharp, tapered beaks, such as egrets tend to stand still to surprise Conversely, ibises, African spoonbills and marabou storks, prefer to cast a wide net Paradoxically, at the fishing party, Despite their massive appearance, always move in great silence. They can go without but in the Okavango Delta, places and the pachyderms benefit from it daily. After having quenched their thirst abundantly, don't mind a shower, when the marsh is deep enough. If the cool water It also provides them with the opportunity and to re-examine So, even at the age of 30 or 40, Once the skin is wet, to protect against sunburn This time the trunk acts as a shovel. Unfortunately, the life of elephants When adults baby elephants sometimes fall These have been feeding on their prey for two days, to enjoy it until than for hyenas, vultures and other scavengers. However, the elephant tribe Which worries the felines somewhat. The relationship of these pachyderms to death always arouses mysteries, or even myths, The fact is that these animals and sensitive, show respect Visiting the baby elephant, Isn't this young male already paying a kind of homage? How to see anything other than an embryo of a funeral rite in this behavior while he seems to want to Elephants are renowned but it is all which is one of the richest and most complex in the animal kingdom. This last look, says a lot about the grief Shortly after, At sunset, waders enter the scene. The three-collared plover to flush out insects and invertebrates. The black-winged stilt also shows while the armed lapwing seems An old male arrives The water is not deep enough but he only has to dig a basin Male elephants or in small groups of singles, but it is important for them with other males. To get to know each other, tactile communication is the best. If the newcomer does not try in the mouth of his fellow man, as dominated. They must then measure their strength Forehead to forehead, or who will succeed in raising their head who will be recognized as the winner. It is remarkable to note without real violence. Pachyderms and therefore avoid to hurt themselves with their defenses. The joust is purely sporting. The confrontation ends admits defeat and turns on his heels. This is how conflicts are resolved The day ends as peacefully as it had begun. Further west, of the waters of the Okavango, gives way to a more arid savannah, typical of the Kalahari. The central plateau of Namibia, has a hilly relief. In the southern summer, precipitation fills the beds before evaporating Fortunately, some of this water and crosses the rock at the bottom of the valleys. This water is sometimes enough to maintain small oases of life. Trees protect from the wind and the sun's rays protect plants When evening came, come out of their den It is surprising in a tree, nor a prehensile tail. But the hyrax benefits and faced with a rather arid climate, he learned to look for food He can fill his stomach so as to limit the time because its predators are numerous, both on the ground and in the air. In the neighboring palm tree, seems to want to chase away the intruder. But in reality, than to flower nectar and fruits. In these arid lands, some water points to help local wildlife This support is valuable, especially for the leopard quench your thirst at sunset. It is for this lonely feline, the opportunity to regain strength perhaps for Because even further west, is relentless. In this hell of heat and dust, drag their hooves painfully The wind carries away their tracks, to a specific point. From generation to generation, they follow the same route a providential source. Here, water overflows has the power It is the only water point for several dozen kilometers around. Herbivores and predators, In this season, the plains zebras or even roots. There is nothing else Also, they practice nomadism, that the grass will be greener on the other side. If the singing goshawk head raised to watch for its prey, the ostrich, it, This female, recognizable by her plumage tending towards brown, but don't disdain to swallow if the opportunity arises. Very regularly, to look up Able to run for several minutes she knows she can escape It is still necessary to detect their camouflage in time. Ostriches can go without sometimes going as far as losing due to dehydration. These great walkers can to reach a watering hole Not a little proud of his impeccable black plumage and with his pink legs, soon imitated by his court. The operation is short-lived, to return to shore. Uncomfortable, Indeed, the kind of individual has just arrived who never goes unnoticed The black rhinoceros, which is the second after the elephant, But sometimes thirst doesn't wait. The animal not being known antelopes, such as this hartebeest, The rhinoceros is nearsighted, This one has spotted something The presence of a second congener for this solitary animal. So we must make him understand The intruder is not looking for a fight, Rhinos rarely fight Most often, they just The intruder quickly understands that his opponent and makes a sign of submission. Honor is safe. The oryx gazelle, on the contrary, is a more sociable animal. If one of his females the male quickly When the afternoon heat animals take refuge in the shade, Its magnificent yellow beak Probably full, If he is fast in running, this feline Therefore, he hides it under a bush, before other predators arrive. Usually, he doesn't take An injury would handicap him too much in running. If it has eaten well, the cheetah So he has plenty of time The cheetah is a species especially since the great uniformity makes its reproduction Fortunately, this does not prevent him from sleeping soundly. It's definitely not the kori bustard and small reptiles This bird is the largest in Africa but that is no reason Impalas are one of the cheetah's favorite prey who can catch up with them in the race. These very sociable antelopes of about fifty individuals, and their young, around which Marking the social bond which can sometimes turn into a joust among males, under the benevolent gaze of the females. A leopard Maybe he is Just like this brown short-toed eagle, a great lover of reptiles, does not remain indifferent to the comings and goings of these burrowing squirrels. The two rodents live that they always stay close They know that if they are not careful, would make short work of it. The giraffes have plenty of time to admire thanks to their head Their long necks contain than most mammals. These are just longer. Once quenched, a less visible place and ruminate part of the night. They will take advantage of this to sleep five minutes of sleep. When not hunting, to signal themselves She thus stays in contact A hyena alone Like everyone else, she avoids getting in the way of a rhinoceros. She is followed by a jackal to be led to a carcass. The black rhinoceros is distinguished from its white cousin, but by the pointed shape which allows it to feed on branches. It is called black The latter has a very wide lip, hence its name white Due to confusion with the term wyd Hearing the hyena prefers to withdraw. The adult rhinoceros But a mother with her little one especially since this one Victim of an absurd hunt the black rhinoceros has seen its population increase from 70,000 to 4000 individuals It is therefore today An excellent climber, in the trees discreetly. when it captures to feed him for several days, he is able to protect it from lions The leopard benefits which allows it to occupy different environments. It thus persists in a large part of Africa, the Sahel to the Cape Province, When she is not accompanied For almost two years, She takes care which is as much than informing a male of the state of his hormonal cycle. Twice as massive as leopards, lionesses also have more litters. Sometimes it's even a young person from the previous year while their mother This young lion seems to pay that their mother would do. However, he cannot feed them. But fortunately, can participate in feeding This solidarity is very rare among felines, but lions have a sense of sharing a certain social hierarchy. When a prey is killed, the dominant male, if there is one, eats first, followed by the lionesses who led the hunt, But this morning, in the sun than hunting. Nature being well made, the sleep of some It is precisely the time when the greater kudu This magnificent antelope despite its twisted horns As she doesn't run very fast, she cautiously inspects the surroundings Springboks can get because there will always be to raise the alarm if necessary. Very well adapted to heat and drought, This gazelle finds the most hydrating plants. But in the middle of the dry season, When it doesn't rain resurgent sources to the survival of animals. This watering hole is particularly popular this morning. A group of young kudus before the crowds get too big. He is joined by an older male, This is one of the great powers of water. His presence has a social impact on the life of animals within the same species. Wildebeest, greater kudu, share the site with polite indifference to other antelopes. Everyone drinks as they please, However, when two herds it's starting to get a bit busy but always without animosity. And when there is no more room, we wait patiently for our turn In short, harmony and respect remain. At least until the elephants arrive. When they come rushing in mass The pachyderms are sure of their effect. Everyone quickly understands to wait before quenching one's thirst. The bar is temporarily privatized. A second herd, gets the first one out. We jostle a little trying It's up to everyone to manage their frustration. For animals more than 100 liters per day, to claim these few cubic meters of the precious liquid. And to think that right now, other elephants Only a couple tries to sneak discreetly Wasted effort. For them who wait near the source, we'll have to make do Further west, water becomes even scarcer. The rivers remain dry Only animals can still survive here, They learned to detect under the sand of the riverbed. These little puddles also benefit other animals or the rare springboks and oryxes capable Then comes the Namib Desert. 60 million years of uninterrupted aridity. Gradually, as the rock gives way to sand. The vegetation attempts Then capitulates and fades away. This is the kingdom of red sand. All in curves, Before the ocean, Sand, dust and wind shape a landscape worthy of another planet. A vestige of another era, testify to the presence of water. 600 years ago, a river has temporarily before the advance of the dunes an ephemeral swamp. Since then, life has almost flown by. But the weather in the desert is full of surprises. In the morning, a humid and cold air meets the hot desert sand. This mist allows which is enough Some insects know how to harvest and drink this humidity from the air. It constitutes a rehydrating meal such as this endemic gecko So, just a few droplets of water are enough, however small they may be, and creates an entire ecosystem. In these remote lands where the climate seems so hostile, wildlife shows imagination From the flooded lands of the Okavango the courage of animals inspires us which supports the prodigious richness Since time immemorial, are used to blending from the African savannah. But in spring, and the earth explodes with 1000 colors. The arid savannah then gives way to a Garden of Eden South Africa than the rest of the continent. From the Kalahari Desert passing through the flowery hills it is a multi-colored universe The southwestern part of the Kalahari Desert, from Botswana, Namibia is the driest part. Despite this, to this hostile environment. They can abstain from drinking Thus, even seemingly fragile species populate the Kalahari. This is the case of the Brants whistling rat ignores the many predators Rather solitary, and the speed of his reflexes At the slightest alert, he takes refuge in one of the 50 underground galleries This also ensures a mild temperature in summer. Reassured, the little rodent Having very rarely the whistling rat relies on plants In season, which he helps to pollinate In the bed of ancient rivers, acacias manage to capture water thanks to their very long roots. These trees provide shade and maintain allowing other plants These attract antelopes, who gather in small groups or females with their young. Accustomed to arid lands, These gazelles can also go without water for a few days if necessary. They find the minimum necessary the leaves or roots Fortunately, several wells allow them to quench their thirst regularly. In parks and nature reserves, help animals because even if storms are common, The riverbed is also crossed little intimidated In addition to the plants They find here what they need to meet their mineral salt needs. On occasion, to swallow a cricket, for example, a good protein intake. These champions of survival in the desert share a great pleasure: the sand baths they use to maintain their plumage. But there are not many suitable locations and these are dearly defended. Due to its large size in the male, This probably explains take advantage of his sentry skills. If an ostrich starts to run away, Here, the largest of birds are often frequented by another In fact, the metabolism of this ruminant but also heat, can climb His long horns It has been proven that an oryx is capable even though he generally prefers to To save their strength The oryx are not very active. Like many bovids, their favorite occupation the other animals get agitated. When they decide to move, that their long horns and arouse the curiosity These very social animals They are naturally suspicious, They are interested in this white-faced bustard. The presence of this male of a female and her egg, But the father seemed determined the omelette will wait. This scene seems to amuse the long-tailed roller, but completely escapes the vulture The wildebeest are less accustomed to extreme drought. This is why the population the most important Those who live here, in herds of only a few dozen individuals, survive thanks to the water point provided. This male can quench his thirst peacefully the harem of his females On land wildebeest spend It suits the business who thus has all the leisure and to learn horse riding. The male wildebeest likes to keep order in his harem and with his young. Especially when danger threatens them. Besides, the herd soon freezes, all senses on alert, because furtively, In this heat, And these are not the protests which will prevent him However, the feline remains on its guard, aware of being surrounded The latter remain hoping that nothing dramatic happens. On the contrary, that a hunt take place, But the leopard and he leaves as silently The relief of some of the scavenger. A pair of battling eagles is the first Soon imitated When the sun finally goes down, the animals are showing themselves Burrowing squirrels because their burrows Once outside, like a parasol. The hot sand doesn't bother them, it's a nice way to get rid of almost all parasites. Having very rarely access to water, juicy plants Finding food while constantly watching his back, takes a lot of time. Fortunately, allows him to locate All that remains is to dig, an escape gallery to his burrow. Occasionally, he may crunch thus imitating the red and black gonolek When everything is quiet, from Bennett's Peak. This male, recognizable maybe trying to attract the attention In any case, he seems soon imitated by the squirrel. Coat or feathers, it doesn't matter, Alas, this evening, which are attracted in order to drink there. The blue-eared starling, which has the habit at sunset, small insects, The air is electric, make a rain offering. After such a restless night, waking up is a little difficult for wildlife. The Cape Turtle Dove fights numbness As soon as the black-backed jackal the starlings The lionesses, they, They would sleep peacefully did not come to sniff here, killed this night. The intruder quickly understands the message Lionesses typically spend Not hunting systematically they are busy either either to save their strength. At any rate, any reason is good to lie down. Africa's largest predator not to be lonely. Lionesses live in sharing kinship ties They are accompanied by a or several males The permanent testimony aims to strengthen good understanding where conflicts This connivance is also advantageous As soon as they cross paths, sniff each other, rub each other and cuddle each other. Thus reassured and the harmony that reigns in their group, Which is not the case for everyone. Indeed, for the young singer, learning to hunt is not easy. Especially when he attacks The insolence of this family of squirrels is just unbearable. The rodents seem to take probably to keep it away However, the bird of prey But the more time passes, the more he gets angry The squirrels, they, From afar, a jackal spotted the scene. He too would love to eat one of these little provocateurs. But these damn rodents from dodging to perfection. Bored by the harassment of the hawk, they will indeed The jackal decides while maintaining his usual air of not touching it. But how knowing that rodents disappear underground in the blink of an eye? It is probably better to change strategy or find something simpler The hawk must resolve to give up the game. He finally settles for insects found in old dung. The jackal decides to be patient. The squirrels finally show themselves undertake to launch When you are so threatened it is wise to continue his lineage. The lions are not impressed by so much agitation. This young male also has nothing quite the contrary. So he fell in love that he does not let go of a claw. Knowing that he only has four days during which there is no time to lose. All in feline sensuality, the lioness The relationship is certainly short-lived, every 20 minutes on average, The young lion is completely disoriented. So much the better. This gives him an additional excuse to rest. If fertilization has taken place the lioness will isolate herself from her companions She will alert them alone where the other lionesses will participate In front of them, the lions perceive which emanates from the nest These passerines endemic live in colonies They share a gigantic common nest arranges one from below. The nest consists of a dense mass of dry grass can reach several meters and weigh more than a ton. Over the years, their weight can go so far as to break the tree or the electric pole In the northwest of South Africa, gives way to the rocky landscape of the Karoo. In the local language, Bushy vegetation and a few succulent plants Rain is rare and no river And yet... And yet, from South Africa passes here. Born 1500 kilometers further east, in the Drakensberg Mountains, crisscrosses the desert at the bottom of the gorges. As if by miracle, It is 60 meters above the waves, the mating parades Who else but lizards On the top of the plateau, to seep into the ground. When evaporation The puddles thus formed allow the survival of animals Vervet monkeys which allows them to enjoy and insects in the trees, but also puddles of water As is often the case It is important to build social bonds. Every morning therefore begins The work is thankless, to experience in turn The more conscientious the partner, The ceremony completed, the vervets go Omnivores, they appreciate plants, insects and small reptiles. Trees provide berries, eggs to monitor their territory. They sometimes to suck the gum and the insects that got stuck in it. In short, with the exception of hierarchical conflicts between males, vervets A small antelope to life on the rocks, the klipspringer. Equipped with pointed hooves, they seem to move This allows it to be very comfortable Usually living as a couple This solitary female because there are few predators here capable of chasing her along the cliff face. At the end of August, at the beginning of the southern spring, If the few winter rains the grayish soil gives birth The rockery is covered with flowers. The coolness of the night has deposited the dew and the petals of the daisies than the sun's rays to open. For the fauna that has endured so much it is a period of grace Food becomes more abundant. In such a setting, it is surprising to see oryx. These animals, typical of arid zones, are enjoying a few weeks of respite. Having no water point They feed mainly in the morning to enjoy the dew Even though flowers the most spectacular, houses in total of which almost a third are unique Moreover, except for the discreet leopard, All the conditions are therefore met can ruminate peacefully. However, the six weeks that the flowering period lasts should not make us forget and that only well-adapted animals So we find the Klipspringer there, in mountainous regions. Flower petals are a real dessert thorny shrubs. Cautious, the couple shares While one keeps watch, This arrangement in the couple seems beneficial Rare phenomenon among antelopes. Further west, carpets of flowers to enrich itself with new colors. Faced with such a debauchery the South African ploughshare tortoise where to turn. She wants to reach without staying too long in the open. The booted eagle would be tempted It must therefore overcome the obstacle without overturning or getting stuck in the sand. Persevering, the turtle managed to hoist its two kilos onto the soft sand and rushes to safety. the eagle will have to find prey more to its measure, But the body of the cordylus polyzonus he is no less vigilant Besides, he himself since he manages to catch The hardest part is swallowing them, which can take several minutes. To remain discreet the agama atra lizard positions itself He thus has plenty of time which pass within his reach. It's midday that the flowers open fully explode with color. This floral paradise is guarded At the slightest alert, the small mammal The rest of the family It must be said that the presence has something to worry them about. Fortunately, the latter Perhaps it is also the wind that makes the animals so nervous. The ocean is only a few dozen kilometers away and the Benguela Current, which flows up from Antarctica, sometimes causes a freezing wind from South Africa and Namibia. The few springboks But the white-faced bustard There are some that the wind does not disturb. It's the hartebeest. Thanks to the narrowness of its snout, it can select precisely the grasses that interest him. Then, once satisfied, he lets himself be intoxicated by the wind and leads his whole tribe After having gone around the valley twice at more than 60 kilometers per hour the hartebeest had a good time. All he has to do now is catch his breath and above all, consumed during the race. Now that calm has returned, Always on the alert, anything that passes under their beaks, but also insects As the sun descends on the horizon, in an orange aura, The wind has died down than by the characteristic cry of guinea fowl. 100 kilometers further south, totally different. A forest of aloe dichotoma. This species of aloe is relatively rare, because it only grows and on very specific terrains. The trunk growth is slow. However, the largest specimens This dimension is exceptional which must fight against the drying out of its leaves. In this rocky landscape, where you least expect it. When it cannot reach a river, and stagnates in puddles Immediately, In some areas, the presence of water to attract waders When it can neither flow nor soak into the ground, the water forms small pools It is in this reed bed decided to settle down. The Cape Weaver is in full nesting season is at its peak. The aim of this frenzy is to attract as many females as possible. For this, the weaver knows that they cannot resist To increase his chances, he builds as many works as possible. Right next to it, also uses his talents as an architect. Each of these females He begins to wedge a rod in it with all the dexterity To consolidate he wants to bind several reeds together. Thanks to a coating of knotted herbs, he tries to attract a first reed But his attachment doesn't hold. There is indeed Right next door, single-colored euplects In this season, brown like that of females to dress in black There is something to be proud of. However, it is above all that euplects count The next day the wind stopped. This Cape weaver is showing a female around its nests, hoping she will find one to her liking. Alas, she did not stay. Persevering, he takes advantage of it to do And here comes the female. She had just gone The nest is adopted. The mountainous plateaus receive oceanic weather and the flowers are all the more abundant. The farmland is then frequented by paradise cranes. A beautiful bird that is unfortunately becoming even in South Africa, Is it related to the winds that irritate them? or the fact that they are Still, some cranes seem to be in a belligerent mood. In the next field, the sacred ibises They are looking for insects But the wind of these high plateaus they decide to change site. By gaining flowery plains the ibises are found in the company Unlike the others, to wetlands, insects that they find near herds of cattle or antelopes. Their keen eyesight allows them to spot the smallest insect several meters away. The presence of herons guards cattle indicates that this meadow is frequented by large herbivores. Indeed, zebras, springboks and wildebeests Food is plentiful tempered by the proximity brings an invigorating air. A relatively rare animal in the Cape region, This antelope was hunted so much disappear in the 19th century. The approximately 3,000 individuals are now protected. Also, this male can feast young shoots out of the corner of my eye. For these two oryx, because they regularly have to defend through ritual challenges. When one of the two the fight stops immediately from the winner's territory. There is no real violence but simply the need The South African ploughshare tortoise, solitary animal, In this dense vegetation she pecks her way through, thus combining business with pleasure. Flower petals are a delicacy for her. During its wanderings, facing the elegant plumage a species of pheasant endemic The latter spotted Otherwise more imposing, The Cape elk lives in herds of several dozen individuals. He tolerates the presence of the cattle egret, which is delighted to rid it of its parasites. A group of female accompanied by their young, The males, solitary, wander on their side. This flowery valley for animals This protected area still exists in a nature reserve. Civilization having developed in the regions most favorable to agriculture, most of the wild animals had to take refuge to the north, on the arid lands Fortunately, thanks to the parks and nature reserves animals can continue to pass the torch of life. Forget the thirst, the dust Here, the young Boombox climb green hills, to admire the view. An unimaginable spectacle On the Atlantic coast, as if to push its limits. But in the bays lagoons The pink flamingos to survey the shores. They must spend a lot of time to filter water with their beaks, aquatic invertebrates. On the beach, lets himself go for a few somersaults. Under the mocking gaze Further south, the Cape Peninsula is fully classified in a nature reserve. It is nevertheless surprising to discover It must be said the ostrich is relatively well adapted He regularly to cool off a bit. From the summit, the southwestern tip of the entire African continent is revealed. It benefits but with more atmospheric disturbances due meeting the warm currents and cold Atlantic currents. This results in exceptional bushy vegetation, the fine bumps. This biotope brings together thousands of species of endemic plants 70% of which are unique in the world. It's so many flowers which delight this couple, The bird feeds on the nectar The rufipenne morio, but this female, does not disdain insects Thus stealing a prey coveted by the agama altra lizard. This one undertakes by head movements, pushes him to discretion. Finally, in silence, the sun is setting. The light is adorned of which she has the secret. The kingdom of colors The ocean is made of gold. In southern Africa, However, it can be hostile and its extreme dryness. But everywhere, a fragile life bravely faces the elements. Like this pair of moquin oystercatchers who defy the ocean. Wild animals have no choice. So they persevere, they adapt, they brave danger. Yes, nature can be harsh, cruel and unjust, She manages to take what she needs in all humility. Once filled, Up there, they are content to admire the spectacle. At 3,000 m altitude, and water is becoming scarce. Lower down, on the contrary, the tall trees reach towards the sky Animals of the southern regions have therefore become accustomed to varied and often stormy climates. Now the ocean is raging It's the thunderous return At the southern tip of the African continent, from the Cape Peninsula passing through the cliffs wildlife prepares to face There is an air of being at the end of the world here. And for good reason, classified as a nature reserve, the end of this peninsula remains wild. Cape of Good Hope beaches who find food here. Early in the morning, With their curved beaks, and find small crustaceans The seagull would like to be able to do the same. The digestive nap for tightrope walkers Seagulls and cormorants wait to search for their prey on the foreshore. More prosaic, baboons take advantage of what the high tide brings them. Unfortunately, it is often rubbish. more likely to poison or suffocate them than providing them This is all the more regrettable to look for food and therefore to approach With their 3 cm canines, they can then become demanding, even aggressive, which makes them harmful But on the coast, baboons are protected They therefore have plenty of time that they dominate the place. The group includes about forty individuals of both sexes, led by a dominant male. Females take care of their young or who have abandoned them. In the morning, Baboons are omnivores, but here, their diet is mainly composed countless species of plants which make up the floristic wealth of the Cape region. Fortunately, This primate instinctively practices because instead of throwing himself on the first he only picks Thus, by distributing its levies, it spares each plant Succulent plants that they provide him with some of the fresh water he needs. He delights in it so frenetically that he has to store it in his lampshades Besides succulents, the Cape floristic region consists of bulbous plants, of heather and proteas. Ultimately, 70% of the 9,000 species of plants present here are endemic, what makes this floristic region the richest in the world Called Fine Beauce, this bushy maquis is so varied 20% of all plants The Cape mountain zebra also enjoys this plant feast. Except for a few antelopes, it is the only large mammal still living on the peninsula, where it was reintroduced in 1984. This subspecies of zebra since in the middle of the 20th century, there were only about a hundred left in South Africa. Indeed, its densely sorted dress was particularly sought after The elegance and graphic design of its head make it immediately recognizable. Today, this zebra is enjoying and enjoy absolute tranquility If the climate here is Mediterranean, he is no less tormented, because the Cape Peninsula is bordered to the east and to the west, on the Atlantic side, This results in a permanent wind. which offers an ideal playground Particularly at ease in flight or diving the Cape fool nevertheless experiences when joining his colony. It is difficult among his thousands of peers. To locate the places the bird makes several low-level passes before landing. Crazy people must not be since they all fly in the same direction After the usual greetings, The time has come to take care of the nest. It's September, in the heart of The nest will be made of earth and shells, all agglomerated Excellent agricultural fertilizer, This guano was harvested by humans Today, Only birds still covet In such a confined space, which causes neighborhood quarrels Living in a close community nevertheless offers advantages, including being less vulnerable to sea lion attacks. It also makes it easy to meet your soul mate. Then, the couples remain linked However, the flame must be kept alive, which passes during which the emotional bond uniting the couple. Paws in the mud, the madmen of the Cape pay little attention because the weather changes here are brutal. The wind soon brings In a quarter of an hour, and violent gusts sweep the fine beauces as if to tear off the foliage. Lost in this storm a lone ostrich stands firm. Continuing to peck at what she can, she remains facing the wind, The gusts of wind don't bother her, she's seen it all before. Even when the clouds The animals are patient. The bonteboks take advantage of this to ruminate, while a patrol of sacred ibises defies the elements. The Atlantic Ocean unleashes its power. It is a maelstrom of foam, which hit the coast, as if the sea was trying who dares to encroach on his territory. The night will bring After such a restless night, waking up is laborious and when the most resourceful Even though they nest on dry land, the life of penguins is entirely focused on the sea. Also, the first ritual of the morning consists of going to the water's edge At low tide, everything is calm. Only a calf, probably lost, But this calm does not last, because a new storm is brewing on the coast. Like many animals, penguins and observe the sky with circumspection. This is often the time But is it prudent at present? They decide to stay Swimming can wait. The threat having passed, the penguins re-examine the situation. When the most intrepid the others follow, The birds throw themselves into the water Paddling like this allows them to clean their plumage, but also to practice Encouraged by the audacity other penguins join the party. At the slightest warning signal, probably a floating algae The penguins return to the beach together. But once dry, However, no one dares to bathe alone. It is then time for a meeting. Since the leader doesn't seem to agree The toilet continues on the sand. When one does it, Still, there's nothing better than swimming to stretch your legs, and this penguin He pretends to prepare to dive, hoping to be joined Taking a wind, the penguin begins He decides to go and find his companions in the hope of drawing them located in the next cove, where he will find more Once everyone is gathered, They soon joined the rest of the colony. Cape penguins are therefore extremely social birds who constantly rely on each other. The more of them there are, Unfortunately, During the 20th century, its population has fallen from 1.5 million to just 200,000. The phenomenon is getting worse, their number being only 50,000 individuals today. However, the species is well protected but she is a victim especially because of oil spills and illegal discharges. It is subject to food competition caused by industrial fishing, which forces penguins to venture further out to find fish. It is to be hoped and the beneficial impact will encourage better protection. Soon the tide rises At the top of the cliff, Rock hyraxes A dominant view, and an abundance of sunshine which is essential For this, the small mammal comes out of its den cautiously and finds a well-exposed spot Some members of the group for long hours, The cliff provides them able to satisfy all appetites, but also to rehydrate them. Because after the rain has passed, puddles are precious in these steep places. The hyraxes spend their day that their counterparts living in arid zones must flee. They have plenty of time and to establish their hierarchical position The rest of the time, staring at the blue of the ocean, this space from which marine colossi sometimes emerge. It was at this time that southern right whales sometimes to mate, Mothers accompany their young near the coasts in order to protect them from the strong swell of the open sea. From a very young age, the whale calves see crustaceans for the greatest happiness Thus, the wild coasts welcome a diverse life. Whether at sea or on land, animals always find and even if the climate what better than the reassuring spectacle Because further inland, it is rumored The Drakensberg, that is to say is the most imposing mountain range Dominating hills polished emerge from the walls of hard rock. These cliffs peak at more than 3,000 m above sea level. Sculpted by the wind, these steep walls resist the trade winds of the Indian Ocean for 20 million years. At their feet, the soft rock scree green in summer and yellow in winter. The rugged terrain prevents large wildlife to access this remote territory, so that only the song of the birds Sparse vegetation provides food which withstand Numb from the cold, reptiles are forced to expose yourself to the morning sun. The presence of a cricket because the insect does not fit Anyway, The cliffs offer for animals This is the case with baboons. who have acclimatized and live here at an altitude of 1800 m. Like every morning, This tribe begins waiting for the dominant male for picking. For their part, the youngest and see how their bodily ability Except for a few birds of prey, there is no predator This does not prevent the males while the tribe is busy. The few shrubs struggle to provide shade. Fortunately, new shoots are a delicacy From the ground, to grab the branches The most greedy to make sure To train, the little baboons climb on anything they can, but nothing better The laziest quickly understand It's being worked on. At noon, when the sun beats down hard, the vigilance of the guards The tribe then opts barely disturbed Silence reigns then crushed by a blazing sun. The desolate space of these high plateaus is crossed by numerous canyons. It is here, sheltered from the elements, that the trees of the Drakensberg The narrower the canyons, the more they shelter dense vegetation because even in the dry season, rainwater Rivers irrigate the bottom of the canyon and provide the air with a certain humidity. A true oasis, this shady forest both for vegetation and for birdlife. The trees are so densely populated that sparrows must shout like this Gurney's Promerops. Others, like the gonolek boubou, the elegant brown-billed bulbul, the blue-eared starling and the red pigeon, prefer to remain discreet, sheltered from the foliage. At the beginning of spring, flowers are everywhere evokes a delicious nectar. With its short beak, the Cape white-eye The tricolor bulbul, on the other hand, chooses flowers that are easier to access. But the all-category champion is the malachite sunbird whose long beak is not only used for singing. Only he can penetrate to the heart of the flower Another virtuoso of dexterity, This bird knows how to tie leaves together Once the final finishing touches have been made, he is waiting for a female The obvious interest in this is a guarantee of a new conquest. In total, nearly 250 species of birds come to pollinate At the exit of the canyon, the river crosses The sparrows venture because these are not the rare shrubs which will allow them Fortunately, The bearded vulture and is content to recover dropping them But as soon as he drops his meal, other scavengers approach him. White-naped crows do not have but covet the marrow and the sinews. The bearded vulture has no intention of letting itself be dispossessed so easily. Deploying its 2.60 meter wingspan, he intends to intimidate But to the clever, the clever and a half! Hidden behind a rock, She usually prefers but a ready-made meal will be welcome, The flight of the bearded vulture on the lift It is less agile than crows. Overwhelmed by their numbers he tries to chase them away by flying This takes him quite far and leaves time But they had barely managed to swallow a mouthful Finally, the most persistent understands that the nozzle strategy is the best. Take advantage of the distraction of his fellow creatures When evening falls, calm returns to the Drakensberg valleys. The cliffs gradually disappear as temperatures drop. The clouds are becoming more threatening, tropical storms Further and further east, The sky looks grey above the hills of KwaZulu-Natal. The return of the rainy season is long awaited, so the animals wait. At the beginning of this southern spring, only trees whose roots reach have lush green foliage. Because for now, At an altitude of 500 m, the ocean wind The buffaloes venture where they can find Despite their 800 kilos which join at the top of the skull buffaloes remain The slightest smell alerts them, especially when it smells like wild animals. But this lioness does not present an immediate danger. In the middle of the day, while enjoying an interesting view of the surroundings. The buffaloes are aware as long as they are grouped. Actually, it's more like the lioness who has an interest A family of impalas enjoys but remain on the lookout. In these conditions, the feline prefers to peacefully enjoy its nap. His only concern is to find Buffaloes also fall asleep This is the best time Not far away, four young lions are also regaining their strength. One of them had the misfortune because his face is swollen on one side. Who said the king of the savannah had an easy life? Most of the time, the males let the lionesses because they are faster But these young lions are probably nomads. They were driven out by a dominant male a new territory They therefore have to feed themselves, which is all the more laborious While waiting for their night hunt, In the worst case, they will fall back on carrion stolen from vulnerable predators. Finally, in broad daylight, there is only this couple The male pushes this food supply back to their burrow. The operation is complex, but the dung beetle that can roll does not lack energy. He must avoid falling who do not hesitate by plump insects. For if the primate it is to better unearth Unlike their counterparts or the Drakensberg Mountains, the baboons who live here that the big trees provide them: observatories and shelters. However, that he is not the only one looking for food in the branches, and that sometimes, If the elephants of South Africa more easily than in Namibia, they do not benefit from the vast marshes where their peers bathe So they often have to make do if time permits. They are not the only pachyderms Rhinos use it and cool off. As long as they are not dislodged. Even if the elephants rhinos know Indeed, elephants hate to share because they don't appreciate them much. Whatever. These two are already pretty muddy. The white rhinoceros is distinguished by its wide upper lip which allows it to graze instead of They are solitary and territorial animals. The couples only stay together When rhinos go in pairs, it's because it's She protects her young for 2 to 3 years in order to give it time from which he will no longer fear felines. An only child, the young rhinoceros is shy. Meeting a slightly older comrade gives him a nice surprise. He quickly took refuge with his mother. Curiosity getting the better of him, he finally comes back to rummage around But no, definitely, he is still a little young South Africa's White Rhinos are genetically close because all descend that they remained at the end of the 19th century. Fortunately, despite poaching, the species has been adequately protected and it is a little As density increases in the reserves, but these are often jousts Quite logically, and the shortest horn To discourage poachers, biologists in some reserves decide to cut off their rhinos' horns themselves. This does not prevent the elephant even if it never represents a threat. But as much as elephants tolerate even lions, as much as they seem to have for rhinos. When in rut, young males are sometimes aggressive. They even kill rhinos who frequent These large animals and having to live confined unfortunately implies forced cohabitation Fortunately, thanks to the rainy season The vultures On the contrary, the African gymnogenus and the trumpeter hornbill seem to fear storms, because these can be violent For a few hours, but it's for his own good. The animals are silent and huddle together. This time it's the earth's turn to drink. A few days later, The water is flowing there again. This is the beginning of a period of abundance While these beautiful antelopes the water continues to flow east As we approach the coast, It crosses and waters the last tropical forests of KwaZulu-Natal. These plots of unspoiled nature are unfortunately which have been ravaged and the development of agriculture. It's at the top that flowers and fruits grow. They attract many birds who come to warm themselves like these eared barbicans. The splendid-crested turacos which constitute the entirety Below, the long-tailed roller wait for the heat hoping to catch them He is only hungry for recognition. The tricolor bulbul in this avian symphony. This forest resounds But a few kilometers away, it is a deep roar The ocean trade winds On the border of Mozambique, the sandy beaches stretch as far as the eye can see. Indian Ocean hits the dunes and, during high tides, This is how calmer brackish water lagoons were formed, where mangroves have been able to develop. This ecological paradise is supplied with fresh water by the frequent tropical downpours, and also by the few rivers Hidden in lush vegetation, the Nile crocodile spreads its four meters of scales in the sun. It is not the only fearsome animal lurking on the shore. At night, hippos disperse They may still be present They can then represent a danger to humans. It is best not to obstruct them when they return to the water. The dominant male keeps a close watch over the territory where he keeps his harem. He starts by making sure before joining the small group. While young people are rather playful, adults only want to use each other as a pillow. They thus have all the leisure to doze off The mouths of rivers also attract birds which feed on fish, larvae and molluscs. This is how the grey heron, the grey pelican, the African spoonbill and the stork, do not hesitate to rub shoulders with crocodiles. The dunes protect but the trade winds sometimes blow so hard that even the lagoons are swept by violent gusts. The weather can then change quickly. For the antelopes living here, such as waterbucks and nyalas, the wet season than for those living The tropical showers the best is still while waiting for it to pass. The rhinos also The only one to continue to be active is a regular in wetlands. The Episcopal Stork Seizes the Opportunity to hunt frogs but when her plumage is too wet, Just like the Promepic Barbican, who knows he won't find any insects Riverside birds, like this pair of pied kingfishers are hardly bothered In wooded areas, mammals The vervets, usually so dynamic, are forced They frequently look at the sky Fortunately, some trees As soon as the rain stops, but quickly become disillusioned Mangrove crabs, themselves, fear neither mud nor bad weather. These fierce crustaceans play Their larvae feed the galleries and their droppings fertilize it. Pushing the feet into the water, plants benefit from the rain, Now the flowers are just waiting to flourish fully. As soon as the first rays of light appear, Around the lagoon, For this young giraffe, the future is full of promise, To strengthen its immense skeleton, the giraffe must absorb at least 20 g of calcium per day. This sedimentary soil provides it with the mineral salts it needs, even if it is hardly pleasant, neither to pick up nor to swallow. Instinct nevertheless pushes him It is at the cost of this effort that this young male He will then also be able to, to survey the plain with the elegance Giraffes live in groups and prefer to roam in open spaces. This allows them to better spot lions, if by chance, but also to observe each other. Mothers watch over their only child while males covet Regularly, to watch for her passage into estrus. He then purses his lips. to assert his claim Thus, since they reside as is often the case in southern Africa, Giraffes live a peaceful life. Here, their population is stable, whereas, however, 40% of giraffes have disappeared Will there only be zebras left to graze on the savannah? When the sun sets over the lagoon, The antelopes, they, the new day The setting sun reminds them Tomorrow they will have to survive again, to feed oneself, to find water, escape predators, At the end of the day, there is nothing insurmountable accustomed to dealing with generosity, Animals rely maybe also on luck. So when evening comes, It is time to enjoy the habitat Each park and animal reserve constitutes a haven of peace, preserved from the noise of the world. A world where each ecosystem and where wildlife deserves to keep its place. In return, even the most powerful animals ask nothing of us. Nothing else nothing else on a planet