In this video you'll learn about the mental block especially depression and the essential skill school. So I was pretty lonely in high school team. And it was kind of my safe place and where I great coach, Bob Hanky, and he would always tell he was in the national championships and he held debt to pass the other runners in the end of who he once coached who was kind of overweight, on his time, so he got the nickname PR Shumway. Um a term in running for your personal record, big accomplishment for runners. So we put each of made us laugh and also kind of inspired us actually applied to what we're talking about want a snack and you walk down to the deep freeze cream. You've got amazing chocolate Oreo fudge you choose?&quot; And we all like stared back at him vanilla. Why? Because you don't want to. And why you don't want to. Let's go.&quot; And so every time for the workout or we didn't feel like running hard, even do like a little &quot;v&quot; &quot;Vanilla.&quot; And like we'd hard. Now, I get it. Like this is a dumb story. But intervention that's actually very effective. all about getting yourself to do stuff that's this video you'll learn how to break the cycle of [Music] Okay. When you're depressed, you don't really feel not only does it sound like a lot of work, but it. Like, oh, if I don't feel like being social, about having a hard conversation, it's probably sounds exhausting so I'm just going to stay in do something I feel insecure because I didn't get know I look slobby so if I run into someone who embarrassed. And then I go home and I feel even lower mood. It's easy to see this tendency when we tend to withdraw from things, including stuff And that kind of perpetuates the cycle. It makes that the thought or the emotion leads to the So for example, during COVID, lockdowns changed our go out with friends. And many of the activities We couldn't do them. And so by simply changing our of anxiety and depression doubled to the point a lot of people developed substance abuse problems this change in mental health, it had nothing to do with our behaviors. I feel sad, so I won't go out, so then I feel sadder. But if simply suppressing behaviors can also cause mood changes. So have weren't feeling like it, and then by the time you anyone ever regret having exercised that day? different. It has to go the other way around. Act until you feel motivated to get out of bed. Get feel motivated. You can't wait until you don't feel then your anxiety decreases. You can't wait until for your kids. You can't wait until you feel ready some action first. I mean, behavioral activation is But the science behind it is really valid. When you the advice you don't want to hear from your mom, There's at least two reasons this works. Number physical state. It can actually create quite a is a very rapid treatment for depression and change with action. So for example, dopamine isn't the motivation chemical because it's the reward of the house, you break the cycle of withdrawal, and reason this works is new learning that breaks up these are essentially every time you get out and experiment to challenge your rigid patterns so let who believes he's socially awkward. He he usually to believe he's socially awkward, so he hangs out his belief that he is awkward and that's why no himself. He's going to go to a social gathering five people, and then he's going to observe end of this experiment he's a little bit surprised when he initiates conversation with them. Okay. depressed, her standard procedure is to just call day and continues to feel down. Her experiment is gets up and gets dressed instead. She tracks her Does her mood go up compared to the days she stays she gets dressed, even though it's super hard, she learns that taking action can help, and this gives lying there depressed. It's like a tiny glimmer Let's get moving.&quot; Okay. So you're convinced vanilla. start? Pretty easy. Choose an action. Choose one Um something enjoyable, something that gives you you connect with others. And then just take some these principles will help: um don't wait for brain to give you motivation to get out there and is not easy. The best way to make this process up with what you really care about. Like if you're breakfast. If you're scared to do public speaking, to to make it worth it um when you put yourself experiences that actually make your life more hierarchy. So you could break a task down into by a messy house, just clean one area. It could or your bedside table or your pillow. Pick one so yeah. Just one small action. Okay. Um another really hard to get started, if it's really hard schedule in some activities, like put them on your depend on you. Uh one of the YouTubers I watch, things she's done for her depression, anxiety, and force her to get up in the morning and milk get moving, and this helps her like just get going, Okay. Last, give yourself a ton of credit. Dopamine reward yourself internally for doing something, the negative self-talk. Like you can't say stuff like, don't have a hard time with cleaning.&quot; Like don't Like just say, &quot;Good job, Emma. I'm proud of you.&quot; Like a few friends. Like let them cheer you on. Write that sense of accomplishment or pleasure is next time. This is going to become more natural going to get feeling better. It's going to feel the easier it will become. So that's it. That is one Behavioral activation, aka vanilla. Comment do that helped you feel better? And if you want a comments too. That'd be way fun to print those [Music]