Airships have always Airships are magical. They're fascinating. Whenever a film director or producer wants to telegraph this is an alternate reality, you'll see an airship in the sky. We see that already. There are several airship projects that are already been initiated, so it seems that the airship Nearly a century after airships could be on the rise again, this time as a potential the most elusive problems in The tremendous amount of the is burned simply to stay in the air, and an airship doesn't need to do that. Backed by new research and technology, companies are aiming to take to fill in some gaps underserved And of course, there's It's something that is very attractive to people as an idea. It's a type of aircraft that seems to generate an emotional response But for airships to go to a reality, they'll need that can overcome nearly Oh, the humanity! If you look at it, every regarding large capacity airship. You don't have large airship in the sky. It's interesting that we like the Titanic as the end of shipping, because shipping has been and mainstream part of our The first thing to reshape that is to make it an economically A century ago, airships, dirigibles, and Zeppelins were at the Ferrying passengers non-stop decades before the jet age. Today, the number of active to a few dozen worldwide, mostly used for novelty rides But a handful of brave companies around the world are trying to make them into a more common sight in the skies. Some like LTA Research funded by Google co-founder Sergey Brin, have been rather secretive Other companies have only visions of what they hope to build. A few, however, have been able It is the largest aircraft in the world. Makers boasted that they had created a new breed of hyper-efficient aircraft. This is the Airlander 10, endearingly nicknamed It makes up for what it lacks in style by offering what could be to travel by air. Using around 1.2 million cubic feet of lighter-than-air helium, the craft can cruise at a top speed of about 80 miles per hour. Originally designed as by the U.S. military, the project was canceled in 2013, but UK-based manufacturer would eventually re-acquire the project to bring it to market. So, it's a carbon-fiber construction. And as you can see, as you come in here, into the flight deck element, If you are the pilot, From an aircraft-development perspective, you can do a huge amount on paper. You can do a huge amount in but it's getting a new That's the big milestone Its second test flight left let's just say, deflated. Oh my God, he's actually just broken it. Thankfully, far from the of all time, the Airlander to the skies for more testing. Since 2017, this Airlander in pieces at HAV's headquarters, just over an hour outside London. As troubling as it looks, is actually a key feature As the company name Hybrid Airlander is what's that is achieving lift from a combination of conventional airship design from other flying aircraft. The principal element at play is helium, the lighter-than-air gas of being non-flammable. Unlike the hydrogen that Just like a toy balloon, the ship will rise, essentially free lift. The trouble with free And so we had to find a way of making the aircraft work more easily in terms of how things were And they made the operation for the the whoever's flying it easier. We've done that by making the aircraft generate aerodynamic lift. So it takes off and lands although in a really short space. That lift is effectively That's the easiest way to think of it. This means that without the craft is actually heavier than air, more like an airplane. Without the lift generated the airship sinks down stays on the ground. And the reason that's important is because getting on board taking a shipping container an airplane, it's a lot easier And some of the large ground crews of up to out of hangers and move them around. Even the smaller airships of today have got significant ground crew. With a hybrid aircraft, we're on the ground for that It allows us to turn the and drive the economics, the economic performance of This means the craft can take off and land from any reasonably flat surface like grass, water, or even ice. And according to HAV, the base model that uses will reduce CO2 emissions by And future plans to have would reduce emissions to eventually create a HAV believes that this will make Airlander both eco-conscious and economically viable for applications ranging from surveillance, and even passenger travel. When I think about passenger transport, it's such an exciting like this into because it Right now, if we want to make say, from the Northwest we've got a body of water to cross. And our choices are to do it very fast, but very short flight and then travel back in from the airport. at the other end. Or we can get on a the journey length. And the right thing to do here from a carbon-footprint But it's such a time-impact for people. With Airlander, what we offer is almost a high-speed train of the sky. Added to that, the aircraft It's not constrained to So like a helicopter, it'll take off and land away from the airport. So we can open up a whole new journey. I mean, an obvious example HAV advertises that Airlander will be able to carry passengers to remote areas like the North covering up to 2,000 nautical of around 60 miles per hour. A bit like with a helicopter, you can similarly take but the range of a whereas, you know, we can if you like, with a Their first commercial target is to bring this experience So I'm sat here in our leisure with the bar, with social spaces. And what you can't see is down at the other end of this there are eight double-bedrooms This allows the leisure sector to offer their clients just can't get anywhere else. Their approach hearkens back to the early 20th century, when luxurious airships for well-healed passengers But building a sophisticated-looking with an impressive wine selection is still a far away from a happy hour in the skies. Luxury travelers who a tremendous amount of money this maybe to a cruise ship. They're used to having a private bathroom with their bedroom. They're used to doing and you know, using water in the sink. You need to cater to their needs with a relatively high if you're gonna deliver a luxury product. And everything I just mentioned is heavy. A cruise ship on the to worry so much about You always have to look We're gonna use an airship So let's say X is a high speed rail line. So if you look at a place like Europe, high-speed trains can connect And high-speed trains go a lot They carry a lot of people. They're very environmentally friendly. Are airship's beautiful, Of course they are, right? But is a high-speed train to go from Berlin to Hamburg? Yeah, it probably does. And in fact it almost certainly does. HAV though, believes in areas where such at a much lower cost. Yeah, we've got hugely invested, high-speed rail infrastructure in Europe. There's lots of parts of the world where a lot of movements are over water. There's a lot of parts of the world where we've got big geographic boundaries, mountain ranges, and so forth. And so, in both of those cases, you know, the ability to put ground is constrained. You know, big infrastructure if you're gonna open up high-speed rail. Big infrastructure programs under the sea, rather than fly over it, where Airlander can step in with a very infrastructure-light And a travel experience is very equivalent to a high-speed rail of the skies. Beyond passenger travel, the prospect of low-emission for major infrastructure, could in another space, cargo. This is the LTA60T, an of up to 60 tons, making it even larger than HAV's Airlander 10. It's the dream of Paris-based company aptly named &quot;Flying Whales&quot;. The reason why we created &quot;Flying Whales&quot; is actually to solve a major Forest industry was the second contributor to the France trade balance deficit because we have a lot of resource, but there is no return and tracks to pick up the logs So we had to invent a With funding from the French government, &quot;Flying Whales&quot; began that could fly into the to retrieve logs for As you might guess from only seeing computer-generated renderings, the company has yet to But they believe that they're getting close. So we've been through, of what I call &quot;de-risking It's actually, ultimately, it's And you, you have to be sure about what you do when And in 2017, we were and then we actually launched So here is the global view. You can see the external the stations for the propellers. On the left side, on the right side, and also the stations We are very huge, 200 meters in length and 50 meters in height. And we have a rigid body which means we don't to the environmental conditions. This model of the LTA60T is designed to carry wood logs, but the be used to efficiently like high-voltage towers Transporting large bulky items let's just say, can run Oh, my God! And for remote areas like Northern Canada, it could open up entirely in regions lacking traditional But with airships, loading has a big technical caveat. The load-exchange problem is that when you release the cargo and you release its weight, what's gonna stop the into the sky because So you gotta exchange that load somehow. There are a few different The most obvious solution might be to dynamically adjust the quantity of gas. But helium while much safer than hydrogen, is also much more expensive to acquire. So adding and releasing large isn't economically feasible. But there may be another By compressing or you could change the airship's This is ultimately the best solution. And some of our competitors The problem we have with this solution that it's very heavy. Compressor and tanker are very heavy, so it needs a lot of R and D. And I think this technology in something like 5 to 10 years. Until then, another option with engine thrust, but this would largely defeat of an airship in the first place. Instead &quot;Flying Whales&quot; is considering a more balanced solution. If a trip calls for transporting say, 30 tons of wind turbine blades, it would need to pick up another 30 tons to replace the weight after drop off with the help of thrusters during the transfer process. In the example of retrieving it would need to carry in water on the trip out. Then dispense that water in order to achieve balance, which visually at least, kind In theory, it can be simple, Because it's a dynamic period. And during this dynamic period, on the equilibrium between As if this didn't sound airships face another major The side of an airship is like a giant wall. It's like a giant sail. And there is something If you have a really, really big airship, even a gentle wind multiplied of the side of an airship, can really move that airship in a way that it can't move a smaller To compensate for wind, the LTA60T has a series all the around the aircraft. These axes help us to control the airship in a longitudinal, vertical, This ultimately limits application to areas with stable-enough where this weight Despite all of these still envisions viable Transport business is very tough. There is a lot of competition, So it's useless to try to &quot;Okay, look, guy we're because we have a green No, that doesn't work. When the system is already existing in the transport solution with low margin, you cannot replace it. So we just look at where we really provide a huge gap in terms of cost or capacity regarding the existing. And in addition, of course, we will strongly reduce The niche that &quot;Flying Whales&quot; is targeting is currently served by a more common site Based on benchmark tests, &quot;Flying Whales&quot; claims that their airship could save 15 times the carbon emissions and carry three times more payload than the best performing while still being cheaper to produce. The helicopter has been very, very fast people I mean, planes have been very, very far. Okay. In our case, we are We are today, the designer of the airship, but tomorrow we'll be the So, in the future, our business model will be based on two things. The production and direct by Flying Whales Industry. And the transportation services provided by Flying Whales Services. &quot;Flying Whales&quot; hopes to be flying their airship by late 2024. In the meantime, they their design while working to approve the designs for flight. You know, building any new aircraft, getting any brand new by the, you know, is a very, very expensive project. Now, when you're building on a previous iteration you're turning a 757 into you're still certificating new aircraft. It's still a lot of engineering. It's still a lot of expense, but you're starting with something. Building an airship in starting with a blank had a giant airship since the 1930s. But what if money isn't everything? At least in the beginning? Achieving our goals in might take a mix of ingenuity and adopting unconventional approaches. And that begins with niche applications of new, unproven, and for the time being at least. The two challenge you have is first to prepare your shareholders. It's gonna be very long. It's gonna cost a lot. Okay. And the second thing, which is actually one is to keep your team motivated. When you have a young and after two years, three you have to tell them, &quot;Well, you still have four years before you're going to see that flying&quot;. It is very difficult. We are seeing a lot of We're not seeing a lot of There are things that an airship can do better than anything else. It's just that there are not very many of those things, right? It's always gonna be a niche player. If it's gonna be a player at all, it's going to fill a Coming into this business it's been really, really important to build our understanding and build our customer's understanding and finances understanding that exists that we don't We're not good and attuned at seeing gaps until after somebody comes In aviation, we're dream and you get it right and that's true, but you get the economics