There are lots of micronations in the world--territories but just... aren't. There's this place: The Free Republic of riverbank between Croatia and Serbia. Down South you've got Westarctica, the micronation unclaimed land in Antarctica. And then of course, you have about a dozen hardly a country to begin with. How do we know about all of these places? Well, because you people won't stop asking But the fact of the matter is that there usually of the time, it's someone saying something about it. But there's one major exception--a not-quite-country considered a real country, and it's called So let's talk about what Somaliland is and Somaliland is here: the horniest part of the Now, you might look at this map and say, wait, except you'd also be kind of wrong. You see, this part of Somalia and this part with one another, besides the fact that both Way, way back in colonial times--which, in UK and Italy were in a contest to see who part of the world that they weren't supposed While the British were certainly the reigning at least when it came to this region of Africa. Italy and the UK each controlled part of Somalia; to their half, leaving leadership in the hands willing to actually put in the hard work of As a result, the two halves of Somalia actually one another; Somaliland was its own fully-independent of Somalia told Italy to shove a meatball a single country. Now, if history has taught us anything, it's regions together and calling it a country But this time, for some reason, it didn't. Basically, all you need to know is that Somalia but most of those clans are down here and Somaliland is pretty much composed of just it generally more stable, wealthy, and possible "hey, let's form a secessionist militia," They fought a civil war with the rest of Somalia itself an independent country. The rest of Somalia--being poor, unstable, say "yes," but they also didn't have So, since 1991, Somaliland has operated as We have a whole separate video on what makes this if you don't have anything better to life, but here's the gist: the world generally a country: an independent government, a defined And Somaliland very handily ticks all three borders with Somalia--although most countries Lines"--they have a permanent population government with democratic elections. They also issue their own passports, they they have their own national anthem, and they with Ethiopia, Djibouti, South Africa, Taiwan, Remember Liberland from all of those minutes They might have a population of zero and an that can only be traded on a website that they're recognized by a country that isn't But that gets us back to the question we've has everything that a real country needs to Well, the short answer is that they're not the only true definition of a country is one Like, sure, we all know that France is basically as long as most major nations call it a country, So, I guess a better question would be, "why Somaliland?" And the answer to that is a little more complicated. The main reason has to do with international Union and the Arab League, both of whom have to pretend like Somaliland doesn't exist--after split a country in two isn't exactly something recognition and a pat on the head, and their borders should stay as-is for the sake of The EU has also generally turned a blind eye some sentimental feelings for their old colony, with "economic" and "feelings" with And generally, there just aren't any countries to stir the pot in the region... that is, been talking about. Now, if this video made you realize that you on in Africa, I would recommend checking out was published just earlier this fall, and realities of modern Africa and deconstructs continent. The best way to read it--especially if the much as it's fried mine--is with Audible. Audible is an amazing way to consume literature to my books while I'm doing dishes, driving it so much easier to educate and entertain Audible Plus subscriptions come with a massive can take with you anywhere, plus if there's their streaming catalog, you can pick up an keep it forever. Plus, hey, if audiobooks aren't your thing, like Donor 9623 and Deepest Dive, streamable If you want to give it a try, I've got some for 30 days. Just click the button on-screen or visit Audible.com/HAI