A common sentiment after House of the Dragon seasons 7 and 8 of Game of Thrones. I've laughable 7 minute devoid of logic for season 7, of how bad is season 7 and is it actually The season begins with the cold open of Arya right away there's a lot wrong with this scene. like, yeah, all the Freys are here in attendance Walder Frey was having sex like a jackrabbit and done if there were some missing? Because once Arya high alert or go into hiding. It also seems that babies, or unborn children who have the Frey name everyone died. Theoretically, Arya would have retire the Frey name because realistically, there a season-long game of wack-a-mole. Just off of shrink the scale of the world and throw out that need to be properly extinguished for this ahhh you're just nitpicking right now and this What about the Frey infantry and Guards in this guarding the most valuable room at this moment then wouldn't the servants immediately notify have to fight through an entire castle to get out she literally walks out the front door. Do they Did she kill all of them off-screen without assault The Twins and immediately steamroll someone can simply wipe out an entire house in a massive rippling action not breed consequences in the red wedding had an entire battle go on, while turns into Batman or something. I know she's an out of this situation. Keep in mind she'll have a the next few episodes. So that's looking at this the whole aspect of how Arya's faceless assassin here that when you wear someone's face, you If you were to lean into the magic side of Dan are downplaying that aspect at almost every sense given that the vocal cords are located from a magical perspective, there's no build-up or and the faceless assassins never felt like a that comes close to that is Arya pulling off the But as I said in my season 5 devoid of logic, she a side effect of that was her hallucinating. So without set-up and training is an odd writing recklessly picking and choosing where magic is and I've only looked at one scene, this is gonna but taking a look at the Night King's army, one in the Long Night. Not sure what that is all been absolutely screwed with three of those the other two died offscreen to dragon fire, who The immediate massive problem here that is kind of doesn't catch up and capture Bran. It's explained to always know where Bran is. Benjen did rescue the Night King also has undead horses and it seems White Walkers to hunt them down. Given that Bran it's pretty puzzling that the Night King doesn't fans want to see actual White Walker fights It's pretty wild that there's no conflict between Especially since Jon is disrespecting the historic a political standpoint, you'd think this would but it feels like David and Dan leave out general Eastwatch for episode 6. Or just the entire minded and would probably not so easily accept the a massive precedent and it's crazy that David and not the wildlings. It's an easy way to spread out and David and Dan choose to completely omit "House Glover will not abandon its ancestral removes the depth in the narrative where these at times. The nature of the Freefolk should be a Jon only let them south of the wall so he could could be a genuine and rational conspiracy. Like the dead are real, and I get that they don't want ounce of opposition seems unrealistic and is "The Umbers and the Karstarks betrayed down with not a stone left standing." This is the first blatant example of David and into idiots to make it seem like she's smart by tear down the castles is so absurdly dumb and than that. There's no perceivable reason instead of the people occupying them. Keep see through Littlefinger's scheming, but Sansa, constantly gets manipulated by him. "Joffrey think he was a good king." THAT'S A CRAZYYY THING ruling?" How can she possibly have this opinion if was something that she was vehemently against? disagreed with your first primary decision. you? Would that be so terrible?" *Bronn Laugh* in this same scene that there's nothing between us there's thousands of miles between us and them since David and Dan shrank Westeros and armies "What is this?" What do you think it is? um we don't actually have any food to feed our that point, Cersei ignores the question and then window. Checkmate Daenyers. In general, there's especially since the Highgardens are no longer the common folk were rioting and the city in season 7 for some reason, they seem to be worst aspects of season 7 where the Kingslanding There's no carry over of consequences of blowing snap the general negative public opinion within but I think killing everyone in the sept there are no longer any characters for Cersei to be Lancel surviving on his way to the Red Keep alleyway as if he's a pedophile, or maybe Margaery she narrowly escapes but gets horrible burns that she kind of becomes a book Tyrion where she's The reason why I say one of these characters kind of conflict to overcome within season 7. and externally in terms of within the city currently is extremely shallow and it's as if to prior seasons where it actually felt like this Ah would look at that, the Iron Fleet fleet so quickly, *suffocatting noises* Stop regards to the Greyjoys, it feels pretty complaining about needing more allies for getting a massive armada in exchange for was like "why the hell would we want a fleet I guess they don't have to worry about that Why is Littlefinger still Sansa seems to be incapable of betraying and all she has to do is go to Gerold Royce That would be a win win because she'd get rid the Vale. "The knights of the vale came here for do with Littlefinger after the botchery of his because every logical outcome should result in but then does nothing but trust him. Ugh this season 7 is just as bad as the Dorne subplot in Arya runs into Ed Sheeran cosplaying as skip over this scene since it doesn't feel should have been a deleted scene. It introduces but this fundamentally feels focusing in on this micro theme while The Hound is hanging out with the Brotherhood with this scene besides Sandor's motivation I'm personally fine with him relapsing and losing his community, but I don't really buy him redeem himself by helping them do good things, means religious and he flat out dislikes Beric religion, the lord of the light, and their purpose character doesn't mesh well with these people personal journey. You can argue he's lonely but again, I find it hard to believe he'd pick Dan forcing Sandor to be involved with the contradiction in terms of where he's placed. Sandor in the books doesn't have a place in the was his redemption and he doesn't have to keep I still like his character, his handling just he wants to know: 'what does this god want'?" Dany arrives to Dragonstone and I've always been set up a garrison in the castle to delay get rid of them. Jaime and Cersei know that's opportunity to not take advantage of that. is because she's the first one walking through possibility of this being an ambush. And they walk in with two leading, and then they fall hyper cautious everyone is later in the season Onto episode 2 and Dany is immediately grilling see this scene, but on the other, this during their long voyage to Westeros. That meets Varys and they'd have a pretty long together. So it seems forced narratively for until they're on Dragonstone. Or it honestly her perspective during the journey and this segment. It would make perfect sense to switch talking to her advisors. "But if you let me myself to seeing you on the Iron Throne because gave Varys literally anything of consequence messenger. What a tragedy for his character Why the hell are they re-introducing the Prince acknowledged in The Long Night. Or is Arya the 101 where everything you take time to set up seem to break that rule. Although, Melisandre things." So what was the point of telling the audience. It's just such a weird thing to It's time to talk about general war strategy. So dragons because she doesn't want to be the Queen burn down cities. Just the threat of dragons predominantly ruled with fear and no one wanted that all Targaryens ruled with fear because after who were kind and peaceful. Dany breaking the general and not necessarily how she WINS the that philosophy of breaking the wheel and using it her dragons because she doesn't want any ounce Casterly Rock when all she has to do is fly to the submit. There's so much Dany can do with Drogon or destroying cities. She can simply send out then quickly fly to their position and roast and scouts are basically non-factors in this war thing during the battle of the five kings. Then to sneak into the Red Keep. Which is incredibly overthrew both Yunkai and Mereen. So the fact that to subvert an entire war is blatant proof that in season 8 where they have a faceless assassin that Tyrion doesn't want Cersei to be killed thinks that or is secretly being a traitor. If I to begin with and accepted him into my council There's a lot more you can nitpick in how Dany but this fundamentally comes down to David and season 8. And the way they bridge the power For the scene of Samwell curing Ser Jorah's scene in that Samwell was way too amateurish doesn't seem that complicated. All he has apply an ointment. The main danger however done on. If it hadn't been for Ser Jorah being an then Samwell wouldn't have been able to do this. infect the maester; so I'd primarily put the brilliant maester and he was only doing a else wanted to risk their lives. Along with So this point kind of reinforces Samwell's Considering that Ayra was masquerading probably receiving ravens acting as real time it's pretty surprising that she never heard outcome. But yet, knows that Cersei is now the but it's whatever because I enjoyed Arya realistically shouldn't have happened Winterfell after the Twins. Or after a few months Jon gives the reigns of Winterfell to Sansa which Littlefinger tries to romance Jon but rolls a the budget can't handle her being around just have been very fan-service-oriented in which we this is another example of a deleted scene because all. (cringe sand snakes clip) The Sand Snakes and Dan are leaning into this because they're Fleet ambush, once you step back and look at collapses logically. Let me just flurry attack know this will be Dany's next move of sending play from Dany's side be to order the Dorne army troops in the south? Which wouldn't require a gamble on Euron's part? Is he acting on scout plan also contingent on it being nighttime when still be able to see approaching fleets in then how did Euron spot them? It seems to be Euron instantly find Yara's ship in this chaos? add up and it's very apparent that David and Dan having it both ways where Theon miraculously is that you can simply drop the anchor and deploy a if Euron wants a future challenge of Theon trying give us a confrontation between them again. Plot Episode 3 time, "And Sansa...she's much smarter than universally accepted amongst everyone that Sansa pills? What has she actually done to warrant this last time. My lady. I have to die in this strange or anything and basically commits suicide after line would make more sense if she died while actually be dying for a reason and maybe her blood of fumbling on the whole set-up and payoff front. Jon went into this situation in terms of needing since he's being pretty hostile towards but he doesn't really have the luxury to get to crazy or not. Or maybe state that if he's allowed then he'll consider bending the knee so he has he storms in like an unreasonable child pitching should drop her entire war effort and go north to the wall yet and they have no proof that they with one move David and Dan turn Jon into this that Tyrion says is simply just help us already drastically stronger than her. With Jon's to the point that we can then all band together logical perspective, but Jon doesn't say yes to Even though with that plan, Jon would probably get force since Dany would command them to go North think any of this through and has been reduced Euron arrives to Kings Landing with his prisoners And would they even know about the outside dilemma The whole Dorne operation was literally a covert shouldn't the common folk in general hate and destroying the great sept which is of they care more about capturing these Cersei? Make it make sense please! "This same how exactly did she turn the public opinion into Would you like to answer that question David and in season 7 is the Iron Bank continuing they don't continue doing so for Stannis. Cersei know they're acting all pompous in being of them have read the history books in that Iron Banker even acknowledges that Euron's fleet assaulted it with dragons, but she doesn't choose the Iron Bank let's also address their scene in in one installment, the Iron Banker immediately symbols when looking at Cersei. Even though he since Dany has dragons. So he basically goes from this wallstreetbets trader who Yolo's all of their prior endeavor. Realistically, the Iron Banker back to Bravos and ride out the storm. In theory, then hand out a plethora of loans to kingdoms that the only argument she makes for supporting her is reign will be terrible economically. But like, I change in Westeros that would drastically affect Essos. However, The Iron Banker just automatically if she's as smart as Tywin. Which in of itself effective and effecient man but you appear to stupidity." In general, for the Iron Bank scenes, Company has zero impact on the narrative. They soldiers and nothing would change. So in order to and Dan compromise the intellect of the Iron Bank be a profitable endeavor. Which anyone with brain this war. Not even the Golden Company would come numbers between the two sides, let alone Dany also this out to rub some more salt in your wound, but the logistics of Stannis' side like that of food don't care about any of that anymore. It goes characters over others in terms of staying "I came down here to brood over my failure to I don't think anyone would have predicted that hilarious notion in this scene that Jon is ready to Winterfell. Like bro literally just bursted some random made-up enemy, and then left without but, what do you think was going to happen. This these characters into irrational idiots who come that Tyrion has to directly ask Jon if there's to mine dragon glass given that that was one of leave without even asking about it. Keep in mind up with great ideas while in the Night's Watch. give away any information about Castle Black, him decision he made while he was lord commander was who whines all the time is such an unfortunate nowhere. "You took my ship. I wouldn't say I took ooooOoooo a small council scene between Dany says that she lost two of her allies. stops existing. She technically didn't and took the throne with a violent coup. still angry at the Lannisters and still wants to I don't know, it's almost as if she has the means hmmmmm, I wonder what she should do. But yeah, the a non-factor from here on out is pure lunacy in because even in season 8 Dorne has to go out of support you guys by the way. Did you forget about Dany simply ghosts them and attacks Kingslanding "You've lost two brothers as well?" Well, that's Dan, I'm surprised that slipped past so many the past hundred years?" "uh, I'm not entirely easy question for an accomplished Maester to asking a historian an elementary level history Sansa also points out that these northerners aren't lining armor with leather. Which given you'd think that an armorer knowing this would and Dan are making the characters surrounding Yes, Sansa, you are so wise in pointing out this made. This is like giving a layup for a child baskets that's a foot off the ground. I'm also even entertain talking to Littlefinger like an for reasons. I guess David and Dan are trying status so that he can manipulate her again I'm sorry but you can't have it both ways. whose easily manipulated or someone who has out clear manipulations and general frauds. She show but somehow accepts Littlefinger's council the core foundation of her character and it's "I can never be lord of anything. I'm the that David and Dan essentially punted Bran in a but does this also means he lost all of he bring up the night she married Ramsay? is a travesty and I wish David and more compelling arc for him in season season is so jarring and confusing as to the Dany's council of clowns decides that she fleet because the story fundamentally wouldn't and easiest thing to do, but oh wait, you might happening are so extremely improbable given on the dragon, and more to the point that it to be the Prince who was Promised. It's even a dragon with a scorpion, let alone taking down a made even more hilarious given how fast Dany he had scorpions. She may as well just not have Rock by sending a squad of unsullied through a this same strategy for Kingslanding but I digress. to surprise attack Dany's armada once again. Euron somehow knows exactly what Daenerys let's actually analyze where these fleets have Euron is in Kingslanding delivering his high to go to Casterly Rock halfway through episode 2. around Westeros at the same time since the ships ambushed Yara. Not sure why they'd travel in two Unsullied like one and a half episodes to travel 20 minutes of screentime. The only way this would and Euron was piloting the Flying Dutchman and get to Casterly Rock before the Unsullied and it Insinuating that Euron was somehow coming from the a suez canal and you have to go around the whole David and Dan are clearly making this narrative receives another loss from Euron teleporting point is tame in comparison to what comes next. So the Lannister army, meets up with the Tarly's, Jaime was also at Kingslanding during the halfway mobilize an entire army and travel halfway across Dragon had the same pace as season 7, it would manifests an entire army at Highgardens doorstep sack the castle. Which is complete lunacy and not ask any questions here. In general, when it takes a very long time. You have to build your and constantly barrage the castle in the hopes assault the main gate it would be very difficult through this one wide shot of Highgarden, they're castle would be even harder. So what I'm getting ignoring this general basic tactic of taking down inside. What would actually happen here is that get into the castle and in the meantime, Olenna guess what? Dany happens to be able to quickly have the ability to destroy the entire army that's about this after the fact and Highgarden would long time. And they also probably have great years. So Jaime's plan here simply shouldn't expectant of two separate large forces teleporting with practically no resistance. "But fightings not known for being the most fearsome warriors. make a lot of sense." "We decided to cut to the David and Dan understand that the strength of the being besieged. That's why the Vale is regarded as it would instantly fall if the castle didn't have thought that watching an army besiege a castle that process from existence. Along with the notion time. This war has been getting built up for the far is very disappointing. But heyyy, Olenna and about how insane the writing was to actually Littlefinger gives Bran the iconic valryian to make great use of it. Imagine how insulting weapon and especially someone who idolized being insulting but Bran's brain is submerged in scene though, the much larger concerning Littlefinger that he knows what happened quoting something that Littlefinger said Littlefinger may not believe Bran's abilities be indicating that he has some kind of dirt comes of this especially since Littlefinger observant characters in the show is insane. the motivation? And how does this not elicit any be interpreting this as a threat and from here down some stairs which would be really funny, or Bran the drone dabs on Meera and her and Bran shamelessly quotes Jon Snow "I don't since they're already talking about Littlefinger it doesn't make any sense as to why Bran doesn't withholding this information services any kind interest to protect his sisters since they'll Night King; wink wink. So already in season to create this artificial and forced conflict should be screwed. Then we wouldn't have to sit and if you're thinking "but supercuts, then anymore" well to bad David and Dan completely season 5 and we're now sitting through some their being lots of conspiratorial plots in So they're putting all of their dice on the Jonny and Dan look at a bunch of scribbles on line in this scene. "Isn't their survival their survival more important than your channel Bran's powers in this scene but it's I get that David and Dan want to mirror Jon Dany somehow directly quotes Jon from season 5 you out of the show because it comes across as think they're being clever. "You still have the Cersei has taken all the food from the Reach." are a non-factor in the later seasons. In this Tyrion failing is because he could potentially be his family being on the other side. If I were this point especially since Tyrion is still Tyrion is much more spiteful and even hates Given that there's an entire gutting reveal that That version of his character where he just wants conflicting interest as he does in the show. be explored more and not instantly dropped For Arya and Brienne's little sparring but it's still pretty silly. I don't know if that Brienne and Arya are on the same level. but she clearly picks it up towards the end. whacked the Waif with a wooden stick while blind, somehow on the same level as Brienne of Tarth. sword with Needle as if that's actually doing service in that it's a silly fight scene that's "Your name is Jon Snow, but your father's Wait, what? Missendei, who can speak over concept of a bastard is. A part of learning culture behind it. So her not knowing about her character. I guess David and Dan think wanted to have a surface-level scene where Huhhhhh ok let's tackle the Loot Train Attack. this is probably the most reasonable even though questions are: how does Dany have enough ships after losing the vast majority of her fleet? How there aren't any scouts? And it's definitely to Kingslanding right before Dany attacks. So I don't understand why she needs to lead with decimate the Lannisters with her dragon alone when they're in complete tatters, the Dothraki can of life. It seems like the only reason why it's Dan probably didn't want Dany to be shooting fish more exciting with the Dothraki attacking right to commit to that, then I don't understand why she soldiers. Instead, she for some reason destroys desperately need. She just lost Highgarden and as any food. So Dany should theoretically need as over like 50,000 soldiers and 3 dragons. I doubt in her ships for that long and this should be a treat food as an afterthought and they gave the Lannisters obviously get rocked and everything into concrete. I said this before in one of my Jaime running away from this fight out of fear and the most with his upcoming redemption arc and feeling guilty and wanting to redeem himself by just leave Cersei because he technically made a reason. By not doing this and throwing Jaime that in turn should breed consequences. Either in his place or this is the death of Jaime. Which Jaime still getting out of this scenario is armor and Bronn somehow swims him all the way down Goblet of Fire. The writing here is so unabashedly is. And it's even more annoying given that there going back to Bronn, I personally feel like this love him, but he doesn't service the story at 8 to go on vacation. So instead of ending receiving Highgarden which is just so baffling, Jaime. Then Tyrion would actually feel immense best friends. Further pushing his character to a there are no consequences and the fan-favorite Episode 5, time to assemble the avengers. trendy and I guess doesn't realize that this is surprising to say the least and there's not about Dickon as a character. But from the this feels like a forced way to create Jaime and Cersei have an argument about their and the archmaester decides to not tell Samwell that we can have that reveal in season 8. So the major scene of note is obviously a wight and presenting it to Cersei. There's but right away it's absurd that no one actually Jon just kind of shrugs it off and the most likely greatly overwhelm their raiding party resulting of doing this, then surely Jon wouldn't go on Jon insisting on going makes no sense and his only so he has experience, but like, that's not really them before so he could fill in everyone else. It this big mission because he's the main character. Like I get that Jon's courageous, but anyone with are practically non-existent. Especially since one of Dany's dragons if shit goes sideways. Which where the army is and then go and scoop up a by far the most rational plan that doesn't risk on this expedition. But heyyy, just like the loot so were going to dumb it down for the sake of and criticizing the show and enjoy Drogon before going into the other glaring issue, I love for thousands of years presumably. I need to go I don't know why everyone just assumes that the the wall but whatever. Then the last main issue everyone fight the dead. Looking at this situation a position where no matter what she does in the out of nowhere, there's now a chance she'll win cripple Dany's side, while also giving her more scorpions is literally perfect for her. Why on This is only a brief armistice and after The fighting her. The only benefit of helping everyone or maybe at best gets exiled somewhere when she at all comparable to basically having a fresh this war to begin with is already incredibly her odds of winning skyrockets is laughable. his sister in that she'll do anything to win. actually worked then I think Cersei had a clear and David and Dan taketh. "Like many of these out is Tyrion." Ah yeah, David he sure did figure Arya councils Sansa to behead the northern lords her is apparently an insult to Jon. She also introduces the notion that Sansa is going to completely baseless and conspiratorial, and that's been showing loyalty to Jon. "You're very kind Sansa wants to betray Jon because as a child no nuance involved in this whole situation Tyrion and Davos show up to Kingslanding and we at least got one dialogue scene between these Given that these two characters share some rich of the Blackwater battle. Of all the character interesting dialogue like Tyrion apologizing for him, maybe Tyrion filling in Davos about what unconscious early on, "To be honest, I was drunk advisors to the two most prominent figures much you can write between them that can be so Dan leave out these types of in-depth dialogue seasons. Some of which were original Dan aren't really trying with the writing This is a bit of a nitpick, but I don't know how set up a meeting with Jaime. Qyburn absorbed shouldn't have that network intact anymore since is just doing things off-screen because he's Davos references a viral meme which is um jarring goldcloaks is secretly an actor all the way disloyal and chooses to do nothing about it own even though he struck down two idle people reading about a secret annulment for Prince least. *sam having a breakdown* Sam also leaves this is the end of episode 5. So Sam going all which essentially spans the entire continent "Isn't it your job to talk him out of a character who admits that the plan is clearly seemingly no reason. Is everyone drinking Glidus many people are blindly just going along with It feels like David and Dan are deleting so that they unquestionably follow along baffling how many people plainly accept this Alrighty, it's time for Beyond the Wall. Arguably sheer volume of terribly written moments. If this show being good or at least decent, then you. "Smart people don't come up here looking for butt heads since Littlefinger led Arya to a letter bend the knee. The fact that this single letter to sabotage her sister is incredibly forced. Sansa also the added benefit of this possibly helping since they were planning on sparing Ned until not like this letter led to anything of major letter because it was most definitely tampered then I could see Arya's frustration here but fact that David and Dan are entirely basing this I feel like even the northern lords would because like who cares. Also, for Arya's character Sansa when they were younger, but carrying this is extremely contrived. I just don't understand and it feels like David and Dan are writing for if Sansa was using any form of critical thinking, that Arya would randomly find this letter in the in general and he's the only one who knows absurd is that Sansa doesn't even question how or brings it up later when talking to Littlefinger get it?" "I don't know." hehe, I don't know. She I find it hilarious that David and Dan keep do nothing but contradict that statement with Were also treated to the luxury of having surely these aren't overflowing with problems. believe me." I mean, you seem to be putting a One may say way too much trust. "Which war you'll need to be ruthless if you're going degree of fear..." Dany's councilors are even can she be ruthless and inspire a degree of practically nothing that endangers the lives' of a trap for Cersei and I honestly wouldn't think alive for free in the dragon pit. She should in Kingslanding so I'd assume no one would her. If the common folk don't care about Cersei then I highly doubt anyone would care about at the dragon pit. "One could be forgiven for this debate." "I am taking their side." Just Going back over to Jon's entourage, there's how do they know where to go. They seemingly the mountain that the hound saw in a vision even confide with Bran about where to go but sure they know where to go. Some to which they run into an undead bear. I don't roaming around if wights in general are if one of them turned the bear then wouldn't army? Why is he just moseying around with no way to have this encounter happen since David with having an action scene with an undead bear. also the bear can fucking teleport since it's at him from the side like 3 seconds later. So and David and Dan don't care about logic for the "I don't know her anymore." "Perhaps Lady Brienne of kinslaying, nothing to see here. Also, there'd reason to do so and the second she has any whiff probably just kill him on the spot. But the that Sansa is actually contemplating the idea of It's literally been two episodes and she's already a writing standpoint. These characters are jumping short time frame and so not only is this subplot my sister found a letter that's not even that killing her I guess. Good idea Littlefinger, Littlefinger's perspective, what is he going to do getting Sansa to kill Arya succeeds? Oh hey Jon, our beloved sister and don't worry you'd totally Jon would immediately execute Littlefinger The gang luckily finds a patrol of undead, which point can actually work. But the even more the white walker, it doesn't eradicate all of the easily capture even though it should be presumed white walker. So David and Dan are clearly doing killing white walkers erasing all of the wights want to have it both ways where they establish this wight screams and alerts the nearby army of to Eastwatch because he's the fastest. But like, suddenly stating that Gendry is the fastest? Gendry has never been in a cold climate before. majority of his life. So his personal endurance Arguably, picking Gendry would be the worst person be sending Tormund or one of his men because resistant to running in arctic temperatures. "I the wall then I could buy this, but they've spent snow. These characters should be exhausted and it It's purely insane that there was no backup plan they didn't bring a raven with them to send for is able to run back to Eastwatch, send a raven the way to where they are in the span of like a literally been teleporting across the continent, look at that, there's a frozen lake with a next to our characters when they start getting can you possibly survive that situation? That they basically just admitted that this is all The episode has barely started and were already at even function. So our characters get surrounded they can't swim because that would mean all the whole ice breaking point is so inconsistently but later on when they get swarmed, it doesn't from later in the episode and we can clearly there are multiple wights standing in one break when it did before. So now David and Dan Tyrion advises Dany to let everyone die on this because the undead should theoretically have dragon. The risk assessment for Dany going and Tyrion acting like she's going to die is important allies die after I spent the whole what? Which to be fair, it's crazy that with, with also no back-up plan. This is oddly Dorne where he was just improvising. It seems like coming up with rational plans that are based in and for there to be more conflict. However, when The hound peppers the undead with some rocks that it's fully frozen and is ready to walk because getting swarmed by a wave of undead it seems like each character receives a slow conga there's a sea of undead attacking them. Like shots show hundreds of wights on top of them and Then there's your unfortunately usual plot armor behind by a wight. Instead of ya know, getting a bunch of wights while our main characters don't Like his face should be split open from sustaining also gets hugged by four wights who should be with there seemingly being like dozens of wights When another extra gets swarmed he's instantly a sustained struggle that lasted about half a wights piling up behind the rock structure would broke the ice? Ahhh good times. It would also under Tormund considering that there's 4 wights on into straight rock to hold up all this weight. our heroes die and saves them. I'm starting to have happened and I think smoke is starting to Jon for some reason get's carried away and he's on a sweet killing spree and is trying to get I can see David and Dan doing this is that they left behind and is rescued by Benjen. So that they was definitely written differently in which, gets sniped. But then, David and Dan must have of working his character into the story in a much Jon at the end. I have an idea of how to better potential future video idea. So the Night King been mind boggling to me is why the Night King much easier target given that he's stationary is closer, and has a bunch of prominent characters basically means that the other two dragons would to control them. They'd probably just go back to the aspect of Drogon being a much bigger dragon, to why it'd be much better to kill Drogon, but if the most logical path is taken. Which if your it probably needs a dire re-write. Having that minutes is really telling about how little David Jon gets tackled into ice water by some wights seconds of screen-time. Which that's screentime considering that most of the wights vacate the that Jon probably held his breath for about and we also need to take into account that he was was sinking down. So he definitely wasn't and would most likely drown. This also isn't even that were grappled onto him. So he was winded, had and he miraculously had enough air in his lungs to that's clearly bullshit. I doubt Jon has ever way he's basically Tom Cruise in this instance. character, but if you were presumed dead and the common sense to continue lying on the ground start moving. Instead, Jon immediately gets up and the constant frequency of dumb shit happening. with non-stop atrocious writing decisions. The this happened was so that when Jon gets saved by itself is another insane plot point but at this seem like minor writing infractions with all at us. Don't ask how Uncle Benjen was even aware when saving Bran he had to be summoned. Also, on the horse but now for some reason can't hold probably don't even consider from how mentally main character is saved in deus-ex-machina fashion that's been done before and David and Dan must To make things worse, were treated to another Arya Dan you're spoiling us. Instead of talking threatening to kill her sister and then leaving, The completely wild thing here is that Arya is than literal Lannister soldiers. Let that sink psychopathic character type and she really wasn't but her humanity and willingness to be Arya come across as this insanely cold person before actress and defied this entire organization that rogue to stand up for what was right and refused Frey in an unsettling manner, but I feel like Along with that being one of her biggest goals. psychopathic towards her sister feels completely and exaggerating their childish feud from season So like a lot of characters this season, outside agenda of serving the story in a very Dany decides to wait at the wall for Jon, but died in front of her eyes. Realistically she'd wouldn't have this love scene where she's happy he Oh and then the Night King randomly has these of funny that this is the one thing that but like, at this point, I'm so worn down has been that this doesn't elicit any kind of most from the fandom given the amount We finally made it to episode 7 and uh yeah, it's Unsullied at Kingslanding. It seems like David that the Unsullied were completely cut off and but it feels kind of weird to not even touch on instead, they just show up at Kingslanding. so David and Dan are teleporting this army Definitely the signs of a healthy and consistent this reaction from Jaime is hilarious which is the Mountain to kill everyone if violence dumb question. "Why did they build it. Missendei literally was there with Daenerys when floor and should be aware of the dangers of freely exactly why a dragon pit is necessary in that a pattern is forming in which David and Dan character whose primary function is starting more natural ways by just talking about it in a Everyone arrives to the dragon pit and one of that if he doesn't submit he'll kill Yara. would be setting up some kind of big conflict there's also the whole extended scene of Theon So the fact that we actively spend quite a bit no pay off is fundamentally bad writing. The only David and Dan having a bigger plot point that 8 that they ended up scrapping. Most likely Euron's big fight being between him and I feel by the fact that Euron materializes in it's really rare when a story is very clearly the payoff. These are basic story fundamentals Sandor brings out the wight and plops the wight chooses to not immediately explode out seems like a pretty clear manipulation of logic that just from a small knock earlier, the wight obviously surprised by this encounter and Qyburn Too bad that this doesn't result in anything character who apparently is only making scorpions. character is him cooking up some new experiments But we don't have time for that. "Can they swim?" note in this scene is Cersei asking Jon to not help. Now, already, Dany greatly outnumbers Euron Greyjoy just bailed on Cersei and best option is to agree to this because to put war. The Tarly's are already decimated and she If she really needs more troops then all she has Dornish army. And with how fast infantry move show up to Kingslanding within an episode. So I back down from supporting Dany, but with simple Dany needs his army way less than they need greatly redundant in sacking Kingslanding anyways. will just default to going back to supporting to his intellectual brilliance picks a path with of her character and says screw loyalty and asks everyone rightfully makes fun of Jon for being an saying that he should go privately talk to Cersei. said this season and there's a lot of competition talk to his sister because he's a master at words position that's un-comebackable since Jon clearly But sure Tyrion, I'm sure you'll be able to north even though she despises you. Is her wanting does Tyrion know for certain that Cersei won't we entirely forgetting that Cersei put a bounty on courageous here, but just like the expedition the extremely miniscule chance of this turning when we can instead get a confrontation between boost the ratings. "I'm about to step into a room already tried to murder me twice, that I know laid us bare for the vultures, and vultures you did weaponize and gave the vultures immunity in your face. But I guess she's manipulating the this scene, I don't really know what Tyrion's arguing, Tyrion goads her into killing him, like he drank all of her wine, and then he moans and which the scene immediately ends. Wow what a great characters in the show. This was definitely on dialogue scenes in the earlier seasons. "I can't country the moment I march north." I'm confused. north to fight the dead, then why doesn't she that case. Like wouldn't it be realistic for the north and then betray whoever is garrisoned some reason since we never hear about The Twins seems to stay in Kingslanding the whole time and elephants. She sure is on the same level as Tywin from a writing standpoint basing an entire finale inconsequential. This is also made worse from the can basically remove this entire finale within that's terrible. The only reason David and Dan the Night King a dragon. And as we saw earlier, rational reason for that to realistically happen, "He's pledged to fight for Daenerys Targaryen. making allies. That's literally what he said he why getting Dany's help from here on out is such is way more hesitant towards Dany, even though but when it comes to Littlefinger, she trusts him He can be unnamed." What does Littlefinger have room because now he's even suggesting removing saying she should kill Arya, I genuinely think any pushback. And what has he even done to win of the Bastards because she still despised him at this season. So seemingly off-screen Littlefinger with Sansa and strengthened it to a point that statements without her batting an eye. "Sometimes I play a little game." SHUT UP. Does this the idea that Arya wants to be Lady of if Sansa paid any attention to who her sister Littlefinger was bullshitting her. What makes in their last dialogue scene. "I wanted to be go off to battle." So unless Sansa was zoned out or in general knowing her aspirations growing up manipulation. Not to mention that Arya has been should be the exact moment where Sansa finally knows her sister more than he does. However, to where Bran bails them out and clearly spells this writing choice, how the hell can Sansa she can't even overcome this extremely easy this huge walking contradiction and David what they want her to be. Of all the characters hardest. And going into this analysis I honestly her scenes have been so tragic from a writing Theon and Jon surprisingly have a solid of forgot that Theon doesn't have balls, and the perfect analogy for this scene is a train multiple seasons until finally exploding in this these are the consequences for the batshit insane character. Really the only annoying aspect is and Dan withhold showing us Bran telling Sansa this plays out as expected and the only Royce would be mad at Sansa for lying about Lysa by Littlefinger initially, but she has had him. If I were in his position I'd find this held on to this grievous lie for so long. So that matter being suggested towards Sansa point of there being no realistic inner points of it's true. But I learn." I don't think it's all season until Bran comes in at the last second at a basic assignment for hours until the the toddler gets happy because they think they feel like this scene is supposed to be a victory sympathy for Littlefinger's character getting Cersei reveals her master plan this is definitely her best shot at winning the doesn't realize that there's even a semblance of Jaime says that he promised to fight for the happens. Unless if that happened off-screen, Jaime I don't feel like it's really that bad to lie feels as though he's more in the right to carry rather than fulfilling her personal goal. So he thinks he's in the right. I think writing this to go because that's the right thing to do, be much better. Some of that is in play here put the emphasis on Jaime being locked in by this character motivated. Another puzzling thing in comes across as being contradictory. If she wanted back. That's an easy way to further alienate him declaring that there's no longer any trust in is that he conspired behind her back, but right Cersei about it. And he wasn't even the one who So it was nothing malicious by any means and acting like he already committed treason. Her now surprising and feels forced to push these to argue with Jaime that her plan is the winning future in which they can live a happy life and to not do that and I guess Cersei is hoping that him will scare him into staying loyal to her. If she refuses to kill Tyrion then I feel like overall scene though, it's not a bad direction for Let's finally address the love relationship of this season, it comes across as being rushed. properly bonded together in more intimate dialogue of these characters disliked each other, Jon has with tension and then right after this in the much charged with lust and romance. So that feels spends on this island, you'd think that David and to bridge this gap and to make their relationship write a more personal scene where they all and inviting environment, they discover aspects there's no time for that, and this deep and off-screen. Like by episode 5, it's Dany is worried about Jon's wellbeing, but scenes together. So yeah, it definitely Clarke and Kit Harrington are doing some major Arya and Sansa have one last dialogue scene and extremely convenient because Arya throughout the of Winterfell and was actively floating this after the Littlefinger debacle, she completely control, but it wasn't like Littlefinger was That was her mindset from the beginning and doesn't mean that everything else should we must protect ourselves. Look after one considering that she spent most of her time Then the last scene is the Night King destroying issue here is the timing of this event sooner. Considering that, all of our heroes then from Kingslanding to Dragonstone, they spent and then they went their merrily way to White the Night King, in that same amount of time, the wall. This basically implies that the nothing for weeks while everyone has been jetting it makes absolute sense to end on this plot And were finally done. This was basically a feels like Season 7 of Game of Thrones is far think the plot has gone off the rails as insanely example. There are issues in HOTD season 2 and season review. Thank you so much for watching till letterboxd links in the description. As always,