- No matter what anybody says, persuasion is an art, When I hear questions like, &quot;What's the one best way tell a story, or change people's minds?&quot; the answer is usually, it depends. I need to hear a lot more about and other specifics to There are no hacks or tricks The internet is filled that only special people know, I suggest you abandon all hope of finding some top secret because persuasion, communication skills are not dictated by fixed rules or tricks that always work like chemistry. We all build these skills over time through practice, repetition, just like anything else in life. And yes, to be clear, there There are tips that'll save I teach those on my but they are guidelines, and just like any other art, the way you apply these guidelines to each unique situation will vary. The creation of every presentation is filled with decisions Ultimately, every communicator has to look at the unique conditions and decide what the most And the way we describe that in the field of rhetoric and persuasion is to look at what we call the, quote, available means of which I'll tell you Here are four quick make more persuasive decisions. First, learn as much as before you draft your message. We call this audience analysis. You're never really speaking so what do your specific What do they value and What problems do they wanna solve? Do your homework so your message speaks to their specific interests. Second, learn as much as you can about the occasion for the presentation. What's your audience expecting? Why are they there listening to you? Is this just one of that they're gonna be Are they expecting to come or are they expecting Third, decide what you People call this your ask. By the end of the presentation, how do you want your listeners to either think differently Usually, at the end of there's some kind of call to action that your message is building toward. So if you figure out what before you draft your message, everything else in your message can build persuasive Your call to action should be a natural It should be the next logical step. Fourth, here's a supersized tip. Once you have good answers then you have to make those decisions that we've been talking about in terms of the available Again, this is just a starting place, but, A, you have to make choices about how to appeal to your In the business, we call this logos. People need to be convinced So what type of data, facts, statistics, and other research driven support can you include in your message to help change listeners' What information can you include that'll speak to their problems that we mentioned earlier? B, how can you best appeal We call this pathos. How can you bring your message to life in a way that reaches their hearts? What stories can you tell? What type of before and can you share with them? And don't just tell your favorite stories, tell stories and share examples that speak to your listeners' lives. Stories that will resonate with them and where they wanna be. C, how can you best We call this ethos. That's about your What can you tell them about that you're the right person to listen to? What real world experiences do you have? What common ground do you And how can you show that and have goodwill toward them? These three elements, are the typical starting place where we talk about that phrase, the available means of persuasion. You look at all that we talked about in the first three tips, and if you have any hope you have to use what you to max out the way you appeal and demonstrate your own credibility as a person worth listening to. But here's the key to all of this. The answers to all those from presentation to presentation. There's no one best The initial answer is always, it depends. Persuasion is an art, not a science. Be sure to download the free PDF about the seven ways to make And no, these are not seven secrets, but they will show you instead of using a trial I'll put a link to that in the expandable Until next time, thanks, God