- Welcome to The Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [bright music] I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today we're talking all about sleep and how to optimize your sleep. This is a topic we've covered in the episode called &quot;Master Your Sleep.&quot; However, since the airing of that episode, there's been some terrific I've also received thousands, yes, literally thousands of questions related to the specific as well as in the episode And while today's episode is not specifically about we are going to cover tools that will allow you to shift your schedule if you need to for work or travel, and we will also cover tools that will allow you to fall back asleep if you happen to wake up or if you get a poor night's sleep, how to actually recover from that poor night's sleep more quickly, and yes, indeed, even replace So today's episode is going to be filled with practical tools. We will touch on some of but it's really designed for optimizing your sleep depending on your specific sleep needs. Various times throughout today's episode, I will refer to studies that that I'll be describing. But whereas most of the tend to be deep scientific scientific mechanism, then tools, today I'm mainly going to that anyone, indeed, all in order to optimize their sleep. Why should everybody want and put considerable effort Well, put simply, sleep is the foundation of mental health, physical health, and performance of all kinds, cognitive performance, physical It also controls things wound healing, our skin whether or not we can whether or not we will live as long as we possibly can or not, whether or not we suffer from dramatic age-related In other words, whether or not I could go on and on about all the terrible things if they don't sleep well. Thanks to the great work at University of California, Berkeley, and the wonderful book that I think the world is largely onboard now that sleep is critical to our health, our mental health, our physical but what's not often discussed that is, how much more and how positive our mood gets, when we are sleeping for the at the appropriate depth and when we are doing that regularly. Basically everything in life gets better when we're sleeping well. So today I'm going to teach you the tools that will allow you to That is, get to sleep and stay asleep, fall back asleep if you wake and adjust your sleep given the various life demands I'm pleased to announce that is now partnered with We partnered with Momentous First of all, they ship internationally, because we know that outside of the United States. That's valuable. Second of all, and perhaps most important, the quality of their both in terms of purity and precision of the Third, we've really emphasized supplements that are single-ingredient supplements and that are supplied in dosages that allow you to build a that's optimized for cost, that's optimized for effectiveness, and that you can add things and remove things from your protocol in a way that's really This is really hard to do if you're taking blends or if the dosages are such or that is, adjust the So by using single-ingredient supplements, you can really build that's ideal for you If you'd like to see the supplements that we partner with Momentous on, you can go to livemomentous.com/huberman. There you'll see those supplements. And just keep in mind that the library of supplements on a regular basis. Again, that's livemomentous.com/huberman. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and It is, however, part to bring zero-cost-to-consumer information about science and science-related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is InsideTracker. InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better meet your health goals. I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that impact your immediate can only be analyzed from And nowadays, with the you can also get insight into, for instance, what and compare that to And, of course, your biological age is really the age that counts. The problem with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there, however, is that you get information back about the levels of metabolic factors, lipids, hormones, et cetera, but you don't know what to InsideTracker makes that They have a personalized platform. So this is a web portal where you can go, you'll see the numbers from and then it will tell you, for instance, how you could adjust various or your exercise or supplementation in order to bring those numbers into the ranges that are best for you. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of That's insidetracker.com/huberman Today's episode is also Eight Sleep makes smart mattress covers with cooling, heating, and It turns out that your body temperature and your ability to fall and stay asleep are very closely related. If your body does not drop you are simply not going or stay in deep sleep. And waking up, it also turns out, is related to body temperature. Every time you wake up in the morning, your body is warming up and this has an enormous number and other cascades that not just to what happens while you sleep, but your health and your energy and focus throughout the day. Eight Sleep is an incredible device. It's one that I've been and it's completely transformed my sleep. And I already thought I The way it works is that you according to different So for instance, you if you tend to run warm and that will help you and then toward morning, you can have the mattress programmed or, I should say, the so that you warm up your and you wake up when you want to wake up. If you've been sleeping pretty well but waking up in the middle of the night, you might also find that by cooling your mattress even further toward the middle of your sleep about, well, you'll stay in If you'd like to try Eight Sleep, you can go to eightsleep.com/huberman to check out the Pod Pro Cover and save $150 at checkout. Eight Sleep currently ships within the US, Canada, Again, that's eightsleep.com/huberman to save $150 at checkout. Today's episode is also LMNT is an electrolyte drink in order to get your brain and but none of the things you don't, in particular, sugar. Electrolytes are vitally important to the way that your neurons, and, indeed, to the way that all the cells of your body work. But your nervous system and your neurons particularly depend on electrolytes because you need the electrolytes, sodium, magnesium, and potassium, in the proper ratios, in order for those nerve cells to fire what are called action potentials, which are the electrical signals that allow your neurons to work and to allow you to do everything from remembering information to moving your muscles deliberately. When you exercise, or even if you don't, you can get quite low on electrolytes, especially on a hot day. You can get dehydrated. There are lot of different ways to replenish your fluids and electrolytes and there are a lot of different electrolyte drinks out there, but many of them contain a lot of sugar. And some of those that don't have the proper ratios of sodium, magnesium, and potassium. If you'd like to try LMNT, you can go to drinklmnt, to claim a free LMNT Sample Pack with your first purchase. Again, that's drinklmnt.com/huberman to claim a free sample pack. Let's talk about sleep and I want you to conceptualize yourself as contained within a room that has only very few windows What do I mean by this? Well, your brain and your whether or not you move or don't move. They control whether or or you're not digesting food. They control whether or not happy or sad, et cetera. All of that stuff that is housed inside your That might seem pretty obvious, but what that means is that to feel alert and focused, ready to move and or if your brain body are going well, that brain and body to determine when to do And those cues and inputs arrive through a defined set of but you can also think of The main levers and tools to control when you are and to get better sleep every single night are light, literally could be from sunlight, could we will discuss those as well as darkness. That is the absence of light. So we've got light and dark. Those are two very powerful tools to encourage your nervous system to be in one state or another, meaning awake or asleep. Temperature is another tool or lever. Turns out that when your you have a greater tendency In fact, every night your body is dropping and that drop in temperature is required. It's like a gate that your in order for you to get into sleep. And in fact, the converse is also true. If your body heats up by you will wake up. So you've got light, And when we say food, we mean what we eat, when we eat, and the amount that we eat. Okay, so light, dark, And of course, exercise We can do cardiovascular exercise that can be low-intensity, It can be high intensity, so-called high intensity It could be weight It could be swimming, any But exercise, in general, causes an increase in body temperature and tends to make us more alert, not just during the exercise, but in the immediate Exercise does some other things that relate to our sleep as well and we'll talk about those today and how you can leverage them. Another potent lever for adjusting your sleepiness This, of course, comes but why and how caffeine works Very briefly, we have a molecule in our body called adenosine and the longer we have been awake, the more adenosine builds and adenosine is part of the Caffeine effectively operates It works by basically occupying So it's a little bit of But basically all you need to know is that caffeine prevents That's one of the reasons why But how much caffeine we drink and when we drink caffeine turns for adjusting our wakefulness and for optimizing our sleep. So we'll talk about that as well. The other category of lever or tools which are immensely powerful are supplements. There now exist as many as that can powerfully modulate and that have huge margins for safety. So we're going to talk about In previous episodes of this podcast and as a guest on other podcasts, I've talked about three magnesium threonate, which together can really enhance the speed at which one falls asleep and people's ability to stay asleep and to really get into that are particularly restorative. Today we're going to about each of those three and how they can best but we are also going to touch that I have not talked about Things like glycine and Many people are going to and of particular use to them, especially if they're following or if they are fasting before sleep or just trying to avoid and yet they're having a Inositol also turns out for people who have a tendency to wake up in the middle of the night and have a hard time falling back asleep. It also has some interesting on anxiety throughout the day. So we're going to talk about And then last in our list of levers and tools for optimizing sleep are digital tools. Now, when we say digital tools, I don't necessarily mean devices. What I mean are things like These are zero-cost that take your body through and that can help people both fall back asleep, and And also going to talk about digital tools related to self-hypnosis. This is distinctly different So I know some of you hear oh, you know, people and doing things that are That's not at all what I'm talking about clinically that have been shown to to fall and stay asleep and that can get you So again, to recap the we've got light and dark, and that includes the intensity of light, the timing of light, et cetera. We've got temperature. We have food. We have exercise, caffeine, not just limited to devices, but zero-cost tools that and elsewhere in various apps that can really help So today we're going to I really want to provide you give you the logic behind and when and how best to apply them so that you can develop the sleep toolkit that's ideal for your sleep needs. As we head into our description of tools for optimizing sleep, let's consider what the would look like. Let's start this 24-hour cycle with when you wake up in the morning. So for some of you, that will be 5:00 a.m. For others of you, that will be 10:00 a.m. Most people, I believe, wake up sometime between 6:30 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. But regardless of when you one of the first things that happens is that your body and that's just going to happen naturally. Some of it is going to be the consequence of your moving around a bit, but really the increase is one of the main triggers for why you woke up in the first place. That increase in body temperature in the release of a Cortisol is often discussed but it's not just associated with stress. It also enhances your immune system provided cortisol is and the right time for is when you first wake up in the morning. That increase in cortisol is also going to increase metabolism. It's also going to increase and for you to move your body. So again, cortisol is often demonized and consider this bad thing. And indeed, you don't want cortisol to be chronically or consistently elevated throughout the day or night. But you do want cortisol to right about the time you wake up. One way that you can ensure that that cortisol peak right about the time that you wake up is to view bright light, within the first 30 to That's right, view bright sunlight within the first 30 to I'll get into all the caveats about what happens if you what if you live in the or people claim there is no sun. Hate to tell you this, folks, We'll talk about all that. But everybody, whether or not or a sunny place, whether or not there's should really strive to get ideally from sunlight, within the first 30 to The reason for that is very simple. You want to trigger that cortisol increase to occur very early in your day, and you don't want that which is what will happen if you wait to get The reason for this is that you have a set of They're called melanopsin cells, but you do not need to know that name. Those neurons respond and especially right after they are best able to that reside over the roof of your mouth called the suprachiasmatic nucleus, which is a cluster of neurons that then sends a huge electrical and chemical, out to your entire body that triggers that cortisol increase, provides a wake-up signal and sets in motion a timer for you to fall asleep later that night. So again, we're not trying to go into too much mechanism today. We are trying to really hammer on tools and I'll substantiate those tools just a bit with some mechanism. But here's what you do, or I wake up in the morning and but I know that even if I were on that phone screen, it's not bright enough to and for me to be at my throughout the day and to optimize my sleep at night. So what I do is I get out And if it's a bright, clear day and the sun is low in the sky or the sun is, you know, what we call low solar angle, then I know I'm getting If there's cloud cover I also know I'm doing a good thing because it turns out, you want to get outside and get as much light energy But let's say it's a very clear day and I can see where the sun is. I do not need to stare If it's very low in the because it's not going to However, if the sun is and a little bit higher in the sky, sometimes it could be painful to look at. So the way to get this sunlight is to look toward the sun. If it's too bright to look at directly, well, then don't do that. You just look toward it, It's absolutely fine to blink. In fact, I encourage you to blink whenever you feel the impulse to blink. Never look at any light, that's so bright that 'cause you can damage your eyes. But for this morning sunlight viewing, it's best to not wear sunglasses, that's right, to not wear sunglasses, at least for this It is absolutely fine to wear so-called corrective lenses. In fact, those will serve you well in this practice or this tool because they will focus the and onto those melanopsin intrinsically photosensitive If your eyeglasses or contact lenses have UV protection, that's okay. There's so many different coming from the sun and they are bright enough that they will trigger the mechanisms that you want triggered So try and get outside, ideally within the first or maybe it's 15 minutes, but certainly within the I want to share with you about this tool of First of all, this is not This is grounded in the There are literally of quality peer-reviewed papers showing that light is the most powerful stimulus for wakefulness throughout the day and it has a powerful, positive impact on your ability to fall So this is really the for ensuring a great night's sleep and for feeling more awake during the day. Second of all, if you wake you can, and probably should, in your internal home or wherever you happen to live if your goal is to be awake, right? If you wake up at four in the morning and you need to be awake, well, then turn on artificial lights. Once the sun is out, however, once the sun has risen, then you still want to get Some of you will wake up And if you're asking whether or not turning on artificial lights can replace sunlight at those hours, unfortunately, the answer is no. Unless you have a very special light, and we'll talk about what kind of light, the bright artificial lights are not, I repeat, are not to turn on the cortisol mechanism and the other wake-up mechanisms that you need early in the day. The diabolical twist, however, is that those lights in or even on your phone are bright enough to disrupt your sleep if you look at them too late at night or in the middle of the night. So there's this asymmetry in and in our brain's biology, whereby early in the you need a lot of light, a lot of photons, a lot of light energy, and artificial lights what you need them to accomplish. But at night, even a little can really mess up your your 24-hour clocks, and all these mechanisms So if you wake up before the please turn on as many as you possibly can or need, but then get outside once the sun is out. On cloudy days, you especially I repeat, on cloudy days, overcast days, you especially need to get You just need to get more of it. Now, how much light and how This is going to vary literally where you live on earth, whether or not there's whether or not you're somebody or less sensitive eyes. It's really impossible for me to give an absolute prescriptive, but we can give some general guidelines. In general, on a clear day, meaning no cloud cover you want to get this sunlight for about five minutes or so. Could be three minutes one day, could be seven minutes the next day, about five minutes. On a day where there's cloud cover, so the sun is just or it's more dense cloud cover, you want to get about 10 to your eyes early in the day. And on days that are or maybe even are rainy, you're going to want to get of sunlight exposure. Another key thing is do not, forget about, just don't try and get through a windshield of a car or a window, whether or not it's tinted or otherwise. It takes far too long. It's simply not going to You would be standing there all day trying to get enough light into your eyes from the morning sunlight and by then the sun from low solar angle to overhead and it simply won't work related to your circadian So just don't try and do it through a windshield, It's just not going to work. Get outside. If the weather is really bad or for whatever reason, safety reasons, you cannot get outside, well, then I suppose try That would be the last, last resort. But you really want to get outside to get this sunlight exposure. Now, if you live in a part of the world where it's extremely dark and overcast or the weather won't let you outside or you live in a cave that does not allow any for whatever reason, well, then you're going for that sunlight. And there are sunlight that you can purchase. Those are quite expensive in general and therefore I suggest cheaper options that work just as well because they get just as bright. Things like ring lights that are sold in order for people to take A drawing LED tablet I actually have one of those and I put it on my desk all morning even though I still get first thing in the morning, again, also, especially, I We do not have any affiliation to any ring lights or LED So we will provide a link to if you want to explore I don't know what people's I don't know where people live. I just know that many in locations throughout the world where, for instance, during the winter, it gets very, very dark, so they can't get sufficient sunlight. But get that morning light, and take into account that I've given you here. And, I should say, enjoy this practice. It's really nice to get outside and get this sunlight. In fact, when you start doing this, you'll notice that your body will start to feel more energized and it will feel more You'll actually start to notice this mechanism especially if you're paying So enjoy this practice of getting outside. Yes, you can take your Yes, you can take your dog with you. In fact, animals intuitively know to get this morning sunlight. They actually seek it out We human beings need to be told by podcasters and other people about the science that supports Our pets apparently do not. But get outside alone or with somebody, with your kids, with your dog. However you go about this practice, make sure you do this practice at least 80% of the days of your life. That's right. If you miss a day, for instance, you're bedridden for a day, try and get next to a window. Let's say you are traveling, or for whatever reason, you are not able to get outside well, then try to get twice or I should say extend the duration of sunlight viewing in the morning for twice as long the following day. This is a slow, integrative mechanism that underlies this whole thing of wakefulness during the day and sleep at night due to sunlight viewing and if you miss a day, you can but you have to get twice as much light or twice as much duration of light. If you really want to get technical and you really want to measure how much light is in your environment, you can download a free app, and that will allow your phone to act as a bit of a light meter. It'll give you a pretty of how many lux, which is are in your environment in the morning. And in general, that's just for evaluating your environments. Here's what I suggest you do. Wake up in the morning, take Light Meter, point it at the brightest and take a measurement, and what you'll probably find Now go outside and if and there's cloud cover, point it at the sky and press that button. You can actually hold it down and it'll give you a dynamically And what you'll find sometimes even 90,000 lux, even though you don't experience and that's because an is very concentrated whereas the sunlight is very diffuse. But it's that diffuse, that photon energy, that you really want that's going to set all the in the proper way. Not just that cortisol peak, but it's going to trigger it's going to set a timer for you to be able to fall asleep and on and on and on. And I should mention within it's also going to suppress any melatonin, a hormone that makes you sleepy that happens to be swimming at the time you wake up. It does a number of other things too, including interact with and kind of wash out some of the adenosine that might still be residual Fundamentally speaking, get I promise you will be It makes everybody feel and it will greatly to fall and stay asleep later that night. Before we continue with we're going to take a brief pause to acknowledge our sponsor, Athletic Greens, also called AG1. I started taking Athletic So I'm delighted that they've been a Athletic Greens contains digestive enzymes, and adaptogens. So it's got a lot of things in there. That's actually the and the reason I still take It essentially covers all And the probiotics in because of the critical importance of what's called the gut-brain axis, that is neurons and other in the digestive tract, that communicate with the brain and the brain back to the digestive tract in order to control things like mood, immune function, hormone Whenever somebody has asked me what's the one supplement I always answer Athletic Greens. I gave that answer long and it's the answer I still give now for all the reasons that I If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy while you're on the road, plus a year's supply of vitamin D3K2, which are also very important for a huge number of bodily that impact your immediate Again, that's athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim that special offer. Okay, so now we're still focusing on this early part of the the first hour or so after waking. And we can go to our list of We have light and dark. We already talked about light We've got temperature, food, exercise, caffeine, supplements, and digital tools. Now, once you've woken up and So this is likely to be early in the day if you're following a You will also want to but temperature as a tool. If you are inclined, it would be wise to try and increase your a bit more quickly than it would otherwise if you were to just, you get your sunlight, maybe read a little bit, et cetera, and there are two main The first way is to get into So this could be a cold shower of anywhere from one to three minutes. This could be an ice bath It could be a cold tub, or if you own a cold tub that's specifically designed Get under some cold water. That will certainly wake you up. And if you've ever jumped into cold water or had a cold shower, you know it really wakes you up because you release from both your brain and body, the body from your adrenals and your brain from a called locus coeruleus. Again, the names don't matter. One to three minutes of cold because of that adrenaline release and, and I want to highlight the and, it will serve to increase That's right, your body and brain interact as a bit of a thermostat system where if you put something cold your brain, a little cluster of neurons in the so-called medial preoptic area, act as a thermostat and say, &quot;Ah, the external of my body is cold and therefore I'm going to heat up my core body temperature.&quot; So it's a little bit paradoxical. People think, oh, if you get your body temperature is going to drop. And indeed, that's true if but if you just get in for or under the cold shower your core body temperature will increase. So then when you get your body temperature is that's steeper than it would otherwise and you're going to feel more alert. It also has the advantage of increasing not just adrenaline, but dopamine, which is a molecule involved in motivation, focus, et cetera. So this is great for waking up. So we've got sunlight, we've got temperature and we have exercise. One of the best ways to increase your core body is to do exercise. Now, some of you might choose to do your full-blown workout for the day first thing when you I would say the best time to exercise, at least what the research points to, is immediately when you or three hours after waking But that's really getting for sake of muscular and it's very hard to give Here's what I suggest. If you want to be alert early in the day and you want to sleep great at night, get that bright sunlight, and if you don't want to try and get some movement. It could be a walk. So you can get your sunlight exposure while you're taking a walk It could be a light jog. It could be skipping rope. These days, I skip rope for while looking at the sun. So I'm trying to layer for waking up. And then I take a cold shower afterwards. This is what I've been doing as of lately, but I don't do that all Or some of you are going to I sometimes do that. But try and get your core first thing in the morning, and a great way to do that and/or with exercise. And again, it doesn't have for the day if you're doing workouts consistently, which I hope everybody is because everybody really should exercise at least, I believe, five or six, or maybe even seven days a week. For me, it's six days rarely is it seven. So get that exercise or even just a modest amount of movement, walking, jogging, skipping rope, some light calisthenics. That will further increase and help you feel more awake. Then we have the category of caffeine. And again, we're just talking about this early part of the day, and you might be saying, &quot;Wait a second, I thought this was an episode Well, everything that in these first 60 to 90 minutes of the day really set in motion a that carry through the entire day and into the evening and into the night and really do serve to optimize sleep. So just hang in there with me. And for those of you that are interested in focus and attention, all of these tools and practices are going to greatly So the next category of tool for use early in the day is caffeine. Caffeine is a very important I do realize that some people especially panic attacks, anxiety attacks, might avoid caffeine entirely. That's absolutely fine. You do not have to drink caffeine. So what I'm about to describe are ways to leverage caffeine use to optimize sleep and wakefulness if you are comfortable with I happen to love caffeine. I like it in the form or yerba mate tea, in particular non-smoked Non-smoked because the smoked some carcinogenics, some There's increasing data on that. So non-smoked varieties of yerba mate. So caffeine is something that a lot of people How much depends on your tolerance, and there's a lot of Again, caffeine is an or effectively works as and limits sleepiness. I highly recommend that everybody delay their caffeine intake for 90 to 120 minutes after waking. However painful it may at that 90 to 120 minutes after waking, you want, and I encourage you, to clear out whatever residual adenosine is circulating in your system in that first 90 to Get that sunlight exposure, get some movement to wake up, and then, and only then, because what you'll do if until 90 to 120 minutes after waking is you will avoid the And you may still get a in the afternoon, but it's not going to I've talked about the on previous episodes. But if you delay your caffeine intake 90 to 120 minutes after waking, you are doing yourself a great and to avoid the crash. And the afternoon crash has which is typically people will emerge from that afternoon crash and then they'll lean into which can then disrupt their sleep. So wait 90 to 120 minutes to drink caffeine. And if you drink caffeine at really try and avoid any caffeine, certainly avoid drinking more than a hundred milligrams and probably even better to to 3:00 p.m. or even 2:00 p.m. And for many people, from immediately after to 90 to 120 minutes gives them a much longer arc and they don't feel the need to drink more caffeine If you do drink caffeine really try and limit the Certainly keep the total amount to less than a hundred milligrams if you are interested in getting into the best possible sleep. And I say this knowing that can drink a double espresso with 200 milligrams of caffeine or more at 5:00 p.m. or even and still, quote, or still sleep fine. However, there are terrific data, Matt Walker and I talked about this, and there are more and that point to the fact that after 4:00 p.m. that is, can really disrupt the So you might think you're sleeping well, but you're not sleeping if you avoided caffeine Now, some of you might be doing first thing in the morning and you want your caffeine In that case, I say, go for it. Drink your caffeine, do your workout right after waking up. I don't have a problem with that. You will find, however, that you're going to get an and that dip in energy is because it's going to be a dip in energy that naturally follows that So it's dependent on temperature, and it's going to be related to the elimination of that So you're getting a on your energy levels by taking a lot of caffeine and You can sort of expect that you're going to get a drop in energy in the early afternoon. That's okay if that works for you, but just know that delaying that caffeine 90 to 120 minutes after waking would be the ideal scenario All that said, I that people have different work schedules, kid schedules, et cetera. So if you want to do some that's really up to you. I'm just providing them to you in the simplest form that I Now, the other lever or tool that you have available to you is food. Not just what you eat, but when you eat. And it turns out that if you support a biological clock mechanism that will make you more That said, many people choose to fast in the early morning hours of the day or in the first part of the day. I'm one such person. I generally don't ingest any food until about 11:00 a.m. or 12 noon. Sometimes I'll have a protein shake. Sometimes I'll have some almonds. Sometimes I'll have breakfast. If people are meeting I will have breakfast for social reasons every once in a while. But most of the time I don't However, some people are really hungry when they wake up in the morning. Just know that if you you are further triggering and in temperature that So you don't have to eat early in the day, but you can start to see how these different tools layer together. Sunlight viewing, exercise, Many of them are converging In fact, when you drink caffeine, there's also a small due to the adrenaline So all of these things can be or you can use them individually or think about them individually. Now, food is an interesting lever or tool because it's not just about when you eat, but it's also about what you eat. And I've talked a lot and what that means in versus neural energy, et cetera, in previous podcast episodes. We're not going to focus on that now because, frankly, to of whether or not somebody or animal proteins or dairy, that's very nuanced. What you eat for your breakfast, or if you choose to not eat breakfast, is really up to you. All that said, if you it doesn't matter if you 10 hours the night before or if you are about to go to sleep or if it's the middle of the afternoon, if your gut is full of food, there's just a large it's going to divert a lot of blood and other critical resources away from other organs of your body, in particular, your brain, and you're going to be sleepy So this is sort of a duh, but I think oftentimes in the discussions about what to eat for energy, people neglect to consider food volume as a strong parameter or So if you eat a huge breakfast, it's likely that you are going to be tired immediately after eating that breakfast unless of course you exercise and you metabolize all So it's up to you whether or not to eat first thing in the morning or not. But if you do eat in the first just understand that you are setting or you are helping to set a food entrained, as it's Light, temperature, timing of food intake, movement and exercise, all of these things literally they funnel into this thing and they let that clock, predict when you are likely and viewing sunlight the next day and the next I say all this because there and I'll highlight one, again, that show that if people waking up in the morning, one of the things they can do is maximize sunlight viewing, drink caffeine. Although, again, I support the idea that that would best be done about 90 to 120 minutes after waking. Eating some food in those et cetera, et cetera. You can layer in multiple levers or tools in order to be more alert. And that's what these levers in this sense of what which is optimizing sleep. Yes, they will make you more alert. Yes, they will provide some for instance, the cold But the reason we're in the context of sleep is that they start to give your body some predictable autonomic timing. What is predictable autonomic timing? Well, your autonomic nervous system is the components of your brain and body that cause wakefulness and sleepiness and you can start to in that autonomic timing. You can start to do things that you naturally wake or five in the morning. That's right, if you're somebody who naturally is a night owl, who likes to stay up and sleep until 10:00 a.m., and you now have a job or or you have a partner and go to sleep early, well, you can make that happen and you can make that if you take a week or so and go to sleep 30 minutes or set an alarm and wake up 30 minutes or until, of course, you're waking up at the time you want to wake up, and then even in that groggy state, get some exercise, get If the sun's not out, turn on those bright artificial lights. Have some breakfast, even In fact, for those of you because you have to, or travel and you're jet lagged, one of the quickest ways to and get onto the local schedule is to eat on the local schedule. So what all these tools do is Think of it as kind of a throughout the day. It'll take you through and the afternoon stage we'll but really they take you to this period that is about 5:00 p.m. I realize some people are like 8:00 p.m. or 9:00 p.m., but very few people go to Unless you're doing that for But from 5:00 p.m. until bedtime in which you need to in order to get and stay asleep optimally and to be able to sleep through the night. So really there are three critical periods throughout each 24-hour cycle. And during each of those critical periods, you're going to want to do as many specific things as you can to optimize your wakefulness and focus and mood throughout the day and your sleep at night. The first critical period is the one that we've been Things like morning sunlight viewing, caffeine 90 to 120 minutes after waking, exercise, and so on. We can call that critical period one and it really encompasses the until about three hours after waking. Although, I should just mention 'cause there are always &quot;Wait, I wake up at 4:00 a.m. and the sun isn't out until 8:00 a.m.,&quot; okay, so it might be four hours. But really it's those early once you're awake. The second critical period is the time throughout leading into evening. So you may ask what are throughout the day, the middle of your day and into the afternoon and evening hours, that are really going to set you up for the best possible Well, there are a few dos First of all, be careful about ingesting throughout the middle of the day. That's kind of an obvious one for the reasons that we Second of all, if you are a napper, and I raise my hand now, for those of you listening, I'm raising my right I've always loved naps. Nowadays I do NSDR or almost every day. And I tend to do that, as I mentioned, in the early afternoon hours if I'm feeling kind of sleepy, because even though I optimize my caffeine intake timing, et cetera, I tend to get a little Most people get a little Some of that is related to hitting that peak of body temperature. And you might think, wait, I is associated with alertness, and it is, but right as you crest and your body temperature starts to drop, there's a tendency to So some of you might opt to Should you nap, should you not nap? That's a question that I get asked a lot and that I asked Dr. Matthew Walker when he was a guest on this podcast. Here was his answer and It is fine to nap in the afternoon, but don't nap so late in that it disrupts your ability to fall and stay asleep at night for your major sleep about, okay? So naps are fine, but don't sleep so long during the day or too late in the day that it disrupts your ability I should also say you do not have to nap. It's kind of an interesting phenomenon that happens on these where we'll talk about naps and the fact that naps are great, but don't make them but then all the non-nappers Like, wait, am I supposed to nap? I don't like naps. I wake up groggy. You do not have to nap. In fact, if you can make it through your whole day without napping, great, more power to you. But if you do nap and you keep those naps shorter than 90 minutes for reasons related to and make sure that you don't that you are then staying and having a hard time I will say that for a lot of or that find they wake up or groggy from naps, I encourage you to try the Reveri app, try an NSDR script, try yoga nidra. Try something of that sort for anywhere from 10 to 20 to 30 minutes. I tend to do this every day now. I'll just lie down, and I love yoga nidra, I love NSDR scripts, I love using the Reveri app. In particular, the that gets you better at sleeping. It really is beneficial for me because it serves as very replenishing while I'm doing that hypnosis, but it's also gotten me much better at falling and staying asleep and falling back asleep in So this critical period throughout the day is one in which most people They're emailing and picking up kids and they're exercising and doing all sorts of things, taking phone calls and Zooms, et cetera. But if you can get that through a nap or NSDR, that's going to serve you well. Try not to drink too much caffeine, certainly no more than a after 4:00 p.m if your goal is to fall asleep And for those of you that understand that if you so this might be weight or some other very intense exercise, typically that's going to further increase your body temperature. Makes sense, right? Based on everything we know about metabolism and body temperature. And it's going to so-called It's going to make it such that you want to fall maybe even a lot later. So if you're exercising in and that's the only time you can exercise or that's the time that great, but be careful about in order to get the 'cause that caffeine and just know that you are You are making it such that you will naturally and wake up later. Contrast that with if you say, immediately after waking up or in the first zero to in most cases, that's not going to shift your circadian clock much. And toward the end of the episode, we'll talk a little bit prior to wake-up times. That doesn't mean doing That means deliberately setting an alarm and getting out of bed much earlier than you naturally would. That turns out to be a very potent tool to so-called advance your circadian clock. So we can talk about that a But this critical period, is when you're going to want and we've talked about those: limiting caffeine intake; being mindful of the the fact that, also, you don't want to nap too otherwise you'll disrupt So this critical period two, or second critical period, I should say, during the middle of the day is a time in which you should and avoiding doing certain things. So that raises the you should also be getting a lot of light, in particular, sunlight, Now, that's something that in the literature until recently when Dr. Samer Hattar who's the director of at the National Institutes decided to do a number of experiments exploring the effects of light on mood and other aspects of brain when that light is delivered which is great for us, but also throughout the day. So should you be looking at sunlight or bright artificial Now, on the face of it, you might just think, yes, Provided we're not getting a sunburn and we're not staring at the we should get as much In fact, we talked about this about how getting light as we can throughout the day can really help in the production of testosterone and estrogen in healthy ways that and all sorts of things that However, because light is for controlling the timing of your sleepfulness, or and wakefulness, we might want to be cautious about how much light we are in particular, in the Well, turns out it's Viewing, so sunlight to the eyes, sunlight in the late afternoon and evening hours, so again, depends on time of year, depends on location that but getting some sunlight in your eyes for, again, maybe five depending on how much doing that in the afternoon serves an additional beneficial purpose, which is you protect or you against some of the negative effects of bright artificial light or even dim artificial between 10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m., which is really critical period three. And we'll talk about what during critical period three But to make it very clear get that morning sunlight in your eyes, but also get some sunlight in your eyes in the late afternoon and evening hours when the sun is at when it starts to descend in the sky. Again, you don't have to although if you can catch go for it. But as the sun starts to descend, it triggers those same neurons in your eye that communicate with but it communicates with or different compartment That circadian clock It's multiple things. And you have what are and evening oscillators. And to make a long story short, the tool that I'm describing in the late afternoon and evening, again, blinking is fine, don't stare at the sun, but getting that sunlight in your eyes in the late afternoon and evening signals to that clock and that sleep is coming. It also serves as a second for your body and your brain Remember back to the when I said your brain and are locked inside this skin and this skull and they don't know what's Well, that morning sunlight viewing and the other things you do those provide one strong set of signals that it's wake-up time and time to be focused. And then in the evening, by getting sunlight in your eyes again, in particular, sunlight that comes from low solar angle sunlight, well, that provides a second stimulus or a second reference point that tells your brain and The sun is descending.&quot; Now, you might say, &quot;Wait, how does the brain the difference between morning It turns out has to do with the particular wavelengths of light that are present in It's an incredible mechanism. And you are probably that when the sun is directly overhead, it's really bright white and yellow and the sky's often blue, and if there's cloud cover, it just comes through as well, next time you're out in the morning, take a look at what a sunrise looks like. There's a lot of yellow-blue contrast, and those yellow blues signal important specific sets of that it's morning. In the evening, you're also but the ratio of yellows and you also see some oranges, and in a really brilliant If you haven't noticed this already, you'll really want to look for this. It's really kind of fun Well, those yellows and blues and oranges that you see in the evening sunsets, those signal to your brain and that nighttime is coming and they're really establishing a second reference point or that are going to optimize and your transition into So now let's talk about what I'm calling of each 24-hour cycle. So this would be the period So it might be 6:00 p.m. for some, depending on when you go to sleep, or 7:00 p.m. extending into the hours in which you decide to get and then throughout the night. There are a number of things that you're going to want to do and there are a number of things that you are going to want to avoid doing in order to optimize your sleep. First of all, you're bright artificial lights of any color. Yes, of any color. We haven't talked a lot you know, lenses that or short wavelengths of light. I don't have anything In fact, many people find that some relief from headache if they wear blue blockers throughout the day and certainly at night. But you don't need them, and even if you do wear them, you will find that if doesn't matter if it's a blue light, a yellow light, or a red light, those bright lights will They will activate the same mechanisms that were activated early However, and here's the I mentioned this earlier, but the diabolical twist in the way that your brain is that early in the day, in the morning hours, you ideally from sunlight, to be very alert and to wake up, but in the evening hours it takes very little in order to wake up your brain and body and to disrupt your circadian So what that means is that which, of course, is going to happen at different times of year but once the sun goes down, you would be wise to in your indoor environment I realize some nights you're and have people over. You might not want to dim the lights. Some nights you're going to go out, you might view a lot of bright lights. But most nights of your life, you're going to want to dim the lights in your internal environment. And ideally, the lights that you do use you would place low in So you would try and but rather rely on desk lamps or lights even placed low to the If you are going to use light at night, and most people do, I would encourage you to use as is required to carry to require safely. That could be studying, in which case you might in order to read or study. If you're watching a television show or you're watching dim that screen way, way down, as dim as possible while to view what you need to view. Even better, I should say, ideally, you would use candlelight Now, some nights the moon is really bright and you actually can use moonlight to go about your usual activities. Moonlight might seem very, very bright, but, actually, moonlight is and candlelight, which actually is very low light intensity. If you're sitting across a table with some candlelight there and it's a really bright candle, chances are it's only which is very, very little light energy compared to, say, an artificial desk lamp or an overhead light, which is going to be in the area of anywhere from a So candlelight is fine. Of course, be cautious with open flame, but candlelight is fine. Moonlight is fine. Dimming artificial lights is fine provided they're dimmed way, way down. And again, try and avoid using The absolute worst lights are going to be overhead of the sort that you would or that you would see at a gas station or something of that sort. And I confess, there are times and it's late at night and I and I'll need to stop at the grocery store or a gas station or something like that, I've actually put on sunglasses at night in order to avoid getting that bright light exposure at night. Although that's a little bit extreme, I have done that from time to time because that bright light exposure will absolutely quash, it will eliminate, any melatonin that in your brain and body. Now, melatonin, a lot of people but melatonin is naturally released as the evening comes about It's the hormone that and allows you to fall asleep. So viewing bright light in the late evening is really not good for your sleep quality and your ability to fall and stay asleep. So for most people, a simple rule of thumb is going to be avoid bright and in particular, overhead between the hours of That's right, between avoid those bright artificial Use only as much light as in order to carry out the you need to carry out safely. I should mention that the reason overhead is the same reason why early in the day, which is that the cells, that can wake up your brain and body through activation of the circadian clock reside mainly in the bottom half or 2/3 of your neural retina and the way the optics of your eyes work is that the cells on the view the upper visual field. So this is a beautiful adaptive mechanism that allows these cells to respond to overhead light from sunlight in the early part of the But in the evening, if you have and those bright artificial it's going to more closely mimic what sunlight does in the evening time, and that turns out to be a bad thing if your goal is to eventually go to sleep. So again, do like the Scandinavians do. Use lights that are set and if you really want to I suppose you could also do the You could really emphasize the use of bright artificial lights and sunlight that comes from above. And of course, sunlight But if you're working in and, you know, it's 2:00 p.m. or 3:00 p.m. and you want to be as awake as possible, really crank up the overhead lights. And then in the evening, which is this critical period really try and dim those or just rely on candlelight or moonlight from the hours of about Our good friend Samer Hattar, who's been on this podcast before, Samer is director of at the National Institutes well, he's absolutely obsessive and avoiding light at night. In fact, he lives in what I sort of joke is like a cave at night. From 9:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m., which is really his kind of sleep cycle, he has his house so dark that you'd be lucky to be able to find a spoon in the kitchen. In fact, you'd be lucky to find your way down But in any case, dim the lights. Turn them way, way down. It will serve you well. It will make it much easier for you to get sleepy and stay and stay asleep throughout the night. Now, not to depart from but if you recall, viewing the low solar angle light as the sun is heading down in the sky, so it could be sunset or what I call circa well, doing that is going to slightly, but not completely, offset of viewing artificial light at night. So I don't want to give but let's say you know that you're going to watch or you're going to be up late studying and yet you still want to be Definitely make sure you There's a great study. We'll provide a link to this study, which showed that if people or evening sunsets or sunlight right around it really serves to again, some, not all, of artificial light between the hours of Now, that's light. But as you recall, we also have this tool and you're probably not that the way to leverage is the exact opposite of the way that you want early in the day. Early in the day, temperature increases from cold showers or exercise, What that means is that taking is probably a bad idea. Rather, taking a nice hot bath or a sauna, you might think would heat up your body, and indeed, that's what happens if you stay in a very long time, but if you do hot tub or a hot bath or a sauna in the evening, and you don't stay in for and you get out, you take maybe a cool-ish then what happens is there's of your core body temperature for the reasons we discussed earlier, and your body temperature will and it will make it much So if you're somebody that enjoys hot baths, evening and nighttime is going to be the best time to do that if your goal is to facilitate sleep. Similarly, you should try and make your sleeping environment Now, that doesn't mean you need to be cold while you're asleep. You can get under as many but it's a good idea to make In fact, drop the temperature by at least three degrees and you'll be happy that you did. Now, some people rely on I use that. One of these controllable Other people would simply do this by putting a fan in the Again, depends on time of year, depends on technology, But you're going to want to sleep in a relatively cool or and then layer on the blankets And I say as needed that you're going to do in your sleep, or if you happen to wake up, is if you're too warm, you're out from under those blankets. And the reason for doing once you understand the mechanism. You have special portals, you essentially have ways of passing heat, excuse me, in and out of your body primarily through the palms of your hands, the upper half of your face, and the bottoms of your feet through so-called glabrous skin. This was covered in the from the biology department at Stanford. If you lower the temperature so lower the temperature in that room or use a controllable mattress like Eight Sleep or it's naturally going to make and if you're too warm under the blankets, all you have to do is out from under those blankets. Whereas if the sleeping is too warm, there's very little you can do to cool off besides push off those blankets. So for instance, if you're too warm and you're waking up in which is what happens if you get too warm, you'll push off those blankets. But if the room is too warm, well, what are you going to do? You'd probably have to put or take a coolish shower or something for a couple of seconds. That's not very practical. Better to just keep the I'm not a big fan of while they sleep, or I should say, I'm not while I sleep, because that eliminates on the bottoms of one's feet. So for those of you that have heard, you know, wear socks while you sleep, that works great for people that tend to run too cold while they sleep and wake up because their feet get cold, but if you're somebody who wakes up in the middle of the night, chances are you're waking up because you're getting too warm and the best thing that you could do is to cool or lower the temperature in the room that you're sleeping and not wear socks, get under as many blankets and then across the night, you'll naturally just or all hands and feet out to cool off because of the relationship That is, dropping your one to three degrees gets you into sleep and So let's say you do and you're finding yourself and you need to fall asleep, or let's say you've exercised and you needed four cups of espresso in order to do that exercise. Well, there are a few to try and bring your nervous system down into more state of calmness, and you can do that also by lowering your One of those I already taking a nice hot shower or a hot bath and then getting out and cooling off will decrease your body temperature. Maybe not enough to get you into sleep if you have a ton of But again, you can use this to wake up or temperature shifts to fall asleep in ways that really can help you overcome some of the irregularities and exercise cycle, et cetera. Because, of course, nobody's perfect. Some days we end up having or we'll miss the workout entirely. Other days, we end up in the afternoon with a friend and then we have a hard So you can use these tools not just in their optimized form, you know, being absolutely about exactly when you That would be wonderful, and some days you're going and you want to fall asleep, or you've got to get up and you're not somebody who normally goes to bed at 10:00 p.m. Well, that's when a something can really benefit you because it can adjust your I would be remiss if I and CBD and THC. I always get questions about these. And I should say, of course, many places, but not all, THC is illegal. Although, there are medical uses and in some places, it's decriminalized, other places it's legal. Alcohol, of course, is consumed almost as frequently as I personally don't drink alcohol. I don't have anything against it per se. I just don't tend to enjoy it. One of the reasons I don't enjoy it is if I drink alcohol, So that doesn't really accomplish any of the things that I because the sleep that one is greatly disrupted sleep. Hate to break it to you, And when Dr. Matt Walker he said exactly the same thing. While THC and alcohol do and maybe even stay asleep, the architecture of compared to the sleep they would get without alcohol or THC in their system. So I'm not here to tell you I'm certainly not the substance police. That's not my role. I'm just reporting to you the biology. If your sleep is not restoring you to the extent that you feel it should, or if you are regularly in order to fall asleep, or THC in order to fall asleep, that is disrupting your However, I do realize that nowadays a lot of people especially edible forms, in order to fall and stay asleep. And, you know, we can It does seem that there's of some of those compounds that do help people who have a hard time because of reasons related to anxiety. Although, in a moment, we'll talk about some supplements that can also assist in the and that can adjust anxiety and that do not seem to in negative ways and, in fact, can enhance of sleep architecture. Okay, so you've done everything You got your morning routine You've got your afternoon routine. You saw some sunlight in the afternoon. You avoided caffeine in the eight hours or 10 hours before bedtime. You're not drinking alcohol. You've cooled down the room. You're doing all these things right. You've dimmed the lights, What else can we do in Well, I always say behavioral tools first, then look to nutrition, then, if necessary, and then, if still necessary, obviously prescribed by a Well, we've talked a lot for critical period three. We have not talked a lot about the supplementation-based tools. There are supplements that for most people will greatly improve their and the three main or that kit of sleep supplements, and I've talked about these before, are magnesium threonate, apigenin, A-P-I-G-E-N-I-N, apigenin, and theanine, T-H-E-A-N-I-N-E, theanine. Now, some important things to point out about mag threonate, as it's First of all, you don't necessarily although, many people from taking all three. In fact, you may not even What I recommend is that all the behavioral tools regularly and you're still having and staying asleep, well, then you might try within this sleep stack. They do have fairly Although, I should also say, anytime you're going to from your supplement protocol you definitely want to I don't just say that to protect us. I say that to protect you. But for most people, the margins are going to be pretty broad. A couple of notes about dosages. For some people, the dosages of the supplements I That is, you won't need them in order to get and stay asleep That's terrific if you don't need them. For many people, however, taking 145 milligrams can be very beneficial. That's the dosage that most Some people need to go a little higher. Some people need to go a little bit lower. One of the reasons that towards single-ingredient is because it allows people to adjust the dosage of one component of a so-called sleep stack without having to disrupt the and so on. It also allows people to try just one element within the sleep stack without having to purchase which is a problem if of a lot of different ingredients. So 145 milligrams of magnesium threonate. 50, 5-0, milligrams of apigenin. And again, you could just And 100 to 400 milligrams of theanine taken, again, alone or in combination with the other supplements many people find allows and fall asleep, sleep really deeply, and they feel much more and they don't have a grogginess to them. Now, a couple of notes about About 5% of people report that magnesium threonate It gives them diarrhea In which case, don't take it. If magnesium threonate disrupts to a point where it's and you don't like it, The proper dosage for you, in other words, would be zero milligrams. Now, in a slightly different way, many people who can or really thrive on magnesium threonate and like apigenin might find that theanine, even at the lowest dose 'cause, again, the range is that theanine gives them such vivid dreams that they actually find it disruptive where they wake up in or they find that the is kind of anxiety ridden because of the intensity of those dreams. So some people might out of the sleep stack and just take magnesium And again, some people might out of the sleep stack. Again, all of this is really about finding the supplementation protocol I should mention that whether or not you're taking one or two of the sleep stack, the ideal time to take those is 30 to 60 minutes before bedtime, especially if you haven't for the three hours or so before bedtime. I confess that oftentimes I'll have a little bit of a some berries or something. I try not to eat too close to bedtime, but some evenings just I'll get home late, be 9:00 p.m., and I'll eat a big meal and then I'll take the Every once in a while, Nobody's perfect. Certainly I'm not. But that sleep stack And I do think that it's Here's the reason. First of all, melatonin is a hormone that you endogenously make. You now know a lot about melatonin and it's controlled by light, meaning light inhibits darkness promotes it. And melatonin indeed but the dosages of melatonin that are contained in is far, far, far greater than what we would make endogenously. So it's really supraphysiological. So that's of concern because melatonin is not just responsible for making us sleepy and fall asleep. It also does things like interacts with other hormone systems, testosterone and estrogen, even in the puberty system, in kids. Is taking melatonin every for adjusting to jet lag, et cetera? Probably not. I would even say no. But taking it chronically over time, especially kids taking can potentially be problematic. So at least in my opinion, are going to be preferable to melatonin. Now, as I mentioned in the there are some other things that I certainly take and that other people in addition to the sleep or in place of that sleep stack if that sleep stack So every third or fourth night, I will take two grams of glycine and a hundred milligrams of GABA in addition to the standard sleep stack that I talked about before. So I'm taking mag threonate, and then I will also take two which I find greatly enhances But the reason I only add glycine and GABA every third or fourth night is that if I take it too often, I find that the entire sleep stack doesn't work quite as effectively. I don't know exactly why this is the case, but in any event, that's what I do. And more recently, I've in particular myo-inositol. Every other night, I'll take in addition to mag threonate, and not on the nights when So I'm adding 900 milligrams of inositol to the standard sleep stack of mag threonate, theanine, and apigenin. And what I find is not only my ability to fall asleep quickly, but if I wake up in the which I often do to use the bathroom, I find it very, very Whereas when I don't take I find that if I wake up it's a bit more of a So inositol has a number of different uses that have been discussed and in terms of adjusting What I'm talking about is taking 900 milligrams of myo-inositol also 30 to 60 minutes before sleep along with the standard sleep stack and I found that to be I also noticed that it of anxiety suppression throughout the day. And I'm not somebody who but I have to say it just has led me to feel a bit calmer throughout the day, and I don't really know how to say this except in subjective terms, to feel a bit more buffered against or resilient against stress events. And if you look at the and its interactions with the serotonin that all makes sense as to So we'll provide links to which is part of our It's a zero-cost newsletter where you can access this and other behavioral tools But that sleep kit doesn't include some of the newer information that I've provided this episode, in particular, the and what I'm finding to be the very beneficial use of inositol for the ability to fall back asleep after waking up in the which is something that a Now, that's supplementation but we can return to the behavioral tools also as powerful levers and tools for falling asleep and And again, we look to or the Reveri app as a way to do that. As I mentioned earlier, the Reveri app has been of really high-quality, both clinical and non-clinical, by my colleague, David Spiegel, who's our associate chair It's a wonderful tool. It does carry a cost after I can tell you what the cost on that is so you can get a sense because I do realize that for some people, it won't be accessible. Right now, Reveri, and I should just mention, they didn't pay us for an ad read. I'm just telling you what they told me so that I can accurately report They have a monthly subscription to use the Reveri app at 14.99. You do get the seven-day free trial. They have a yearly subscription of 99.99 with a seven-day free trial. And they have a lifetime of 249 with no trial. It right now is only available but they are, yes, going for Android soon. There's a signup list there. I should mention that while if you compare that cost or you compare that cost to a the cost, at least to me, certainly within range But I acknowledge not within which is why I also want and the zero-cost tool for and falling back asleep is going to be NSDR. We'll put a link to a that's available on YouTube, so available to anybody zero cost provided you have a internet connection. Again, dim the screen if you're going to turn And there are a number of and apps and sources around the internet, in particular, on YouTube, that are zero cost that you could use if the Reveri app is or is not preferable to you, et cetera. When I wake up in the middle of the night, it's usually to use the restroom. I'll go use the restroom. I'll keep the lights as dim as possible. I'll get back into bed. And if I find that it's great, I'm asleep. And if not, then I will They have a fall back asleep hypnosis, and 99 times out of a hundred, I'm back asleep within minutes and I don't wake up until morning. Now, very briefly, I just that are very commonly used and believe it or not, there is peer-reviewed science Do eye masks improve your And indeed, they do, provided they are not too tight and provided that the room is cool enough. Why? Well, eye masks cover the which is where glabrous skin is localized. Remember, palms of the glabrous skin on the face. So a lot of people who because they're too warm So if you're going to use an definitely make sure the room and your sleeping environment in order for you to stay asleep. In addition, I get a lot of Here's the deal with earplugs. Some people find that because, of course, they into the ear that could wake us up. But some people find that the sound of their own beating of their and they get a sort of when they have those earplugs in. I'm one such person. Although, I have family members that like using earplugs when they sleep. So it's really up to you. You have to see whether or disrupt your sleep. For me, they're no good. For some people, they really enjoy them. I don't use an eye mask unless I'm sleeping in a or I need to sleep on a plane Other tools that I'll just mention that have peer-reviewed Elevating your feet either with a pillow or by elevating the end of your bed by about three to five degrees can be really beneficial for because of the so-called This is the movement of in your brain at night that lead to more wakefulness and actually can improve and a number of other things There's one caveat to that. For people that suffer from acid reflux, having your ankles or above your heart in can actually exacerbate that acid reflux. You want to do the opposite. You want to actually elevate by about three to five degrees. Now, one of the common that has tremendously detrimental effects is so-called sleep apnea. So this is basically bouts of suffocation or lack of oxygenation during sleep. This is particularly the case for people that are very heavyset, and that heavyset could be from obesity, it could also be heavyset A lot of people who are will actually have sleep Sleep apnea is actually very dangerous. It's associated with a number It's associated with sexual dysfunction. It's associated with Sleep apnea is bad. A lot of people will have to use the PAP, which is a, it's a device. It looks like a sort of like It's a whole apparatus that However, many people can relieve provided it's not too serious and can sleep much better, in fact, I think all people if they train themselves to be nose breathers while they sleep. There are a lot of reasons unless you are breathing or talking or eating. That was all covered &quot;Breath: The New Science of a Lost Art.&quot; It's been covered in a We've talked about it It's a good idea to be a nose breather unless you need to mouth breathe. And it's a great idea, it's a superb idea, to be a nose breather in sleep. And one way to really get good at that is to take a little bit of medical tape and to tape your mouth You heard me right. Put some medical tape over your mouth and force yourself to It also prevents snoring in most cases. Really offsets sleep apnea. Sleep apnea, again, being a I should also mention as a tool that if you have a hard time you can try doing your at least the lower-intensity through purely nasal breathing. And one way to do that, again, or put a gulp of water in your mouth, but don't actually swallow or to use a mouthpiece or just deliberately and insist on breathing through your nose. Most people find that when they start doing it's really challenging at first, but over time, they and still can generate purely using nose breathing. The reason that doing nose breathing during cardiovascular exercise translates to being a is that your sinuses actually and over time, plastic meaning they're malleable that is, and they can become wider. You're not going to get giant Your airways within your skull, 'cause that's what the sinuses really are, these little passages within the skull, and, of course, within the nasal passages, will dilate and will allow you to breathe more easily through your nose. But for those of you that are waking up in breathing on your back [breathing heavily] or your partner is telling you that or other people are telling you that or you're that person on the plane with your mouth hanging open and drooling and your mouth breathing, terrible, terrible, and other reasons, put some a medical tape over your mouth, learn to be a nose breather during sleep. Your sleep will improve and your daytime feelings of wakefulness and focus will improve, your cardiovascular health will improve, and on and on and on. So now we've largely covered to get and stay asleep, and we talked about exercise, we talked about temperature, we talked about supplements, and we talked about, of course, keeping the sleeping environment both cool and as dark as possible. I do want to mention a that will impact your ability to sleep really well on a consistent basis and the one that impacts is weekends. Turns out that most to sleep in on the weekend, especially if they've been However, the data show that keeping relatively is really going to enhance the quality and depth of your sleep. So if you stay out late one night, sure, you might allow yourself to sleep in an extra hour or so, but you should really try than an hour beyond your That's right. If you normally get eight hours of sleep and you wake up at 7:00 a.m., probably okay to wake up or after a night out the night before, but try not to sleep until 11 or noon thinking that you're going or that's better than waking It would be better to wake plus or minus an hour and get a nap in the afternoon provided that nap, again, isn't too long. And the other tool that relates to nights that or that you feel like you in the morning is if you are going to wake So for example, normally and you wake up at six. Let's say that's your schedule. And you end up staying up late one night until midnight or one for whatever reason and the next morning you wake up at seven and you're still groggy. In that case, you absolutely want to wait to ingest caffeine 90 to You really do because there are good data to support the fact that Yes, that's obvious. Caffeine especially disrupts sleep if you take it too late in the day. That's very obvious as to But caffeine especially disrupts what's called compensatory sleep. So if you start changing your waking time and your to sleep time and you start using additional caffeine to offset the sleepiness because of those late nights out, well, that's when you not just your nighttime sleep, but your daytime compensatory You also are disrupting the in the early morning hours. There's a lot of great science or that's emerged from this, I should say. So try and keep those sleep-wake plus or minus an hour, and try as much as you can 90 to 120 minutes after waking every day, but especially on days where you wake up and you feel you haven't In that case, I highly recommend you just use NSDR or the Reveri app or some other form of deep relaxation to try and compensate knowing, of course, that for lack of sleep. There are just things that we can do to partially offset lack of sleep. Now, a couple of final that I think are going to in particular, people or are following a shift work schedule or who are experiencing jet lag. Keep in mind, jet lag which is obvious, but jet lag can also be due to getting woken up in the Your body doesn't know the difference between flying to a new time zone and getting woken up in The tool that I'd like to offer you is an understanding of something And I'm going to make and I'm confident that even if you don't have Here's the question you What is your typical wake-up time, okay? What's your typical wake-up time? If for you, your typical plus or minus half an hour, and that could be 7:00 a.m. because you set an alarm clock or it could be 7:00 a.m. because you naturally wake up if your typical wake-up well, then your temperature That's right, your temperature It's a time within your 24-hour cycle. Approximately two hours before your body is at its lowest temperature that it will ever be in the 24-hour cycle. That's why it's called Here's what you need to know If you view bright light, or all of the above in the two to four hours before that will delay your clock. What that means when is it will make you want and wake up later the next night, okay? So let's run this exercise for you, the person waking up at 7:00 I can predict with almost certainty that your body is going to at 5:00 a.m.. So what that means is that if you get up at and you flip on bright or in your bathroom or you have a cup of coffee or you do any kind of exercise or you get up and head to the airport, the mechanisms in your brain and body that control timing of sleep and timing of waking will shift. They will delay. It's as if you put your clock and then let it start again, okay? That's the simplest way I can describe it. And you will tend to and wake up later the following night. Now, the opposite is true if you view bright light, drink caffeine, or exercise or socialize, I should say, in the hours immediately after So for you in this example, the person who's waking up at 7:00 a.m., your temperature minimum is 5:00 a.m., if you view bright light, exercise, maybe have a snack, maybe at 5:30 or 6:00 a.m. or 7:00 a.m. That will tend to phase It will tend to basically make you want to go to bed earlier the following night. Now, I used this example of a person who wakes up whose temperature minimum is 5:00 a.m., but, of course, you need if you're somebody who or at 5:00 a.m. et cetera. Why do I offer this as a tool? Well, this is an immensely powerful tool if, for instance, you where you need to go to bed earlier and wake up earlier once you What it means is in the day you can force yourself to maybe even to eat a meal or maybe you still fast and that's really up to you, but you force yourself that are going to phase Whereas if you're traveling to a time zone where you are going to need and you're going to need or even a little bit later, you can do those things in the hours prior to Now, for those of you this can be especially useful, but I want to say a couple There are a lot of details in an episode that I did specifically about jet lag and shift work. So for the deep dive, go there, but suffice to say this for now, if you are going to do shift work, try to stay on the same shift It's very detrimental to brain and body, it can even be horrifically challenging for your brain and body if you are switching on you know, you're working three days the day shift, three days the night Try and stay on the same And I should say for everybody, people who are jet lagged and but just for everybody, if you need to be awake in and it's not just a quick and back to bed, but you really need to be awake, you know, you're feeding a baby or you're taking care of a loved one or you need to do or you need to work, if possible, use red light, okay? Now, for shift workers to stay awake all night and sleep all day, this is not going to be ideal, but for people that, for instance, need to stay up really late one night or wake up especially to prepare for an exam that or to head to the airport, et cetera, using red light has been shown to allow people to be awake enough and obviously see what they need to see in order to perform but it does not seem to that is the healthy, Now, I realize this is and many people won't have access to this. There are a number of different Companies like Joovv or KOZE light. These are different brands. I don't have any affiliation to any of these brands, I should say. There are a number of different red light bulb sources out that you can explore if you want. But understanding this temperature minimum is really powerful because it allows you depending on travel, depending on changing work And if you're not a morning person, you can use the tools related to really become a and it actually is pretty easy. And I talked about this but I'll just mention to be important, positive on even grip strength for people that are early morning risers, and that's especially true for night owls that deliberately shift Okay, so that's a lot of and I suppose the one set of tools that I really didn't the ones related to And again, please check out the episode on jet lag and shift work But I think for most people and are trying their best and are trying their best to wake up in the morning at whatever hour and stay alert and focused maybe with a brief nap, the tools that I talked about today related to light, caffeine, supplements, and digital tools, I'm hoping will prove to They certainly are all supported by excellent peer-reviewed research. And I should just emphasize again that most of the tools we talked about are completely zero cost. So while the supplements and do carry some cost to them, I really want to encourage everybody to get your behaviors right. Get all of the things related and type of exercise in the best possible We talked about this critical and then another critical and the late afternoon and then this third critical period in the middle of the night. Different tools for the I promise that if you or ideally, all of these tools, the quality of your sleep And of course, in doing so, the quality of your daytime alertness and your ability to focus Again, sleep is the absolute foundation of your mental health, and your performance in all endeavors. So if there's one area of your life to really focus on and try and optimize, if your goal is to be and just to have a better life overall, I can confidently say that sleep is really If you're learning from please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero-cost We also now have a clips channel. It's Huberman Lab Clips. Please subscribe to our clips channel for short outtakes from podcast episodes. Please also subscribe to the And on both Spotify and Apple, you can leave us up to a five-star review. If you have questions about or you have suggestions about or guests you'd like us to invite on The Huberman Lab Podcast, please put all that in the We do read all those comments. In addition, please check at the beginning of today's podcast. That's the best way to During today's podcast and on many previous episodes we talked about supplements. While supplements aren't many people derive for things like sleep and focus and hormone support and so forth. For reasons mentioned at the we are now partnered with If you go to livemomentous.com/huberman, you'll see many of the and other episodes of Again, all as They ship internationally, their quality is exceedingly high, and by largely focusing and various dosages of you can create the optimized If you're not already we are @hubermanlab on Instagram and also @hubermanlab on Twitter. There, I cover science some of which overlaps with the content of The and other of which, I should say much of which, is distinct from the information If you're interested or summaries from these podcasts, you can get those completely free of cost by going to hubermanlab.com. Go to the menu at hubermanlab.com. Go to the Neural Network Newsletter. You simply provide us your email and you'll get the for free each month. You can also find previous newsletters there at hubermanlab.com. For instance, Toolkit for Sleep or Deliberate Cold Exposure Again, we don't share So our privacy policy is And it's completely zero cost. So thank you for joining about tools for optimizing sleep, and in doing so, tools for but your daytime feelings and your overall health. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [bright music]