We are all familiar with that galaxy far, far away. But what if we set that aside and just focused on What if these characters existed in our universe? What would they look like during Earth's Ever since season one of the Mandalorian, continue on with the Boba Fett series, you guys have asked us to make a Mandalorian helmet And quite a few of you have asked us to try to something that would've existed here on Earth; So that's exactly what we're gonna do today. We've teamed up with your favorite to bring to you the Mandalorian helmet, With the top of the helmet now established, we can now start basing the rest of our patterns for the side pieces in the back plates One of the really cool things Slava does is he uses to create the initial form on lot of his pieces. There's still plenty of handwork and hot work but this lets him make big jumps With the two pieces now fit, it's time to start giving our backplate some more form. Instead of a straight linear crease, we want that crease to rise towards peeking in the middle. And the only way This is the way. So up until this point, what medieval style helmet this design This is gonna be based off an armet. And the reason being is that it has not only but it also has a bottom visor that covers Once that bottom visor is shut, If it didn't have that secondary neck visor, especially because of the T-shaped eye that you find in those barbutes quite often. However, it does, so I say the closest thing that this helmet is historically would be With the back plate, the top, and the it's time to start on the most iconic part and that's that T-shaped visor front face section. Now, obviously, the designs that have to be created are based off the design of a Mandalorian helmet - very angular, triangular pieces that are But the true purpose of something like this just like fluting, it adds a lot of strength. but with some fluting, with some pieces you're creating a much more rigid structure. So for those of you not familiar with Slava, he is an armorsmith based in Ukraine. I believe his workshop is actually in Kiev itself. So not only are we working with him but also, I really want to help support him right now, So one of the cool things that he's done recently One is in all-English, and one is basically with no voice at all; So we really wanna support him. Those links Please go subscribe to his channels Most of us are familiar with Boba Fett's helmet. One of the most iconic things is his rangefinder Now, Slava being Ukrainian, he's gonna add a little bit of a different but still giving us the same basic look For those of you that don't know, the symbol Now, the origin of that design itself but it's most likely the symbol of a which you can clearly see right here. A common way of attaching the helmet liner to the is to blind rivet in strips of leather or material that'll allow you to sew the liner in later on. In a lot of medieval helmets, we find inscriptions or symbols engraved or painted onto In this case, Slava went the extra mile &quot;this is the way&quot; in the Mandalorian language Those of you that are familiar with you'll know that the color schemes that they usually mean a lot to 'em. No two sets of armor are exactly the same So in this case, Slava's decided to add to give it a unique golden feature. So I think this helmet turned out the contrast between the brass face I myself actually made a full suit of all out of metal, and I made my own helmet, I painted the rest, but still, At that time, I was trying to be a part and that was way before the Mandalorian So I was constricted to making things that was canon in Star Wars. But obviously, Slava wanted a different route, he If you guys want to see the rest of his armor - then make sure you drop a comment and and tell us that you want to see And perhaps, we'll team up with Slava Not only that. Also, check out Slava's channel, He's got an all-English channel so check out his builds over there,