- [Presenter] From jets and supercomputers, the US is fighting to lead the world in a especially against China. We break down how American and science stack up against Our first story is about China's first homegrown narrow-body to Western standards like the Boeing 737. - [Narrator] This is Comac C919, China's first homegrown narrow-body jet that's been in the works This is a 737 MAX 8, Boeing's among airlines worldwide. (engine whooshes) This type of plane can and intercontinental routes, of the global passenger aircraft fleet and that's a big reason why can compete with western and become the main carrier at home, eventually one day taking So we compare the design and to see how China's deep could stymie Beijing's ambition (energetic upbeat music) Boeing has more than with commercial aviation. China in comparison started in the 1970s but for to develop its own airliner, so Boeing became one of - In China Boeing has had - [Narrator] Richard with aerodynamic advisory and aerospace and defense consultancy based in Michigan, for more than 30 years he's been tracking global aviation markets with Boeing as one of his main focuses. - If you look back at and air travel demand growth, it really took off in the 90s and sometime in the two 2000s that began to translate into very large - [Narrator] Boeing's jetliner in 2017. The American giant sent more That's about a quarter of It also has a 737 completion Today about 40% of China's with more than half of the planes held by the European giant Airbus, which also has an assembly plan in China. So in order to reduce its reliance on the two Western jet liners, the Chinese government which was established in 2008 and Chinese president Xi on creating a domestic airliner. (Jinping speaking in foreign language) (Jinping speaking in foreign language) (Jinping speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] China hasn't revealed how much it's invested in Comac, but some aerospace analysts estimate that the state owned company between 49 and $72 - That was and is a to be able to compete - [Narrator] Alex Krutz with US-based aerospace consulting firm, Patriot Industrial partners, and he's been following Comac's programs for about seven years. - [Alex] Ultimately, designing and building a successful is very technologically to be able to do. - [Narrator] So to develop a China has been eyeing The two jets are both narrow They're also about the same size and carry a similar number of passengers. Even the engines aren't too different. - They're from CFM, between General Electric and they're very similar engines with roughly similar levels of technology. - [Narrator] Both engines are models from the LEAP One series from CFM. - [Guest] Leap 1B is for - [Narrator] But the more than just the engines to take off. - They need other systems landing gears. Our management systems, - [Narrator] These components have played a big role as an industry leader over the years, with decades of experience, the American company has with its partners and and most of them are - It's very much an Boeing's major international partners, Japan, Britain, France, and many others. - Those partnerships some of the most advanced like, the cockpit, which Comac also needs a global supply chain to put the C919 together, and European companies. But aerospace analysts have been reluctant to provide over concerns about their This is saddled, the C919 with older technology than the 737 Max 8 and even the Airbus 320 Neo, but this may not be the biggest - There's this I guess, and a lot of it does - [Narrator] The US has long to steal advanced technologies which Beijing repeatedly denied. In January last year, the Trump to a list of companies that it said, &quot;Supported China's military.&quot; Curbing the plane manufacturer's access to American technology and funding. Comac was later removed issued a new list. The Chinese company didn't for comment about the blacklist and concerns over IP infringement, as well as whether geopolitical to its C919 program. (engine revving) Even if these vulnerabilities with sourcing critical aviation experts say Comac - Learning how to build it, conforming that is to say each as the previous one. That's a major challenge. That's one of the easiest - [Narrator] And another stumbling block if and when China goes global, the lack of a worldwide to obtain C919 spare parts or receive maintenance and repairs. - Have to service it aftermarket So there's vast networks that Boeing has that Comac has to develop. - [Narrator] For Boeing the US giant also has its own problems, especially in the Chinese market. As trade tensions broke out between the US and China in 2017, Beijing and deliveries of Boeing's the country has also after two fatal crashes Boeing says it continues to and customers to safely return the 737 Max and sees China as an important market for the company's commercial planes. Urging dialogue between (aero plane whooshing) Despite the challenges The C919 marked a major towards carrying passengers to develop a wide body plane as well, but for Comac to rival and perhaps bumpy flight ahead. (gentle music) This is Tesla's Model 3 sedan and it's the cheapest Tesla model in China and this is BYD Seal sedan, and it's one of the company's but with this range, China-based BYD has of the EV market in China. China accounts for more than half of all EVs sold globally in 2022 and any company that can own this market will have an advantage at - There's a potential here for new Fords to emerge and for China to be a dominant player. - [Narrator] We compared BYD technology and manufacturing to understand whose positioned to win. To see BYD's rapid growth in China, just look at retail sales charts. BYD, which is backed by Warren Buffet, jumped from 13th place in In that time, its overall hitting 1.86 million cars. That's some half a million - We have a lot of respect for They are the most - In terms of volume the top in China is definitely BYD. The caveat is that it's and that's why they introduced with specs that car commentators would say matching Tesla's Model 3. - [Narrator] So while for roughly $30,000, some with most models having an all electric or plugin hybrid option. - Their strategy is really to ensure that consumers have options. - [Narrator] Tesla's is all electric. Unlike BYD, it's mainly a revolutionary bet from the beginning. - There was a kind of a belief among traditional car companies that somebody who would was going to be motivated The cost of gasoline, their thesis was, let's start at the top. Let's make a cool, a sexy car that appeals to luxury buyers. - [Narrator] For the most If you look at each you can see Tesla exceeds BYD. The company sells less vehicles but in early 2023 Tesla slashed prices for its two most popular reducing prices in The company said the cuts were possible through engineering but these cuts also came just before China began withdrawing for EV buyers. - It's time now for the Smaller companies that were not profitable but who depended on these to do more to stand on their own. - [Narrator] Tesla might to weather the subsidy crash, but BYD has its own strength, production, specifically battery production. This is just a sample of some As you can see, it's far - BYD has three main areas of business. It produces cars, it produces and it also produces chips. - [Narrator] Before BYD was its main focus was batteries and this battery branch of along the supply chain, even while disruptions Compare that to Tesla, which continues to source the majority of its batteries from outside suppliers. - There's been this tension around Tesla from the get go over its The idea was it'd be buying that they would have pricing advantage and they could get the cost down. It hasn't come down as much as they wanted or much as they thought, but - [Narrator] Although the in this area of business, even producing the raw and that compose battery cells - When you think about for these cells come from, it's largely a China game at this point. I think about lithium, something like 70% of it is refined in China. It's kind of worrisome - [Narrator] BYD uses which is a lithium iron The LFP battery is the and is generally viewed since it doesn't use the costly but it comes with the - Range is a real issue for US consumers. There is this mindset that there just might be a reason why you need to go 300 and so that's one of the between the China and the US market. - [Narrator] In line Tesla's standard range models in China also use an LFP battery. Its version is made by but its long range models That's nickel, cobalt, manganese. Some even include aluminum. It's more expensive but can charge a car for longer distances. And in the US Tesla primarily but this may be changing. Tesla is taking a page out of using LFP batteries in lower cost models. So even as Tesla invests in in the US, it'll still for some time. The final challenge for EV where their consumers are. BYD has a home base advantage but Tesla has gained some built in 2019, this was the and frankly for any foreign automaker. - It got off the ground rather quickly. In large part because of the support from the local Chinese government, they wanted to help Tesla get going. - [Narrator] The local government a corporate income tax a significantly lower rate The factory deal helped for cars sold in the country and Tesla was also able to get out of a joint venture agreement - For years, if you were General Motors or you were a Volkswagen and you wanted to build cars in China, you had to share the profit, you had to share the running and Tesla didn't wanna give - [Narrator] Today Tesla with manufacturing plants in BYD having taken over China is just beginning its global push. Its passenger EVs are and a handful of other countries. The US is not yet one of those. - In part because of the US It's hard for any Chinese car company to say they're making a foray into the US market right now. It's also hard for car companies to just think about expanding into market by exporting there purely - [Narrator] The fight has a ways to go, in China, on its own without government subsidies while the US needs to dramatically in the country and up (transition whooshing) As for the companies themselves, BYD has yet to fully articulate its plans to enter the US passenger EV market. While China's biggest EV maker BYD said, customer and top priority. - I've been writing about for almost 20 years and there's always been that the Chinese car of coming to the states. We haven't really seen that yet. Creating the infrastructure to sell the vehicles is a challenge. - [Narrator] Tesla did not but the company also faces - They need to show growth and we have seen investors of chasing sales volume of profitability. - [Narrator] If electric of the car, owning this to a country's economy. In order for that to EV batteries will need - [Presenter] This is the A100 chip from the US giant Nvidia. It's one of the world's most which helps develop that's used in everything to making drugs and even building weapons. And this is one of its newest competitors made by a Chinese startup, industry analysts who track this model is even faster than the A100 based on initial tests. - It produced performances that were significantly more competitive than previous AI chips coming from China. - [Presenter] Here's how of these two chips compare as the race for dominance in tech is ramping up. (gentle suspenseful music) The US has been a pioneer in for over 70 years. - The US essentially gave birth to the semiconductor industry - [Presenter] Wayne Lam is with tech consulting firms CCS Insight. For over a decade, he has been researching - The US was an ideal place because it started much of the - [Presenter] In the late 1940s, American scientists invented the fundamental technology Early versions of chips that helped calculate projectiles and get NASA space (upbeat funky music) But the industry really with the rising demand for and corporate computers. That boom also drove chip with Taiwan semiconductor now leading the industry, making more than 90% of the Still today the US is home to some of the world's and they help power everything to laptops and data centers. China, on the other hand, and for several decades on American companies in Taiwan and Japan. In 2021, China imported worth of chips exceeding that of oil. So Chinese President Xi Jinping to change that. - It's absolutely important - [Presenter] Gregory Allen is for Strategic and International Studies, a think tank based in Washington, D.C. He's been following Beijing's AI and semiconductor policies - What they essentially wanted was for more of the chips to be made in China. - [Presenter] So to Beijing promised to in state funding to support (funky piano music) The goal is to design as the American ones like and this model released in August by Biren is the latest Like its American rival the Biren chip is also a graphics processing unit or GPU, and both are designed to complex tasks faster. (energetic upbeat music) So what makes a chip powerful? To improve their performance both companies are using It's the fundamental unit that of electronic signals and that allows the chips to But unlike the first transistor the ones today are so small that they are measured in of the width of a human hair. Seven nanometer transistors for both Nvidia and - So smaller the transistor the more transistors you can pack into the same surface area of a silicone. - [Presenter] The with more than 54 billion of about 800 millimeter square, whereas the BR100 is slightly bigger with about 77 billion transistors packed into about 1,000 While there are many factors that determine a chip's performance, industry experts say having a can help increase the Biren says its chip can perform more than 1,000 trillion write it out, that's 15 zeros. That's about three times the But whether Biren will be will require more than designing chips. Producing them is also a huge challenge 'cause it requires precise manufacturing to squeeze these billions of transistors onto a tiny surface. - Semiconductor manufacturing is perhaps the most that the human species does. - [Presenter] One of the is called lithography, which blasts UV light through photo masks and print patterns on silicon wafers. Adding layers to form the transistors. - You need to be precise. Some of the layers in these are only one atom thick. - [Presenter] So Nvidia to another company for manufacturing. You may have guessed that's the Taiwan Semiconductor the world's largest (gentle music) But Biren's reliance on on its way to rivaling Nvidia. - It has been sort of a cautionary tale for the Chinese Semiconductor ministry. (upbeat piano music) - [Presenter] Couple of months released its chip, the new export restrictions. The rules barred cutting with American technologies And because TSMC uses Biren is at risk of losing as a supplier. - This dramatically for its future as a leading chip designer. - [Presenter] Biren didn't TSMC says it complies with but declined to comment China also depends on a that dominate the industry for advanced manufacturing equipment. With the American from buying these machines, it becomes even harder for Beijing to build its own high-end - That development is herculean so it would require considerable and time to make that happen. - [Presenter] China isn't and trying to become more self-sufficient, while the US leads in design and research, it has also long relied on and Samsung at South Korea. And the vulnerability of that during the pandemic when a chip and small, prompting that more semiconductors - This is infrastructure. So look, we need to build not repair the one of yesterday. - [Presenter] So in August allocating more than $52 for semiconductor research TSMC later announced that to build two factories in Arizona. - These investments are helping us build and strengthen the supply - [Presenter] And only of China's BR100, Nvidia announced that it will release which would in turn beat Biren's. The long and expensive that'll drive the future of (energetic upbeat music) - [Narrator] Over the years, Nike and China's homegrown have rolled out a lot of sneakers and the shoes from the Chinese alongside Nike, not only at the Olympics but also on NBA courts. In 2021, the companies released their latest signature basketball shoes, which showcase the two that are designed for pro athletes. So we compare the high from both companies to is one part of its plan to go global and gain ground on the (gentle music) Nike has nearly 30 years on Anta and was founded by people who love to run, a track and field coach and The company from its early for professional athletes. Anta on the other hand, was and his two sons to manufacture But after a few years of that, the company decided to focus (Zhang speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] Zhang Hanwen about basketball shoes on the and he spoke to us about Anta sneakers, which are among the more over the past five years. (Zhang speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] Today Anta is China's top domestic sportswear brand but also clothes. And as part of its ambition to go global, the company has acquired a All this has helped make Anta athletic apparel company by market value. So to take on more established brands and has been rolling out like Nike every year, each sneaker is named after an NBA player. LeBron is for LeBron James, who's considered one of the winning four championships, and this is his 19th KT stands for Klay Thompson, with the Golden State Warriors, who's famous for his three point shooting and this is his seventh edition from his partnership with Anta. Because the sneakers are the technology inside is different too. There are three main parts to the shoe and this is where one of the - Most of all what the midsole will do is prevent injuries. - [Narrator] Zach Thomas is a podiatrist based in Pennsylvania. And he told us about the and sliced in half for - So a good midsole foam has a combination of spring back, forgiveness and stiffness will just make It'll make your foot instead of a bunch of bag of bones. - [Narrator] And that's when playing basketball because sudden stops can shock the joints. The midsole also gives rebound, which allows players to jump higher. So to make a strong midsole, both Anta and Nike have chosen the same ingredient, nitrogen, but the two companies are Nike is focusing on the inert gas itself. It's pumped into the midsole which is made up of two and rear foot. The Air Max is made from polyurethane and filled with highly that the company says can absorb shocks. The Zoom Air is also a pressurized unit and packed with tensile fibers. Nike says this helps after pushing down on it and in between these two units is a chamber that connects both. So the air flows back and forth. - So when you compress that air will shoot back And what that does is it's almost like ballast on a ship and so it's gonna keep but also it's gonna produce in the areas of the shoe - [Narrator] Ante is also but it's using nitrogen to build a different kind of structure. The company calls it nitrogen technology and first introduced it of the Klay Thompson shoes. (presenter speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] So the midsole is made up of a lot of miniature bubbles of nitrogen that are glued together. The company says when pressure's applied, the bubbles compress then expand, giving the wearer both This makes Anta's midsole very elastic, but because it's not contained in a pod like Nike's Air units, Zhang says the foam can easily lose shape. (Zhang speaking in foreign language) (Zhang speaking in foreign language) (Zhang speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] Zhang and Thomas both agree that the two midsoles and that's because the shoes for professional athletes. But that also means these and ultimately it's about go mainstream and having ordinary - Once you develop it for one thing, it's pretty easy to reverse You just have to then in the shoe. - [Narrator] And doing this a large slice of the sportswear market. Since the invention of the Nike has plugged it into from training shoes that cost around $80 to basketball shoes that go for $200 and Nike has developed a for example, a really thick midsole with a carbon fiber plate inside that has helped runners break records, but it's also sparked controversies about whether the with an unfair advantage. And Nike also has a that the company says Nike doesn't disclose its R&amp;D budget, but investments in these technologies have helped the company's in the past decade. And Anta is taking a similar path, starting with the KT7, The company says it plans to to 75% of its footwear products by 2025, and it's also starting to like, this material that Anta calls the shock absorption molecule, which the company describes as bulletproof because it can absorb almost 100% of shocks when running and jumping. However, Nike's continued on succeeding on Anta's home turf. China is the second largest and worth more than $50 billion, but the American company (presenter speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] Last year, to social media to call for a boycott of western brands over in China's cotton rich Xinjiang region. Nike said its sales in in its latest quarter, though it pointed to supply chain disruptions. On the flip side, this of nationalism towards which pledge to continue But this stance has put the of president Biden, who signed a bill that can make it illegal with cotton from the region. Anta declined to comment for this video. Meanwhile, Nike in its the pipeline of its to create the separation and its competitors. For now, Anta says China is and how soon the company can catch up to Nike on the international on more than just tech. - You have to have that foundation of solid technology that works, but a lot of times it's not the tech, it's who's wearing the tech - [Narrator] So besides Klay Thompson, Anta has also been working but to get noticed by more customers, the Chinese company will of the bigger names to its roster of athletes - [Presenter] This is a popular in electric vehicles and this is a lithium also known as an LFP battery, It has a shorter range, but it's cheaper to and lasts longer. Both of these batteries were that's the world's Of the 10 biggest EV battery China is the dominant force while the US is deeply - The US and China are in when it comes to battery production. - [Presenter] We are comparing how the US and China stack up in the four main stages of battery production, from to sourcing the raw materials. (gentle music) China assembles more than two thirds of the world's electric US automakers lag far behind. Several companies have outlined plans to build plants in the US, but shifting battery Panasonic, a Tesla partner, learned this when it started building a battery plant at Tesla's Gigafactory in Nevada. Panasonic found it couldn't Different safety regulations and different operating It also had to train a finicky process where small mistakes can have major consequences. After years of its joint battery business operating in the red, Tesla and Panasonic cell and it's now a model for Other companies have found and running takes longer than they expect. - Toward the end of the supply chain is where the US definitely the most inroads and then to traditional mining and - [Presenter] It's the earlier that are more difficult. Before you can make you need to build all the The anodes, cathodes, China is the global leader in The US is far behind. - You're talking about working and materials and turning So there's a lot of safety testing and everything has to So that's another reason China in this space is so critical because they have the know-how, they're able to adjust to new technologies and they've been doing this Both of those together make for the US to catch up. - [Presenter] The US government in companies that are trying but companies can need years and ramp up manufacturing. Automakers accustomed to are trying to revise battery in response to changing For example, companies when it comes to cathodes, the battery cell's most nickel and cobalt used or LFP common in China. US companies have and cobalt batteries for their long range, but volatile mineral prices to turn to LFP batteries. While these batteries can't they typically last longer and have better thermal stability, meaning they're more resistant to heat. Some US automakers are for entry level vehicles. - Iron phosphate is in vogue now, but companies are really investing in next generation batteries as well. Companies are always innovating and trying to change battery chemistries. That's why getting a glimpse and how it might change - [Presenter] Before you can and anodes, you need to process and separate the raw The US currently does little of this, while China is the world leader and companies often have trouble building chemical processing facilities in the US. - The bureaucracy here and federal regulations and then rules, all of that is a messy to work through and a lot of resources. Then you have local opposition oftentimes to these facilities if consuming huge amounts of water or energy or even damaging the local environment. And the last big one is just like we've seen throughout - [Presenter] And then there's the matter of getting the raw materials. Most of the minerals in aren't mined in the US or China, they're imported from Indonesia, and Congo. China has strong relationships where it can get raw materials. The US is building new mines domestically and also building but both approaches have challenges. It can take up to a decade or more to get new mines up and running in the US and raw materials are only useful once they can be processed. - US companies are also trying and say, &quot;Look, we'll develop a mine here in a country like Ghana or in Africa, and then we'll ship that material to the US to be processed.&quot; The challenge is it's a lot more difficult to do even the processing In the US it's really difficult and permitted because there's a lot of environmental opposition and people just generally don't like mines in their backyard. - [Presenter] Some companies though, are focused on an alternative Instead of mining new materials, they're salvaging minerals - In the United States right but really no nickel, no cobalt and on grand scheme that we're gonna need, - [Presenter] Ascend Elements on producing engineered It currently operates a and is building a larger one in Kentucky that may cost up to $1.5 billion. The company says it can produce and active materials to Recycling startups are American battery materials suppliers, but they're far from matching the output of factories in China, the and they're years from of material to the market. - The recycled materials look exactly like a cathode material which, you know, mined material, send it to a third party lab or whatever, you couldn't distinguish between the two. - [Presenter] Ascend Elements discharges them and shreds them to recover the critical and cobalt, while like copper, aluminum and plastic. They call the remaining Through this process, Ascend of the critical battery materials and does it with a significantly than mining and traditional It's currently focused on making cathode precursors and active materials. Recycling may not enable the US to outpace Chinese production, but it could still be an important part of its domestic supply chain. - The question isn't really whether the US can catch up to China. It probably can't ever catch up really at this point given but it will take many A realistic goal is to just so there is some domestic production of all these critical components. Right now they're just and these other countries. This is much more about so that battery shortages in the energy transition. - [Presenter] This is that was crowned the by the TOP500 project, which rank supercomputing systems globally and the machine is able to do one quintillion Write it out, that's 18 zeros and that means it's about than a typical laptop. China's Tianhe-3 didn't but some computer scientists as fast as Frontier. - These supercomputers are utilized to solve some of the most and society faces. - [Presenter] Whether it's developing more advanced spacecraft or Both countries are racing so to better solve the challenges the US has opened up Frontier to and we got access to look inside it in order to compare its and see what it takes to build one of the world's - We want to provide this that has never, never - Thomas Zacharia is the director of Oak Ridge National a lab sponsor by the US He's worked on over a dozen and now leads the team that oversees the operation of Frontier. - US has been a leader in supercomputing for a long, long time. - [Presenter] Since the have mostly dominated the field - China really started dealing with high performance computers in a serious way back in 2001. - [Presenter] Jack Dongarra based in the US and he's one of the founders He's been closely watching on the list in 2001. - It's quite a change over roughly 20 years going from - [Presenter] China hasn't revealed how much it's invested in supercomputing, but since 2006, Beijing has put it into the country's five-year plan, which is a blueprint for Today, the country has more supercomputers on the Top500 list than the US but this year Chinese researchers didn't submit Tianhe-3's results and some computers scientists say, given how quickly Chinese Tianhe-3 may be as fast as Frontier, reaching the speed of a quintillion Scientists call this exascale performance and to do that, both with this part. - A compute node is of a supercomputer. - [Presenter] An individual like your personal computer and It mainly has two sets of chips. The central processing units or CPUs are the heart of the machine that carries out instructions and accelerators help boost - So you can imagine supercomputer as stacking up a whole bunch with a very, very fast network. So this is what a Frontier Frontier has got 74 cabinets, each cabinet's about 8,000 pounds. It has 9,408 nodes. The nodes are connected and can transfer information very fast. - [Presenter] Tianhe-3 also has but China hasn't disclosed Some computer scientists say that based on state media footage and presentations by the machine may have 100 cabinets and more than 50,000 nodes. - [Narrator] But what these two massive supercomputers because they're key to deciding the speed and computing capabilities. And that's an area where the American scientists have access to some of the most from semiconductor designers And Frontier's two chips come from one of the leading American Advanced Micro Devices. Zacharia says the company has to design these chips and that partnership has helped the first exascale machine. - These are the latest in their evolution. They're designed and manufactured with a view to building the supercomputer and delivering the - [Presenter] China, on the other hand, has not had a home field They used to rely on and Nvidia, but that became impossible in 2015 when the US barred its to Chinese institutions that including the one that builds Tianhe-3. - So the Tianhe people who were planning to build the next machine because they couldn't use Western parts, they had to design their own chips. - [Presenter] China's didn't respond to a request for comment about the performance and - [Narrator] But ultimately isn't just about achieving fast speed. - It goes back to science So countries that have can carry out simulations and they can get results - [Narrator] For example, was critical during the to analyze 11 million and predict variants. - It has given us clues to of vaccines, the next to not only, you know, but also for other kind of ailments. - [Narrator] And to better solve some of the world's most the lab is awarding scientists time to use Frontier based on and in turn they're required - It's an important exchanging information. We express our ideas and show one choice is and through that exchange, we hopefully end up - [Narrator] China has also from other countries to but so far the machine has only been used by institutions backed by like the country's top research group, the Chinese Academy of Sciences. - The annoying thing is that, you know, we don't hear much about It's a problem, I would say, I'm waiting for the time when - [Narrator] Until then, could slow down progress and China are united in finding ways to accelerate their supercomputers. - [Presenter] China has the in the world, spanning And of the 10 fastest trains and China's busiest high speed train the Beijing-Shanghai rail The US, however, tells It's high speed rail and its fastest train, goes just 150 miles per hour and only for a few minutes Since 2008, China has rapidly built up its high speed rail network. The US in that time has had shelved or delayed. Here's how the US has fallen behind China in high-speed rail technology. One key difference between the US and China has to do with the - In the case of the US, as we can see, a lot of the Northeast of the old tracks. There are also tunnels and curvatures and bridges that are really old, that cannot really allow the trains to run at the faster speed. - [Presenter] These tracks were and passenger trains to So they have many points of and the Acela runs on this track, but China has tracks that are - They are really require to has also they needed to and so that allowed the trains - [Presenter] One of the can't reach their top speeds is because of how the tracks are designed. - Even though the trains are they'll never see more because the infrastructure and isn't quite there yet. - [Presenter] It comes down Many conventional passenger to 15 miles per hour on the curved portion of tracks. But China built its high traveling on what's called viaducts. - So the tolerances in high pretty tightly defined, and so the track and overhead wires need to be able to allow those higher speeds. - [Presenter] There's also a difference in where stations are located. In China stations for high in both suburban and rural whereas in the US stations in urban centers, like, and Washington, D.C. - When you're looking to identify where a high speed line should go, it really starts with where you're trying to connect. And the magic formula is that have a minimum of 3 and a distance of about 2 to 500 miles. - In order to achieve a higher speed, definitely a dedicated passenger - [Presenter] Despite the to develop high-speed used to dominate but that shifted during when the interstate Since then, American with high speed rail plans - Automobile and air travel and car travel is essentially become the major to make that kind of behavior change that basically needs a lot of efforts to help people understand to have another mode and what - [Presenter] China's consistently had backing investing billions of dollars, with foreign firms. Contracts were awarded on the condition that foreign companies and also train Chinese engineers. - So they're trying to understand how it works, but they're for certain innovations on top of that. - [Presenter] Eventually China developed its own train manufacturing and now the CRRC is one of the in the world. - In the case of China, because it's a central government system, so large infrastructure projects can be really developed based on the kind of consistent plan. - [Presenter] The US has come to the country to develop but it's been met with several challenges. Take for example, Illinois, back in 2019, Nippon Sharyo of Japan tried to build a high speed rail in the states. However, the company struggled and faced delays in getting new rail cars and changing administrations doesn't help. California approved a plan in 2008 to build a high speed rail network, but the project has been delayed because of the lack of funding - The train technology is already here. What we're seeing right now in the US at this specific moment in to what was happening where there was initially a lot of concern or objection about trying And it wasn't until the to be put in place and that you know, high speed And then once the political was behind it, it really - [Presenter] This is envisions the future of the internet. Avatars like this one, playing games, buying digital assets, socializing. Ah yes, the metaverse and Chinese tech companies Their versions of avatars and virtual worlds look pretty similar, but because of China's strict regulations, players in the two countries are set to have very different experiences. (gentle music) Analysts estimate the metaverse as much as $8 trillion in each country, but it's still early days for both Chinese and American tech firms. (energetic upbeat music) The visual effects seen in promo videos for a metaverse platform being built by Chinese tech giant Baidu and Lego like, quite a ways some have in mind. Similarly, Facebook's parent are still legless and not in the early version of its which lets people build to hang out or play games in and is already available Both Meta and Baidu have for their respective platforms, will take another 5 to 10 years. Microsoft in the US and Tencent in China, which both own a number are also gearing up to develop (upbeat funky music) But for companies in China, the transition to the metaverse is expected to be a little more complicated. - The Chinese companies are subject to more regulations than in the US. - [Presenter] Winston Ma is the author of &quot;China's Mobile Economy&quot; at New York based CloudTree Ventures, which invest in Metaverse related tech like 3D video recording. - Companies are taking because of regulatory considerations. That's a big difference - [Presenter] Compared to generally have more leeway from regulators and people in the industry say that gives Metaverse in terms of innovation, meaning, to affect the user experience. In other words, these two to see, say, and do the same things. (gentle funky music) - I really think it's between the Chinese metaverses - [Presenter] Serkan Toto is He says video games offer a window into what the metaverse will be like and in China, games have to go through a rigorous approval process by authorities before they can be released. (gun bangs) He pointed to a violent in the version of the game the blood is green instead of red because of Beijing's content regulations that restrict gore and violence. Rules in China also limit how of millions of kids under 18 can game. As regulators have said they - These rules and regulations are going to be transferred There's no motivation for to soften their stance just because the game is - [Presenter] Chinese officials that some strict rules and established a subcommittee that according to policy specific standards for Those authorities didn't And state media was quick after a recent rally of Chinese warning society not to get too wrapped up in metaverse speculation. (guest speaking in foreign language) - [Presenter] Chinese regulators about digital payment systems, which are already how people buy things in metaverse like platforms such as Roblox, Sandbox or Decentraland. - In the US, lots of in-game crypto tokens and NFTs. But in China, cryptocurrencies - [Presenter] Last year declared cryptocurrency saying it was concerned anonymous transactions could give way to fraud and money laundering. Authorities have instead promoted the use of a central bank issued virtual Yuan. (gentle funky music) So buying art or digital isn't possible in China to further insulating China's - At the moment, at least, are building metaverses, there's not going to be These companies are with alternatives that is going to tolerate. (gentle music) - [Presenter] In this metaverses like Baidu's probably won't phase direct or Microsoft in the Chinese market, which when it comes to the from the rest of the world. Facebook and Google, for because of strict censorship. Microsoft and Meta didn't for comment on their - The future of the Chinese metaverses will be a reflection of Today there's really going to be huge war between these metaverses. (gentle music) - [Presenter] This is Jeff that takes tours to the edge of orbit. And this is a model from Cas Space, a Chinese company that's to send its first tourist We compare the two vehicles because the company that can perfect the reusable space rocket and make it cheaper could at accessing the larger space economy. - [Astronaut] Welcome to space. - Woo. - [Presenter] In 2021, a flurry of commercial space flights pioneered by American companies began taking off and they've been working for years to develop their vehicles. And recently China Last year Cas Space, which was created by the country's top laid out plans for its space rocket. - China's rather a late but then also very aggressive - [Presenter] Blaine Curcio and he focuses on the providing analysis for commercial to broaden their footprint. - Cas Space, they talk about wanting to have their first demonstration flight of their space tourism vehicle in 2022. And then finally space tourism, like, actual space - [Presenter] Though a lot for this commercial project. Curcio says these deadlines (rocket whooshing) In the past few years, China's national space program It was the first to land a rover on the far side of the moon, then sent another one to Mars and started building So to catch up Cas Space is Its trips will look less like SpaceX. - We're seeing the world every 90 minutes. - [Presenter] And Virgin Galactic. - [Astronaut] Fire, fire. (rocket whooshing) - [Presenter] But more like Blue Origin. (engine bangs) (rocket whooshing) - They're going to the edge of space where people have a couple - [Presenter] Quentin global space programs for over 40 years and has recently been focused on projects coming out of China. - The design of these by what you need to do with it. - [Presenter] So, Blue Origin and Cas Space have similar designs and both say the journey First, the rocket will then it will release the capsule as a rocket comes back down vertically the capsule will continue going across the Karman between Earth's atmosphere Then the capsule will (bell rings) Blue Origin completed three (rocket whooshing) using the same vehicle for each trip. While Cas Space hasn't tested a rocket, the company says it's also designing one that will be reusable. - Reusability is what drives and makes so many of these plans viable. - [Presenter] One key to The engines are designed (engine whooshing) so they can be fired to take off as well as control the landing. But this is where both to look different. Blue Origin relies on only one engine, which has worked stably for According to Cas Space, its Parker says multiple engines could provide more thrusting points to help ensure that the rocket remains intact. - If you have five engines, you could possibly compensate - [Presenter] There's another what kind of reusable rocket The rocket fuel, Blue of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen, while Cas Space is and liquid oxygen. And both choices have environmental and financial pros and cons. - Kerosene mixed with than what the blue origin does, but it's actually much, much cheaper. (rocket whooshing) - [Presenter] Blue Origin working with liquid but that this fuel for the company's future projects. Cas Space said the design of its engine is meant to keep costs low. - So it's actually, if you need to see what is the best option, and it becomes a more viable you can make a profit. - [Presenter] And to make these Blue Origin's rocket and would use different landing systems. The Chinese company is designing a tower that will catch the rocket, drag breaks, and landing legs to help it touch down softly. Space companies are still and determining the demand for these types of trips, since reserving a seat is expensive. (rocket whooshing) But mastering the reusable isn't only about tourism. - Space tourism is a very small part of the overall space economy right now. But in terms of the reusable rockets are of a lot of other things. - [Presenter] The race for launching satellites and to space stations, even one day facilitating to the moon or Mars. (engine whooshing) - [Operator] Three. - [Presenter] But industry experts say there's currently a launch bottleneck for some of these missions because there aren't enough rockets and building one can and cost millions or (rocket whooshing) So the company that could would not just help but also grab a larger slice Blue Origin and Cas Space didn't respond to our request for comment. For China, these commercial possibilities could help further open which has been strictly - [Guest] They want commercial companies to play a bigger role in innovation. So I think that's going to even for the things, like, you know, the high level - [Presenter] And for US companies, these commercial possibilities may mean a closer relationship with NASA, with Blue Origin for its launch services. For now, the space race for - We're still waiting for the game changer in terms of propulsion and reusable tech making and getting more efficient and - [Presenter] And if this it'll open up the potential of for both the US and China. This is the Nancy Grace or ROMAN for short. NASA is set to launch and this is China's that's set to launch a few These two telescopes are racing to map the universe in more in the hopes of solving some of science's greatest mysteries, like how a little understood helped shape our universe. - Potentially, there's even If you figure out what dark energy is. - [Presenter] So we unpack the technology and design behind these telescopes because the country that may lead the future of - [Announcer] space shuttle Discovery with the Hubble Space Telescope, our window on the universe. (gentle music) - [Presenter] Space for avoiding the light pollution and distortion that limits when they look out at space from inside the earth's atmosphere. An American physicist first proposed space space observatories in 1946, and then about two decades later, the US sent up the first The Soviet Union was close behind sending up its own first space telescopes only a few years later. Since 1990, the field has been until the recent launch of or JWST for short. - Both Hubble and JWST at a very small part of - [Presenter] Jonathan at the Harvard Smithsonian He's worked with NASA and has been monitoring space activities and satellites for three decades. - They aren't used to &quot;Oh, I wonder if we'll You look at something and you stare at it in detail. - [Presenter] This is where the race to build the next generation with survey telescopes that of the sky. NASA's Nancy Grace Roman is named after the agency's first chief astronomer. Xuntian is China's first and translates to survey - Let's make no bones about it. They're both fantastic - [Presenter] Quentin and the director of the Laboratory for Space Research at the He's been observing the rapid acceleration of China's space program - You know, surveys by their nature throw up incredible things, you don't know what they're gonna find. - [Presenter] Both telescopes are designed to learn more about dark energy, a mysterious pressure that for the accelerating and the galaxies inside it. - That will let us understand how the chemical elements how we got here. - [Presenter] But there that can detect dark energy, even though scientists of the total energy of the universe. So the goal is for and ROMAN to uncover dark energy secrets. - We're not collecting signatures we're looking at the with things that we can measure. - [Presenter] So us and to build telescopes that can but each with a different design. One difference is in - So if you throw a at the telescope, right? Some fraction of it is and some fraction of that - [Presenter] ROMAN's mirror which means it will be giving the final image more detail. But even though Xuntian's it has a field of view that's This means it'll be able over the course of its mission than ROMAN. While Xuntian may have the quality depends on of the telescope. The sensor module. (gentle music) The sensor reads and by the mirror and sends for scientists to turn like these ones from the So having a less powerful for the images that are produced. - You are likely to get images with more noise, with less sensitivity. They can't see quite as faint - [Presenter] McDowell of experience creating sensors that work under the give it an advantage over - The challenge for the sort of semiconductor of NASA's cameras. - [Presenter] By having more NASA can also be more ambitious about how far it sends ROMAN. The telescope will orbit of about 1 million miles from Earth. That means ROMAN will be able to operate without constant changes And NASA says that allows the telescope to collect data constantly. Xuntian, on the other hand, and therefore be regularly limiting the amount of time But being that far away also if anything goes wrong, Xuntian will be near the giving scientists onboard access - You can actually, not if it gets damaged, or if or if something goes You can replace the camera. You can put on new filters, give it a new lease of life, - [Presenter] However, what could be the most important advantage China Space Agency says giving it about a four - They may steal some of the thunder from what a ROMAN telescope would've done. - [Presenter] NASA said in a statement that Xuntian's observations and ROMAN has unique capabilities for the study of dark energy. China Space administration for comment on Xuntian's Scientists say both telescopes in learning more about the - There's a lot of if you, you know, if you start in the early universe. - [Presenter] But only to being the first to make the biggest